7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:57 Page 20 20 Directors report continued Directors conflicts of interests Henderson, on Law Debentures behalf, monitors The Companies Act 2006 imposes a statutory duty companies in which Law Debenture is invested, and on directors to avoid conflicts of interest.
The board from time to time may discuss matters of corporate has in place appropriate procedures to deal with governance with such companies.
The Henderson conflicts and potential conflicts, including an annual corporate governance unit will notify Law review, and in the opinion of the board those Debentures investment manager, who in turn will procedures are operating effectively.
Each director notify Law Debenture, should matters arise that has declared all matters that might give rise to a might lead the Corporation to consider intervening, potential conflict of interest and these have been abstaining or voting against a particular proposal.
considered and approved by the board.
The Corporation will not hold shares in companies whose ethical and environmental practices are in its Regulatory compliance view likely to damage the performance of the The Corporation is subject to continuing obligations business to the detriment of its shareholders.
applicable to listed companies, overseen by the UK Listing Authority UKLA, which is a division of the Repurchase of shares Financial Services Authority.
One company in the During the year, the Corporation did not repurchase group, The Law Debenture Trust Corporation p. l. c. any of its shares for cancellation.
It intends to is regulated in the conduct of a limited range of seek shareholder approval to renew its powers to authorised business activities.
The directors receive repurchase shares for cancellation up to 14.99% periodic reports from the compliance officer about of the Corporations issued share capital, if its conduct.
Law Debentures responsibilities as an Shares may be issued in accordance with the institutional shareholder articles of association see AGM resolution 11.
The Corporations policy is as follows: Substantial shareholdings and share information Law Debenture will normally support management As at 18 February 2010, there were no and, where practicable, vote in favour of resolutions shareholders that had notified the Corporation of an proposed by the boards of companies in which it interest in 3% or more of the issued share capital.
has a shareholding, but reserves the right to vote Share information as required by section 992 of the against management where appropriate.
Companies Act 2006 appears at page 68.
Unless The board determines the Corporations investment expressly stated the Corporation has no disclosure strategy but does not issue express instructions to to make under that section.
the investment manager on transactions in particular shares.
Where Law Debenture believes that Shareholder relations management is failing in its duties, Law Debenture The Corporation encourages communication or on its behalf, the Corporations investment between the management and shareholders on manager may attempt to enter into dialogue with matters of mutual interest.
All shareholders receive the company concerned in an attempt to alter the a copy of the annual report and the interim managements position.
statement, and the Corporation also provides this service to shareholders in nominee companies Where this is not possible, or where management where the nominee has made appropriate declines to alter its behaviour, Law Debenture will arrangements.
Shareholders wishing to receive consider voting against resolutions proposed by reports and other communications electronically the board.
may do so by writing to the Corporation.
In addition to the periodic regulatory reports that are published via the stock exchange, the Corporation publishes a monthly factsheet about the investment portfolio performance and prospects on its website.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:57 Page 21 21 Employee participation Investment management Employees are informed of the financial aspects of Henderson is responsible for the management of the groups performance through periodic the investment portfolio, which has performed management meetings.
Copies of the annual report satisfactorily over a period of years.
Henderson is and the interim statement are made available to all fully aware of the Corporations investment policy employees.
Details of the general bonus scheme are and provides a cost competitive service.
The contained in the remuneration report on page 29. directors therefore believe that the continuing The Corporation has since 1992 operated SAYE appointment of Henderson is in the best interests schemes in which all UK full-time employees are of shareholders.
The agreement does not cover eligible to participate after completing a minimum custody or the preparation of data associated with service requirement.
investment performance, which are outsourced, or record keeping, which is maintained by the Options outstanding under the SAYE schemes at Corporation.
Fees paid to Henderson in the year 31 December 2009 were: amounted to 751,000 2008: 945,000 and Number of Shares Exercise are based on 0.25% per annum of the average Date of grant option holders under option price quarterly portfolio value, excluding cash.
The 10 June 2005 9 13,721 240.73p underlying management fee of 1% on the 9 August 2006 9 14,074 283.70p Corporations holdings in the Henderson Japanese 11 June 2007 5 4,867 349.76p and Pacific OEICs has been rebated.
22 May 2008 14 51,268 314.24p The Corporation holds no shares in members of the 27 May 2009 41 199,907 211.50p HHG Group, the parent company of Henderson: it has been notified that funds managed by members From 1993 to 2004, the Corporation operated of the HHG Group held 145,666 shares in the Executive Share Option Schemes, which enabled Corporation at 31 December 2009. executives to be granted options to acquire shares in the Corporation.
Options granted under the scheme Charitable donations are normally exercisable between the third and tenth During the year the Corporation made charitable anniversaries of the option grant date.
For options donations of 867 2008: 1,732. granted from 1998 onwards, such exercise was contingent upon targets for the independent fiduciary Payment of suppliers services business being achieved.
Following a board The group is committed to seeking the best terms decision in 2005 to discontinue the scheme and possible for all types of business and hence there is replace it with a Deferred Share Bonus Plan, no no single policy as to the terms used.
For most further options have been granted and total options suppliers, the average credit period is 30 days.
outstanding at 31 December 2009 were as follows: Special arrangements exist for suppliers of certain Number of Shares Exercise legal services, where the group charges these costs Date of grant option holders under option price to its clients.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:57 Page 22 22 Directors report continued Statement of directors responsibilities in Financial statements are published on the groups relation to the financial statements website in accordance with legislation in the The directors are responsible for keeping proper United Kingdom governing the preparation and accounting records which disclose with reasonable dissemination of financial statements, which may accuracy at any time the financial position of the vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The company, for safeguarding the assets of the maintenance and integrity of the Corporations company, for taking reasonable steps for the website is the responsibility of the directors.
The prevention and detection of fraud and other directors responsibility also extends to the integrity irregularities and for the preparation of a directors of the financial statements contained therein.
report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Statement of information given to auditors Acts.
The directors have confirmed that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of The directors are responsible for preparing the which the Corporations auditors are unaware, and annual report and the financial statements in that they have taken all the steps that they ought accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The to have taken as a director in order to make directors are also required to prepare financial themselves aware of any relevant audit information statements for the group in accordance with and to establish that the Corporations auditors are International Financial Reporting Standards as aware of that information.
adopted by the European Union IFRSs and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors have chosen to Directors responsibility statement pursuant prepare financial statements for the Corporation in to DTR4 accordance with IFRSs.
The directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: International Accounting Standard 1 requires that The group financial statements have been prepared financial statements present fairly for each financial in accordance with International Financial Reporting year the Corporations financial position, financial Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs performance and cash flows.
This requires the and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations and give a true faithful representation of the effects of transactions, and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial other events and conditions in accordance with the position and profit or loss of the group.
definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the The annual report includes a fair review of the International Accounting Standards Boards development and performance of the business and Framework for the preparation and presentation of the position of the group and parent company, financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a together with a description of the principal risks and fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with uncertainties that they face.
A fair presentation also requires the directors to: Auditors A resolution to re-appoint BDO LLP as auditors to consistently select and apply appropriate the Corporation will be proposed at the annual accounting policies: general meeting.
present information, including accounting policies, By order of the board in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited Secretary provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is 22 February 2010 insufficient to enable users to understand the Registered in England No.
30397 impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
