7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:57 Page 17 Directors report 2009 17 The directors present their annual report and the The Corporations objective for the investment trust audited financial statements for the year ended is to achieve long term capital growth in real terms 31 December 2009.
The Corporation retains its and steadily increasing income.
The directors status as an investment trust and has been treated consider a number of performance measures to by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC and approved assess the groups success in achieving its as such for the year ended 31 December 2008, the objectives.
The key performance indicators used latest year for which financial statements have been to measure the progress and performance of the submitted.
Such approval for the year ended 2008 is group are: net asset value total return per share: subject to there being no subsequent enquiry under the discount or premium in share price to net asset Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
In the opinion of value: and the cost of running the portfolio as a the directors, the Corporation has subsequently percentage of its value.
The net asset value total conducted its affairs so as to enable it to obtain return combines the total return on the portfolio and section 842 approval under the Income and the earnings of the independent fiduciary service Corporation Taxes Act 1985.
as far as the directors are aware is not a close The net asset value performance is included in the company, is registered as an investment company chairmans statement and the premium or discount as defined in section 833 of the Companies Act to net asset value and cost of running the portfolio 2006 and operates as such.
The directors consider are given within the 10 year record.
that the group operates as a going concern.
The outlook for the investment portfolio is discussed In August 2002, all of the Corporations ordinary in the investment managers report.
The independent shares of 25p were split into five ordinary shares of fiduciary services businesses may continue to be 5p.
Wherever share price data is shown which relates adversely affected by the difficult market conditions to a period before August 2002, the price has been that may continue for some time.
Activity in some of restated to reflect the share split.
the markets where the businesses operate remains subdued because of the recession, and it will be Business review difficult to maintain revenues at the levels reached in The group divides into two distinct complementary recent years.
The Managing Director and her team areas of business.
The Corporation is a global will continue to seek new opportunities wherever investment trust, its portfolio of investments being possible.
managed by Henderson Global Investors Limited Henderson.
Independent fiduciary services Law Debenture considers that none of its trading activities are corporate trusts, treasury management activities has a negative environmental impact.
and structured finance administration, pension The groups employees are provided with a modern trusts, corporate services including agent for working environment which complies with all relevant service of process and whistle blowing services.
Employees receive a range of The services are provided by wholly owned benefits designed to promote good health including subsidiaries of the Corporation with offices in health insurance and medicals.
Independent London, Sunderland, New York, Delaware, Hong confidential helpline facilities are provided to enable Kong, the Channel Islands and the Cayman Islands.
employees to deal with issues of concern to them, whether work related or domestic.
As a result of these measures, and senior managements open style, staff turnover is extremely low normally less than 10% per annum.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:57 Page 18 18 Directors report continued The group does not support social and community Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed initiatives, its offices being based in non-residential with the aim of improving returns to shareholders.
The policy on gearing is to assume only that level of gearing which balances risk with the objective of The board is required to give information about increasing the return to shareholders.
In pursuit of persons with whom Law Debenture has contractual its investment objective, investments may be held in, or other arrangements that are essential to the inter alia, equity shares, fixed interest securities, business of the group.
In the view of the board, the interests in limited liability partnerships, cash and only contract that is essential is that in place with liquid assets.
Derivatives may be used but only with Henderson, details of which are given elsewhere in the prior authorisation of the board.
Investment in the directors report.
such instruments for trading purposes is proscribed.
It is permissible to hedge against currency Investment policy movements on both capital and income account, The Corporation carries on its business as a global subject again to prior authorisation of the board.
Its objective is set out in Stock lending, trading in suspended shares and the business review.
The aim is to achieve a higher short positions are not permitted.
rate of total return than the FTSE Actuaries All-Share The Corporations investment activities are subject Index through investing in a portfolio diversified both to the following limitations and restrictions: geographically and by industry.
No investment may be made which raises the To achieve this, investments are selected on the aggregate value of the largest 20 holdings, basis of what appears most attractive in the excluding investments in OEICs and in Scottish conditions of the time.
This approach means that Oriental Smaller Company Trust, to more than there is no obligation to hold shares in any particular 40% of the Corporations portfolio, including cash.
type of company, industry or geographical location.
The value of a new acquisition in any one The independent fiduciary services businesses do company may not exceed 5% of total portfolio not form part of the investment portfolio and are value including cash at the time the investment is outwith this policy.
made, further additions shall not cause a single The Corporations portfolio will typically contain holding to exceed 5%, and board approval must between 70 and 150 listed investments.
The be sought to retain a holding, should its value portfolio is widely diversified both by industrial increase above the 5% limit.
sector and geographic location of investments in The Corporation applies a ceiling on effective order to spread investment risk.
While effective gearing will be Whilst performance is measured against local and employed in a typical range of 90% to 120%, the UK indices, the composition of these indices does board retains the ability to reduce equity exposure not influence the construction of the portfolio.
As a to below 90% if deemed appropriate.
consequence, it is expected that the Corporations The Corporation may not make investments in investment portfolio and performance will deviate respect of which there is unlimited liability.
Board approval must be sought for any proposed Because the Corporations assets are invested direct investments in certain jurisdictions.
internationally and without regard to the composition of indices, there are no restrictions on maximum or The Corporation has a policy not to invest more minimum stakes in particular regions or industry than 15% of gross assets in other UK listed sectors.
However, such stakes are monitored in investment companies.
detail by the board at each board meeting in order to ensure that sufficient diversification is maintained.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:57 Page 19 19 Investment policy implementation Directors During the year, the assets of the Corporation were All the directors on page 5 held office throughout invested in accordance with the investment policy.
Robert Williams served as a director until A full list of holdings is disclosed on pages 12 and the annual general meeting on 7 April 2009 when he 13 and detailed analyses of the spread of retired and did not seek re-election.
investments by geographic region and industry The board decided that, effective from the 2009 sector are shown on pages 9 to 11.
NAV relative AGM, all directors should be required to stand for performance against the FTSE All-Share Index is re-election every year.
The list of candidates, which shown on page 3. the board supports, is set out in the notice of annual The top 20 equity holdings excluding the OEICs general meeting.
comprise 34% of the total portfolio 2008: 37%.
No director has a service contract with any The extent to which the Corporations objective has member of the group in excess of one year or was been achieved, and how the investment policy was materially interested in any other contract with any implemented, are described in the chairmans member of the group.
During the year, liability statement on page 6 and the investment managers insurance was maintained for the benefit of review on page 7. directors and other officers.
Principal risks and uncertainties Directors shareholdings The principal risks of the Corporation relate to its Beneficial interests as at 31 December 2009 2008 investment activities and include market price risk, C. J. Banszky 144,351 75,342 foreign currency risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, A. C. Cates 35,774 35,580 and credit risk.
These are explained in note 19 to J.
D. C. P. McDougall 410,000 410,000 C Smith 40,000 The principal risks of the independent fiduciary R Williams n a 110,392 services business arise during the course of defaults, potential defaults and restructurings where we have been appointed to provide services.
To John Kay is a non-beneficial trustee of a trust that mitigate these risks we work closely with our legal acquired 5,000 shares on 27 November 2009. advisers and, where appropriate, financial advisers, Caroline Banszky exercised 31,364 Executive Share both in the set up phase to ensure that we have as Options on 10 January 2010, bringing her total many protections as practicable, and at all other holding at the date of this report to 175,715.
There stages whether or not there is a danger of default.
have been no other changes in directors interests since 31 December 2009.
No director has a Revenue, dividends and reserves beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary The revenue return attributable to shareholders for company.
The directors recommend a final The beneficial interest of James Henderson at dividend of 8.0p per share, which together with the 31 December 2009 was 50,000. interim dividend of 4.2p paid in September 2009, will produce a total of 12.2p 2008: 12.2p.
The final dividend will be paid on 1 April 2010 to holders on the register on the record date of 5 March 2010.
After deduction of the interim and final dividends of 14,311,000 2008: 14,306,000, consolidated revenue reserves increased by 946,000 2008: increase of 3,942,000. www.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
