7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:57 Page 14 14 Management review independent fiduciary services Results A large number of existing trust appointments Independent fiduciary services revenue increased by became active as originators came under pressure, 12.6% and net underlying income by 1.7%.
Profit meaning an increased level of special fees as the before tax increased by 3.8% from 8.4 million to trustee was called upon to help resolve problem 8.8 million.
Revenue return per share after tax issues.
The profit Law Debenture also accepted an invitation to before tax for the year benefited from a one-off gain become the principal sponsor of the Insolvency of 694,000 as a result of the changes made to the Lawyers Association, reflecting the work that we pension scheme from 1 April 2009. undertake in many high profile insolvencies and in providing innovative solutions to complex problems Independent fiduciary services businesses in the insolvency and restructuring sectors.
Law Debenture is a leading provider of independent third party fiduciary services, including corporate Pension trusts and pension trusts, agent for service of process, Pension trustees continue to face many challenges treasury management and structured finance and Law Debentures specialists have continued to administration, corporate services, and whistle help client schemes through these very challenging blowing services.
The businesses are monitored and times.
The team has been strengthened by three overseen by a board comprising of the heads of the new recruits, reflecting our appointment to a relevant business areas, chaired by the senior nonnumber of new schemes, including chairing the Tate executive independent director.
The Law Debenture Debate is now a major event in the pension industry calendar, and Review of 2009 we continue to publish updates of our technical As the financial results demonstrate, the publication Pensions Essentials.
independent fiduciary businesses performed well, and above expectation, in a very difficult year.
The Corporate services worldwide recession meant that the number of new Our long established and highly regarded service transactions and appointments was lower than in of process business saw a downturn in new previous years.
Nevertheless, the businesses appointments for the second successive year as maintained market share.
Increased activity levels the global recession continued adversely to affect in pre-existing transactions meant that demand for the number of corporate transactions.
our services remained high, with the opportunity to charge additional fees.
Some notable highlights are The corporate services business provision of set out below.
corporate directors, company secretary, accounting and incorporation service for special purpose Corporate trusts vehicles had a good year, arising from corporate In the convertible bond sector, appointments actions required for existing transactions, and from included American Investment Trust, British Airways winning a good share of the limited new transactions and ITV, as well as non-UK entities such as Kenedix that came to market.
These included an airline Japan and UCB Belgium.
The investment grade financing for Japan Airlines and a securitisation of corporate bond market was active in 2009.
There trade receivables by the ISS Group.
was some activity in the structured finance sector, including our appointment to medium term note Treasury and asset backed solutions programmes arranged by Electricity North West.
Following the successful merger of our treasury Major project financings included energy projects in management and structured finance administration, Qatar and Pakistan, a telecommunications project in we continued to grow and develop these Nigeria and aircraft financings for the Brazilian businesses.
manufacturer Embrarer involving a number of international carriers.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:57 Page 15 15 Safecall Summary and outlook Our external whistle blowing service continued to Despite difficult conditions in all of the markets in win new appointments as companies increasingly which we operate, our independent fiduciary recognised the commercial and regulatory businesses have all held their positions and in some benefits of independent confidential reporting.
cases performed ahead of expectation.
2010 has Inroads are being made into public sector started steadily.
The emergence of the leading organisations, NGOs and international charities economies from recession should in due course such as the International Federation of Red Cross lead to increased activity levels, but this will not be and Red Crescent Societies as these bodies also a quick process.
Our activity levels will again be begin to recognise the benefits of an independent influenced by work arising from pre-existing whistle blowing service.
transactions, as well as new appointments.
Meanwhile, we will seek to take advantage of any new opportunities that might arise, either from our Overseas existing businesses or by diversification into other United States areas where the expertise of an independent third The US business had a very successful year, with a party is called for.
record number of successor trustee appointments, stemming from the increased level of US bankruptcy filings, including General Motors, CapMark Trust, Caroline Banszky and Nortel Networks.
Other notable appointments included new non-successor trusteeships for Nokia, NX Energy and the Hospital Corporation of America.
The US corporate services businesses, including Delaware Corporate Services, also had a strong year, increasing both activity levels and revenues when measured against 2008.
Hong Kong Hong Kongs relatively early emergence from recession saw an upturn in activity during the second half of the year, leading to a strong recovery in the number of our escrow and service of process appointments, and new trustee roles such as the Golden Meditech convertible bond issue.
Channel Islands Special fee income increased as pre-existing projects were restructured or unwound.
A number of new trustee and escrow roles were taken on, notably arising from the energy sector.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
