7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:57 Page 7 Investment managers review 7 Review from the recovery in the global industrial economy.
The It was unclear to investors at the start of 2009 how severe or European stocks comprise a diversified list of long-term growth long the recession would turn out to be.
The crisis in the companies that should be able to sustain profits growth despite banking sector required massive bail-outs from authorities and the substantial appreciation of the euro.
policy makers, but the full-blown consequences of the crisis Our judgment to participate in certain rights issues proved were uncertain.
Credit availability for borrowers was, at best, correct.
Capital raisings, where new shares were issued, were challenging and, for many, simply unavailable.
As a result, many effected at attractive levels for the new money coming in.
We commentators feared that any economic recovery would be put new money into GKN, Land Securities and HSBC, among weak, something starkly reflected in the fall in share prices.
They are currently comfortably trading above the rights However, concerns proved unduly pessimistic as a combination prices.
In addition, we underwrote a significant number of rights of emerging markets growth and government spending issues and it was a worthwhile exercise, producing 327,000 stimulated end demand so that, by year end, the global of income.
In general, the corporate sector, with the exception of a large number of financials, went into the Over the year we sold 4.3 million more of equities than we downturn in a sound position.
This, combined with the rise in asset value, meant debt was at manageable levels and companies were behaving in that gearing to equities fell from 12.3% to 7.2%.
The overall an efficient, disciplined manner.
This allowed firms to attack the level of gearing, however, hardly moved as we made 15.1 problem of falling sales by reducing costs and generating cash.
million of purchases in investment grade, short-dated corporate This meant that, when sales stabilised, the overall outlook for bonds, which added capital value as well as improving the profits appeared considerably better than expected.
was a powerful rebound in share prices from the lows of the Our investment disciplines of predominantly focusing on value first quarter of the year.
and medium-term dividend prospects have not altered during Lessons from the financial crisis are still being digested.
are obvious, for example that acceptable levels of borrowing, both at an individual consumer and corporate level, will have to Outlook be lower in future.
There were numerous capital raisings by Macroeconomic data shows that the global economy is growing companies during the year and the overborrowed cut their again.
The impetus for this came initially from fast-developing dividends to preserve cash.
Corporate debt fell markedly during economies, particularly China, but now the US is also showing the year on demands for more conservative balance sheets.
This is being achieved at a time when wage That said, the consequences of the crisis are less clear in other costs in the developed world are subdued, which means that areas.
The banking system was the reason for the crisis and its inflationary pressures are unlikely to be an issue in the short future shape is being hotly debated, but what this will mean for term.
It follows that interest rates should not need to be its future structure is unclear.
However, the wider consequences of the financial turmoil have yet to work their way through the Investment approach global system.
Current levels of government expenditure are Our investment strategy has been to focus on companies that unsustainable, and economic predictions need to be treated have the discipline to react to the difficult economic climate, but with caution.
also those with credible plans in place to take advantage of the Fortunately, equity valuations are not demanding given that return of economic growth.
In sector terms, this means we are there is a strong recovery underway in profits.
Many of the positioned with a large exposure to good quality industrial companies held in the portfolio will prove the quality of their companies.
businesses as they produce good results, despite the uneasy The overseas stocks in the portfolio bring opportunities for economic backdrop.
The portfolio is reasonably geared with profitable investments that cannot be found in the UK.
The investments in companies that should produce sound dividend strongest performing area during the year was the Far East, the and earnings growth.
exposure to this area being spread across four different funds.
The worst performing area was Japan, which had been the best performing region the previous year.
Our US exposure is James Henderson predominantly focussed on major exporting capital goods Henderson Global Investors Limited companies: these are leaders in their fields and should benefit www.
Other significant holdings by value 2009 2008 Value % of % of Rank Company 000 portfolio portfolio Rank 1 Henderson Asia Pacific Capital Growth Pacific 10,337 2.77 6.43 1 2 Henderson Japan Capital Growth Japan 10,049 2.69 3.82 2 3 Baillie Gifford Pacific 7,959 2.13 4 First State Asia Pacific 6,752 1.81 5 National Grid 6.125% 15 04 14 5,683 1.52 6 Imperial Tobacco Finance 6.875% 13 06 12 4,677 1.25 7 Scottish Oriental Smaller Company Trust 4,080 1.09 13.26 Open ended investment companies.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
