7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:57 Page 5 The board 5 Douglas McDougall OBE John Kay Chairman Non-executive director Chairman of The Independent Investment Trust plc, Appointed to the board in September 2004.
The European Investment Trust plc and Scottish Business economist, writer and broadcaster.
Investment Trust plc and a director of The Monks Visiting Professor at the London School of Investment Trust plc, Pacific Horizon Investment Economics.
Founded London Economics, Britains Trust plc and Herald Investment Trust plc.
Former largest independent economic consultancy.
joint senior partner of Baillie Gifford & Co, investment Director of SVM UK Active Fund plc, Value and managers, and former chairman of IMRO, of the Income Trust plc, Scottish Mortgage Investment Association of Investment Trust Companies and of Trust plc and Clear Capital, an equity research the Fund Managers Association.
Joined the board in boutique.
Chairman of the He writes a weekly column for the Financial Times.
remuneration and nomination committees, a member Member of the audit, remuneration and nomination of the audit committee and chairman of Law committees and chairman of L. D. Pension Plan Debenture Trust Company of New York Inc.
Caroline Banszky Christopher Smith Managing director Non-executive director Appointed to the board in January 2002.
Former Appointed to the board on 1 March 2009.
Former chief operating officer of SVB Holdings PLC now Managing Director, Corporate Finance of JP Morgan called Novae plc, a Lloyds listed integrated vehicle, Cazenove.
Over 30 years experience in corporate and former finance director of N. M. Rothschild & finance and equity capital markets.
He has been a Sons Limited.
member of The London Stock Exchange and UKLA Practitioner Committees and is a member of the Armel Cates Panel on Takeovers and Mergers.
Chairman of the Non-executive director audit committee and a member of the remuneration A former partner of Clifford Chance and appointed and nomination committees, and a director of LDC to the board in February 2001.
Wide experience of Trust Management Limited.
capital markets transactions including medium term note programmes, securitisations and repackagings.
Director of Fatburen Investment BV and of  Trustee Company.
A member of the remuneration, nomination and audit committees and chairman of the LDC Trust Management Limited board.
Investment manager James Henderson Joined Henderson Global Investors in 1983 and has been an investment trust portfolio manager since 1990, managing Lowland Investment Company plc since then and Henderson Opportunities Trust plc since January 2006.
He first became involved in the management of Law Debentures portfolio in 1994 and took over sole management of the portfolio in June 2003. www.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
