78 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GoveRnanCe otheR StatutoRy and ReGulatoRy inFoRmation.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 Company and the Group have adequate resources of the IAS Regulation.
they are also responsible for to continue operational existence for the foreseeable safeguarding the assets of the Group and for taking such future.
For that reason, they continue to adopt the going reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Statement oF diReCtoRS ReSponSiBilitieS The directors are responsible for the maintenance The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors and integrity of the information included on the Report, including the Directors Remuneration Report, Groups website.
legislation in the United Kingdom and the Group and parent company financial statements governing the preparation and dissemination of in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Responsibility statement directors have prepared the Group Financial Statements Each of the directors listed on pages 42 and 43 confirms in accordance with International Financial Reporting that to the best of their knowledge: Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and the parent company financial statements in accordance with a t he financial statements, prepared in accordance UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted with the applicable set of accounting standards, give Accounting Principles and applicable law.
the Group a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial and parent company Financial Statements are required position and profit or loss of the Company and the by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Group as a whole: and the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
b the directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and In preparing those Financial Statements, the directors the position of the Company and Group as a whole, are required to: together with a description of the principal risks and select suitable accounting policies and then apply uncertainties that they face.
them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable by order of the board and prudent: state that the Group Financial Statements comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and IFRS issued by the IASb, and with regard to the parent company financial statements, that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to G J timms any material departures disclosed and explained in Company Secretary the Financial Statements: and 22 march 2010 prepare the Group and parent company financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and parent company will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and parent company and to enable them to ensure that the directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 79 SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUROPEAN EMBEDDED VALUE BASIS 80 Independent auditors report 184 Consolidated income statement 81 Consolidated income statement 185 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 82 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 186 Consolidated balance sheet 83 Consolidated balance sheet 187 Notes to the supplementary financial statements 84 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 204 Independent auditors report 86 Consolidated cash flow statement 87 Notes to the financial statements COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 87 1.
Supplementary operating profit information 205 Independent auditors report 102 3.
Segmental analysis 206 Company balance sheet 106 4.
New business gross of reinsurance 207 Company statement of total recognised 107 5.
Investment return gains and losses 107 6.
Net claims and change in insurance liabilities 207 Company reconciliation of movements 107 7.
Auditors remuneration in total shareholders funds 108 8.
Employee information 208 Notes to the Company financial statements 108 9.
Foreign exchange and exchange rates 109 11.
Disclosure of tax effects relating to each component of other comprehensive income 111 15.
Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 123 22.
Purchased interest in long term businesses PILTB and other intangible assets 124 23.
Share capital, share premium and employee scheme shares 129 29.
Value of in-force non-participating contracts 135 34.
Long term insurance valuation assumptions 140 35.
Payables and other financial liabilities 146 38.
Net asset value attributable to unit holders 147 40.
Contingent liabilities, guarantees and indemnities 148 42.
