24 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 our performANce SAVINGS.
SAVINGS delIVered A StroNG uNderlyING performANce durING 2009, delIVerING A turNArouNd IN cASh GeNerAtIoN wIth Growth of New buSINeSS, INcreASed Net fuNd flowS ANd SIGNIfIcANt Growth IN ASSetS uNder AdmINIStrAtIoN.
mArK GreGory Group eXecutIVe dIrector SAVINGS our performANce StrAteGy IN ActIoN New business Ape m Our five strategic imperatives are applied across all business units.
The following illustrates them 2009 2008 % Change in action in the Savings division.
Retail investments 375 229 64% Non profit 341 459 26% With-profits 191 191 0% ImperAtIVe ActIVIty total savings 907 879 3% fINANcIAl Significant costs have been taken out Assets under administration bn mANAGemeNt of the business, commissions reduced 2009 2008 % Change and products re-designed to reduce strain of writing new business.
Retail investments 13.0 9.1 43% Non profit 20.4 17.3 18% With-profits 21.4 19.4 10% From new business dIVerSIfIed Transformation of the mix of products total savings 54.8 45.8 20% buSINeSS sold with increased focus on retail investments and Self Invested Personal Pension SIPP products.
SAVINGS Net cASh GeNerAtIoN hIGh QuAlIty Savings products distributed to productS, individuals and companies via a broad broAd range of bank and building society 33m dIStrIbutIoN partners, IFAs and direct to consumer.
2008: loss of 23m A poSItIVe Charging structures of some products cuStomer changed to reward and encourage eXperIeNce customer loyalty, aligning what is best SAVINGS IfrS operAtING profIt for the customer and the business.
hIGh Several awards won in 2009 including 55m eXpectAtIoN Group SIPP provider of the year.
culture 2008: 7m restated As outlined on page 10. our performANce ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 25 focuS oN worKplAce SAVINGS In the corporate market our WorkSave platform, which combines Group SIPP and our new Group ISA, appeals to employers looking to establish holistic savings opportunities for their employees.
Major FTSE companies including First Group, Morrisons and BG Group took advantage of this offering in 2009.
Workplace Savings won two awards at the 2009 Pensions Management Technology, Administration and Service awards TAS Group SIPP provider of the year and Group Pensions provider of the year as well as Group SIPP Provider at the Pension & Investment Provider Awards.
our StreNGthS our productS Wide product range to suit different maturity unit trusts and asset allocation preferences.
A relatively simple form of collective investment, which enable customers to invest in a wide Broad distribution, with direct and variety of different securities and indices.
intermediated sales through IFAs and bank and building society partners.
Individual savings accounts Enable customers to invest in cash or securities, Legal & General Investment Management up to a defined annual limit on a tax efficient basis.
LGIM synergy gives access to expert fund management.
Investment bonds Combine life assurance features and the facility Adaptable approach to technology evidenced for the customer to invest in a variety of by partnership with Cofunds platform.
Financial strength and asset allocation skills pensions within With-profits enables us to balance Pensions products enable individuals to save expectations and risk management for for retirement in a tax efficient way, either customers and shareholders.
through a personal pension, or as part of an employers scheme.
Structured products Investments that aim to minimise the risk of capital loss whilst still offering some equity exposure.
with-profits With-profits products pool customers investments.
Policies share the characteristic that investors receive bonuses as a result of direct participation in surplus profits.
26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 OUR PERFORMANCE SAVINGS.
our SAVINGS buSINeSS IS AN During 2009 we have continued to implement the strategy outlined in 2008 and accelerated many of these INVeStmeNt mANAGemeNt led initiatives.
The focus has been on increased net cash mANufActurer ANd ASSembler flow and profit rather than higher sales volumes.
Product of moderN, fleXIble ANd cApItAl mix has shifted towards modern, less capital intensive lIGht productS.
products to achieve this objective.
Significant cost savings have been made across the business in 2009 and underlying net cash flow has improved.
the buSINeSS holdS 54.8bN of cuStomer ASSetS uNder There has been continued improvement in financial AdmINIStrAtIoN, AN INcreASe management: reducing commissions paid to intermediaries, increasing fees on some products and of 20% 2008: 45.8bN, withdrawing products which had high reserving costs.
StreNGtheNING our poSItIoN As anticipated, the steps taken to reduce reliance on AS AN ASSet GAtherer.
products with high levels of commission and long payback periods has resulted in a reduction in sales of unit linked bonds and stakeholder pensions.
our SAVINGS buSINeSS offerS A wIde rANGe of fleXIble Alongside this product redesign strategy, a cost productS ANd INVeStmeNt rationalisation programme was rolled out in 2009. optIoNS whIch eNAble cuStomerS Year on year operating costs were reduced significantly through a reduction in headcount and a review of all to SAVe for retIremeNt ANd non value adding expenditure.
Overall, net fund flows for retail investments increased substantially to 2.1bn versus 0.4bn in 2008, with Assets under Administration AuA growth of 43% Savings products are distributed through bank and to 13bn.
building society partners, IFAs and direct sales.
Interest in capital protected products has increased as customers search for security in response to a less certain financial landscape.
This has included significant increases in the sale of With-profits bonds, up 96% to 55m 2008: 28m.
There has been a substantial growth in unit trust sales which have increased by 69% at 269m APE and an increase in ISA sales of 51% to 106m APE.
The strong growth in sales reflects the continued success of our distribution arrangement with Nationwide Building Society and our campaign to sell more products via specialist IFAs and direct sales channels.
The charging structures of some products have been changed to reward and encourage customer loyalty.
This is an example of alignment of what is best for the customer and what is best for the business, reducing costs whilst encouraging long term investment.
our performANce ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 27 corporAte SocIAl reSpoNSIbIlIty We continue to hold a 25% stake in Cofunds, the UKs largest independent investment platform.
We now also have scale on our own platform which has seen our worK wIth A4e significant growth throughout the year and now holds 1 to 1.5bn of assets.
Our fund of funds products also Recent economic turbulence has increased the continue to perform well.
need for many families to look for financial advice and assistance.
In recognition of this we have Unit linked bond sales were 48% lower at 68m 2008: worked with a third sector organisation called 131m, reflecting the impact of the strategic decision to A4e to provide practical support for a Money reduce the capital strain of sales.
Tax changes continue Guidance pilot in the North West of England.
to reduce customer appeal for this product.
Expertise was provided by staff from our Individual SIPP sales grew by 9% in 2009.
SIPP sales employed sales force ESF to support this now represent 75% of all non profit individual pension important initiative.
This included advice on the sales.
However, total APE sales of non profit pensions differences between guidance and regulated were 17% lower at 273m 2008: 328m reflecting advice, knowledge of the basic ranges of management action to limit volume in the older style products and services open to clients in the stakeholder products.
market and providing an understanding of the way consumers can be referred to specialists in Sales in Group SIPP products have remained resilient mortgages, protection, wealth and taxation.
with sales 6% higher than last year and new business tender activity has been strong.
Changes have been Working with A4e gives us an understanding of made to initial commission structures, with increased how organisations such as ours can help people sales volumes coming via fee based intermediaries.
to get out of debt and into saving.
Our ESF will be working with A4e Money Guiders over the next Overall sales of With-profits products were flat year on few months to see if there are areas of expertise year at 191m.
However, With-profits bonds sales remain where we can support them.
strong, rising 96% in the year.
The awards Workplace Savings won at the 2009 Pensions Management awards reflect the Groups commitment to a high performing culture and positive customer experience.
They are a strong external endorsement of the way we support our customers, deliver on our promises and give a positive customer experience on a complex savings product.
For more information see pages 40 to 41.
At the same awards ceremony Suffolk Life, part of the Specialised Savings division, won the award for Income Drawdown and Phased Retirement provider of the year and were also commended as runners up in the Bespoke SIPP category.
outlooK The medium-term prospects for our Savings business are good.
Economic recovery, coupled with further rollback of state support, will stimulate private saving.
In the shorter-term we expect increased business activity, there is strong demand for our range of pension and unit trust products, and in the workplace, our market leading Group SIPP proposition continues to attract a significant interest from employers.
