GoveRnanCe ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 75 otheR StatutoRy and ReGulatoRy inFoRmation.
aRtiCleS oF aSSoCiation A further resolution is proposed, as set out in the notice The Companys Articles of Association may only be of AGM, that will, if approved by shareholders, authorise amended by a special resolution at a general meeting the directors to issue shares up to the equivalent of 5% of shareholders.
At the Companys AGM to be held on of the Companys issued share capital as at 22 march 26 may 2010, a resolution will be put to shareholders 2010 for cash without offering the shares first to existing proposing amendments to the existing Articles of shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
Association to incorporate changes introduced by the Companies Act 2006.
Detailed explanatory notes to these resolutions are set out in the notice of AGm.
ConFliCtS oF inteReSt during 2008, provisions in the Companies Act 2006 Other than the above, the directors have no current concerning a directors duties in dealing with actual intention of issuing further share capital and no issue or potential conflicts of interest became effective.
will be made which would effectively alter control of the In accordance with these provisions, shareholders Company without prior approval of shareholders in a approved changes to the Companys Articles of general meeting.
Association at the 2008 AGm to allow directors to authorise such conflicts.
SuBStantial ShaRe inteReStS As at 22 march 2010, the Company had been advised of the the board has adopted a policy and procedure for the following significant direct and indirect interests in the disclosure and authorisation if appropriate of conflicts issued share capital of the Company: of interest, and these have been followed during 2009. number number poweRS oF diReCtoRS of Ordinary of Ordinary Total shares of 2.5p shares of 2.5p interest The directors may exercise all powers of the Company with direct with indirect in issued subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the voting rights voting rights share capital Companys Articles of Association.
AXA S. A and its group of companies 3.04% 1.27% 4.31% ShaRe Capital Swiss Reinsurance Company ltd 3.93% 0% 3.93% As at 31 december 2009, the Companys issued share Aviva Plc & its subsidiaries 2.86% 0% 2.86% capital comprised 5,862,216,780 ordinary shares each Schroders Plc 0% 5.04% 5.04% with a nominal value of 2.5p.
details of the ordinary blackrock Inc 0% 5.21% 5.21% share capital can be found in note 28 to the Financial Statements on page 128. dividend The Company may, by ordinary resolution in a general At the 2009 AGm, the Company was granted authority meeting, declare dividends in accordance with the by shareholders to purchase up to 586,167,936 respective rights of the members, but no dividend can ordinary shares, being 10% of the issued share capital exceed the amount recommended by the board.
of the Company as at 24 march 2009.
In the year to An interim dividend of 1.11p per share was paid on 31 december 2009, no shares were purchased by the 1 october 2009. the directors propose a final dividend Company.
This authority will expire at this years AGM.
Subject to shareholder As such, a special resolution is proposed in the approval, the final dividend will be paid on 1 June 2010 notice of AGm seeking shareholder approval to renew to shareholders on the share register on 16 April 2010. this authority.
Related paRty tRanSaCtionS At the 2009 AGm, the directors were given the power details of related party transactions are set out in note to allot shares up to an amount of 48,358,855, being 40 to the Financial Statements on page 147.
33% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 24 march 2009. this authority will also expire at this years AGM.
As such, a special resolution is proposed in the notice of AGm seeking shareholder approval to renew this authority.
76 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GoveRnanCe otheR StatutoRy and ReGulatoRy inFoRmation.
RiGhtS and oBliGationS attaChinG Shares acquired through the employee share schemes to ShaReS rank equally with all other Ordinary shares in issue.
The rights and obligations relating to the Companys barclays Private bank & trust Isle of man limited, Ordinary shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
as trustee of the legal & General Employees Share A copy of the Articles of Association can be requested ownership trust, holds 0.47% of the issued share capital from the Company Secretary at the Companys of the Company as at 22 march 2010 in trust for the registered office.
benefit of the executive directors, senior executives and managers of the Group.
This includes shares held as Holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak nominee on behalf of legal & General Share Scheme and vote at general meetings.
In a vote on a show of trustees limited, as trustee of the legal & General hands, every member present in person or every proxy Employee Share Trust, which is in the process of being present, who has been duly appointed by a member, wound up.
The voting rights in relation to these shares will have one vote and on a poll every member present are exercised by the trustee.
The trustee may vote or in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every abstain from voting, or accept or reject any offer relating Ordinary share held.
These rights are subject to any to shares, in any way it sees fit, without incurring any special terms as to voting upon which any shares may liability and without being required to give reasons for be issued or may at the relevant time be held and to its decision.
any other provisions of the Companys Articles of Association.
Under the Companies Act 2006 and the Under the rules of the legal & General Group Employee Articles of Association, directors have the power to Share Plan Plan, eligible employees are entitled to suspend voting rights and, in certain circumstances, the acquire shares in the Company.
Plan shares are held right to receive dividends in respect of shares where in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan trustees the holder of those shares fails to comply with a notice limited, which holds 0.43% of the issued share capital issued under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006. of the Company as at 22 march 2010. voting rights are exercised by the trustees on receipt of the participants the board can decline to register a transfer of any share instructions.
If a participant does not submit an which is not a fully paid share.
In addition, registration of instruction to the trustees, no vote is registered.
In a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in addition, the trustees do not vote on any unawarded the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
rules and where the number of joint holders exceeds four.
the board may also refuse to register the transfer The Company is not aware of any agreements between of a certificated share unless: shareholders which may result in restrictions on the a the instrument of transfer is duly stamped and is transfer of securities and or voting rights.
left at the Companys registered office or such other place as the board may from time to time determine ChanGe oF ContRol accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it There are no agreements between the Company and relates and such evidence as the board may reasonably its directors or employees for compensation providing require to show the right of the transferor to make the for loss of office or employment whether through transfer: resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise in b the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one the event of a takeover bid, except for those relating class of share: and to normal notice periods.
The rules of the Companys c the number of joint holders does not exceed four.
share plans contain provisions under which options and awards to participants, including executive directors, Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, all or may vest on a takeover or change of control of the any of the rights attaching to an existing class of shares Company or transfer of undertakings.
may be varied from time to time either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths The Company has a committed circa 1bn bank in nominal value of the issued shares of that class syndicated credit facility which is terminable if revised excluding any treasury shares or with the sanction terms cannot be agreed with the syndicate of banks of a special resolution passed at a separate general in a 30 day period following a change of control.
meeting of the holders of those shares.
As at 22 march 2010, the Company has no borrowings under this facility.
GoveRnanCe ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 77 There are no change of control conditions in the terms independent auditoRS of any of the Companys outstanding debt securities.
The Companys auditors have expressed their willingness The terms of the Companys agreements with its banking to continue in office and the Audit Committee has counterparties, under which derivative transactions recommended their reappointment to the board.
are undertaken, include the provision for termination A resolution to re-appoint  of transactions upon takeover merger if the resulting llP as auditors to the Company and to authorise the merged entity has a credit rating materially weaker than directors to determine their remuneration is proposed the Company.
There are no other committed banking for the forthcoming AGM.
arrangements either drawn or undrawn that incorporate any change of control conditions.
diReCtoRS inteReStS The Directors Report on Remuneration on pages 55 to 70 provides details of the interests of each director, uSe oF FinanCial inStRumentS including details of current incentive schemes and long Information on the Groups risk management process term incentive schemes, the interests of directors in the is set out on pages 72 to 74. more details on risk share capital of the Company and details of their share management and the financial instruments used are set options, as at 31 december 2009 and the changes in out in note 48 of the Financial Statements on page 159. those interests that have occurred between 1 January 2010 and 22 march 2010 being the last practicable date indemnitieS prior to publication of the notice of the AGm.
The Company has agreed to indemnify, to the extent permitted by law, each of the directors against any diSCloSuRe oF inFoRmation to auditoRS liability incurred by a director in respect of acts or Each of the directors who held office at the date of omissions arising in the course of their office.
Qualifying approval of this directors Report confirms that, so far as pension scheme indemnities as defined in section they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information 235 of the Companies Act 2006 have been granted, to of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each of the extent permitted by law, to certain trustees of the the directors have taken all reasonable steps they ought Companys pension schemes.
The indemnities were to have taken as directors to ascertain any relevant audit in force throughout 2009 and remain so.
Copies of the information and to ensure that the Companys auditors deeds of indemnity are available for inspection at the are aware of such information.
this confirmation is given Companys registered office and will also be available at in accordance with section 418 2 of the Companies the AGM.
ChaRitaBle donationS GoinG ConCeRn Statement During the period, the Group made charitable donations The Groups business activities, together with the factors amounting to 2.8 million.
details of the Companys likely to affect its future development, performance and charitable activities are set out on pages 40 to 41. position are set out in the Directors Report on pages 1 to 35, 38 to 39 and 42 to 78. the financial position of the politiCal donationS Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing no political donations were made during 2009. facilities are described in the Group Results on pages 14 to 19.
Principal risks are detailed on page 74.
In addition, FoRwaRd-lookinG StatementS the financial statements include, amongst other things, The Directors Report is prepared for the members notes on the Groups objectives, policies and processes of the Company and should not be relied upon by for managing its capital page 152, its financial risk any other party or for any other purpose.
Where the management objectives page 159, details of its financial Directors Report includes forward-looking statements, instruments and hedging activities page 115 and its these are made by the directors in good faith based on exposures to credit risk page 166 and liquidity risk the information available to them at the time of their page 171. approval of this report.
Such statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties the 2010 economic climate remains uncertain.
however, underlying such forward-looking statements.
based on the available information on the future, the directors consider that the Group has the plans and inSuRanCe resources to manage its business risks successfully, The Company has arranged appropriate Directors as it has a diverse range of businesses and remains and officers liability insurance for directors.
