12 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 our grouP synergies between our businesses.
we believe that our combination Synergy matters because it enables us to deliver better products, making best use of all the resources which oF risk, savings and investment exist across the Company, and deliver better services management works better and returns for customers and shareholders, for each together, and adds more value individual customer or corporate client.
Individuals as a whole than any oF the three and companies do not necessarily compartmentalise their various financial requirements.
They benefit comPonents could on its own.
from dealing with an organisation like ours which can understand and address the broader picture.
tim breedon grouP chieF eXecutive Utilising synergies benefits all parties.
For example, individual customers of our Savings division benefit from LGIMs institutional fund management expertise.
resource synergies Shared distribution partnerships encompassing protection and savings products risk savings Institutional Pension buyouts Economies of asset allocation priced and executed scale for individual skills and economies based on shared savings and pension of scale investing approach to fund investments the assets backing mortality and the annuities investment risks investment management our grouP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 13 42% 67% 25% of bulk purchase annuity business of maturing pension schemes of group new business aPe comes comes from lgim clients purchase l&g annuity from internal introductions Customers who have had a positive pensions experience Synergies also exist between each operating division with our Savings division are likely to look favourably on and the corporate centre.
Each business benefits from an annuity proposition from our Risk division when the shared central resources: the strength of the balance time comes to annuitise.
sheet and risk management, and our powerful brand being prime examples.
Each of our businesses can and Corporate customers looking to execute a pension does help the others, and this adds value to the Group buyout benefit from the combination of Risks longevity as a whole.
expertise and LGIMs investment skills: a package which we can deliver as a result of utilising synergies and sharing skills and resources across our business divisions.
customer synergies Savers purchase competitively priced annuity products at retirement risk Group risk and Group pension products for corporate clients savings Retail investors gain Pension buyouts access to institutional of group pension management schemes products in ISAs, bonds, pensions and unit trusts investment management
