44 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GOVERNANCE INTRODuCTION.
ThE BOARD The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and is determined that the Group BElIEVES ThAT is recognised as a leader in responsible business.
GOOD CORpORATE The Board believes that good corporate governance GOVERNANCE AND and a successful company go hand in hand.
A SuCCESSFul The Board sits at the peak of the Companys governance COmpANy GO hAND structure.
In the words of the Combined Code, the IN hAND.
Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board achieves this through its own work and the work of its committees.
SIR ROB mARGETTS I hope this report, together with the other reports in this section, provide you with an understanding of our 2009 was a challenging year for Boards of financial governance framework and how the Company complies services companies.
The events that shook financial with the principles and provisions of the Combined markets last year have focussed attention on the Code.
governance of major companies and the role of the Board in providing leadership.
The Board of legal & It has been an honour to serve the Company, the Board General has steered the Company through these recent and shareholders for the last 13 years.
I wish John and difficult times ensuring continuing stability whilst the Board all the best for 2010 and beyond.
striving for better performance for our shareholders.
OVERVIEW OF OuR CORpORATE GOVERNANCE FRAmEWORK lEGAl & GENERAl GROup plC AuDIT NOmINATIONS REmuNERATION RISK CORpORATE SOCIAl RESpONSIBIlITy Advises the Board leads the Advises the Board Advises Develops the on financial process for the on remuneration the Board on Groups CSR reporting appointment of philosophy and matters of risk strategy and matters and the new directors overall reward management policies and effectiveness to the Board.
engages with key of the Groups More details can details can be More details can stakeholders on internal control be found on found on be found on CSR matters.
More details can More details can be found on be found on page 71. page 52. governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 45 the board has questionnaire, which sought directors views on Board relationships, the role of the Board and its committees, closely followed its effectiveness in particular in developing and testing the developments strategy, and individual directors views on their in corporate own contribution during the year.
The questions also governance examined whether the Board meets regularly enough, provides an atmosphere for candid discussion and practice during debate, and devotes the right amount of time to the right 2009. things.
I have met with all Board members individually to discuss their responses and will be developing an action plan to be agreed by the Board and implemented this year.
Overall, I am satisfied that the Board operates well.
john stewart chairman We recognise that engagement between the Board and the Companys shareholders is critical to ensure an alignment of interests.
During 2009, the Company Much is demanded of the directors of the Boards of was particularly focussed on ensuring the channel of major companies.
It is imperative that a Board comprises engagement was open and that the messages being the right balance of skills and experience to provide communicated by the Company to its investors were effective stewardship of the Company through good clear and understandable.
Meetings with institutional times and bad.
During 2009, the Board welcomed Dame investors and analysts were undertaken during the year Clara Furse as non-executive director, and Nigel Wilson on behalf of the Board by the Group Chief Executive and as executive director.
All of our non-executive directors Group Chief Financial Officer.
The Board is supported contribute their diverse business experience and wide by our Investor Relations department, which is in range of skills to the Company.
With two of our most regular contact with institutional investors and analysts.
experienced non-executive directors, Frances Heaton A report on the activities of the Investor Relations and Dr. Ronaldo Schmitz, planning to retire this year, department, and the feedback received from investors our focus is on identifying successors with skills and and analysts, is provided to the Board at each meeting experience aligned to the Groups strategy.
by the Group Chief Financial Officer.
This ensures that the Board is kept regularly appraised of the key issues The Board has closely followed the developments in and concerns of the Companys major shareholders.
This corporate governance practice during 2009, in particular year, we are continuing our focus on engagement with a the commentary on the Boards role in risk governance.
comprehensive schedule of regular investor and analyst In line with emerging best practice, the Board meetings.
Sir David Walker, as the Senior Independent determined that, in future, its risk committee should be Director, and myself are available to meet or speak with chaired by a non-executive director.
Like the executive major shareholders on request if they have any concerns chaired Group Risk and Compliance Committee, the nonthat are not able to be addressed through the usual channels.
executive chaired risk committee will have responsibility for providing advice and oversight to the Board on The Board views the Annual General Meeting AGM as current risk exposures and future risk strategy.
More an important opportunity to engage with the Companys information about the committee and how we manage private investors.
All Board members attend the AGM risk can be found at page 72. and are available to meet shareholders and answer any questions.
We endeavour to make attendance Each year the Board participates in a formal evaluation at our AGM a rewarding experience for investors in of its performance, the performance of its committees terms of meeting the Board and developing a better and that of individual directors.
The evaluation process understanding of our business.
I would encourage as is considered a valuable exercise.
The Board undertook many shareholders as possible to attend on 26 May the evaluation for 2009 in January of this year.
We also now provide a dedicated contact in the an external facilitator was considered however, as the Company for our private investors to raise any concerns timing of the exercise coincided with the transition or queries that they might have.
from Sir Rob Margetts to myself, it was agreed that the evaluation should be facilitated internally by I look forward to meeting many of you at the AGM and myself and supported by externally established online through our Investor Relations programme.
The evaluation comprised a confidential online
