10 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 our grouP strategic overview.
to deliver sustainable growth in cash Flows in order to reward our aim our shareholders.
we will do this by ensuring that: aPPly suPerior Financial Capital is a key ingredient for our business and effective capital at grouP management is an important objective.
We aim to ensure that we management level we: have the right amount of the right type of capital to meet our business requirements.
We have built a reputation as a low-cost manufacturer.
As well as immediate margin enhancement, cost leadership provides the agility to react to changing circumstances quickly.
build a diversiFied business We manage our portfolio of businesses to deliver Group targets against our key metrics.
We scan the market to identify new opportunities and invest to grow the business and build profitable returns.
high quality Central to our business model is the maintenance of diversified distribution each business Products and capability.
The benefits of this strategy are that we are able to build scale Provides: in diversified markets and maintain growth as distribution patterns shift.
broad distribution Together with this, we will produce products which offer demonstrable value to customers, distributors and us, maintaining quality and ensuring a stable stream of high quality new business.
a Positive customer We recognise our customers are at the heart of our business and consequently work hard to develop relationships with our key customer eXPerience segments and distributors on mutually acceptable terms.
We aim to deliver a positive experience for our existing customer base: treating our customers fairly and meeting, or beating, the performance assumptions made in terms of persistency, cost, claims and mortality.
a high eXPectation culture Our people are key to our continued long term success.
We aim to maintain a strong management team and continually to grow the breadth and depth of our management capability.
Our organisational culture already yields benefits in terms of behaviour, low turnover and cost, but we recognise the need to evolve in the current marketplace, injecting greater energy into the business to improve on our successes.
return on equity roe iFrs oPerating ProFit Definition: RoE measures the return earned by Definition: The Groups primary financial statements see Financial Statements are prepared shareholders on shareholder capital retained within on an International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis which all EU listed companies are the business.
RoE is calculated as IFRS profit after required to follow.
IFRS operating profit measures the pre-tax result using a smoothed longer tax divided by average IFRS shareholders funds.
Any variance between actual and smoothed investment return is reported below operating profit.
Purpose: RoE provides a link between performance and balance sheet management and ensures that an Purpose: IFRS operating profit gives an insight into the Groups ability to generate cash flows to appropriate balance is maintained between the two.
our grouP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 11 how we measure success: PerFormance We do this in five ways : Both IFRS and EEV operating profits showed a healthy improvement on 2008 numbers.
Our focus on cash generation has yielded a significant improvement Return on equity in IFRS profits IFRS operating profit Our balance sheet proved resilient to extreme market conditions and year end Insurance group directive IGD surplus and coverage ratio estimated IGD surplus was 3.1bn Total shareholder return TSR TSR has improved in 2009 to 11% from negative 28% in 2008 EEV operating profit Consequently group return on equity was a healthy 22%.
The definitions and purpose of these measures can be found at the bottom of this page.
Segmented IFRS profit Risk is a highly cash generative business which benefits from high scale and leading market positions.
IFRS operating profit in 2009 was 735m Savings has continued to turn around its performance with changes to costs, products and distribution yielding an IFRS operating profit of 55m Investment management has a leading position in its UK markets, and is developing internationally.
IFRS operating profit was 167m We are building our international portfolio with the launch of new businesses in the Gulf States and India in 2009. International IFRS operating profit was 127m.
Persistency measures We have continued to execute our multi distribution strategy well during 2009.
We signed distribution agreements with SAGA, Northern Rock, and Skipton Awards in recognition of good products Building Society amongst others Our product range continues to attract customers and distributors to us.
During the year we launched a range of new products across our businesses.
Customer experience report Extreme market conditions have affected customers during the year.
Many savings and investment management customers have seen their asset Customer satisfaction surveys values fall.
This has had an impact on customer perceptions of Legal & General We continue to deliver high quality service to our customers and win many awards for service.
We continually strive to improve the quality of service we offer.
Annual staff survey We have continued to make good progress in the evolution of our culture.
We have recruited a number of high quality leaders to the Board and to Staff engagement in What Matters?
Our managers have been trained on improving performance management, leadership and communications.
There is still more to do but we are pleased with the progress we have made in 2009. insurance grouPs directive igd surPlus total shareholder return tsr eev oPerating ProFit Definition: The IGD surplus is an FSA regulatory measure Definition: TSR is a measure used to compare the Definition: Legal & General provides supplementary which calculates surplus capital within the Group.
IGD surplus performance of different companies stocks and shares over financial statements prepared on the European Embedded is defined as Group regulatory capital employed less the Group time.
It combines the share price appreciation and dividends Value EEV basis for long term insurance contracts regulatory capital requirement.
Surplus capital held within our paid to show the total return to the shareholder.
The TSR see Supplementary Financial Statements.
The EEV Society Long Term Fund cannot be included in the IGD definition shown is the change in share price over a three year basis provides an assessment of the value which has been of capital employed.
performance period, plus the value of reinvested dividends, generated by the business during a period.
Operating relative to the performance of all the other companies profit on the EEV basis reports the change in embedded Purpose: IGD surplus is the Group level regulatory surplus capital in the FTSE 100. value in a period, but excludes fluctuations from assumed measure.
IGD surplus is after accrual of proposed dividend.
Purpose: TSR measures total return to shareholders over Figures extracted from draft unaudited regulatory returns.
Purpose: In the Boards opinion, EEV operating profit provides shareholders with a good understanding of the value which is being created on the Groups long term insurance contracts.
