36 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 Our purpOse Our rOle.
Insurance prOducTs help Our purpOse Finance plays a role in everybodys life, and good TO prOTecT IndIvIduals and financial companies are those which connect with busInesses agaInsT a wIde range customers lives accordingly.
They facilitate household Of rIsks everyThIng frOm pOOr budgeting and long term saving, enable people to get healTh and naTural dIsasTers TO through the financial consequences of unfortunate or catastrophic events and are there for customers when The rIsk Of OuTlIvIng savIngs In they are needed.
by reducIng The ImpacT Of These prOblems, The Insurance In addition to our role of delivering returns for our IndusTry allOws peOple TO bear shareholders and customers we believe that as a business, we have a responsibility to take a position of leadership rIsks wITh greaTer peace Of mInd in broader society.
We must ensure that we relate to the and reduces pOTenTIal relIance day-to-day lives and concerns of our customers, and as On The sTaTe.
a shareholder we must set new and higher standards of stewardship and engagement with the businesses in which we invest.
The rOle Of Insurance Industry and the Government share the provision of cover for what is known as addressable risk in the UK.
This means each side picks up its part of the costs of ill-health, healthcare, unemployment and pensions.
At present, the Government is responsible for 65% of all addressable risk through its various benefit systems and 35% is covered by the insurance industry through the products provided to clients.
July 2009 saw the publication of Vision for the Insurance Industry in 2020 a joint report by an Insurance Industry Working Group IIWG consisting of the Chancellor of the Exchequer and insurance sector leaders.
Our Group Chief Executive, Tim Breedon, was a member of the group, and the final report picks up several of our themes and thoughts for the future direction of the industry.
The report could play a role in the economic recovery and is welcome evidence of long term thinking by the industry, despite the many immediate pressures it had to face in 2008 and 2009.
The insurance industry plays a unique role within the economy, by providing a mechanism to allow people to cope when a risk is realised.
In 2008 the UK insurance industry paid out 239 million to customers every day in pension and life insurance benefits.
The industry also paid out almost 9 million per day to householders in general insurance claims and 7.5 million daily for liability claims including those arising from accidents at work and professional liabilities.
Our purpOse ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 37 Our purpOse Our product range is designed to reflect the risk, savings and investment needs of our customers at various key stages of their lives.
In return, we provide benefits to our customers and our wider society as a whole.
cusTOmers busInesses prOducTs benefITs TO cusTOmers publIc pOlIcy benefIT IndIvIduals and rIsk SAFEGUARDING Customers pay up front Deliver on our promise to The provision cOrpOraTes CUSTOMERS AGAINST premiums in return for customers and pay claims of these benefits FINANCIAL RISKS insurance, individual that enable individuals to reduces the protection and annuities.
cope with the financial likelihood of consequences of people having to unforeseen events, such fall back on the as bereavement, illness, state as a result damage to property and of loss of income, running out of savings homelessness in old age.
This in turn benefits savIngs FINANCIAL Customers invest funds Our products enable people society by reducing PLANNING, SAVINGS through unit trusts, ISAs, to save for the medium pressure on AND INVESTMENTS investment funds, and long term, either strained public pensions, index funds.
InvesTmenT employer schemes, and to managemenT build funds which provide INVESTING ON BEHALF a secure income in OF INSTITUTIONAL AND retirement.
We act as RETAIL CUSTOMERS a steward of our customers money.
Our core purpose as an industry is to provide our Engagement requires resources: time, effort, and customers with safety in numbers, enabling the investment in clever and dedicated people.
So if pension pooling of premiums and sharing of risks to spread funds, and politicians, rightly expect a higher degree the financial impact of the negative events that will of engagement by institutions, they have to recognise happen to some of them.
Without our industry each that this comes at a price.
We are already one of the of those individuals would have to provide for their most active institutions on environment, social and own future independently without the benefits of governance ESG engagement, and the breadth and sharing the burden of the risk with others.
For the depth of our activity is likely to increase further.
It is majority, this just would not be possible.
equally important for others to step up their activity on these issues.
The ImpOrTance Of gOOd gOvernance As institutional shareholders, on behalf of pension Our industry needs to do more to encourage high and other funds for whom we invest, we speak for standards of governance and corporate behaviour, as over 4.5% of the FTSE and are committed to living up well as supporting the managers of those companies to our responsibilities.
We believe that companies such which do successfully deliver benefits to customers and as ourselves which do these things responsibly are shareholders.
As part of our socially useful role, this genuinely socially useful, and they also provide the needs to be facilitated by creating the right mechanisms institutional investment for businesses which in turn for institutional shareholders to work together, and create jobs and pay taxes.
by adjusting business models so that the costs of intervention are met by the ultimate beneficiaries.
We play a leading role as we move towards the virtuous circle described in the IIWG Paper: a business model OuTlOOk where an increasingly customer-friendly, businessefficient insurance sector delivers a triple win for It will take the UK several years to recover from the customers, shareholders and taxpayers.
The research economic crisis of 2008 2009 and for consumers trust supported by us and undertaken by Business in the in financial institutions to be regained.
Long term Community BITC last year made a convincing case financial institutions such as Legal & General are able that those companies who perform well against to play a valuable and worthwhile role in the recovery environmental, social and governance ESG criteria process, in channelling investment for growth, jobs also tend to outperform in investment terms.
We will do so as guardians of savings, to understand this link better and we will be supporting managers of risk, and stewards of the assets in which further BITC research in this area.
38 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 Our purpOse peOple and OperaTIOnal resOurces.
In 2010 we wanT TO furTher In addition to our employee survey, we have introduced a programme called What Matters to help us to ImprOve emplOyees identify and align what is important to our customers, undersTandIng Of and our employees and our business.
The objectives of engagemenT wITh Our the programme are to empower our employees to sTraTegy and vIsIOn.
identify what they can change, provide employees with a more external focus and to create a plan of action for change at Legal & General.
This progress is integral TIm breedOn to encouraging greater employee engagement with grOup chIef eXecuTIve Company strategy and developing a high performing culture across the organisation.
It has been a challenging year at Legal & General as it Changes have already been made to some of our has for the UK financial services industry as a whole.
working policies and practices in response to feedback.
We have had to make changes to address these challenges, Programmes are underway to improve the quality and recognising that our operating costs needed to be visibility of our leadership and the articulation of our decisively lowered: savings of 69 million have been strategy alongside practical measures including the achieved.
In many parts of the business redundancies introduction of a new print management system across have resulted from these difficult decisions.
Our Ideas in Action programme continues to encourage employee suggestions for continuous Support and assistance in finding a new role was improvement to our business and our customers provided to all employees facing redundancy.
experience of dealing with us.
Unite, the Union with which we continue to have a strong relationship, was fully consulted and involved Our management development team are supporting throughout this difficult process, as was our Managers these changes through the leadership programme being Consultation Forum MCF.
It is a credit to our staff that run with management teams.
This focuses on the core they have continued to perform so effectively during skills a manager needs in leadership and motivation, such a challenging period.
setting goals linked to strategy, developing high performing teams and building on peoples strengths As outlined in last years report, we anticipated further to maximise their talent.
This is closely linked to our economic contraction in 2009 and set challenging cost focus on improving employee engagement.
reduction targets which reflected the increasing need for efficiencies.
These targets have been achieved without Our policy is to treat employees without discrimination a negative impact on customer service.
and to operate equal opportunity employment practices designed to achieve this end.
The Groups sTraTegy In acTIOn policy on diversity includes giving full and fair Our employee survey continues to play a vital role in consideration to applications for employment made enabling understanding and acknowledgment of how by disabled persons: to continue, wherever possible, employees feel about working at Legal & General.
the employment of staff who become disabled and to It also highlights key areas requiring focus to enable provide equal opportunities for the training and career us to achieve our goals and ambitions for next year development of disabled employees.
This year saw the highest level of feedback, with a response rate of 79% 2008: 77%.
In 2009 our Equality and Diversity Committee has focused on disability and on how to encourage further Results showed increased co-operation between application and recruitment.
This has included looking departments and improved confidence in employees at how and where we advertise vacancies.
feeling safe to speak up and challenge the way things are done in their division.
However, results indicated that Our sOcIal rOle decision making and taking action were two areas that As a large employer we encourage our staff to be need improvement.
involved in their communities, either through financial contribution or with their time and expertise.
Our purpOse ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 39 emplOyees wOrldwIde 9,324 Average number of employees during the year.
2008: 9,777 cOrpOraTe sOcIal respOnsIbIlITy Another way we support local communities is through volunteering.
This gives our staff the opportunity to develop new skills whilst helping their community.
In what has Our wOrk wITh supplIers been a very difficult year, our employees have remained committed to helping these causes and undertook over Since 2007 our purchasing team has been 650 days of volunteering in 2009 on community projects sharing knowledge and expertise with a number and fundraising activities 2008: 881 days.
of procurement professionals from organisations across the financial services industry.
The supply chaIn Financial Services Purchasing Forum FSPF Management of our supply chain is an important aspect includes HSBC, Lloyds, Aviva and American of running our business efficiently and in a sustainable Express as well as many of our strategic way.
Terms and conditions for business transactions are Business Partners.
agreed with suppliers and payment is made in accordance with these terms provided the suppliers obligations Last year, a sub-group of this forum was formed are met.
The Company has no trade creditors.
As at specifically to share current best practices and 31 December 2009, the average number of days of build a consistent approach to the management payments outstanding for the Legal & General Group of corporate responsibility CR issues within of companies was 33 2008: 34. financial services supply chains.
All the members have worked together on delivering initiatives and Suppliers are regularly assessed to ensure that they common tools designed to engage and assess comply with our environmental, social and ethical policies, suppliers and increase the knowledge of CR as outlined in the case study on this page.
achIevemenTs The results of the collaboration include the Our employees continue to perform well in difficult production of buying guides, a set of questions circumstances and this was recognised externally at this to help buyers consider corporate responsibility years eg awards where four managers were shortlisted when purchasing goods or services.
This work for the national finals.
eg solutions is an operations has recently seen this sub-group shortlisted management software company, and their awards as a finalist for the 2009 Chartered Institute of recognise outstanding contributions made by individuals Purchasing and Supplys Best Contribution for towards operational best practice.
Our learning and development team was also recognised Corporate procurement regularly issues these with a bronze award for their Fraud Awareness Computer buying guides to all our purchasing employees Based Training CBT in the Excellence in the Production at half-yearly CR Forums.
of Learning Content Private Sector category at the 2009 e-Learning Awards.
2009 has been a successful year for our Our Sustainable Procurement Policy clearly learning and development team, who also recently won states our CR requirements for suppliers and joint silver at the 2009 Learning in Practise Awards in October how we will support them in managing their for the work done with The Learning Network TLN.
We continue to ask suppliers about how and where things were produced: if they are ethically sourced, meet environmental standards, and even the OuTlOOk standards of working conditions.
There are three key areas of focus for employee engagement in 2010: to improve all of our employees In 2009, we spent 333m 2008: 431m with understanding of the company strategy, the vision for our suppliers.
their business area and the company as a whole: to set clear, meaningful objectives in-line with Legal & Generals goals for 2010: and to communicate clearly where we are making changes and improvements for our business.
