32 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 our performANce INterNAtIoNAl.
our INterNAtIoNAl buSINeSS wIll become INcreASINGly ImportANt AS we eXport leGAl & GeNerAlS core SKIllS ANd VAlueS to New mArKetS.
GAreth hoSKIN Group INterNAtIoNAl dIrector our performANce StrAteGy IN ActIoN 2009 Our five strategic imperatives are applied across all business units.
The following illustrates them Ape New business IfrS operating in action in the International division.
margin profit m % m US 49 4.9 86 ImperAtIVe ActIVIty Netherlands 22 2.7 42 France 44 0.1 4 fINANcIAl Established businesses paid increased Other 5 mANAGemeNt dividends to the Group.
total 115 2.6 127 Other includes our joint venture operations in Egypt, the Gulf and India.
2008 dIVerSIfIed Business model is adapted to best suit APE New business IFRS Operating buSINeSS market in each country, drawing on the Groups established strengths and margin Profit m % m capabilities.
US 51 6.3 39 Netherlands 29 3.1 6 hIGh QuAlIty Focus on protection in developed France 39 0.5 14 productS, markets and Bancassurance mass broAd market savings in developing markets.
total 119 3.6 59 dIStrIbutIoN A poSItIVe Legal & General Netherlands LGN won INterNAtIoNAl IfrS operAtING profIt cuStomer best insurer in eight of the last nine years eXperIeNce and Legal & General America LGA is well recognised for underwriting expertise.
127m hIGh Led by a central team, local businesses eXpectAtIoN are run by local management to the culture Groups highest standards of conduct.
2008: 59m As outlined on page 10. our performANce ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 33 focuS oN AmerIcA Legal & General America LGA holds a strong market share in its chosen segments and is a growing operation, with approximately 400 employees across the US in three locations: our main office in Maryland, near Washington DC, and smaller operations in New York and Chicago.
The US market offers potential for expansion with many individuals either not insured at all or without adequate cover.
There are therefore opportunities both to increase the number of individuals with life cover and to increase the amounts individuals are covered for.
The ambition is for LGA to become an invaluable part of the growing Legal & General International portfolio.
our StreNGthS our productS Tailoring of product offering to fit new markets.
term insurance Covers individuals or families against financial Term underwriting expertise in UK, US losses arising from defined events such as death, and Netherlands.
Group insurance presence in France, Group protection Egypt, Gulf.
Products which are designed for use by employers to offer as a benefit to their employees.
They Local partners who bring access to high quality assume the risks and associated costs of an distribution and strong brand recognition.
employee falling ill or dying while in employment.
Bancassurance expertise in the UK has wealth management been well replicated through joint venture A variety of long-term savings products tailored partnerships in Egypt, the Gulf and India.
to the requirements of savers and investors in specific markets.
unit-linked savings Multi-country Takaful and conventional A core Legal & General product set finding insurance capability.
increasing resonance in selected international markets.
34 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 our performANce INterNAtIoNAl.
we bAlANce our eXIStING a preference dividend of $6 million and the Netherlands also paid a dividend of 5 million.
INterNAtIoNAl buSINeSSeS IN the uNIted StAteS, frANce our eStAblIShed buSINeSSeS ANd the NetherlANdS wIth Legal & General America LGA is going through a SelectIVe pArtIcIpAtIoN IN the period of change and transformation.
More efficient use of the capital supporting LGA has allowed the business fASt GrowING mIddle clASS to pay dividends to the Group for 2009.
This sustainable weAlth of emerGING mArKetS.
dividend stream back to the Group should be followed by our other mature businesses in 2010.
Our business in the Netherlands continues to maintain a strong position in its chosen markets, holding 5% of the term life assurance market and 22% of the single premium unit linked market.
We are the eighth largest insurer in the Netherlands where we have been voted the Best Insurer in eight of the last nine years by independent brokers.
However, regulatory impacts are The profitability of our established international depressing volumes in unit linked products and in local businesses has continued to improve in 2009 and new currency terms.
ventures have been launched successfully during the year.
Total international IFRS operating profit in sterling Legal & General France maintains its attractive position terms was 127m 2008: 59m more than double that in high net worth markets.
Savings written premiums are achieved in 2008.
Our International businesses achieved up 25% on 2008.
The strong Group protection business maintained premiums at 2008 levels despite tough premium income of 1,128m, 2008: 961m.
market conditions and has maintained profitability.
The International businesses contribution to operational cash is represented by dividends remitted from In 2010 we celebrate the tenth anniversary of the launch sustainable operational cash flows.
In 2009 the USA paid of CIL, our joint venture with CIB Bank in Egypt.
This was our GlobAl preSeNce frANce NetherlANdS 15yr average for % of Size of Dutch life disposable income saved insurance market 15% 26bn Source: Eurostat Source: Aegon uSA Gulf INdIA Annual net premiums in Liquid assets of 740,000 Projected size of Indian middle term insurance market affluent individuals classes in 2025 $10bn $173bn 583m people Source: Axco Source: Datamonitor Source: Mckinsey Global Institute eGypt Premium growth in the Egyptian life insurance market in the five years to 2008: 285% Source: Axco our performANce ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 35 INdIAfIrSt cASe Study our first international bancassurance venture, and is now the largest private life insurer in the Egyptian market.
New VeNtureS lAuNched IndiaFirst Life Insurance, our joint venture in India in which we own a 26% stake, was given a licence to trade by the Indian Regulatory and Development Authority in 2009.
The company initially launched with three products: IndiaFirst Savings Plan, IndiaFirst Education Plan and IndiaFirst Future Plan, a pension product.
Plans to expand the product offering are well developed and include further individual and group protection policies.
Legal & General Gulf and Takaful companies have been authorised by the Central Bank of Bahrain CBB to sell a mixture of unit linked savings plans and pure protection In November our Indian joint venture, IndiaFirst products.
Legal & General Gulf is the parent company Life Insurance, was launched with two of the with Gulf Takaful as a 100% subsidiary.
Both companies countrys strongest public sector banks, Bank of have their head offices in the Kingdom of Bahrain.
This has given IndiaFirst instant national bank branch coverage of the Ahli United Bank, our partner in the Gulf, is the third worlds second largest population and access to largest bank in Bahrain with one of the most extensive a growing affluent middle class.
networks in the Gulf Co-operation Council, offering a multi-national presence in this area.
Products released at Legal & General worked closely with its partners, launch included Regular Savings, Flexible Savings, and and IndiaFirst was set up as a Greenfield Wedding, Education, Retirement, and Family Protection insurance operation in record time, recruiting plans.
All of the products are Sharia compliant and have and training over 800 sales persons and been approved by the companys Sharia Board, prior to managers as well as training and licensing bank receiving regulatory approval.
Both of these new ventures represent exciting The initial response has been very strong with opportunities to combine our considerable insurance over 45,000 policies, primarily regular premium experience and proven bancassurance capabilities with savings, being issued in the first four months of the exclusive distribution and brand recognition of our trading through over 3,000 activated branches.
The new ventures will enable the development of customer centric insurance operations INdIAfIrSt lIfe INSurANce, throuGh ItS AVowed delivering value over the medium term for both the VAlue of puttING the cuStomer fIrSt, IS well oN distributor and insurer.
These represent a very attractive courSe to AchIeVING the VISIoN ANd ASpIrAtIoNS of ItS promotING orGANISAtIoNS of beING INdIAS alternative to the high cost agency distribution model moSt preferred lIfe INSurANce proVIder.
which is prevalent in the emerging markets.
m d mAllAyA chAIrmAN ANd mANAGING dIrector bANK of bArodA mumbAI, INdIA outlooK 22 mArch 2010 Our presence in international markets continues to grow at a controlled and manageable pace in areas where we see potential for profitable growth.
This will see the International businesses making a growing contribution to Group profits and cashflow in the future.
