20 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 OUR PERfORmancE RiSK bUSinESSES.
OUR RiSK bUSinESSES SERvE an imPORTanT SOciaL PURPOSE: wE TaKE On cUSTOmERS financiaL RiSKS fROm dEfinEd EvEnTS LiKE dEaTh, iLLnESS, injURy OR hOUSEhOLd damaGE.
OUR annUiTiES bUSinESS PROTEcTS PEnSiOnERS fROm ThE RiSK Of OUTLivinG ThEiR SavinGS.
jOhn POLLOcK GROUP EXEcUTivE diREcTOR RiSK OUR PERfORmancE STRaTEGy in acTiOn 2009 2008 Our five strategic imperatives are applied across all business units.
The following illustrates them APE Contribution Margin APE Contribution Margin in action in the Risk division.
m m % m m % Protection 180 68 7.9 207 62 6.2 annuities 186 217 11.7 281 209 7.4 imPERaTivE acTiviTy Total 366 285 10.4 488 271 7.1 From new business on an EEV basis financiaL Net cash generated by the Risk manaGEmEnT business increased to 504m in 2009 2008: 206m divERSifiEd In Individual protection our product RiSK nET caSh GEnERaTiOn bUSinESS range continues its expansion into High Net Worth markets and family and business protection products.
hiGh qUaLiTy Bancassurance channel strengthened by 504m PROdUcTS, the addition of exclusive distribution bROad deals with Northern Rock and Skipton diSTRibUTiOn Building Society, amongst others.
2008: 206m a POSiTivE In Group protection our centres of RiSK ifRS OPERaTinG PROfiT cUSTOmER excellence and employee specialism EXPERiEncE continue to improve experience and return to work rates for claimants.
hiGh Market leading performance continues 735m EXPEcTaTiOn to be recognised in the attainment of cULTURE several industry awards.
OUR PERfORmancE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 21 fOcUS On LOnGEviTy Success in risk markets requires skills which combine investment, longevity expertise and excellence in risk selection.
During 2009 we have made progress in extending the concept of more granular and tailored pricing based on an individuals circumstances.
Our Annuity Solutions service offered customers a conventional annuity with the ability to achieve extra income by providing their postcode when it was launched in 2008.
In 2009 this service has been extended to improve our enhanced annuity proposition and now covers an extensive range of lifestyle and medical health risks.
Our extensive and statistically credible longevity database is enhanced by our relationship with UCL and the support of the Longevity Science Advisory Panel, headed by Sir Derek Wanless.
This relationship helps to inform our views on future UK life expectancy.
OUR STREnGThS OUR PROdUcTS Risk pricing and underwriting expertise.
individual protection Covers individuals or families against financial Accurate statistical modelling enabled by losses arising from defined events such as death, extensive in-house database.
Particular expertise in medical underwriting Group protection and mortality morbidity.
Products which are designed for employers to offer as a benefit to their employees.
They Technological investment facilitates interactive protect employers, employees and their families underwriting and rapid data loading.
by assuming the risks and associated costs of an employee falling ill or dying while in employment.
Economies of scale and administrative excellence.
annuities Bought by people converting a lump sum Leading rapid intervention-based Group often money saved in a pension scheme into protection product enables corporate a lifelong income.
clients to secure faster returns to work for sick employees.
bulk purchase annuities bPas or Pension buyouts Synergies with LGIM facilitate pricing and BPAs are offered to companies wishing to execution of pension buyout and bulk transfer all or part of the responsibility and risk annuity business.
from company pension schemes to an insurance company for a negotiated price.
Wide ranging distribution through independent financial advisers IFAs, General insurance Gi sole-tie business partners and bank and Focusing on the household sector, we insure building society partnerships.
the fabric of properties and their contents.
Housing network drives protection and housing network GI sales by providing access to customers Our network of mortgage advisers provides a at point of sale.
link with mortgage lenders, sourcing mortgages for clients and facilitating sales of Protection and GI products.
22 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 OUR PERfORmancE RiSK bUSinESSES.
OUR RiSK bUSinESSES mainTain The addition of three new life insurance plans for the over 50s further expands and diversifies our product a maRKET LEadinG POSiTiOn in offering.
These products are only available on a direct KEy SEGmEnTS, wiTh hiGh qUaLiTy basis, limiting distribution costs.
cUSTOmER SERvicE, SUPERiOR TEchnOLOGy and EcOnOmiES Of Continued improvements were rewarded with four awards at the Financial Adviser Life & Pensions Awards.
wE havE mainTainEd OUR These were Best Life Assurance Provider, Best Term maRKET LEadinG POSiTiOn dESPiTE Assurance Provider, Best Critical Illness and Income a SUbdUEd hOUSinG maRKET.
Replacement Provider and Best Protection Provider.
There has been further consolidation of the group wE cOnTinUE TO divERSify OUR protection market in 2009 which has offered us PROdUcT OffERinG and incREaSE opportunities due to our size and scale.
Group protection OUR diSTRibUTiOn PaRTnERShiPS continues to support UK companies by providing and whiLST fOcUSinG On PROdUcTS protecting employee benefits and lobbying relevant bodies to ensure that any proposed legislation has no ThaT cOnTRibUTE caSh TO ThE negative impact on provision.
Group protection written premiums were maintained at over 291m despite high levels of re-quoting in 2009 We distribute our risk products through four channels: as companies looked for cost reduction opportunities.
independent financial advisers and consultants: bank We continue to explore new opportunities to expand the and building society partnerships: through our housing scope of the customer base for these products and have network: and via direct distribution.
had some success with entry to the public sector arena, reducing our reliance on the traditional market.
We continue to improve quality and service in our Centres of excellence in musculoskeletal, cardiovascular, individual protection business, ensuring that customer oncological, neurological and psychological conditions fairness is at the centre of our business model.
The contribute to improving return to work rates.
Improved number of critical illness claims declined due to nonresults, service standards and increased levels of disclosure has reduced to just 1.8% from 4% in 2008. professional qualifications by our employees were This is due to improvements in our underwriting rewarded with the attainment of both Best Group processes which increase disclosure at the point of sale Life Provider at the Cover Excellence Awards 2009 rather than at the point of claim.
Steps have also been and Rehabilitation Initiative of The Year Award at The taken to make joint life policies fairer.
Single life policies Rehabilitation First Awards 2009. will now be offered to people who would previously have had their joint life policy cancelled as a result of In our annuities business, we maintain a defined appetite non-disclosure from their partner.
The strategic focus of generating cash from the business means that we are not prepared to bid The improved technology of our online service helps for business that will not deliver an appropriate return advisers to sell protection as they can quote, apply on capital.
Our flexible approach to writing business and complete applications online resulting in reduced means that although we continue to hold the capital and approval time for clients.
The benefits of this system capability to write further annuity business, our appetite have now been rolled out to Yorkshire Building Society, can be limited if prices are not attractive.
allowing them to solve a wider range of protection needs than was previously possible.
Our expertise in teleFollowing a successful pilot in 2008, the Annuity Plus underwriting has allowed us to speed up the application service will be offered to all advisers.
This simplified process and immediate decisions can be made for 85% enhanced annuity product focuses on the five most of applications which go through this process.
common health risks affecting the retiring population smoking, diet-controlled diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol and high or low body mass.
OUR PERfORmancE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 23 cORPORaTE SOciaL RESPOnSibiLiTy Our annuity business is working with SAGA, a brand synonymous with the retirement market, to offer a new service for consumers wishing to buy their pension OUR wORK wiTh ShELTER annuity on a direct basis.
The SAGA service is based on our successful Annuity Solutions service and will give Our Risk business benefits from a strong housing customers access to our non profit pension annuities, as market, through our own products and our well as a range of annuity features and payment options.
We sell insurance to cover the homes these mortgages buy and We also anticipated shifts in the distribution landscape cover the life insurance needs of the people and and launched our direct to consumer annuity service the families who buy these homes.
which has proved very successful.
We have offered this capability to other providers, increasing the potential of We felt it was important to put something back this product.
Our partnership with Shelter is the way we have chosen to do this.
Earlier this While it was an incredibly tough year for the mortgage year, we sponsored a major new report by Shelter market as a whole, individual protection outperformed called Groundbreaking.
This report is being used falls in gross mortgage lending.
It has become much to lobby government and local authorities into harder for customers to secure funding for house looking at new ways of providing quality housing purchases which has made it a challenging environment across all the housing tenures.
We are also supporting a project in Gloucestershire This has resulted in consolidation across the market.
to prevent teenage homelessness and helping However, we have added partners to our housing Shelter develop regional housing support services proposition including Tyler Mortgage Management and across the South West and North East of England.
Honister Capital, Bank of China and Ahli United Bank.
By partnering with Shelter, we are introducing This adds strength to our distribution and increases the them to market information they would not breadth of our product offering.
2010 marks the fifteenth naturally have access to and in return they provide anniversary of the Legal & General Mortgage Club, us access to researchers, think tanks and people which was one of the first clubs of its kind in the UK.
we would not ordinarily meet, helping us to identify new opportunities in typically unexplored markets.
We continue to see strong improvements in the performance of our General insurance GI business following a thorough review and restructuring of the operation in 2008.
The review focused on improving core underwriting and operational efficiency.
Profits of 17m 2008: operating loss 2m were driven by a significant For more information see pages 40 to 41. improvement in the combined operating ratio, 96% 2008 108%.
This has been achieved with year on year comparable weather claims experience and despite the economic backdrop of reduced mortgage related new business opportunities.
These changes have established a robust platform and OUTLOOK provide a basis to build our GI contribution.
We aim to extend our distribution range by enhancing product New systems implementations will drive further covers and offering access to complementary insurance efficiency gains in the Risk businesses and build on the products, combining these with our established expertise cost savings delivered in 2009.
We expect operating in offering a mortgage related proposition.
In 2009 we profit to be in line with 2009 after excluding the impact achieved 8% premium growth despite the significant fall of a return to more normal annuity pricing conditions.
in mortgage transactions and GI were voted Personal Touch PT Best Buildings and Contents Provider in 2009.
