2 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GROUP STRATEGY OUR CORPORATE STRATEGY Our corporate strategy supports the Group vision of being recognised as the best financial services company in the UK by customers, colleagues and shareholders.
The strategy is focused on being a more conservative, through the cycle relationship based business.
The main focus for the Group remains the financial services markets in the UK and our strategic position was significantly strengthened through the acquisition of HBOS in January 2009.
We are a well diversified UK financial services Group and the largest retail financial services provider in the UK.
We have leading positions in many of the markets in which we participate, a market leading distribution capability, well recognised brands and a large customer base.
The scale of the organisation provides us with the opportunity to further invest in products and services, systems and training that combined will offer unparalleled choice and service to our customers.
Our corporate strategy is focused on: DEVELOPING STRONG CUSTOMER FRANCHISES THAT ARE BASED ON DEEP CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS All our businesses are focused on extending the reach and depth of our customer relationships, whilst enhancing product capabilities to build competitive advantage.
Ensuring we understand and effectively meet the needs of our customers from core banking products to the more specialist services such as insurance, wealth management or corporate banking is at the heart of our business and is fundamental to ensuring we are developing long lasting customer relationships.
BUILDING A HIGH PERFORMANCE ORGANISATION In delivering a high performance organisation the Group is focused on improving our cost efficiency and utilising our capital more effectively whilst maintaining a prudent approach to risk.
The Group aspires to have one of the lowest cost to income ratios amongst UK financial institutions and further improving our processing efficiency and effectiveness will remain a priority.
The anticipated synergies arising from the acquisition will be key to further improving our efficiency.
Utilising capital more effectively is increasingly important in the current environment and capital will be rigorously allocated across our portfolio of businesses to support business growth.
The prudent Lloyds TSB through the cycle approach to risk has been applied to the enlarged Group.
Our conservative and prudent approach to risk is core to the business model and the through the cycle approach means we will continue to support our customers throughout the economic cycle.
The risk structures and frameworks that have been implemented are the foundation for good business management.
MANAGING OUR MOST VALUABLE RESOURCE, OUR PEOPLE Executing our strategy effectively will only be possible if we ensure deliverables are effectively aligned with our corporate strategy and we manage our most valuable resource, our people, well.
Our people have the skills and capabilities to deliver the strategy but in driving performance it is important to ensure we encourage, manage and develop our staff whilst creating a great place to work.
The effective integration of the two businesses will be a significant challenge over the next few years, but comprehensive plans are in place and excellent progress is already being made.
The Group believes that the successful execution of its strategy to focus on core markets, customer and cost leadership, capital efficiency and a prudent risk appetite will enable the Group to achieve its vision of being recognised as the best financial services company in the UK.
