98 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT RESULTS The consolidated income statement shows a profit attributable to equity shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 2,827 million.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES, BUSINESS REVIEW, FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Company is a holding company and its subsidiary undertakings provide a wide range of banking and financial services through branches and offices in the UK and overseas.
A review of the development and performance of the business during the financial year and an indication of the likely future developments are given on pages 4 to 94.
Key performance indicators are shown on page 5.
Information regarding the financial risk management objectives and internal control policies of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings in relation to the preparation of consolidated financial statements is given within the corporate governance report on pages 100 to 104.
The financial risk management objectives and internal control policies in relation to the use of financial instruments, is given on pages 56 to 94 and in notes 53 and 54 on pages 221 to 243.
GROUP STRUCTURE On 16 January 2009, Lloyds TSB Group plc changed its name to Lloyds Banking Group plc, following the acquisition of HBOS plc.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS Details are given in note 57 on page 248.
DIRECTORS Biographical details of directors are shown on pages 96 and 97.
Particulars of their emoluments and interests in shares in the Company are given on pages 105 to 125.
Six directors stood down from the board during the year, as follows: Mr J P du Plessis 17 April, Mr Ewan Brown 5 June, Sir Victor Blank 15 September, Mr P N Green 23 October, Sir David Manning 2 November and Ms C J McCall 31 December.
Mr T T Ryan and Mr Anthony Watson joined the board on 1 March 2009 and 2 April 2009, respectively.
Sir Winfried Bischoff joined the board on 15 September 2009 and Mr G R Moreno and Mr D L Roberts have been appointed directors from 1 March 2010.
In accordance with the articles of association, they offer themselves for election at the annual general meeting.
Dr W C G Berndt, Mr J E Daniels and Mrs H A Weir retire at the annual general meeting and offer themselves for re-election.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The directors have entered into individual deeds of indemnity with the Company which constituted qualifying third party indemnity provisions and qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
These deeds were in force during the whole of the financial year or from the date of appointment in respect of the three directors who joined the board in 2009.
The indemnities remain in force for the duration of a directors period of office.
Deeds for existing directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
SHARE CAPITAL Information about share capital is shown in note 45 on pages 203 to 205: in the corporate governance report on pages 100 to 104: and in the directors remuneration report on pages 105 to 125.
CHANGE OF CONTROL The Company is party to significant contracts that are subject to change of control provisions in the event of a takeover bid as follows: The Company is party to a deed of covenant with each of the four Lloyds TSB Foundations the Foundations which hold limited voting shares in the Company the limited voting shares are further described in note 45 on page 205.
Under the terms of the deeds of covenant, the Company makes an annual payment to each of the Foundations.
In the event of a successful offer for more than 50 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, each limited voting share would convert to an ordinary share under the terms of the Companys articles of association.
The payment obligation under the deeds of covenant would come to an end one year following the conversion of the limited voting shares.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 99 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 EMPLOYEES Lloyds Banking Group is committed to providing employment practices and policies which recognise the diversity of our workforce and ensure equality for employees regardless of sex, race, disability, age, sexual orientation or religious belief.
In the UK, Lloyds Banking Group belongs to the major employer groups campaigning for equality for the above groups of staff, including Employers Forum on Disability, Employers Forum on Age, Stonewall and the Race for Opportunity.
Our involvement with these organisations enables us to identify and implement best practice for our staff.
Employees are kept closely involved in major changes affecting them through such measures as team meetings, briefings, internal communications and opinion surveys.
There are well established procedures, including regular meetings with recognised unions, to ensure that the views of employees are taken into account in reaching decisions.
Schemes offering share options or the acquisition of shares are available for most staff, to encourage their financial involvement in Lloyds Banking Group.
DONATIONS The income statement includes a charge for charitable donations totalling 33,477,000 in 2009 2008: 29,603,000, including 28,228,000 2008: 28,997,000 which will be paid under the deeds of covenant to the four Lloyds TSB Foundations during 2010.
POLICY AND PRACTICE ON PAYMENT OF CREDITORS The Company has signed up to the Prompt Payment Code published by the Department for Business Innovation and Skills BIS, regarding the making of payments to suppliers.
A copy of the code and information about it may be obtained from BIS as shown on page 261.
The Companys policy is to agree terms of payment with suppliers and these normally provide for settlement within 30 days after the date of the invoice, except where other arrangements have been negotiated.
It is the policy of the Company to abide by the agreed terms of payment, provided the supplier performs according to the terms of the contract.
The number of days required to be shown in this report, to comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, is 32.
This bears the same proportion to the number of days in the year as the aggregate of the amounts owed to trade creditors at 31 December 2009 bears to the aggregate of the amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Each of the current directors, whose names and functions are shown on pages 96 and 97 of this annual report, confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and Group: and the management report contained in the business review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
AUDITORS AND AUDIT INFORMATION Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that, so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of  LLP as auditors and authorising the audit committee to set their remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
On behalf of the board Harry F Baines Company Secretary 25 February 2010 Company number 95000
