diRectoRs RepoRt the woRlds cApitAl mARket the diRectoRs of the london stock exchAnGe GRoup plc ARe pleAsed to pResent theiR AnnuAl RepoRt to shAReholdeRs, toGetheR with the finAnciAl stAtements foR the yeAR ended 31 mARch 2009 pRincipAl Activities And Results this produces a total dividend of 24.4 pence Subject to the applicable statutes, The principal activities of the Company 2008: 24.0 pence per share estimated the Company may by ordinary resolution and its subsidiaries are the admission of to amount to 65.2 million 2008: declare dividends, but no dividend shall securities to trading, the delivery of trading 65.2 million.
exceed the amount recommended by systems, clearing and settlement of trading the Board.
The Board may pay interim in securities, the organisation and regulation shARe cApitAl dividends if it appears to the Board that of markets in securities and the provision of ordinary shares they are justified by the profits of the associated information services.
The Group As at 31 March 2009 the Company had Company available for distribution.
made a profit before taxation, before 270.5 million ordinary shares in issue with impairment of goodwill, amortisation of a nominal value of 6 79 86 pence each, If the Company is wound up, the liquidator purchased intangible assets and exceptional representing 88.9 per cent of the total issued may, with the sanction of an extraordinary items, of 304.7 million 2008: 258.5 share capital and 100 per cent of the ordinary resolution of the Company and any other million.
After taking into account impairment share capital.
Details of the changes to the sanction required by applicable statute: a of goodwill, amortisation of purchased Companys issued ordinary share capital divide among the shareholders the whole or intangible assets and exceptional items, during the year are set out in note 31 to any part of the assets of the Company and the loss of the Group before taxation for the financial statements on page 86. he may value any assets and determine how the year ended 31 March 2009 was 250.8 the division shall be carried out as between million 2008: 227.0 million profit and loss b shares the shareholders or different classes of after taxation was 332.8 million 2008: As at 31 March 2009, 1.1 million B shares shareholders: b vest the whole or any part 173.0 million profit.
were in issue 31 March 2008: 3.8 million, of the assets in trustees for the benefit representing 11.1 per cent of the total of the shareholders: and c determine business Review issued share capital.
All remaining B shares the scope and terms of those trusts.
No The information that fulfils the requirements will be redeemed by the Company on shareholder shall be compelled to accept of the Business Review can be found in the 1 June 2009. any asset on which there is a liability.
following sections of the Annual Report which are incorporated into this Directors share rights b shares report by reference: The rights and obligations attached to the Holders of B shares are not entitled to Ordinary and B shares are set out in the receive notice of any general meetings of Highlights and Group at a Glance pages Companys Articles of Association the the Company or to attend, speak or vote 10 to 11: Articles, copies of which can be obtained at any such general meetings, unless the Markets and Trends pages 16 and 17: from Companies House in the UK or by business of the meeting includes the Business and Financial Reviews pages writing to the Group Company Secretary.
consideration of a resolution for the winding 18 to 29: up of the Company, in which case the Corporate Responsibility pages 30 and ordinary shares holders of B Shares shall have the right 31: and Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to to attend the general meeting and shall be Principal Risks and Uncertainties pages attend, speak and vote at general meetings entitled to speak and vote only on any such 32 and 33. of the Company.
On a show of hands every resolution.
In such circumstances, voting shareholder who is present in person shall and appointment of proxies shall be as for dividend have one vote and on a poll every ordinary shares.
The directors are recommending a final shareholder present in person or by proxy dividend for the year of 16.0 pence 2008: shall have one vote for every ordinary share Holders of B shares are entitled, in priority 16.0 pence which is expected to be paid of which he is the holder.
Electronic and to any distribution to ordinary shareholders, on 17 August 2009 to shareholders on the paper proxy appointments and voting to be paid semi-annually in arrears a register on 24 July 2009.
Together with the instructions must be received by the non-cumulative preferential dividend interim dividend of 8.4 pence 2008: 8.0 Companys Registrars not later than calculated in accordance with the Articles.
pence per share paid in January 2009, 48 hours before a general meeting.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report 2009 49 GoveRnAnce diRectoRs RepoRt B shares may be redeemed by their holders The registration of transfers of shares or No shareholder is, unless the Board for the sum of 2.00 per B share on a of transfers of any class of shares may decides otherwise, entitled to attend or redemption date 1 June and 1 December be suspended at such times and for such vote at a general meeting or to exercise each year.
The Company may, at any time, periods not exceeding 30 days in any year any other shareholder rights if he or any redeem all B shares in issue for the sum as the Board may determine, except that person with an interest in shares has of 2.00 per B share plus a dividend the Board may not suspend the registration been sent a notice under section 793 of calculated in accordance with the Articles.
of transfers of any uncertificated shares the Companies Act 2006 which confers All remaining B shares will be redeemed without gaining consent from CREST.
upon public companies the power to require on 1 June 2009.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be information with respect to interests in their carried out using the relevant system and voting shares and has failed to supply the Holders of B shares shall, on a return the Board can refuse to register a transfer Company with the requisite information of capital on a winding-up except on a of an uncertificated share in accordance within the prescribed period.
In certain redemption in accordance with the terms with the regulations governing the operation circumstances, the direction notice may of issue of any share, or purchase by the of the relevant system and with UK additionally direct that in respect of the Company of any share or on a capitalisation legislation.
There are no other limitations default shares, no dividend is payable and issue and subject to the rights of any other on the holding of ordinary shares in the that no transfer of any default shares may class of shares that may be issued be Company and the Company is not aware be registered.
paid the sum of 2.00 per B share plus of any agreements between holders of a dividend calculated in accordance with shares that may result in restrictions on Authority to purchase shares the Articles.
the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
The authority for the Company to purchase in the market up to 27.5 million of its Holders of B shares are not entitled to any other matters ordinary shares, representing approximately further right of participation in the profits Subject to the provisions of relevant 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share or assets of the Company.
statute, if at any time the capital of the capital of the Company, granted at the Company is divided into different classes Annual General Meeting of the Company transfers of shares of shares, the rights attached to any class held on 9 July 2008, expires at the end The Board may, in its absolute discretion may unless otherwise provided by the of the next Annual General Meeting of and without giving any reason, refuse to terms of allotment of the shares of that the Company.
Shareholders will be asked register the transfer of a certificated share class be varied or abrogated, whether or to give a similar authority to repurchase which is not fully paid, provided that the not the Company is being wound up, either: shares at the forthcoming Annual General refusal does not prevent dealings in shares Meeting of the Company.
in the Company from taking place on an a with the consent of the holders of open and proper basis.
The Board may 75 per cent in nominal value of the issued share buyback programme also refuse to register the transfer of a shares of that class: or In the year ended 31 March 2009 the certificated share unless the instrument Company made total on-market purchases of transfer a is lodged, duly stamped b with the sanction of an extraordinary of 5.9 million ordinary shares at an if stampable, at the office or at another resolution passed at a separate general aggregate cost of 51.5 million with the place appointed by the Board accompanied meeting of the holders of the shares of last purchases made in September 2008. by the certificate for the share to which it the class, but not otherwise.
At the Interim Results in November 2008 relates and such other evidence as the the Company announced that it had ended Board may reasonably require to show the Subject to the provisions of relevant its 500 million share buyback programme.
right of the transferor to make the transfer: statutes and without prejudice to any rights b is in respect of only one class of shares: attached to any existing shares or class of Articles of Association and c is in favour of not more than four shares, any share may be issued with such The Companys Articles of Association transferees.
rights or restrictions as the Company may adopted by special resolution passed by ordinary resolution determine or, subject on 9 July 2008 may only be amended to and in default of such determination, by special resolution at a general meeting as the Board shall determine.
London Stock Exchange Group 50 Annual Report 2009
