Review of business ouR wideR Responsibilities cAReful mAnAGement of ouR impAct on society And the enviRonment is An inteGRAl pARt of how we do business w e hAve intRoduced We focus our efforts on areas where we We support organisations and initiatives believe we can have greatest impact: close to our Group headquarters which AdditionAl initiAtives benefit the City and the local community.
to Reuse As well As community We are a corporate member of St. Pauls We have a policy of making an active and Cathedral and an active supporter and Recycle items, which responsible contribution to the communities sponsor of the Lord Mayors Show.
will fuRtheR Reduce in which we operate in both the UK and Italy.
As well as our continuing charitable employees ouR enviRonmentAl donations, we encourage employees to We aim to create a workplace where highly impAct And thAt of participate in activities aimed at supporting capable employees can maximise their and strengthening these communities.
talents, delivering results for the Group ouR supply chAin.
We seek to achieve We are delighted to be able to work with this by: our partner charity, The Princess Royal Trust for Carers, which offers much needed Providing employees with a clear link support to people who give unpaid care between performance and their reward: to those who cannot manage on their own.
Encouraging employees to develop their Together with our employees, we have skills and knowledge to optimise their generated almost 230,000 for the Trust performance: since the partnership began in August 2007.
Ensuring that managers provide regular open and honest assessment of Our total charitable donations for the year employee performance and behaviours: were 300,000.
In line with our policy, most and of our UK contributions were made to our Offering a safe and supportive working partner charity and donations of 100,000 environment in which employees feel were made to several Italian charities comfortable about raising their concerns, including the Italian Foundation for Cancer including any perceived wrongdoing, and the Alzheimers Association Rome.
supported by the development of a new Group whistleblowing policy.
We seek to motivate staff to become involved in charitable fundraising through A major part of our integration effort the Group matching the amounts they this year was invested in bringing our raise.
26,000 of our charitable donations employees together.
Specific initiatives matched money that staff raised for to support the integration included: charities through a variety of fundraising activities.
In addition, we actively promote Running a successful leadership charitable giving by our employees and programme for the Groups top received the UK government sponsored management focusing on bringing them Payroll Giving Quality Mark Gold Award together and identifying the leadership in recognition of our employees charitable activities required to drive the combined donations through payroll giving.
Group forwards: Launching a Group-wide share scheme for all employees which was shortlisted for an IFS ProShare award: and Creating opportunities for employees to transfer between the Group companies.
London Stock Exchange Group 30 Annual Report 2009 the woRlds cApitAl mARket A full health and safety audit is completed In the UK, 2,700 tonnes of CO2 were annually which includes advice from emitted in the year, principally due to the external consultants on new or changing power and cooling systems at the Groups legislation and best practice.
There were IT data centres.
Our energy consumed no reportable illnesses, dangerous during 2008 will determine our participation occurrences or liabilities, nor were any in the UK Governments Carbon Reduction health and safety enforcement notices Commitment, a new carbon emissions received during the year.
trading scheme that will start operating in April 2010. enviRonment We invest considerable effort in minimising Our Environmental Policy Statement which our impact on the environment and maintain provides a framework for developing and a Group-wide energy management reviewing environmental objectives can be programme and substantial capital found on our website at investment to help manage our carbon www.
In Italy, a high proportion of our energy comes from environmentally friendly hydroelectric supplies generated in the Alps and we have begun a full recycling collection system for paper, plastic, printer cartridges and food waste.
We have introduced additional initiatives to reuse as well as recycle items, which will further reduce our environmental impact and that of our supply chain.
Once again, we have received the Gold Award under the UKs Clean City Awards Scheme which recognises good practice to reduce consumption of energy and recycle where possible.
Our environmental strategy and best practice have also contributed to our continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good index.
The greater international presence of the merged Group entails increased international travel.
We therefore introduced a Group-wide travel policy this year which aims to reduce CO emissions 2 and associated cost by limiting travel to instances where the business purpose cannot be achieved via audio or video conference facilities.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report 2009 31
