GoveRnAnce diRectoRs RepoRt Each of the Bridge Facility Agreement, employee benefit tRust Audit infoRmAtion the First and Second Revolving Facility As at 31 March 2009 the trustee of the In accordance with Section 234ZA 2 Agreements and the Bilateral Facility London Stock Exchange employee benefit of the Companies Act 1985, the Directors Agreement contain a change of control trust, which is an independent trustee, confirm, in the case of each Director in provision which, if triggered, allows the held 3.6 million shares under the terms of office at the date the Directors Report relevant facility agent upon instructions the trust for the benefit of employees and is approved, that: from the majority lenders and in the case former employees of the Company and of the Bilateral Facility Agreement upon its subsidiaries.
The trust is a discretionary i so far as the Director is aware, there is instructions from the lender itself to trust and the shares are held to meet no relevant audit information of which the cancel the relevant facility and declare employees entitlements under the Companys auditors are unaware: and all outstanding loans under the relevant Companys share schemes.
Employees agreement, together with accrued have no voting rights in relation to the ii he has taken all the steps that he interest and all other amounts accrued, shares while they are held in trust.
The ought to have taken as a director in order due and payable.
trustee has full discretion to exercise to make himself aware of any relevant the voting rights or to abstain from voting.
audit information and to establish that The Company has issued sterling Notes Shares acquired by employees through the Companys auditors are aware of due 2016.
The terms of the Notes contain the Companys employee share plans rank that information.
a redemption on Change of Control equally with the ordinary shares in issue provision which, if triggered by the and have no special rights.
Auditors combination of a change of control and, A resolution to reappoint within 120 days thereafter, a credit rating contRActuAl ARRAnGements  LLP as the downgrade to non-investment grade, allows essentiAl to the compAny Companys auditors will be proposed Noteholders to exercise their option to Under the UK Companies Act 2006 we at the AGM.
require the issuer to redeem the Notes are required to provide information about and pay accrued and unpaid interest.
persons with whom the company has contractual or other arrangements which By Order of the Board The rules of the Companys employee share are essential to the business.
The Group plans set out the consequences of a change has contractual arrangements with LCH.
lisa condron of control of the Company on employees Clearnet for clearing services to London GRoup compAny secRetARy rights under the plans.
Generally such rights Stock Exchange members, with Accenture 20 May 2009 will vest on a change of control and for technology services and with SIA for the participants will become entitled to acquire provision of technology to CC&G and MTS, shares in the Company although in certain which remain essential for the business.
circumstances the Remuneration Various Group entities are regulated and Committee has a discretion to defer the Group attaches the highest priority vesting and to require rights to be to complying with local regulatory exchanged for equivalent rights over requirements.
finAnciAl Risk mAnAGement The impact of a change of control Financial risk management has been on directors service contracts is specifically considered by the directors, set out on pages 43 to 44 of the and relevant disclosures appear in Principal Remuneration Report.
Risks and Uncertainties, on pages 32 to 33 of this report, and in the notes to the Financial Statements on pages 58 to 93.
London Stock Exchange Group 52 Annual Report 2009
