Man Group plc 30 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Investment Management Performance in extreme markets Our 2008 9 financial year saw extraordinarily difficult conditions for hedge funds.
An easing of the credit crisis in April and May was short-lived, and was followed by sharp sell-offs in global equity markets in June, July and August.
This was just the beginning.
September and October were the most Performance of Mans Investment RMF, which specialises in developing and devastating months for the financial industry Managers managing hedge fund portfolios tailored to the in general and triggered widespread Against this backdrop, there was significant needs of institutional investors, outperformed fide-leveraging across the hedge fund industry.
variation in the performance of Mans fund of fund benchmarks, mainly due to its Hedge fund strategies such as relative investment managers.
However, it value, which rely heavily on leverage, were suffered high levels of redemptions as affected most by the fide-leveraging process.
Managed futures as an asset strategy and AHL investors took liquidity from those still able to As fide-leveraging accelerated during Q3 2008, in particular delivered stand-out performance, provide it, regardless of performance.
more and more funds used gates to suspend reinforcing the non-correlated nature and or slow redemptions and fund of funds diversification benefits of this style.
Man Global Strategies MGS, with more were faced with the challenge of balancing concentrated portfolios targeting higher underlying manager suspensions and client returns and volatility, was negatively affected PAGE 32 redemptions.
The hedge fund industry ended by market conditions.
This led to an investment AHL 2008 with its worst calendar year performance management decision in October to fide-risk on record.
2009 has started more brightly, these portfolios by removing leverage, to with the HFRI Fund Weighted Composite Index protect investor capital.
Glenwood, whose portfolios are generally incorporated into private investor products such as IP 220 and OM-IP, was also hard hit Hedge Fund Performance Performance of Mans Investment by market events, given its overweight stance 2008 9 Financial Year Managers 1 April 200831 March 2009 towards styles such as event driven and relative value.
10% 7.7% 2% 1.4% 1.2% 1.1% 5% 0.0% 0% 0% 0.4% 0.8% 1.2% -5% 1.3% 2% 10% 2.8% 3.0% 15% 4% 15.5% 16.4% 20% 6% 25% 6.9% 30% 8% 35% 9.3% 36.7% 10% 40% Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Man AHL RMF Four Glenwood Man Multi- 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2009 2009 2009 2008 Diversied plc Seasons Strategy Strategies Guaranteed Ltd Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 31 fide-risking of Man Global Strategies prudent investment management for the benefit of investors The MGS strategies adopted a focused to switch their investment into other Man allocation to a group of managers consistent products.
The remaining investors can either with achieving their targeted risk return hold the product to maturity, redeem, or objectives.
The leveraged allocations to relative switch their investment at the regular monthly value and event driven managers resulted in dealing day.
sudden investment losses in September and October as both of these strategies became While the fide-risking of the Man Global similarly correlated and markets became Strategies portfolio caused a sudden reduction illiquid.
This led to an investment management in our funds under management, and an In the course of the year, Man took a series decision in October to fide-risk the MGS acceleration of amortisation of sales of steps to refocus investment management portfolios by removing leverage and triggered commissions, it is important to remember activity as markets evolved.
an associated rebalancing of MGS products, that our primary obligation as the investment required to maintain an appropriate balance manager is to our fund investors and the The activities of Man ECO, launched in 2007 of investment styles within the investment independent fund boards under our to develop opportunities in the environmental mandate.
The fide-risking was facilitated by our investment management mandate.
The space, were substantially scaled back as the managed account platform, which provided fide-risking process was overseen by the fall in the oil price reduced opportunities to control over investors assets during the independent fund boards who act in the generate absolute returns.
interests of all investors in the product.
continues to allocate to environmentally themed funds on behalf of institutional The overall effect of these actions was to A consequence of the fide-risking of the Man investors.
reduce funds under management FUM Global Strategies portfolio was the repayment in MGS products by $12 billion the principal of $4.8 billion of fund financing to the banks.
Ore Hill, the US credit-focused manager in cause of FUM reduction for Man in the 2008 9 This process was carefully orchestrated which Man owns a 50% equity interest, financial year.
with the banks and the full amount of recapitalised its international and onshore US all outstanding financing was repaid on funds in the course of the year, and investors From the perspective of MGS investors, the 31 December 2008 in accordance with the extended their redemption period.
Pemba, the investment management decisions taken agreed plan.
No bank suffered a loss on their European credit manager which was acquired corresponded to their expectations: financing to the funds.
In a market environment by Ore Hill, was re-integrated into Man under investment exposure was quickly and where credit risk was a particular concern, the auspices of RMF, reflecting reduced efficiently reduced: trading capital was we protected the banks and this has created opportunities in structured credit and the need preserved: and all capital guarantees remained significant credibility, not only for the funding to focus Ore Hill on their main credit strategy.
effective in accordance with product terms.
structures but the process by which the funds The main investment structures in Pemba will At the conclusion of the fide-risking, a number systematically fide-risk.
This credibility places us be managed to maturity by RMF.
of products had minimal trading capital and in a unique position with our banking partners therefore will not continue with investment and allows us continued access to financing Following the MGS fide-risk, work began to exposure.
These products still have the full for the fund products.
These initiatives protection of the guarantee and in some cases culminated in the decision to create a new investors will receive a return in excess of their From an investors perspective, our actions hedge fund management business in March original invested principal.
At all times during were validated by the continued negative 2009, together with RMF, which is discussed the fide-risking process, investors who chose performance of event driven and relative value in more detail on page 34. to redeem their investments had their net asset strategies in the remainder of 2008, which values paid out in accordance with the terms could have depleted investor capital had of the products.
A number of investors chose prompt action not been taken.
Man Group plc 32 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Investment Management continued AHL Research-driven success AHL, founded in 1987, is a world leading quantitative investment manager specialising in systematic trading.
Our commitment to research has been development is being conducted from the Man The new Hong Kong office and the expansion the key factor contributing to our success, with Research Laboratory in Oxford.
of the Man Research Laboratory underscore AHLs flagship Diversified Programme returning Man Groups continuing commitment to invest 33.2% in the 2008 calendar year and 18.9% The Man Research Laboratory MRL opened in the future of AHL.
An additional 33 people p. a. since inception to 31 March 2009.
Current at the same time as the Oxford-Man Institute of were hired in 2008 as well as a further 10 in assets under management total $20.4 billion, Quantitative Finance OMI in September 2007. the first quarter of 2009.
The majority of these making AHL one of the largest quantitative OMI, funded solely by Man, aims to be the new hires are researchers dedicated to the investment managers in the world.
worlds leading institute for academic research development of trading strategies, as well as the into quantitative finance with a particular focus application of more advanced risk management The investment strategy employed by AHL is on alternative investments.
In contrast to this, systems and electronic execution technologies.
100% systematic, using heavily researched MRL undertakes commercial research into Additional suitably qualified and experienced trading systems to identify and profit from quantitative finance for the benefit of Man but people will be hired in the future to ensure AHL trends and other inefficiencies across a highly shares the same premises as OMI, and is maintains its leadership position in the field of diversified portfolio of futures and other unique in the sense that no other finance quantitative investment management.
Diversification is central company in the world has its own embedded to AHLs approach, with systems analysing research laboratory located within Oxford AHL recognises the importance of corporate over 250 financial, currency and commodity University.
This close interaction means that governance and in 2008 became a founding markets daily across 36 global exchanges.
AHLs researchers are exposed to the latest signatory to the Hedge Fund Standards Board New markets are continually being researched academic research through regular seminars HFSB best practice standards.
The industry in order to diversify further AHLs programmes: and informal discussions.
Since its launch, recognised code consists of 25 standards markets that have been added in the recent MRL has grown to include ten full time and divided into five categories, including disclosure, past include credit derivatives, interest rate visiting AHL researchers.
High performance valuation, risk management, fund governance swaps and exchange traded funds.
Trades are computing, trading model research and and shareholder conduct.
These standards, executed around-the-clock in either London or electronic trade execution are among areas combined with AHL being part of a FTSE listed the new execution desk in Hong Kong.
currently being researched at the laboratory.
and FSA regulated company, maximise the level of protection afforded to investors.
Opened in April 2009, the Hong Kong desk A number of MRL initiatives have already enhances AHLs execution capabilities by been implemented within AHLs mainstream providing a secondary trading hub outside investment management activities and have the UK.
The new desk enables AHL better to thus enhanced client investments.
Due to their AHL funds under management March 2009 leverage local broker relationships in South rapid growth, both OMI and MRL will move East Asia and also to expand into new asset to new shared premises in autumn 2009 classes in this region of rapidly growing to accommodate further expansion.
The opening of envisaged that the AHL Oxford team will make the desk runs in parallel to the continuous a significant contribution to ongoing research $20.4BN research and development of AHLs electronic efforts in 2009 and beyond.
trading capabilities, where a great deal of Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 33 Members of the AHL management team from left to right Anthony Ledford, Riju Sathyan, Andre Rzym, Andy Hutton, Tim Wong, Mike Robinson, Steffan Berridge Uncorrelated performance in Man AHL Diversified plc volatile markets 26 March 199631 March 2009 AHLs Diversified Programme returned 7.7% 11,000 for the financial year 2009, with long and then 9,000 short oil positions later in 2008 driving returns.
7,000 Currency trading was also extremely profitable, with long US dollar positions adding to 5,000 performance in calendar Q4.
Some of these gains were given back in the first quarter of 3,000 2009, with range-bound prices and short-term reversals within the currency sector creating difficult trading conditions.
