Man Group plc 34 Annual Report 2009 Business Review New Hedge Fund Management Business An integrated business for a changing investment landscape As markets have changed, so have investor requirements for hedge fund Confidence investing.
Performance continues to be an absolute requirement and In the depth, breadth and access of the teams the hedge fund value proposition remains compelling, but transparency, investing the assets: governance and risk management are now, more than ever, at the top A deep pool of seasoned investment expertise, of investors agendas.
with an average of 16 years industry experience across the senior management team.
disciplined investment process, Glenwoods Global coverage combined with local market bottom-up manager selection philosophy intelligence, with key centres in the US, UK, and Mans managed account expertise, Switzerland and Asia.
creating a new, strong, comprehensive and Access to the worlds leading hedge fund integrated structure, underpinned by Mans managers, negotiated and set up by capital strength, global distribution capabilities experienced teams, with developed and structuring expertise.
relationships with the key broker and finance counterparties and over 15 years of trading The new business provides flexible and platform know-how.
transparent access to the full spectrum of Herbert Item, Chief Investment Officer hedge fund investing for both institutional and In the control of assets: of the new business left : John Rowsell, Managing Director of the new business right private investors, from fund of fund portfolios Targeted use of managed accounts delivering to customised solutions and single manager enhanced control of liquidity, transparency and The increasing call for transparency applies not access.
It has been carefully designed to risk management.
just to the liquidity, security and application of meet current industry concerns head-on as Strong checks and controls on manager due assets, but to the way hedge fund businesses well as prepare for the investor preferences diligence, monitoring and portfolio performance.
themselves are structured and run.
essential is that investors have confidence In the way the business is structured and run: in their selection of investment manager and Feedback on the new structure from investors, Enshrines risk management at the same level choice in terms of how they access hedge consultants, intermediaries, banks and other as investment management.
The twin principles of delivering stakeholders has been overwhelmingly positive.
Segregates manager seeding and investment confidence and choice underpin every aspect allocation.
The new business will deliver three key benefits Benefits from the security and stability to investors: of Mans business model, capital strength The creation of a new business and discipline and long operating history Reflecting these changing investor in regulated markets worldwide.
confidence requirements, in March 2009 Man announced choice the launch of a new hedge fund management efficiency business.
The new business builds the strengths of RMFs infrastructure and Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 35 Breadth, flexibility and service High liquidity Hedge fund content across the liquidity spectrum Low liquidity Investor choice Fundamental long short equity Event driven Distressed on content Global macro Multi-strategy New alternatives Managed futures Credit and volatility arbitrage Managed accounts Allocations to funds Investment management platform Investor choice Sourcing, research Asset allocation and Risk management and Advisory Reporting on access and due diligence portfolio management monitoring Product blends and formats End investors Choice Choice operates at a number of levels.
across the style spectrum for example, in encompassing sourcing, diligence, March 2009 we won the Long Short Equity management and monitoring, reporting, use of Choice of content Europe category for the second year running managed account technology and so on.
The Investors are increasingly looking at hedge at the industry-recognised InvestHedge structure of the new business will give us even funds not as a single homogenous block awards in New York.
greater flexibility to consider offering a more but as a range of different strategies, across a unbundled set of services which cater to liquidity spectrum.
While some styles such as At a time when many distributors are pointing specific intermediation preferences and equity long short, global macro and managed to a dearth in supply of appropriate hedge monetise particular components or sets of futures suit frequent liquidity, others such as fund product, we have at our disposal a broad components, provided that the associated distressed may in fact lend themselves to range of content where we have deep economics make sense for both the investor private equity-style levels of liquidity.
There is understanding of the underlying strategies, and Man.
It also provides a framework investment opportunity to be captured right facilitating the creation of the right products, to think more creatively about customising across this spectrum, but investor sensitivity to for the right market at the right time.
basic core offerings, for example by illiquidity will dictate appetite across the range.
adding risk overlays and portfolio specific The current prevailing atmosphere of investor Choice of access hedging programmes.
caution suggests that portfolios modelled at In the same way that the shades of the content the more liquid end of the spectrum are likely spectrum are becoming more defined, so Maximising efficiency to benefit in the shorter term.
varying degrees of investor appetite for intermediation are becoming more distinct.
In bringing together the best investment Man is well placed to cater for both the At one end of the spectrum are institutional management talent and processes from current and longer term preferences.
The new investors with developed in-house hedge fund across Mans fund of fund businesses, we business creates a more efficient structure to monitoring capabilities perhaps seeking single have taken advantage of the opportunity to deliver the strength and breadth of the content manager access in a managed account focus, refine and simplify.
We have distilled the of the whole firm to the end investor.
An early format, alongside a prescribed level of strongest elements of sourcing, due diligence, example of a product from the new business reporting: at the other mass affluent investors portfolio and risk management in a way which is an open-ended combination of managed looking for complete engineered products has preserved geographic reach and depth futures and global macro managers which delivering attractive risk returns within a and continuity for existing mandates, but will have access to broad manager pools and guaranteed framework.
eliminated duplication and improved comanaged account relationships right across ordination in a new single entity.
We would Man to create the optimal portfolio for a given Man has a long history of creating relevant expect there to be some relatively modest risk return objective.
portfolio blends, tailored solutions and savings through 2009 10, but importantly structured products in a range of formats we believe that we will have refined our ability We are well known for our leading position onshore and international, closed and to convert promising content into attractive in the managed futures space, but this is open-ended etc, but has typically delivered product swiftly and efficiently, which will complemented by recognised strengths a single package of fiduciary services contribute positively to margins over time.
Man Group plc 36 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Our Expertise People performance based and reflects individual, business unit and Group performance.
The Groups share programmes, which are an important part of total remuneration packages, ensure that our people think and act as long-term shareholders in the Company.
Key person risk Our people are Mans focus on quantitative, systematic investment styles make it very different from the star cultures which prevail among many of our hedge fund peers.
AHL, for example, our key asset has been operating successfully for over 20 years and is managed by a third generation management team.
Nevertheless, we are conscious of the risk that key individuals may Attracting the best people, motivating them to excel, leave the business, with a loss of knowledge and expertise.
To mitigate this, we operate retaining them and ensuring that they progress in merit based performance management and their careers are fundamental to the sustainability advancement systems, which give clarity and focus to our peoples career prospects.
We have a series of training programmes in place to identify and develop future leaders from within the business, and our flat management structure gives individuals At the year-end, Man had a total of 1,765 Man people are clever and quick but not opportunities to contribute and broaden permanent employees.
Approximately 720 overpowering, and feel comfortable standing their involvement.
To enable our people to are based in London and 620 in Pfffikon, out from the herd.
Our regular employee understand their career potential, we have an Switzerland.
The remainder are located around research indicates very high levels of pride in active succession planning process in place the world in regional operating centres, working for the Company, having the freedom at all levels in the organisation.
supporting our investment managers and to do the job well, and having management servicing investors and distributors.
We have who listen to our ideas.
Employee engagement and support a strong culture of moving people between Man Groups employment policy sets the regions to achieve broad sharing of ideas, This congenial and thoughtful culture in no way framework for achieving the highest levels processes and relationships.
We actively means that Man is not a ferociously ambitious of performance by offering the provision of promote internal mobility between our business.
Our ambition is to strengthen and support, assistance and understanding to business areas to ensure that our people have grow our position as one of the worlds leading all our people.
the broadest sense of our whole business.
Employees receive regular emails directly Regrettably, we had to reduce our permanent Corporate and social responsibility from senior management as well as e-bulletins, headcount by 15% in the latter part of the Mans role as a major public company monthly business reports and business 2008 9 financial year to reflect reductions operating in the hedge fund world means magazines via the Intranet.
Nevertheless, that we put particular stress on good human our commitment to attracting, retaining and resource management, corporate We engage with our people through surveys developing the best people remains as responsibility, legal support, compliance and which are transparently analysed and reported.
These aspects of the way Our UK and US employees are encouraged to we do business are important to our invest in the business in which they work through Culture employees.
Our approach to corporate and a share-based savings incentive scheme.
This extract from our recruitment literature social responsibility is described in more detail demonstrates how we describe Mans culture.
on page 44, and our charitable activities are Mans culture is grounded in mutual respect featured in the back cover flap of this Report.
and inclusion irrespective of age, disability, Man has a distinctive and deeply entrenched gender, race, religion, sexual orientation or culture.
We are strongly commercial, but the Remuneration policy educational background.
We offer tangible dominant traits are analysis and thought, Our people directly influence our success support to our people, which includes rather than trading.
People at Man tend as a business and the performance we achieve providing rehabilitation support for any to be understated, informal, personable for our product investors and corporate employee who may have become disabled and collegiate.
They operate in a demanding shareholders.
This contribution is recognised during their employment with us.
work environment full of highly capable in their advancement within the Group and in colleagues and are intensively competitive their remuneration.
Our remuneration is heavily for the Company.
PAGE 53 Remuneration report Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 37 Peter Clarke, Tim Wong, Christoph Mller Michael Robinson, Mike Wright, Tony Gurney Herbert Item, John Rowsell Kevin Hayes, Stephen Ross, Robert Aitken The Management Committee Christoph Mller Sales Geographic basis of permanent Joined in 1981 and moved to his current oversees the operational employees position in 2001 after roles in finance and management of our business, product structuring.
Nationality: German 1 and is attended by the leaders 5 Michael Robinson Human Resources 4 of key business and functional Joined in 2003 after senior roles at INVESCO areas.
It meets monthly, and Henderson Global Investors and a career 3 in the Royal Navy.
Nationality: British generally in Switzerland.
1, 765 Peter Clarke Chief Executive Stephen Ross Product Structuring and total employees Appointed Chief Executive in 2007 after serving Financing: Legal as Finance Director and Company Secretary: Joined in 2003 from Clifford Chance, where joined Man in 1993.
Nationality: British he was a Partner and Co-head of the Private 2 Funds Group.
Nationality: British Robert Aitken Compliance Joined in 2003 from the Financial Services John B. Rowsell Managing Director 1 U K 41% Authority after other operating roles in financial new hedge fund management business 2 S witzerland 35% services.
Nationality: British Joined Glenwood in 2001 from McKinsey and 3 U S 9% Company.
Appointed Managing Director of 4 A sia 4% Tony Gurney Marketing and Client Services Mans integrated hedge fund management 5 R OW 11% Joined in 2006 after operating roles in fund business in 2009, with responsibility for of hedge fund management, banking and operations, product strategy, client services, consultancy.
Nationality: British proprietary trading and risk management.
Nationality: Canadian Kevin Hayes Finance Director Joined in 2007 after senior roles at Lehman Tim Wong AHL Brothers and Ernst and Young.
Joined AHL in 1991 and moved to his current Nationality: British position in 2001.
Nationality: British Herbert Item Chief Investment Officer Mike Wright Technology new hedge fund management business Joined in 2007 after IT roles at Fidelity Joined RMF in 1997 with 10 years of equity International and Willis Group.
Appointed Nationality: British CIO of Mans integrated hedge fund management business in 2009, with responsibility for all investment functions.
Nationality: Swiss Man Group plc 38 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Our Expertise Information and Technology Competitive advantage through IT Information and Technology IT have never been more central to our business.
Our ability to maximise long-standing investments in technology differentiates us from less established investment managers.
01 We build distinctive IT services and platforms Making technology a competitive across the Group in close collaboration with asset for AHL the business: IT project teams are normally co-located with business colleagues.
Trading efficiency has been enhanced by delivering a wide range of trade execution We use an agile project methodology which strategies that maximise our ability to delivers business value incrementally and rapidly assume positions with minimal frequently, to encourage business ownership market impact.
and avoid the risks of large scale IT project The time it takes to bring a new AHL delay and failure.
model to market has been dramatically reduced.
Researchers can put small Mike Wright Technology Director Our work is based around a vision for the scale exploratory models into trading Groups IT in 35 years time, leveraging quickly through a new tactical trading modern architecture techniques and validated environment, while our full productionby leading industry experts.
scale platform is undergoing a comprehensive review with major Technology permanent headcount We are constantly investing in the training and components being completely revamped.
March 2009 personal development of our people.
Having New technology is enabling new models: hired the very best, we seek to stretch them by an innovative high-frequency price storage 1 3 giving them bigger challenges and equipping and analysis system is allowing our them with the appropriate skills to meet them.
researchers to leverage existing trading models and create entirely new ones, Looking back at the last year, we have made based on a more granular view of the significant strides in improving the business markets, processing hundreds of millions 248 value we obtain from our IT, both in terms of of prices a day.
helping make us distinctive to our institutional We have extended the global reach of AHL 2008: 178 investors and intermediaries, and by enhancing by establishing a trading presence in Hong internal efficiencies.
Kong, maximising our ability to exploit opportunities emerging in Asian markets.
2 We have made particular headway in three areas.
1 Development and delivery 141 2 Infrastructure 93 3 O ther 14 Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 39 I want our IT to be We are living in nimble enough to extraordinary times, with capture early mover many exciting investment business opportunities opportunities.
We need while scalable and innovative, flexible and standard enough to reliable technology to leverage across multiple help us capture them.
product ranges and Tim Wong geographies.
This will AHL help make us distinctive to our investors.
Mike Wright Technology Director 03 02 Infrastructure and Security Creating a scalable global platform to support our new integrated We have been investing strategically in our We have also continued our focus on hedge fund business core technology infrastructure to provide information security, reflecting the fact that even faster and more stable platforms for our much of our business is based on electronic Whilst we are still in the early stages of forming investment managers and staff.
We continue to assets and data.
We have a team of our integrated hedge fund management benchmark ourselves to global best practices e-commerce and other security experts who business, we have already created a blueprint and use third party experts to help prepare for continuously update our technical security for a consolidated IT operating platform across future technology step changes.
measures, enabling us to: the multi-manager businesses to enhance operational efficiency and leverage existing There are four key aspects to this initiative: Apply security patches on a timely basis.
This blueprint is based on Upgrade our multi-level security and fraud extending the existing RMF suite of applications Automating the monitoring of our protection mechanisms.
to work more globally, to handle a wider range production IT services to minimise outages.
Conduct regular penetration tests of our of products, and to automate more elements Modern computers can often predict internet security.
of the business processes from multi strategy failures similar to a car dashboard telling investment management to the associated you when it will be time for the next accounting and portfolio rebalance activities.
We have used these facilities It will also build out our existing managed to reduce both the number and duration account platform facilities.
To minimise the of failures.
delivery risk often seen with large scale IT Upgrading the technical platforms for projects, we have broken the work into several our e-commerce, AHL trading and other stages.
The first two stages have been delivered: major systems to take advantage of improvements to processing power Migrate RMFs fund accounting onto and data handling facilities.
a leading industry third party package Extending our well-established video Hedgesphere.
conferencing facilities to all offices globally.
Extend support for FX foreign exchange Usage has more than doubled in the past functionality.
year, enabling us to collaborate effectively across the globe while reducing travel costs In parallel, much work has been undertaken and our carbon footprint.
to make our data more consistent on a global Re-enforcing best practice processes for basis, so helping standardise business incident handling, change control and processes and simplify reporting.
This work disaster recovery testing.
is ongoing and will extend to build out the next generation of tools to enhance investment decision making.
