Man Group plc 46 Annual Report 2009 Directors Report The directors submit their report, together with the audited financial Directors interests and indemnities statements for the year ended 31 March 2009 the year.
Details of directors interests in the share capital of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 65.
There have Principal activities, business review and results been no changes in the directors share interests between 31 March Man Group plc the Company is the holding company for the Man 2009 and the date of this Report.
group of companies the Group and is domiciled and incorporated in the United Kingdom.
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are At no time during the year did any director hold a material interest in set out on page 117. any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings other than in the service contracts between each The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the executive director and the Company.
The Company has purchased business of the Group during the year and of its position at the end of and maintained throughout the year directors and officers liability the year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing insurance.
The directors also have the benefit of the indemnity the Group.
This information can be found in the following sections of provisions set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
the Annual Report, which are incorporated by reference in this Directors Report: Share capital and takeover related provisions Following the implementation of paragraph 13, Part VII, Schedule 7 of Business Review, including forward facing statements within the the Companies Act 1985, inserted by Section 992 of the Companies Chief Executives Review on pages 4 to 45.
Act 2006, the Company is required to make the following disclosures Financial Review on pages 67 to 73. which are not fully covered elsewhere in this Annual Report.
The directors have considered whether there are any contracts which Share capital are essential to the business and have concluded that there are none.
Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital as at 31 March 2009 are set out in Note 19 to the financial statements on The Companys audited financial statements appear on pages 75 page 107. to 116.
Details on the Companys Fixed Rate Perpetual Subordinated Capital Dividends Securities are set out in Note 21 on page 108.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 24.8 US cents per 3 ordinary share giving a total of 44 US cents per ordinary share for the A holder of ordinary shares of 3 US cents each in the capital of the 7 year.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, Company is entitled to one vote per ordinary share held when a vote the final dividend will be paid in sterling on 21 July 2009, at a rate is taken on a poll and one vote only when a vote is taken on a show of 15.47 pence per ordinary share, to shareholders on the register of hands.
at the close of business on 3 July 2009.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 1 July 2009.
The Dividend Reinvestment Plan The Deferred Dollar Shares have no voting rights and may only be will be available in respect of this dividend.
Such buy-back is expected to take place in December 2009 in accordance with the terms of the B and C share Purchase of the Companys shares schemes.
The Deferred Sterling Shares have no voting rights and are During the year, the Company purchased in the market for cancellation freely transferable.
3 30.5 million of its ordinary shares of 3 US cents each at a total cost of 7 $280 million.
Subject to certain standard restrictions on transfer contained in the Companys Articles of Association, such as that the directors may All purchases were undertaken at share prices that would increase decline to register a transfer of a share that is not fully paid up, there earnings per share.
These transactions represented some 1.79% of the are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares.
issued ordinary share capital at 31 March 2009.
As at 28 May 2009, the Company had an unexpired authority from the previous years There are no securities carrying special rights with regard to control Annual General Meeting to purchase further shares up to a remaining of the Company.
Fuller details of the rights and obligations attaching to shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors Biographical details of the current directors of the Company, who all Substantial voting interests held office throughout the year, are set out on pages 8 and 9.
Stanley As at 21 May 2009 the following voting interests in the ordinary Fink also served as a director and Deputy Chairman during the year share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and until his retirement on 10 July 2008.
Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority had been In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Jon Aisbitt notified to the Company: % and Peter Clarke will retire by rotation at the 2009 Annual General Meeting and being eligible will offer themselves for re-appointment.
9.03 Glen Moreno also retires at the Annual General Meeting this year and Legal & General Plc and its subsidiaries 6.28 will not be seeking re-appointment.
FMR LLC 4.99 Baillie Gifford & Co 4.98 BlackRock Group 4.95 Corporate Governance Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 47 Powers of directors Employees, corporate responsibility and charitable donations The Companys Articles of Association give a power to the Board to The Companys policies on employees, corporate responsibility and appoint directors, but also require directors so appointed to retire and charitable donations are discussed on pages 36, 44 and on the inside submit themselves for reappointment at the first Annual General back cover respectively.
Meeting following their appointment and for reappointment no later than the third Annual General Meeting after their last appointment.
During the year the Company committed $10 million 2008: $26 million Shareholders may also appoint directors who are then subject to the to the Man Group plc Charitable Trust and charity committees of our same reappointment requirements at least once every three years.
The Articles give the power to a director to appoint any person to be his alternate subject to the appointment of such person who During the year the Company did not make any political donations to is not another director being approved by the Board.
Directors and any political party or other political organisation and did not incur any employees employment contracts do not provide for compensation political expenditure within the meaning of Sections 362 to 379 of the for loss of office or employment as a result of a takeover bid.
The Board is responsible for the management of the business of the By Order of the Board Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes and the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
A copy of the Memorandum and Articles Kevin Hayes is available on request from the registered office of the Company.
The Company Secretary Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
28 May 2009 Credit facilities The Company acts as one of the guarantors of a number of Group companies which are the borrowers under a credit facility entered into in June 2007 with various financial institutions, pursuant to which the lending banks agreed to make available to the borrowers a multicurrency revolving facility and a dollar swingline advance facility for the repayment of an earlier facility and general corporate purposes.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, any lending bank may propose such revised terms, if any, that it requires to continue participating in the facility.
To the extent that the Company cannot agree such revised terms with the relevant bank, such bank may cancel the whole of its commitments and require the repayment of its outstanding advances under the facility.
Employee share incentive schemes The Companys employee share incentive schemes contain provisions whereby, upon a change of control of the Company, outstanding options and awards would vest and become exercisable, subject in the case of certain schemes only to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and or any time pro-rating of options and awards.
Significant agreements The directors are not aware of any significant agreements to which the Company and or any of its subsidiaries is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Financial risk management Financial instruments are used by the Group in the ordinary course of business.
A discussion of financial risk management objectives and policies is included in the Risk Management section of the Annual Report, on pages 40 to 43.
Further quantification of the Groups exposures to financial risks is included in Note 9 to the financial statements, on pages 92 to 96. Credit payment policy It continues to be the Groups policy to honour all of its contractual commitments and this includes paying suppliers according to agreed payment terms.
The Company, being a holding company, had no external trade creditors at 31 March 2009 or 31 March 2008.
