Man Group plc 04 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Strategy and Key Performance Indicators Our strategy is to offer a broad range of robust alternative Our fundamental mission is to deliver investment solutions to private investors and institutions, attractive returns to investors in our worldwide.
Strong long-term performance and our products, and to investors in Man 20 year track record are key to attracting and retaining Group plc.
Investment Management Provide a robust governance and risk management Strategic Focus framework.
Promote innovation to drive performance.
Develop a differentiated and scalable technical infrastructure to support risk and investment management.
Launch an integrated hedge fund management Priorities for 2009 10 business, building on the strengths of RMF, Glenwood and MGS, to improve investor confidence and choice.
Expand Mans managed accounts platform to promote transparency and reinforce risk management.
Continue to invest in and expand the AHL model and execution capabilities.
We use our financial and non Growth in funds under management FUM $bn financial key performance 06 49.9 indicators KPIs to measure CAGR over last 3 years our progress 07 61.7 08 74.6 Financial KPI Non financial KPI 09 46.8 2% Our financial KPIs all show declines in the year, reflecting loss of Funds Under Management in extraordinarily FUM decreased by 37% in the year.
The principal drivers were the difficult markets.
investment management decision to fide-risk private investor products with a higher risk return profile in Man Global Strategies, and an New non financial KPIs introduced this year to measure increase in institutional redemptions.
fund performance a key lead indicator for our business demonstrate that our flagship funds continued to Post-tax return on shareholders equity outperform industry benchmarks.
ROE continuing operations % Average over 07 32.2 last 3 years 08 41.6 09 13.5 29% The decline in ROE is driven primarily by reduction in funds under management and lower performance fee income.
The equity component includes a significant level of regulatory capital surplus, which earns a modest return.
Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 05 The winners in the constantly evolving alternative investment management market will be those companies most able to adapt to changing market conditions.
Private Investor Business Institutional Investor Business Protect and grow investor capital through diversified Grow investor capital through themed and investment portfolios and differentiated performance.
diversified investment opportunities and Provide first class client service to our global differentiated performance.
Meet investor demand for risk management, Meet investor demand for performance, liquidity and transparency and liquidity.
Structure innovative hedge fund solutions to match investor demand.
Enhance our investment process and develop Create a strong pipeline of guaranteed and open-ended custom solutions.
Continue to market the diversification benefits of Market the long-term diversification benefits of hedge fund investing, to attract investors as they return managed futures and AHL.
Take advantage of onshore opportunities to meet regional demand.
Growth in gross revenue plus income Growth in adjusted diluted earnings per from affiliates $m share continuing operations cents 06 MGT PERF.
1,933 CAGR over CAGR over last 3 years last 3 years 07 MGT PERF.
57.0 11% 6% Gross revenue fell by 20% in the year, reflecting a 7% decline in gross Adjusted earnings per share declined by 37% in the year, reflecting the management fee income and a 43% decline in gross performance fee decrease in profits.
Gross management fee income margins declined modestly.
Outperformance vs benchmark Excess return over benchmark private investor % institutional % Excess return Excess return 07 8.76 07 1.87 over last 3 years over last 3 years 08 2.66 08 16.43 09 2.07 09 0.50 4% 3% Returns for Mans flagship IP220 product compared to a benchmark Returns for RMF Four Seasons compared to the HFRI Fund of Funds represented by 100% Stark 300 Trader Index and 60% HFRI Fund of Composite Index.
Man IP220 is composed of allocations to the AHL Diversified Programme and Man Glenwood Multi Strategy.
It has additional structural level features, such as a capital guarantee and leverage, the value of which are not reflected in this comparison.
