Man Group plc 26 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Institutional Investor Business Meeting institutional needs Our institutional client base is truly diverse, encompassing pension plans, insurance companies, asset managers including funds of funds, banks, family offices and endowments, joint-venture partners and corporations around the world.
Institutions began allocating to hedge funds in a issues such as the bans on short-selling and the Future institutional investment in hedge funds meaningful way after the equity market downturn failure of some market counterparties brokers will, as a consequence, become increasingly in 2000, to make up funding shortfalls or as an and credit providers also hurt some hedge fund dependent on our ability to address these alternative to stocks as a long-term performance models.
In this environment, many hedge funds considerations.
Institutions are also increasingly driver.
To date they have favoured fund of hedge lost money and a number of strategic and demanding end to end service providing access funds and tailor-made hedge fund solutions to operational issues came to light.
to information, a direct channel to the investment align more closely performance to liabilities and managers, detailed standardised reporting and provide a valuable source of diversification in Despite recent events, hedge funds remain prompt complaint and query handling.
a very attractive asset class for institutional investors.
While overall returns in 2008 were Addressing institutional requirements Historically, hedge funds have performed these disappointing, hedge funds have historically Man is particularly well equipped to adjust to tasks successfully, outperforming stocks with delivered strong growth with a controlled level this new paradigm.
We already meet many considerably lower volatility and offering a degree of volatility and have demonstrated the ability to of these requirements, offering an extensive of diversification and downside protection during recover quickly from drawdowns.
Nevertheless, managed accounts platform and a broad market downturns.
Hedge funds flexible in future corporate investors will be playing close range of diversified, single style and niche approach to investment also makes them ideal attention to: fund of hedge fund portfolios as well as tools for liability matching and for developing single-manager strategies.
efficient and robust investment structures.
Operational control, particularly the management of counterparty relationships, We also are widely recognised for our ability Impact of 2008 credit facilities, leverage and liquidity: to structure innovative and customised hedge Institutional investors and hedge fund models Transparency into the investment process fund solutions to meet specific investor tax or faced enormous challenges as credit markets so institutions can quantify their exposure regulatory requirements or to engineer portfolios ground to a halt in 2008.
Institutions struggled to certain categories of risk across all of to target defined performance or market with tightening liquidity, declining Tier 1 capital as their portfolio: objectives.
Our global service infrastructure, their own shares and equity holdings contracted, Risk management, with verifiable risk deep resources and institutional set-up enables and significant challenges to their earnings.
Many procedures and clear segregation between the provision of an end-to-end service to clients.
responded by selling assets, including portfolio and managers: investments in hedge funds, to raise capital and Liquidity, so that investors can access New regulation and more stringent investor to fide-lever and fide-risk their portfolios.
capital at need this is likely to be met requirements will promote economies of scale through extensive use of managed and be a force for consolidation.
Mans strong Hedge funds, for the most part, were in advance accounts: and balance sheet and ability to lead the policy of the market as many had begun to reduce Independent oversight using trusted agenda means that we are likely to benefit from market exposure and leverage as early as 2007. external agencies to verify accounts this process.
Due to our scale, long industry Nevertheless, a large number of managers were and, potentially, provide risk reporting.
experience and established relationships with unable to avoid the full force of the downturn as other leading institutions, we are well positioned redemptions and fide-leveraging led to the forced to respond to these changes and meet the sale of assets in a buyers market.
Structural evolving needs of institutional investors.
Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 27 Four seasons performance 18 December 199631 March 2009 2,000 1,800 1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 RMF Four Seasons Strategies World stocks 400 World bonds 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 Focus on RMF Products Institutional Funds Under Management March 2009 8 1 Members of the RMF management team.
7 From left to right Stefan Scholz, Jaime 6 Castan, Herbert Item, Reto Grau 5 The extensive and diverse RMF product $19.0BN 4 range, with its strong track record dating back to 1992, provides tailored investment solutions to satisfy a broad range of institutional investor 3 requirements.
The product offering spans a 2 wide spectrum, from the highly diversified RMF Four Seasons, to more concentrated products 1 S witzerland 45% such as RMF Dynamic Selection.
2 G ermany 10% 3 UK 16% 4 Benelux 6% 5 Rest of Europe 9% 6 A mericas 6% 7 A sia Pacific 7% 8 M iddle East 1% Man Group plc 28 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Institutional Investor Business continued Over time, we believe that the goodwill that we are building in these difficult times, the strong developing case for hedge funds and the general shift towards high quality, well financed managers with the ability to adapt will help us win new institutional business.
Martin Keller Head of Institutional Sales Focus on due diligence Focus on Madoff Investor Service Man announced in December 2008 As part of our ongoing commitment Institutional investors have continually to enhance and refine our due that RMF had approximately $360 become increasingly familiar diligence procedures, we have made a million invested indirectly in two with hedge funds.
As a result number of improvements to our underlying Madoff-related funds.
not only has their level of expertise processes and procedures.
These can be grown but also so has their summarised as follows: The Madoff fraud was a difficult experience: need for detailed, accurate and understandably, our clients are disappointed at Heightening the scope of operational timely information.
due diligence on a fund and manager where key service providers are affiliated We have met with investors involved in either with the fund or manager, products that had Madoff exposure to discuss irrespective of the level and stringency the circumstances of our allocation, and of compensating controls: specifically the due diligence procedures we Additions to RMFs rejection criteria for followed.
Open communication has allowed existing and future investments, which investors to make a decision as to whether to include transparency and custody-related continue or terminate their investment considerations: and mandates.
In a number of cases, we The use of managed accounts to create understand that investors have redeemed their transparency and increase operational investments as a direct result of the Madoff control over assets through custody, exposure.
Other investors have performed valuation and administration.
additional due diligence to validate that the ongoing improvements we have made to our It is clear from the Madoff experience that processes are satisfactory.
our industry has been shaken by the fraud.
Greater transparency and enhanced procedures in scrutinising managers are a necessary and obvious outcome of the situation.
Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 29 Bernadette Behrens and Donato fide Feo RMF Demands of institutional markets Considerable resources have been dedicated flexibility in responding to their demands.
To keep up with the demands of ever more to ensuring that our reporting is second to These units are integrated into the underlying sophisticated clients, we have to evolve with none.
Whilst the majority of investors consider investment businesses and act as the first them.
Institutional investors rely on high the content of standard reports sufficient, point of contact with institutional clients as well standards of performance reporting and risk a growing number of investors need more as internal business functions such as product analysis.
Our size and scale give us the ability information.
For this reason the production structuring and management, reporting, to produce efficiently the level of reporting of reports has been split to gain maximum relationship management and the regional expected by institutional investors.
One unit takes care of producing offices.
We foster a culture of empathy, dialogue with distributors and institutional standard reporting using the latest technology encouraging our people to put themselves investors provides us with valuable feedback and most up to date reporting programmes.
in the clients shoes to anticipate their needs.
In this way, our This means dedicated teams in each In this way, we can ensure that we provide clients constantly challenge us to be better investment manager have the capacity to take a consistently high level of service across the and we strive to exceed their expectations.
The extra effort business and ensure we allocate resources required for these reports is not wasted on a where they are needed.
Importantly, the Reporting and transparency handful of investors.
If we feel that other clients expertise of these teams is available to the The quality of investor services is a key due could benefit from the same type of reporting, entire business and therefore benefits all diligence point that investors look to before it is added to the standard range.
they invest in one of our products.
Our products have net asset values that are Dedicated client service teams published either weekly or monthly, and Every institutional investor is unique a scheduled redemption dates.
The timeliness Japanese pension fund has fundamentally and the accuracy of performance information different regulatory, performance, tax and are key factors to maintain investor confidence other service requirements from a UK based in their investment decision.
This is particularly insurance company.
In recognition of this, important in turbulent markets when regular Man has put specialised client service teams and timely performance reporting is essential in place to meet these varied needs and for our institutional investors and distributors to provide prompt, accurate responses to the ensure that investors have the most up to date most demanding client requests and queries.
This allows From the outset, the philosophy of creating them to make informed decisions and valid dedicated client service units was to provide choices between alternative strategies.
more transparency to clients and more
