Man Group plc 02 Annual Report 2009 Business Overview Description of the Business Man Group plc is the parent company for a group of entities engaged in the investment management business.
FUM and fees In the case of guaranteed products sold to private investors, part of the The investment products we sell are issued by independent fund investors risk capital is used to purchase a guarantee from a major entities for whom we act as the investment manager.
The fund entities financial institution.
The value of the guarantee is included in the have independent boards of directors with independent governance investors NAV for the product.
However as the guarantee is completely and decision making powers.
The fund entities investment separate from Man the value of the guarantee is not included in our performance, assets and liabilities are therefore separate from the Funds Under Management, and we do not earn fees on this amount.
Group and are not consolidated into the Groups financial statements.
The fund entities pay us management fees and performance fees.
We earn performance fees based on a percentage of the investment performance earned above a benchmark return or the highest previous The fund entities send the investors periodic statements telling them asset valuation, a high water mark.
The investment performance of the their investment returns, net of fees and the value of their investment, funds we manage is therefore a key statistic as performance sustains or Net Asset Value NAV.
This represents the value of the funds assets the investors continued allocation to the product and retains for us less liabilities.
management and performance fee income.
While our performance fees cannot be negative if a product is significantly below its previous high A key measure of the size and scale of our business is therefore the water mark due to negative investment returns, it may take time to aggregate asset exposure that we manage for the fund entities, referred recover to a point where we will earn performance fees again.
to in this Annual Report as Funds Under Management FUM.
The asset exposure is supported by the investors risk capital and any financing In addition to management and performance fees we may also receive provided to the fund entities by banks and prime brokers referred to fees for arranging financing and other related services required to as leverage.
administer the product for the fund entity.
We earn management fees, at a fixed percentage based on FUM, for managing the funds gross asset exposure.
The level of FUM drives the Groups revenue base.
The growth of FUM is a key performance indicator for the business as it measures the potential for future revenue growth.
