Man Group plc 16 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Industry Trends and Competitive Environment Looking ahead themes and trends The hedge fund industry is at a crossroads.
Events over the past year have severely tested business models and strategies, and we see our industry undergoing a period of reformation, led by scale players such as Man.
Hedge funds have enjoyed explosive growth The hedge fund value proposition As the industry moves closer to the since 1990, both in terms of assets under will be reaffirmed mainstream, consolidation will intensify management and number of managers, It is widely acknowledged that hedge funds Hedge funds are already adapting their but these trends reversed sharply in 2008 have delivered considerable value over the business models and investment techniques 01 Graph.
We believe that funds under years, providing significant capital growth to respond to the new financial environment.
management will gradually recover and, and protection.
However, 2008 was, as a in time, resume their upward trend.
A major whole, one of the worst years for the industry.
Investors, whether institutional or private, are shake-out is under way.
There is already The mean performance disguises the full story reassessing their requirements of investment strong evidence of a consolidation in favour as some sectors notably managed futures managers in the light of recent events.
There of larger players, with a permanent reduction had one of their best years on record.
is increasing awareness of the importance of in the number of managers and concentration Nevertheless, the industry needs to answer controlling non-financial risks, with particular of assets among a few leading players.
the charge that the hedge fund model has emphasis on such factors as liquidity, been damaged Graph 03. transparency, security, manager pedigree, 02 Graph.
Growth prospects remain good governance and sustainability.
Scale brings because, despite an overall downturn in Man firmly believes that hedge funds will benefits and this shift favours the larger, performance in 2008, the value that hedge continue to form an important segment of the well-established players such as Man.
funds can add remains evident, particularly investment world.
Their flexibility and large when the challenges facing other investments diversity of styles and strategies mean that The shift in investor priorities is likely to play are taken into account.
This provides a firm there are inherently more opportunities for into a long-established trend towards foundation for the industry as a whole but only hedge funds to deliver long-term risk-adjusted consolidation, as the bigger players continue those that are appropriately positioned in this returns than traditional asset managers.
This to increase their market share.
Nearly new environment will prosper.
underpins their ability to recover more quickly three-quarters of hedge fund assets worldwide from downturns.
Hedge funds continue to are held by managers with over $1 billion under The competitive landscape is already reforming produce beneficial capital protection and risk management.
This trend is likely to continue as as a large number of hedge funds have closed reduction through generally low correlation to smaller businesses, which will struggle to their doors and many of the proprietary trading traditional assets, demonstrating resilience provide the additional layers of regulatory desks of major investment banks have been even during the recent downturn as they compliance, infrastructure and resources that closed down or greatly reduced in scale.
This have, historically, during major bear markets institutional and private investors are has resulted in an overall shrinkage in the Graph 04. demanding, fall by the wayside or are industry, in which only the strongest managers absorbed.
The mediumto long-term outlook have survived to pursue their strategies in what Already, the substantial repricing of risk in for the survivors of this industry rebalancing, of is likely to be a far less competitive recent months has created highly attractive which Man is a prime example, is very positive.
opportunities in several hedge fund styles.
Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 17 01 2008: hedge fund outflows driven by poor performance and forced liquidation $ 2,000,000 1,500,000 Regulation will increase, benefiting better-resourced managers 1,000,000 Increased regulatory controls have been a catalyst for the institutionalisation of the hedge fund industry over the past few years.
Some 500,000 of these changes have been driven by the Asset flow industry itself, with Man at the forefront of Hedge fund assets 0 0 introducing voluntary codes of conduct.
02 Man supports all efforts towards increasing Concentration of investment in large scale funds 4.2% market stability and the protection of investors.
13.9% As active members of the Hedge Fund 4.1% Standards Board in the UK and the working Fund assets 8.2% 8.6% group for the Guide to Sound Practices for $1 billion 9.3% 16.9% Fund of Hedge Fund Managers, we are $500 million to long-standing advocates of the development $1 billion 16.3% of guiding principles for the industry.
Man $200 to is already fully regulated, on a consolidated $500 million 44.4% 74.2% basis by the FSA, and by national regulators $100 to wherever we have offices currently we $200 million operate from 19 separate locations.
As a $100 million result, we welcome increased governance and institutionalisation of the industry, as this Source: Hedge Fund Research will lay the foundations for an even stronger 2001 Q1 2009 hedge fund value proposition in the future.
The industry will become more investor 03 friendly, as greater accountability will foster Outperformance of managed futures and global macro the spread of best business practices.
strategies 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2009 5% 0 A more focused set of investment 5% strategies will be successful 10% Some styles and managers will find it hard to 15% prosper in the new environment, particularly 20% 25% those that have traditionally relied on leverage 30% to enhance returns.
It is going to take some 35% time for the credit markets to return to normal 40% World Emerging Equity Event Relative Global Managed and so the easy availability of capital, which stocks markets hedge driven value macro futures was a driving feature of previous years, is likely Source: Bloomberg and Stark & Co. Inc.
There is no guarantee of trading performance and past performance is to be absent for the foreseeable future.
We are not necessarily a guide to future results.
Please note that the HFRI and Stark 300 Trader index data over the past four months may be subject to change.
Equity hedge: HFRI Equity Hedge Total Index.
Event driven: HFRI Event already seeing evidence that investors are Driven Total Index.
Macro: HFRI Macro Total Index.
Relative value: HFRI Relative Value Total Index.
Emerging markets: HFRI Emerging Markets Total Index.
Managed futures: Stark 300 Trader Index.
World stocks: MSCI attracted more to styles that combine strong World Index hedged to USD price return.
and persistent value creation with transparency and simplicity of the underlying investment 04 proposition.
At a business level, wellPerformance of fund of funds and world stocks capitalised companies such as Man will 1 April 1999 to 31 March 2009 be best placed to ride through the credit 2,200 contraction and our competitor base will 1,800 continue to weaken as some business and 1,600 investment models fail.
World stocks 1,400 Fund of funds 1,200 As the hedge fund industry reshapes itself, Man stands to benefit from these 1,000 prevailing trends and will build on its reputation, capital strength, geographic 800 spread and resources.
There is no guarantee of trading performance and past performance is not necessarily a guide to future results.
Please note that the HFRI index data over the past four months may be subject to change.
World stocks: MSCI World Index hedged to USD price return.
Fund of funds: HFRI Fund of Funds Composite Index.
