Man Group plc 08 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Board of Directors from left to right Glen Moreno Kevin Hayes Patrick OSullivan Alison Carnwath Senior independent Finance Director and Independent non-executive Independent non-executive non-executive director Company Secretary director director Glen Moreno was appointed a Kevin Hayes joined Man Group Patrick OSullivan was appointed Alison Carnwath was appointed a non-executive director in 1994.
He as Chief Financial Officer in March a non-executive director in non-executive director in January was previously a group executive 2007 from Lehman Brothers, September 2007.
Prior to joining the Board and policy committee member where he served in a variety previously Vice Chairman of the she spent 20 years working in of Citicorp and Citibank.
He of senior finance and strategy Zurich Financial Services Group investment banking.
She is is a director and former Chief positions in London and New Management Board, as well as Chairman of MF Global Ltd, listed Executive of Fidelity International.
He was previously a Partner Chief Growth Officer of that on the New York Stock Exchange, He is Chairman of Pearson plc in the Financial Services practice Group.
He is a non-executive Chairman of Land Securities and acting Chairman of UKFI.
of Ernst & Young LLP in New York.
director of Collins Stewart plc Group plc and a director of He was appointed to the Board in as well as of COFRA Holding AG.
Member of the Nomination May 2007 and became Company Committee Secretary in November 2007.
Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit and Risk Committee Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 09 Jon Aisbitt Dugald Eadie Phillip Colebatch Peter Clarke Chairman, Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Chief Executive Chairman of the Nomination director, director, Peter Clarke joined Man Group in Committee Chairman of the Audit and Risk Chairman of the Remuneration 1993 from the investment banking Jon Aisbitt was appointed a Committee Committee industry, having worked at Morgan non-executive director in August Dugald Eadie was appointed a Phillip Colebatch was appointed Grenfell and Citicorp.
He became 2003 and non-executive Chairman non-executive director in January a non-executive director in Head of Corporate Finance in September 2007.
He has held a number September 2007.
He was & Corporate Affairs and was previously a Partner and of senior executive positions in previously a member of the Company Secretary from April Managing Director in the the fund management industry.
Executive Boards of Swiss 1996 to November 2007.
He was Investment Banking Division of He was most recently Group Reinsurance Company and appointed to the Board in 1997 Goldman Sachs and has 20 years Managing Director of Henderson Credit Suisse Group.
He is a and became Finance Director experience in international plc until his retirement in 1999, non-executive director of in May 2000.
Peter was Deputy corporate finance.
following its acquisition by AMP.
Insurance Australia Group Group Chief Executive from He is an Honorary Fellow of and Lend Lease Corporation.
November 2005 until his the Faculty of Actuaries, and appointment as Chief Executive a Fellow of the UK Society of in March 2007.
