Man Group plc 20 Annual Report 2009 Business Review An encouraging outlook Despite the overall contraction in size of the Private Investor Business hedge fund industry over the past twelve months, the outlook for Mans private investor business remains very positive.
Over the years, we have pioneered the distribution model of opening offices in key regions, and using these as the base to form partnerships with local intermediaries and banks.
With access to local and highly experienced intermediaries, the private investors in our products tend to have a superior understanding of their nature, and of how they fit into a diversified portfolio.
The consequence of this is that both our distribution network and the end investors A unique global take a longer-term view than average, a fact demonstrated by our comparatively low redemption rates.
franchise During the last financial year, we have continued to grow our presence in existing markets and expand into new ones, and have seen excellent results in a number of areas, Mans private investor base has been the bedrock of in particular the Far East.
Globally, we have expanded our intermediary network which our investment management business since the encompasses independent financial advisers 1980s.
Sourced through our network of intermediaries as well as major financial institutions from 2,100 to 2,200.
We continue to work closely and other distribution partners, it is truly global.
with many of the worlds most reputable banks, some of whom not only distribute our products but provide capital guarantees and leverage.
In Europe, in recognition of the At the end of the financial year, Man had $27.8 Importantly, the value proposition of hedge growing importance of the onshore market, billion under management in its private investor funds remains valid.
Hedge funds encompass we opened a new office in the Netherlands, business.
Investors are located in 80 countries, a wide diversity of styles, and we anticipate and plans are well under way to open another with the biggest concentrations being in Japan that the changing nature of the global financial within the European Union during the next 25%, Asia ex-Japan 25% and Europe 34%.
markets will result in a refocusing of private financial year.
There are also a significant number in the investor assets towards certain types of styles Middle East and Latin America.
For instance, managed futures Reputation, capital strength, security and the which, through our manager AHL, have been proven ability to perform in testing conditions The nature of this investor base is evolving.
a mainstay of our private investor product all these are valued by our private investors.
Although, traditionally, hedge funds were the range for over 20 years are likely to build A cornerstone of our business has been the preserve of the wealthy, recent years have on the excellent performance of last year.
understanding that we need to combine seen a broadening-out of the investor profile, flexibility with consistency.
In a dramatically with products offering a lower initial A proven and diverse product range changing marketplace, we look forward to investment threshold.
This shift is part of the With over 25 years experience in alternative continuing to serve our investor base and gradual incorporation of hedge funds into the investments, Man has a proven ability which deliver differentiated performance.
investment mainstream, and we have seen our private investors recognise to produce a strengthening of this trend during the last investments that offer performance, financial year.
There are a number of reasons diversification and security.
Private Investor Funds Under Mans product range is diverse in a number Management March 2009 1 A solid investment proposition of ways.
First, through our single manager Private investors look to hedge funds to and multi-manager investment businesses, 3 provide medium-term capital growth, and to we offer products forming a spectrum of protect their capital during times of market risk return objectives.
Second, Man has long downturn.
This has become of increasing pioneered capital guarantee structures, and importance following the market dislocations offers a range of these in addition to open- $2 7.8BN of recent times.
Hedge funds can achieve ended products.
And, through innovative this through their ability to apply alternative structures such as the highly successful methods of investing and trading to an Man-IP 220 series, we can offer investors extremely broad range of markets.
In doing so, the opportunity to benefit from a package they tend to behave differently to investments of managers in a single product.
This ability 2 based on traditional techniques and markets.
to design, structure and manage complex 2009 2008 This diversification can lead to smoother investment vehicles sets Man apart from 1 Asia Pacific 50% 44% overall portfolio growth.
2 Europe 34% 39% 3 ROW 16% 17% Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 21 Focus on IP 220 In difficult markets, we delivered three key benefits to our investors performance, capital protection and liquidity.
Christoph Mller Global Head of Sales From left to right Christoph Mller Sales, John Rowsell Glenwood and Tim Wong AHL Annualised return for Man-IP 220 The first Man-IP 220 fund was launched in The products investment exposure is 1996.
It represented a breakthrough in hedge enhanced by a mechanism which, through fund structuring, and the ensuing series of a combination of the efficient use of trading funds has produced exceptional performance.
capital and credit facilities enables an investment exposure of 160 units for every 100 14.2% Man pioneered the capital guarantee structure units invested.
The product is then protected in the mid 1980s, and launched a series of by a capital guarantee from a major bank, funds based on combining an investment which assures the return of at least the in a single manager with some form of capital investors initial investment at a maturity guarantee.
A further development was to date.
In the case of US dollar denominated use external financing to allow for increased products, the collateral is in the form of US investment exposure.
In addition, a rising guarantee feature, which works through locking in profits, New private investor sales in 2008 9 This approach proved to be very successful.
can act to increase the value of the guarantee.
Man-IP 220 represented the next step: to A further variation, particularly suited to low combine more than one manager under this interest rate environments, is to offer an initial type of structure.
Using two managers whose partial guarantee with profit lock-ins, to prevent returns were produced in different ways the maturity of the product from becoming too $ 11.
3BN allowed for a smoother overall performance.
Man-IP 220 combines two of Mans managers: AHL, a managed futures business, and Man-IP 220 has produced a compound rate Glenwood, a fund of funds manager.
of return of 14.2% per annum since inception in 1996.
Importantly, this excellent long-term performance has been achieved in a variety of market conditions, including several major downturns in the global equity markets.
Initial client profit potential investment Total Trading profit potential from increased investment profit 100 exposure and complementary potential investment strategies profit lock-in Increased investment exposure feature of 60 through a credit facility 40 100 principal zero coupon bond 60 protection investment life Man Group plc 22 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Private Investor Business continued Japan case study Strength through relationships Man is a leading provider of alternative investments to Japanese investors, specialising in marketing products mainly through joint ventures with leading financial institutions.
Profile of Japanese investors in 2 Business leverage primarily through joint turmoil because of strong, non-correlated Man products ventures with key distributors in each performance and this should continue, while Our investor base comprises private investors, client segment.
stronger performance is awaited from hedge pension plans and financial institutions.
We expect to focus on AHL, achieve maximum effectiveness in each of these 3 Emphasis on post-investment satisfaction multi-manager CTA and global macro products market segments, Mans Japanese business by offering high-level client service such as in the near term.
Longer term, we see good teams up with leading distributors, securities regular reporting, pro-active response to demand for other hedge fund styles and brokers and banks in the private investor clients and performance reporting sessions diversified fund of hedge funds.
markets: trust banks for pension plans: and for private investors.
banks, securities brokers and discretionary Pension plans and financial institution investment advisers for financial institutions.
Key growth opportunities business The long-term trend toward greater risk Good opportunities are evident in the pension Why do investors choose Man products?
exposure in financial investment markets plan and institutional sectors.
During the Japanese investors generally have been strongly presents the potential for multi-billion dollar financial crisis AHL has provided what can risk-averse in recent years and accustomed to growth in alternative investments from private be seen as an insurance effect and it remains minimal yields on cash deposits, with more than investors alone.
To participate fully in the very appealing, leading to strong investment half of household savings held in very low expected growth it is vital to support and flow from pension plans.
AHL has the strong interest bank deposits or cash.
Although educate distributors and investors.
advantage with financial institutions that it turmoil in the financial markets has temporarily can satisfy the Basel II compliant disclosure dampened the trend, we expect a long-term As in other regions, managed futures have requirements.
shift from bank deposit to risk investment.
been a very popular area during the financial Other factors that play strongly in reassuring Performance of IP 220 Japanese investors about Man include the long 18 December 199631 March 2009 history of the business, its stability, its very 6,000 5,500 substantial funds under management and 5,000 4,500 superior performance.
4,000 3,500 What is unique about our business in 3,000 Japan compared to our competition?
2,500 The uniqueness of Mans Japanese business 2,000 can be summarised as follows: 1,500 1 Covers all key client segments such as Man-IP 220 1,000 private investors, pensions and financial World bonds institutions with a highly experienced team Fund of funds of local staff.
97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 World stocks Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 23 Success in Japan depends on strong relationships, excellent client service and consistent performance.
Man has been working for 20 years to build our franchise along these lines.
Hidehiko Hayashi President, Man Investments Securities Japan Ltd Shimpei Kanzaki Marketing Sales force Japan in brief The main role of Mans Japanese Who the investors are sales people is to establish Private investors, high net worth relationships with financial institutions individuals, pension plans and as distributors, propose products, Japanese sales as a proportion of financial institutions.
total sales $bn plan marketing strategies, support marketing activities through study 16% 11% Average size of investments sessions and investor seminars, 28% Varies according to investor segment, and offer post-investment services.
For private We also selectively and directly 27% investor products targeting the mass promote our products to large affluent market, the average is financial institutions and cover major $70,000100,000.
24% institutional clients such as banks, trust banks and insurance companies.
Total funds under management Mans Japanese business accounts Seminars and study sessions for approximately $8 billion March More than 500 study sessions for 2009 of the Groups total FUM.
4.1 distributors, plus investor seminars and 3.4 2.5 2.2 performance reporting sessions were 1.8 Total sales held in the 2008 9 financial year.
Japan sales 05 06 07 08 09 Man Group plc 24 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Private Investor Business continued Australasia case study Rewards through experience Man has built a pre-eminent position in the Each share in Man OM-IP 220 has grown from AU$1.00 in 1997 to AU$5.4466 at 31 March Australasian market and is now the largest provider of 2009, with a rising guarantee of AU$4.5987.
structured alternative investment products for private Market trends investors in the region.
The Australian investment market has a significant number of investment managers and financial intermediaries.
Some 600 managed funds are available to Australian investors.
Fact File The Man OM-IP funds have a minimum The past 10 years have seen a growth in investment of AU$5,000 $3,500 and offer aggregators master funds and wrap accounts Investors Individual investors, monthly liquidity with a capital guarantee and that have become a one-stop shop for high net worth individuals and rising guarantee.
It is these features, combined investors to choose their investment products superannuation funds.
with the performance and diversification the from a menu.
Man has developed open-ended funds provide, that have attracted over 116,000 fund products that can become an investment Investors investors in 34 funds in the past 13 years.
choice on these menus which will provide consistent investment inflows for the future.
Australian superannuation industry The Australian investment industry is Whats unique about our business in 116,000 supported by regular flows of money Australia compared to our competition?
coming from the compulsory superannuation Man pioneered the alternative investment and Over 116,000 investors in 34 funds in the legislation, where all Australian workers structured product sectors in Australia.
contribute 9% of their salary to their own been first to market with the Man OM-IP funds pension plan.
With the investment industry as early as 1997, Man has steadily grown its Adviser network managing about $1 trillion, Australia has franchise in the Australasian region.
With the the fourth largest pool of pension assets funds having performed through various in the world.
market conditions, Mans reputation has been enhanced, particularly through the current The sector is dominated by 575 superannuation financial crisis.
4,000 funds with a total of $570 billion in assets.
The balance is largely accounted for by nearly Key areas of focus growth opportunities Over 4,000 advisers have sold Man OM-IP 600,000 self-managed super funds, typically The compulsory superannuation regime funds in Australasia.
run by wealthy individuals and families, with provides a consistently expanding investment a combined AU$290 billion $200 billion pool in Australia.
With a growing interest in in assets.
alternatives and a large acceptance of the Profile of Australian investors asset class in the Australian market, there in Man products Why do investors choose to invest are significant opportunities for Man to grow Investors in the Man OM-IP funds have in Man products?
Key opportunities traditionally been private investors, from Mans flagship product in Australia is the first exist in the institutional market and with individual retirement investors through to high IP 220 fund in the region Man OM-IP 220 open-ended funds.
net worth individuals, and pension funds.
Launched in August 1997 with a term business has grown through a strong history of eight years, 60% of shareholders elected to of fund performance, the support of financial continue their investment for an additional 10 advisers and banks and the efforts of our years after reaching the original maturity date client service, sales and administration teams.
in June 2005. Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 25 Our investors have seen strong long-term investment rewards as a result of our experience in developing products with principal protection and diversification.
Man OM-IP 220 at a glance Gary Gerstle Managing Director, Man Investments Australia AHL Diversified Programme 100% Glenwood Portfolio 60% Capital Guarantee 100% Performance since August 1997 Compound annual return 15.6% Total return 444.7 % Kieran Limberg and Bo Bluth Distribution
