PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Board of Directors 88 3 Martin Weigold 44 2 Jim Ryan 48 1 Rod Perry 64 Chief Executive Offi cer Group Finance Director Non-Executive Chairman Martin Weigold joined PartyGaming Jim Ryan joined PartyGaming Rod Perry was appointed as in June 2008.
Prior to joining, in January 2005.
Prior to joining Non-Executive Chairman of the Group, Martin was the Chief he was Chief Executive Offi cer of PartyGaming in August 2008.
St. Minver Limited and he has also Financial Offi cer of Jetix Europe He originally joined the Group in NV, formerly Fox Kids Europe NV, held senior posts at three publicly April 2005 and became a Nonlisted companies as President and for fi five years from its fl otation on Executive Director in May 2005.
Other posts have Chief Executive Offi cer of Excapsa Rod had previously been an Soft ware Inc and as Chief Financial included the Vice President of executive director at 3i Group Finance of Walt Disney Television Offi cer of CryptoLogic Inc. and plc, latterly responsible for venture Chief Financial Offi cer of SXC Health International.
Martin holds a BSc in capital investment activities economics and accounting from Solutions Corp.
He joined 3i in 1985 Bristol University and qualifi ed as University in Ontario, Canada, as an industrial adviser and was a Chartered Accountant with the where he obtained a business appointed to the executive Institute of Chartered Accountants degree with fi first class honours, Jim committee in 1997.
He retired of England and Wales.
obtained professional qualifi cations from the 3i board in July 2005. as a Chartered Accountant from the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Key to Committees Audit Committee member Remuneration Committee member Nominations Committee member Ethics Committee member indicates Chairman of the Committee PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance 89 Financial statements Other information 4 Lord Moonie 63 5 Tim Bristow 54 6 Rami Lerner 55 Stephen Box 59 Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Lewis Moonie joined the Group in Non-Executive Director Rami Lerner joined the Group in Non-Executive Director December 2007 as an Independent Tim Bristow became an March 2009 as a Non-Executive Not pictured Non-Executive Director, and Independent Non-Executive Director.
Previously he served in Stephen Box joined the Group in became Senior Independent Director of PartyGaming in May Israels Prime Ministers Offi ce from December 2007 as an Independent Director in August 2008.
Tim has been Chief Executive 1981 to 2003, fi nishing his career Non-Executive Director.
Shortly being made a Life Peer he was Offi cer of Gibtelecom, Gibraltars as an Executive Senior Offi cer.
aft er this document was approved, the UK Member of Parliament primary telecommunications Between 2003 to 2005 he was Stephen sadly passed away for Kirkcaldy between 1987 and provider since 2001.
His past the Chief Executive Offi cer of following a period of illness.
He held the position of Under directorships included Gibraltarthe Society for the Protection of Stephen was a qualifi ed chartered Secretary for State at the Ministry based subsidiaries of the Nature in Israel.
Currently he is the accountant and worked for of Defence between January 2000 Northumbrian Water Group, Managing Director of his familys Coopers & Lybrand for more than and June 2003.
Before becoming Verizon and British Telecom.
Rami has an 25 years, of which he spent 15 years an MP, he studied medicine and Tim was formerly the Financial and EMBA from Tel Aviv University.
as a corporate fi finance partner.
was a consultant in public health Development Secretary of Gibraltar He was a Non-Executive Director medicine, a senior medical adviser and previously a Director at the of Thames Water Utilities Limited.
and clinical pharmacologist in the National Audit Offi ce in London, From August 1997 to October pharmaceutical industry.
where he trained as an accountant 2002 he was Finance Director of aft er graduating.
