PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review 61 Our markets, products Governance and brands Financial statements Other information The global gaming market M Gambling is one of the worlds oldest and most New in 2009 popular leisure pursuits.
H2 Gambling Capital H2GC, a leading industry consultancy, Launched our Italian poker network in estimated that in 2009 global gross gaming yield June 2009 GGY across all channels totalled $334.9 billion 2008: $335.9 billion, of which the online gaming Added 80 new games to our platform sector including online lotteries represented Acquired Cashcade, the UKs marketapproximately 8% $26.6 billion, up from 7% leader in online bingo $22.5 billion in 2008.
The global online gaming sector Acquired the World Poker Tour Since its origins in 1996, online gaming has developed into a mainstream activity enjoyed by millions of adults across the globe.
Now a sizeable industry in its own right, the sector has enjoyed remarkable growth which is forecast to continue Annual growth in global gross gaming yield in the coming years.
Excluding the US and 1 until 2012 focusing on the four major segments of sports betting, poker, casino and bingo, H2GC estimates Global online gaming revenue that online GGY in 2009 was $18.0 billion, up 14.6% on the previous year.
They also estimate that the 13% four major online segments will continue to grow, Online poker reaching approximately $26.3 billion by 2012, implying a compound annual growth rate 17% of approximately 13%.
This is consistent with Online casino projections for global eCommerce by Goldman Sachs which forecast growth in the global 15% market, excluding the US, of 12% per annum Online bingo between 20092015, at which point it is expected 2 to be worth $1,079 billion.
16% As with nearly all areas of eCommerce, Online sports betting broadband penetration is a key driver of growth.
As access to fast reliable connections expands, 11% increasing numbers of consumers take the opportunity to access new products and services from a vast array of providers.
In online gaming this means operators can deliver more sophisticated and appealing games to a greater number of players, with shorter download times and less disruptions caused by poor connectivity.
1 Estimated compound annual growth, excluding the US.
2 Source: eCommerce Evolution, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research, October 2009.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 62 Our markets, products and brands Many countries around the world have Along with the deregulation of the telecoms recognised the economic importance of the industry and the growth in cable services, broadband economy and have sought to such initiatives have a considerable benefi t to encourage the development of the infrastructure eCommerce in general, including the online necessary to deliver it.
This trend is set to continue gaming sector.
The chart on this page, based on as governments seek to bridge any digital data prepared by , divide between those with and those without illustrates the signifi cant projected growth in the access to fast connections.
Having assumed the number of broadband households expected for Presidency of the European Union in 2010, Spain a number of countries until 2013. has promoted an initiative to mandate Whilst important, broadband penetration is only governments to ensure universal broadband one of the drivers contributing to the growth of access for all citizens.
Increasing consumer confi dence in eff ective and low-cost payment Number of broadband households mechanisms, the expansion of traditional bricks and mortar businesses into the online arena and Australia 5.3m Italy 12.5m Spain 10.1m their accompanying marketing spend, have all Brazil 10.0m Japan 31.8m South Korea 15.7m Canada 9.5m Mexico 6.0m Turkey 6.8m played a signifi cant role in normalising consumers China 92.0m Netherlands 5.8m UK 17.5m perceptions of the internet as a channel for France 17.5m Poland 5.9m US 77.0m commerce, including gaming.
Germany 23.0m Russia 11.0m 100% The online gaming sector geographic split As mentioned above, in 2009, excluding the US, where the UIGEA currently prohibits online gaming, the online gaming sector was estimated 80% to be worth approximately $18.0 billion of GGY versus $15.7 billion the previous year.
Over the next few years it is forecast that the online gaming 60% sector outside of the US will grow strongly.
Within Europe, some of the fastest growing territories between 20092012 are expected to be those 40% that have or are in the process of embracing a proper regulated framework for online gaming such as Italy 16% CAGR, France 22% CAGR 20% 1 and Denmark 34% CAGR.
Regulatory developments around the world 5% 10% 0% 15% 20% continue to be an important factor, infl uencing Estimated CAGR 20082013 the growth and shape of the global online Source:  Global Entertainment gaming sector.
As noted under Regulatory and Media Outlook 20092013. developments on page 24, there are proposals to regulate and license online gaming in a number of territories around the world that if enacted, have the potential to add further momentum to the scale and growth rate of the online gaming sector.
1 CAGR includes online poker, casino, bingo and sports betting gross gaming yield.
2009 broadband penetration PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review 63 Governance Financial statements Other information The online gaming sector product split PartyGaming off ers Party-branded games in The non-US online gaming sector can be broken each of these categories through an integrated into a number of distinct categories.
Excluding platform and a shared wallet.
This allows our lotteries, which in the majority of cases are the customers to move seamlessly across Partypreserve of state-controlled entities, sports betting branded sites without the need for separate is the largest, estimated to have been worth wallets, logins or deposits.
Customers can play $8.7 billion of GGY in 2009 49% of the market, any Party-branded game once they have followed by casino $4.1 billion 23%, poker created and deposited in their unique Party $3.4 billion 19% and bingo $1.7 billion 9%.
We also off er a variety of games under diff erent brands that reside on third-party technology platforms.
This means that if players Global online gaming gross gaming yield choose to leave one of our Party-branded sites, by product $bn we can off er an alternative player experience Lotteries Skill-based and other gaming whilst retaining their revenue.
Bingo Casino Poker Probably best-known for our PartyPoker product, Sports betting the Group has successfully diversifi ed its business 40 in recent years, with the rapid expansion of other segments, especially casino.
Now a top-three 30 operator in three out of four of our product segments, we are focused on completing the set 20 by becoming a market leader in sports betting.
The following sections review the market 10 dynamics and success factors required in each of our product verticals.
The Big Brand Sound From Tarzans jungle call to Sinatras classic rendition of New York, New York, our branded slots continue to strike the right note with our customers.
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009E 2010E 2011E 2012E PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 64 Our markets, products and brands Online poker Predicting the future growth rate for global poker Arguably the worlds favourite card game, poker revenue is complicated by the constantly has been around in one form or another for changing regulatory landscape.
Whilst it is impossible to put an exact introduced a licensing regime for tournament fi gure on it, a few years ago The Economist poker that drove it to become one of the fastest weekly newspaper estimated that there were growing poker markets in the world in 2009, 1 between 140 180 million players worldwide.
The a trend that is expected to continue.
popularity of the game exploded at the turn of the century thanks to a number of factors.
Now Italy GGY Expected impact of regulation part of the Group, the World Poker Tour WPT Poker Casino Bingo broke new ground in 2003 by televising high $m stakes tournaments that proved to be a hugely 1,600 popular format.
Where WPT led, others followed, helping to establish poker as a leading televised 1,200 game.
In 2009, WPT programming was broadcast in over 200 countries to an aggregated audience 800 in excess of 400 million people.
400 Increased televised coverage prompted higher fi financial rewards for professional players which 0 2008 2009 2010E 2011E 2012E now rival those found in other leading professional sports.
For example the 2009 winner of the World Source: H2GC, February 2010.
Series of Poker WSOP, 21-year-old Joe Cada, picked up $8.5m in prize money while 2008 France and Denmark have announced plans winner Peter Eastgate collected $9.2 million.
to follow a similar path to regulation, while in By comparison, the leading money winner on the US a variety of bills and proposals are the 2009 ATP Tour was Roger Federer who earned being contemplated.
While the growth in the a total of $8.8 million in prize money in 2009. global online poker segment, including the US, Pokers popularity has of course also been driven is expected to moderate in the medium-term as by the emergence of online poker operators that markets mature, H2GC forecasts a CAGR of 11% have capitalised on the acceptance of between 2009 and 2012 when the total gross gambling as a mainstream form of adult gaming yield from online poker is expected to entertainment and the convenience off ered by reach $6.7 billion of GGY.
Should the US introduce the internet.
This is a trend that is expected to a regulated market, these growth rates can be continue as the game expands its reach into new expected to increase.
H2GC estimates that the global online poker market was worth $4.9 billion of GGY in 2009, a 25% increase over 2008.
Of this, the US market represented approximately $1.4 billion a clear indication that the US continues to be one the worlds most valuable and dominant markets.
1 A big deal, The Economist 22 November 2007.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review 65 Governance Financial statements Other information Market structure The dynamics of the poker market are In January 2010, Casinocity.
com, an independent complicated by the fact that while the US online gaming directory, listed over 2,300 online enacted the UIGEA to prohibit online gaming, casinos, poker rooms and other gaming sites that a number of privately owned companies have were open for business.
Such a proliferation of continued to operate in defi ance of the ban.
sites may at fi first glance suggest that entry into the As highlighted under the Groups key risks on online gaming industry is easy, but the real story pages 7172, this has enabled such companies is somewhat diff erent.
Whilst it may be relatively to capture market share in the US, still the worlds straightforward to register a domain name and single largest market, and exploit their high levels license soft ware, very few companies are able of liquidity and reinvest profi ts generated from to establish a global footprint and attract enough them into other markets.
While this situation customers to generate signifi cant revenues.
continues, PartyGaming and other companies The advantages of scale have already resulted that complied with the US ban, are eff ectively in the emergence of a few large players and placed at a competitive disadvantage.
It remains we expect the number of operators in the space to be seen what action, if any, the authorities to consolidate as consumers gravitate towards in the US will take against such companies.
the larger groups and as M&A deals create Success factors fewer, more broadly-based operators.
In addition to generic requirements such The global nature of the online gaming market as excellent soft ware and safe and secure makes obtaining accurate market share data for payments, having suffi cient player liquidity any individual segment problematic.
However, in is a prerequisite for success in online poker.
com website provides an It means that players can quickly fi nd a table independent source of data by analysing player to play at the stakes they want.
Being able to traffi c and is widely regarded as a useful source off er attractive tournaments and promotions of such information.
The analysis has limitations, are also important for success.
however, as it is restricted to cash games only, excluding tournament games that typically constitute approximately 30% of total poker traffi c. It also is unable to analyse the value of individual players.
It does however provide a useful proxy for the overall structure of the market.
Using data from the week ending 28 February 2010, the chart below provides an estimate of the market share held by the major operators, including PartyGaming.
Online poker market share PokerStars 41% Full Tilt Poker 21% PartyPoker 6% iPoker Network 6% Ongame Network 4% Everest 3% Cereus 3% International 3% CakePoker 2% Others 11% Source: PokerScout.
com Based on average daily players for the week to 28 February 2010.
Accepts wagers from US players.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 66 Our markets, products and brands PartyPoker World Poker Tour Launched in 2001, PartyPoker is the Groups The Groups footprint in poker was also fl agship poker brand and, following a successful expanded in November 2009 through the repositioning of the product in 2009, it is once acquisition of the WPTs brand and assets, again the worlds largest non-US facing poker bringing one of the biggest names in online poker site and player liquidity pool.
Poker remains to the PartyGaming stable.
Launched in 2003, a signifi cant business segment for the Group, the WPT is widely credited as playing a key role in generating 44% of total revenue in 2009 2008: boosting the popularity of poker.
The tour consists 58% and 32% of Clean EBITDA 2008: 53%.
of a series of high profi le, high stakes casinobased poker tournaments which culminate in In addition to the main PartyPoker.
com site, a world championship where the prize pool has PartyPoker.
it was launched in June 2009 following reached as much as $15.5 million.
The rights the introduction of a regulatory regime by the to televise WPT events are sold throughout the Italian government.
The site, which sits outside the world reaching an annual audience of over Groups main poker liquidity pool, operates with a 400 million viewers.
ring-fenced pool of Italian players and forms the cornerstone of the Groups Italian poker network The acquisition included ClubWPT, a US-based which also includes INTRALOT and Fueps for which poker subscription platform.
Operating under the Group provides soft ware and support services.
the sweepstakes rules rather than gambling legislation, subscription poker gives players the chance to win prizes in online tournaments.
In 2010, the Group launched branded WPT poker and casino sites on the PartyGaming platform.
Poker ace From gymnast to paratrooper and from ballroom dancing instructor to professional poker player, Mike Sexton, who chose the name for PartyPoker and is the sites ambassador, was inducted into the Poker Hall of Fame in 2009.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review 67 Governance Financial statements Other information Online casino PartyCasino Online casinos were amongst the fi first online Having been the junior partner to poker in gaming sites to appear on the internet when they the Groups gaming portfolio for many years, launched in the mid-1990s.
During the course of casino has rapidly expanded over the past two the past decade, the market has grown out of years, generating 44% of revenues and 55% of all recognition, from an estimated global GGY Clean EBITDA in 2009.
PartyCasino, our premier of $500 million in 2000 to reach $5.7 billion in 2009, brand, is the worlds largest online casino.
itself an increase of 14% over 2008.
Excluding PartyCasinos success has been built on the the US, the global online casino market was simple formula of delivering the widest choice estimated at $4.1 billion of GGY in 2009 and is of the best games available.
This has been forecast by H2GC to reach $6.2 billion by 2012, achieved through in-house eff orts as well as a compound annual growth rate of 15%.
taking third-party assets and brands to generate Success factors great gaming content.
The Group has licensed As players play against the house, player liquidity a number of blockbuster brands from the likes is not as important as in poker.
However, scale of Paramount Pictures, STUDIOCANAL and Frank does mean that an operator is able to off er larger Sinatra Enterprises resulting in the development jackpot prizes and this can act as a major draw of exclusive slots, designed and created by our for casino customers.
Reputation is also important in-house development team.
Titles launched as players need to be confi dent that games to-date include The Naked Gun, Resident Evil, are fair and that if they win a major prize, the Rambo, Frank Sinatra and The Terminator, to operator will pay them.
Having a broad range of name but a few.
This concerted eff ort enabled popular games is another success factor, ensuring us to add 80 games to our platform in 2009 and that players can always fi nd a game they want we are already on course to add a further 50 to play.
We have also used our in-house expertise to improve some of our classic games including blackjack and roulette and innovated in other areas such as the use of live dealers.
Top slot PartyCasino is the worlds largest casino and is seeking to expand its share of pure casino players.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 68 Our markets, products and brands Online bingo The online bingo market is a relatively small, Eyes down, numbers up but fast-growing segment of the online gaming Our acquisition of Cashcade has taken us market, estimated by H2GC to have generated to a market leading position in the $1.7 billion online bingo market outside the US.
$1.9 billion of GGY in 2009, an increase of 18% over the previous year.
Excluding the US, the global online bingo market was worth an estimated $1.7 billion in 2009.
H2GC also forecasts that bingo gross gaming yield will reach $2.6 billion by 2012, a compound annual growth rate of 16%.
The UK is the worlds largest online bingo market, estimated to be worth approximately $622.9 million in 2009 or 37% of the total, excluding the US.
Success factors Player liquidity is important in bingo because, as a pari mutual game, the more players there are, the bigger the potential prize.
Having a good chat function and lots of side games are also important for success.
Cashcade PartyGamings position in the online bingo sector was transformed in July 2009 with the acquisition of Cashcade, the market leader in the UK.
The acquisition included a number of the UKs leading bingo sites such as Foxy Bingo, Cheeky Bingo, Think Bingo and Bingo Scotland that now form the majority of PartyGamings bingo off er, which also includes the PartyBingo brand.
Outside of the UK, large markets include Spain, Scandinavia and a number of Latin American countries.
Oft en perceived as a soft er side of gambling, social networking and online communities are fundamental parts of any successful bingo site.
In 2009 the Groups bingo segment generated 7% of total revenues and 10% of Clean EBITDA, a substantial increase over the previous year, refl ecting the acquisition of Cashcade in July 2009.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review 69 Governance Financial statements Other information Sports betting Gamebookers and PartyBets Sports betting is the largest individual segment Sports betting was added to the Groups games in the online gaming sector.
Excluding the US, portfolio in August 2006 with the acquisition of it is estimated that the global online sports betting Gamebookers.
PartyBets was introduced in 2007 segment was worth $8.7 billion of GGY in 2009, and sits on our integrated party-branded systems up by 4% on the previous year.
Together, these two brands comprise expected to continue with H2GC forecasting the Groups sports betting franchise with that it will reach $11.9 billion by 2012, a compound Gamebookers being particularly popular in annual growth rate of 11%.
The proliferation of Central and Eastern Europe.
Sports betting online sports betting sites means that no market is currently the smallest of the Groups product share data is currently available.
verticals although it is our stated objective to build this area of our business both organically The popularity of diff erent sports varies by territory and through acquisition.
In 2009 our sports betting which impacts the mix of wagers and the margins segment generated 4% of total revenues and 4% available to betting operators.
Horse racing and of Clean EBITDA.
football are particularly popular in the UK while football and tennis are among the most popular Financial spread betting events in other parts of continental Europe.
An increasing popular way of participating in the fi financial markets, spread betting and trading Success factors contracts for diff erence CFDs is an expanding Off ering odds on a wide variety of sporting events market.
At the beginning of 2010 the Group is clearly important but so is scale.
By having launched a new fi financial spread betting product a broadly-based pool of bets, a sports book at InterTrader.
com, that allows customers operator is better able to manage its portfolio to make bets based on movements in the of risk.
Punters bet against the house and so it is fi financial markets.
possible for the operator to lose money if it fails to set odds correctly.
But, across a wide variety of bets and events, an operator should be able to make a positive return, or gross win margin.
No substitute Football represented 54% of the amount wagered on sports in 2009.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 70 Our risks Dont fret We constantly fi ne-tune our risk profi le based on the latest commercial and regulatory developments.
