PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Directors report 90 Results and dividend The Board of PartyGaming presents the Directors report and the audited financial statements for the Group for the year During the year the Group made a loss after tax of ended 31 December 2009.
The Company did not pay an interim dividend during the year ended The Directors 31 December 2009 and, for the reasons set out in the The Directors of PartyGaming are listed on pages 88 and 89 Chairmans Statement, the Board is not recommending together with a biography of each individual.
the payment of a final dividend in respect of 2009.
Principal activities and business review Post-balance sheet events The Group is the worlds leading listed online gaming There have been no significant events since company and owns and operates a number of well-known 31 December 2009 which should have a material effect on the financial statements.
brands including, PartyPoker, PartyCasino, PartyBets, Gamebookers, PartyBingo, the World Poker Tour and Going concern PartyGammon as well as a number of other gaming sites.
These brands operate under gaming licences held The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely by companies within the Group and which have been to affect its future development, performance and position granted by the Government of Gibraltar, Alderneys are set out in the Chief Executives Review and Review Gambling Control Commission and Italys AAMS.
The financial position of the The Group is headquartered and operates from Gibraltar Group, its cashflow, liquidity position and borrowings are set and the Company and a majority of its subsidiaries are out in the aforementioned section.
In addition, note 24 to the registered under The Companies Taxation and financial statements on page 143 includes the Groups Concessions Act as exempt companies for Gibraltar objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: corporate tax purposes.
its financial risk management objectives: details of financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit During 2009 the following significant events occurred: risk and liquidity risk.
PartyGaming announced on 7 April 2009 that it had The Group has considerable financial resources together with entered into a non-prosecution agreement with the a large number of players and long-term contracts with a USAO.
This followed two years of cooperation with the number of corporate customers and suppliers across different USAO regarding the Groups acceptance of wagers from geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the US players from 1997 until the Group stopped taking such Directors believe the Group is well placed to manage its wagers in October 2006 when the UIGEA was enacted.
business risks successfully despite the current challenging As part of this agreement the Company agreed to pay economic outlook.
a total of $105 million in eight instalments over a 42-month period.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have The Group announced on 23 July 2009 that it had adequate resources to continue in operational existence for purchased the entire issued share capital of Cashcade the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt for an initial payment of 71.9 million in cash with a further the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
24.0 million in cash contingent on, amongst other things, future performance.
Cashcade owns the major bingo Customer and creditor payment policy brands, Foxy Bingo, Think Bingo, Cheeky Bingo and Bingo Scotland.
The Group is committed to prompt payment of customer cashout requests and maintains adequate cash reserves to On 9 November 2009 the Group announced that it had cover customer withdrawals and balances.
Normally acquired the business and substantially all of the assets of payments will be made to customers within seven days of WPT Enterprises, Inc. for $12.3 million plus an additional receiving a customer instruction.
In the case of other minimum aggregate payment of $3 million over the next creditors, it is the Groups policy to agree terms at the outset three years.
The purchased assets include The World Poker of a transaction and ensure compliance with such agreed Tour brand and the Club WPT subscription poker offering.
In the event that an invoice is contested then the Group informs the supplier without delay and seeks to settle A detailed review of these events and the Groups business and prospects are set out in the Chairmans Statement on the dispute quickly.
pages 16 and 17, the Chief Executives Review on pages 18 to 28 and the Review of 2009 on pages 42 to 59.
A description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out in the Our risks section on pages 71 to 72.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance 91 Financial statements Other information The Directors were also empowered at the 2009 AGM, Employees pursuant to the Articles, to allot Shares for cash, pursuant to Our employees are critical to the future success of the the above authority, as if pre-emption rights did not apply Group.
Without their dedication, professionalism and drive to the allotment, provided that such authority be limited the Group would be unable to serve its customers needs to i the allotment of Shares in connection with a rights and achieve its objectives.
Further details regarding the issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer in favour Groups employees and policies affecting them are set out of Shareholders, but subject to such exclusions as may be in the Our relationships section of the Annual Report on necessary to deal with fractional entitlements, or legal or pages 81 to 82.
The Chief Executive Officer is the Director practical problems under any laws, or requirements of any who reports on and takes responsibility on the Board for the regulatory body in any jurisdiction: and ii the allotment Groups employees and associated policies.
otherwise pursuant to i above of Shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,086 20.57 million Shares.
Charitable and political donations This authority also expires at the Companys 2010 AGM or, if For the year ended 31 December 2009 the Group made earlier, at close of business on 7 August 2010. charitable donations of $294,695 2008: $159,879.
The Group None of the above authorities have been utilised.
has not made any contributions to any political parties.
More information on the Groups charitable policy is set At the 2010 AGM the Directors are seeking a renewal of out in the Our relationships section on page 85. these authorities see the explanations for resolutions 7 and 8 on page 93 to ensure the Board can continue to Share capital and Shareholders manage the Companys share capital effectively and in accordance with accepted UK corporate governance Shares in issue practice.
During 2009 the Company issued 832,706 ordinary shares of 0.015 pence each Shares under the Companys block Authority to buy-back Shares listing in respect of the PartyGaming Plc All-Employee Option At the AGM held on 7 May 2009 a special resolution was Plan.
As at 31 December 2009 there were 412,352,091 Shares passed to authorise the Company to purchase up to 10% of in issue.
From the year-end to 28 February 2010 a further its issued share capital.
As at 28 February 2010 no Shares had 120,271 Shares have been issued under the aforementioned been purchased under this authority.
Shareholders are being block listing and as a result, as at 28 February 2010 there were requested to renew this authority at the forthcoming AGM 412,472,362 Shares in issue.
see explanation of resolution 9 on page 93.
Non-voting Shares As securities issued by non-UK companies cannot be held or transferred through the CREST paperless settlement As at 28 February 2010, of the 412,472,362 Shares in issue, system, the Company has put in place arrangements for 4,454,961 Shares were held in the Companys employee a depositary to hold the Shares and issue dematerialised benefit trust, the PartyGaming Plc Shares Trust the Employee depositary interests Depositary Interests representing the Trust.
On 21 October 2009 the Company donated underlying Shares which are held on trust for the holders of 2,485,100 to the Employee Trust, which the Employee Trust the Depositary Interests.
then used to purchase 1 million existing Shares in the market.
The trustee of the Employee Trust has waived all dividend Further information regarding the Companys Shares and voting rights in respect of Shares held by the Employee and Depositary Interests are set out in the Shareholder Trust to satisfy the future exercise of share options.
This waiver Information section on pages 155 to 161 of the only subsists while the Shares are held in the Employee Trust.
The Shares are transferred out of the Employee Trust upon Authorised share capital exercise of share options under certain Share Plans.
The Company has an authorised share capital of 105,000 divided into 700,000,000 Shares.
Allotment Authority At the 2009 AGM the Directors were authorised to allot new Shares up to an initial aggregate nominal amount of 20,575 137.16 million Shares.
In addition, the Directors were authorised to allot further new Shares up to an aggregate of 20,575 and this further additional authority can only be used for a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
These authorities expire at the Companys 2010 AGM or, if earlier, at close of business on 7 August 2010.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Directors report 92 Significant Shareholders Directors share interests Set out below is a list of shareholdings disclosed to the The beneficial interests of the Directors in office at Company in accordance with the Gibraltar Disclosure of 31 December 2009 in the issued share capital of the Interests in Shares Act 1998, the Articles, Deed Poll and the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on Listing Rules.
page 114 of the Annual Report.
Shares held Annual General Meeting as at % of total % of total 28 February issued voting The Companys AGM will be held on Thursday 29 April 2010 6 Shareholder 2010 Shares rights at the Caleta Hotel, Catalan Bay, Gibraltar at 11.00 a. m. 1 Emerald Bay Limited 58,498,667 14.18 14.34 The Company is incorporated, managed and controlled in 2 Stinson Ridge Limited 58,498,666 14.18 14.34 Gibraltar and therefore the AGM is required to be held in 3 FIL Limited 40,816,674 9.90 10.00 Gibraltar.
The AGM notice is printed on pages 158 to 161 of 4 Prudential plc 23,452,615 5.69 5.74 the Annual Report and has been dispatched more than 5 Legal & General Group Plc 16,523,069 4.01 4.05 20 working days before the AGM.
The AGM provides a 6 Employee Trust 4,454,961 1.08 valuable opportunity for Shareholders, particularly private individuals, to meet the Board.
Saving any unforeseen 1 Emerald Bay Limited is a company wholly-owned by Ruth Parasol circumstances, all the Directors will be present at the AGM DeLeon, a Principal Shareholder.
Ruth Parasol DeLeon and Russell and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations DeLeon see note 2 below are married.
and Ethics Committees will be available to answer questions 2 Stinson Ridge Limited is a company wholly-owned by Russell DeLeon, relating to their Committees.
Information on attending and a Principal Shareholder.
Russell DeLeon and Ruth Parasol DeLeon see voting at the AGM is set out in the Shareholder Information note 1 above are married.
section of the Annual Report on pages 155 to 161.
3 Fidelity International Limited informed the Company of its holding on 9 September 2009 and the above disclosure is based on that notification.
Each item of business is proposed in a separate resolution at the AGM and the vote will be undertaken by poll rather than 4 Prudential plc informed the Company of its holding on 22 October 2009 simply by a show of hands in accordance with best practice.
and the above disclosure is based on that notification.
Following the AGM the voting results will be announced via a 5 Legal & General Group Plc informed the Company of its holding on regulatory news service to the London Stock Exchange and 19 February 2010 and the above disclosure is based on that notification.
posted on the Companys website www.
6 As at 28 February 2010, PartyGaming had a total of 412,472,362 Shares in The business of the meeting is set out in the AGM notice, but issue.
Each Share carries the right to one vote, with the exception of set out below is a summary of and rationale for each resolution.
Shares held by the Employee Trust, which has waived the voting rights in respect of the Shares it holds.
Consequently, as at 28 February 2010 the Resolution 1 To receive the annual accounts total number of Shares with voting rights was 408,017,401. ordinary resolution On 26 January 2010 Anurag Dikshit, originally the Companys The Directors are required by section 178 1 of the Companies Act to present the annual accounts for the largest Shareholder and a Principal Shareholder, completed the process of selling his entire holding of 113,808,533 Shares, year ended 31 December 2009 to Shareholders to formally which he began on 20 October 2009. receive them.
This gives Shareholders the opportunity to raise any questions about the 2009 accounts and The Principal Shareholders entered into a Relationship accompanying reports and statements.
Agreement with the Company dated 14 June 2005.
Resolution 2 To approve the Remuneration Report This agreement contains provisions concerning the disposal by the Principal Shareholders of their Shares.
If any Principal ordinary resolution The Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policy of Shareholder proposes to effect any sale, transfer or other disposal of any Shares a Disposal such Principal the Company and is prepared and laid before Shareholders for approval in accordance with best practice.
The vote Shareholder undertakes to: is advisory and does not affect the remuneration of the i provide the Company with as much notice as is Directors in the year ended 31 December 2009. reasonably practicable but in any event not less than 10 business days prior notice of the proposed Disposal: Resolution 3 To re-appoint the auditors ordinary resolution ii conduct such Disposal having such regard as is The Company is required to appoint an auditor at each reasonable to the Companys desire to ensure an general meeting at which accounts are laid before the orderly market for its Shares: Shareholders, to hold office until the conclusion of the next such meeting.
The Directors are recommending the iii where, prior to 31 December 2010, any such Disposal would be reasonably likely to cause the Company to re-appointment of BDO LLP and BDO Limited as auditors lose its status as a Gibraltar Tax Exempt Company, of the Company.
provide the Company with not less than 12 months Resolution 4 To authorise the Directors to set the auditors prior notice of the proposed Disposal, provided that remuneration ordinary resolution these obligations shall not apply if the result of the The resolution authorises the Directors to set the remuneration Disposal would be to expose the Group to an effective payable to the auditors, in accordance with best practice.
rate of Gibraltar taxation of less than 10%: and As explained in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages iv give notice to the other Principal Shareholders of his or 99 and 100, the Audit Committee is tasked with reviewing the auditors remuneration and making a recommendation to her intention to make a Disposal.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance 93 Financial statements Other information Resolutions 5 and 6 To re-appoint certain Directors Resolution 8 Disapplication of pre-emption rights ordinary resolutions special resolution Resolutions 5 and 6 deal with the re-appointment of The Articles require any new Shares to normally be offered Tim Bristow and Lewis Moonie respectively.
In accordance to the current Shareholders in proportion to their existing with the Articles, these Directors must retire at the AGM and holdings in order to protect them from having their stand for re-appointment.
Details of each Directors shareholdings significantly diluted by the Company acting unilaterally.
To give the Company a degree of flexibility background and experience are set out in the Board of Directors section on pages 88 and 89.
For the reasons set out in managing its share capital and raising new funds, the in the Report of the Nominations Committee on page 98, the Board is seeking Shareholder authority to issue up to 5% of Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Company the Companys issued share capital 3,093 equivalent to re-appoint these individuals as Directors.
to approximately 20.62 million Shares for cash without pre-emption rights applying to such an allotment.
It is Resolution 7 Share allotment authority ordinary resolution normal practice for UK-listed companies to have this limited The Board is proposing to update the Companys authority authority, which accords with UK corporate governance to issue new share capital in light of potential acquisition guidelines.
In accordance with the Pre-emption Groups opportunities and in accordance with the latest UK Statement of Principles, the Board confirms its intention corporate governance guidelines, specifically those of that no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital will be the Association of British Insurers.
The Company is seeking issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis during any authority to issue new Shares up to an amount equal to onerolling three-year period.
Resolution 8 is subject to resolution third of the existing issued share capital 20,623, equivalent 7 being passed.
If these Shares are issued and paid-up wholly or partly otherwise than for cash Resolution 9 Share buy-back authority special resolution for example, in connection with an acquisition by the In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company, then pursuant to the provisions of the Articles, Company to purchase its own Shares and resolution 9 seeks no pre-emption rights would apply to such issues of Shares.
authority from Shareholders to do so.
The resolution specifies the maximum number of Shares that may be acquired In addition, the Company is seeking authority to issue 10% of the Companys Shares and the maximum and further new Shares in an amount up to a further one-third minimum prices at which they may be bought.
Any Shares of the existing issued share capital i. e. a further 20,623, purchased in this way will be cancelled and the number of equivalent to approximately 137.49 million Shares.
This further Shares in issue will be reduced accordingly.
The Directors will additional authority will only be used for a fully pre-emptive only purchase such Shares after taking into account the rights issue and is only valid until the AGM in 2011.
In addition, effects on earnings per share and the benefit for if the Company conducts a rights issue in excess of one-third Shareholders.
of its issued share capital and the proceeds raised exceed more than one-third of the Companys market capitalisation By order of the Board of Directors immediately prior to the rights issue, then all members of the Robert Hoskin Board wishing to remain in office will stand for re-election at Company Secretary the 2011 AGM.
