PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 74 Our values Responsibility Our approach We believe that business practices need to be Despite the challenging business environment, independently measured otherwise claims about we did not lift our foot off the Corporate Social ethical practices can ring hollow.
In 2009 we Responsibility CSR pedal in 2009.
In fact we again engaged GoodCorporation to undertake pressed down harder, remaining focused on an independent assessment of how well we are the long-term returns that can be obtained performing against our own standards and from committed investment in responsible principles of responsible business management, 1 business practices.
as well as those in the wider marketplace.
CSR is not just one single process or business A business of our scale and geographic spread approach, but rather a long and complex chain means that having sound policies is one thing, of many diff erent and individual steps.
Just like a but ensuring that they are being implemented chain, it is only as strong as its weakest link.
This is eff ectively across diff erences in culture as well as why we have to draw upon both internal and language is more challenging.
GoodCorporation external expertise and procedures to ensure not only looks to confi rm that an appropriate that our high standards are not undermined.
policy is in place, it also seeks to verify whether We have invested large amounts of human as it is understood, working, and how eff ectively well as fi financial capital in building the requisite employees of all levels are implementing it.
trust and confi dence in our products and brands This process helps us to ensure that our standards to succeed.
The bottom line is that we simply are not only maintained but improve over time.
cannot aff ord to compromise on anything that In their latest review, GoodCorporation found might damage these important attributes in the that versus their previous full assessment in eyes of our key stakeholders.
2007 2008, the Group had improved in 38% of the 66 measures assessed, 44% stayed the same, 15% had declined and 3% were being assessed for the fi first time.
Our high ethical standards apply to all aspects of our business: how we deal with our customers the fairness and integrity of our games have to be upheld and ring-fenced: they also apply to our suppliers and how we agree to do business together: as well as our employees through a variety of channels from health and safety to non-discriminatory employment terms and conditions.
But acting responsibly is not just about how we operate and interact with our immediate stakeholders.
We also believe we should put something back into society through charitable donations and via a pro bono scheme for employees.
1 GoodCorporation is an independent specialist consultancy that the Group engaged to verify its internal procedures, policies and controls on a range of CSR-related issues.
The conclusions of their review are summarised over the next few pages of this report.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review 75 Governance Financial statements Other information Managing responsibility The Committee comprises three other Board Martin Weigold, Group Finance Director, has members, being Rod Perry, Lewis Moonie and executive responsibility for our CSR-related Rami Lerner, who meet regularly to consider matters, a role he has held since 2005.
The overall ethical and social matters relating to all of our process is overseen by the Ethics Committee of activities and are responsible for preparing and the Board, which is chaired by Tim Bristow who maintaining the Groups ethical and social became an Independent Non-Executive Director policies.
The Committee has a broad remit, it includes While there is no formal requirement to have an reviewing the adequacy of our CSR-related Ethics Committee, given the importance of our policies, proposals and procedures, which in turn reputation and trust to our long-term success, we include, responsible gaming, compliance with our believe that it is important to have both a high gaming licences, anti-money laundering, fairness level and independent oversight of responsible and integrity of gaming systems as well as our gaming and wider CSR initiatives.
impact on the environment and the communities where we have offi ces.
The remainder of this section of the Annual Report gives insight into our approach to responsible gaming, our relationships with employees and customers, and how we interact with our suppliers, local communities the environment, shareholders and other providers of capital.
U More information about our general approach to responsibility as well as our CSR policies and practices can be viewed at: http: www.
com prty en responsibility ourapproach Gold Standard We have been recognised by the Gambling, Research, Education and Treatment foundation in the UK for our signifi cant contribution in 2009.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 76 Our relationships Customers and responsible gaming Guiding light Our policies, controls and practices are designed to direct players to stay within their limits.
