The Mercantile Investment Trust plc formerly JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 5 Investment Managers Report Market Background Performance attribution for the Last year was one of the worst ever for equity markets and indeed for all year to 31st January 2009 risk assets.
There was an ominous fragility about the world in 2008 and 1 Year %% in September the financial system came close to collapse.
Investment banks and High Street banks failed as funds were withdrawn, cash was Contributions to Total Returns hoarded and they were unable to fund their operations.
There was a Benchmark total return 36.2 co-ordinated global response from Central banks to the crisis and the size Allocation effect 1.9 of the US Governments rescue packages has now risen to $2 trillion.
Selection effect 0.8 Gearing cash effect 0.5 In the UK the run of more than 15 years of economic growth, which had been fuelled by ever increasing levels of debt, came to dramatic end: Portfolio total return 38.4 most of the UK banking system had to be rescued by the Government: Fees Expenses 0.6 Share buybacks 0.2 the housebuilding industry practically came to a halt: UK manufacturing VAT recovery 0.2 suffered its sharpest quarterly contraction since at least 1974 with Residual 0.7 manufacturing output falling by 5.1% and company failures rose by more than 250% in the fourth quarter: one in every 150 active Net asset value total return 39.3 companies went into liquidation in 2008: unemployment rose sharply, Effect of decrease consumer confidence evaporated and both companies and individuals increase in discount 0.1 cut back their spending substantially.
Despite the base rate being cut to Share price total return 39.2 0.5%, its lowest level ever, the actual cost of debt remained high and its Source: Xamin JPMAM AIC Fundamental Data Ltd, availability scarce.
com That said, the stockmarket did not seize up: it was open for business and, The table provides a breakdown, although volatility was extraordinarily high, a logical thread remained relative to the benchmark, of the with those companies which had very high borrowings, cyclical earnings contributions to total return.
coupled with high operational gearing, or were exposed to falling A glossary of terms and definitions is commodity prices being hit the hardest.
The events of the last 18 months provided on page 52. have followed a familiar pattern: falling asset prices prompted the banks to withdraw capital which in turn slowed economic activity and caused a further decline in asset values.
By October 2008 this downward spiral had taken hold and despite seemingly sophisticated risk controls it seems that basic human behaviour does not change that much.
Performance It was a tough year for small and mid sized UK equities and disappointingly we have not been able to outperform, with the Companys net asset value total return of 39.3% for the year ended 31st January 2009 being 3.1% behind the Companys benchmark index, the FTSE All-Share excluding FTSE 100 constituents and investment companies, which returned 36.2%.
However the ten year record remains ahead of the benchmark with a net asset value return of 113.1%.
This remains substantially ahead of the broader All Share index performance and we believe that, structurally, small and mid sized companies will again deliver superior outperformance over the longer term, given their broader exposure to different sectors and to new growth companies.
The total return to shareholders for the year was 39.2% as the share price discount to net asset value narrowed from 10.5% to 9.2%.
The relative performance is analysed in the table on the left.
The bar chart on page 6 shows the relative contributions to performance for the year for the five best and the five worst sectors within the portfolio.
The dark green bars to the right show the positive contributions to performance relative to the benchmark index and reflect a contribution of both sector weightings and stock selection.
The light blue bars to the left show the negative relative contributors.
6 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc formerly JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Investment Managers Report continued Sector performance contribution analysis.
Year to 31st January 2009 0% Top 5 General Financials 2.1% Oil & Gas Producers 0.8% General Industrials 0.5% 0.4% Electricity Household Goods 0.4% Bottom 5 Oil Equipment and Services 0.7% 0.8% Construction and Materials Non-life Insurance 0.9% 1.8% Real Estate 2.7% Support Services Relative Contribution Source: Factset This shows that the biggest contributor to underperformance was the Companys underweight stance in the Support Services sector.
Support Services is the biggest sector in our benchmark index, representing about 15% of the index on average last year but we held only 10% of the portfolio in the sector, believing that these companies will not be immune from the economic downturn.
The stockmarket, however, continues to believe that they will be more resilient because of their earnings visibility, long order books, framework agreements and public sector workloads.
The sector outperformed during the year but we continue to remain underweight in Support Services believing that the profits to be reported by many of the companies will disappoint.
Real Estate was the Companys next worst sector as the difficulty in financing new projects weighed particularly heavily on developers such as Real Estate Opportunities.
The underperformance from Non-Life Insurers reflected an underweight position in Catlin and an early disposal of Amlin as it moved towards FTSE 100 promotion.
This was offset by a positive performance from General Financials where IG Group contributed particularly strongly.
The Oil and Gas Producers sector contributed strongly, particularly benefiting from the cash bid for Imperial Energy, but was offset by underperformance in the Oil Equipment and Services sector where we did not hold Expro, which also received a cash bid.
With market conditions so difficult throughout the year, the portfolio held a net cash position.
This helped relative performance and we also bought a small position in a put option on the FTSE 100 index enabling us to take a profit of 1 million when the stockmarket fell substantially in the second half of the year.
Activity Gearing was managed actively throughout the year.
Having started the year with more than 5% net cash on deposit in order to preserve value in a falling market.
This was increased to 10% cash by March as the The Mercantile Investment Trust plc formerly JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 7 outlook worsened.
From September onwards, as the stockmarket fell substantially, cash was reinvested in the stockmarket and we ended the year with gearing of 102.8%.
The investment managers have the flexibility to operate within a gearing range of 90% 120% invested and a more specific tactical range is agreed regularly with the Board.
On 1st October 2008 Standard and Poors reviewed the Companys credit rating and it remained unchanged at AA with a stable outlook reflecting the well-diversified portfolio and the expectation that Mercantile will continue to follow a conservative strategy.
The portfolio retains its style of broad diversification across all sectors, holding about 130 stocks of which 70 are mid sized and 60 are smaller companies.
By value, around 80% of the portfolio is invested in mid sized stocks.
The table below shows that the holding of companies larger than 1.5 billion market capitalisation is larger than the benchmark index weighting.
This reflects an overweight holding in those successful larger mid sized companies which are progressing towards the FTSE 100 index.
The portfolio is also overweight in the very smallest companies.
These are currently offering outstanding value and good growth opportunities.
Portfolio Size Distribution Benchmark index Fund Relative Market weighting weighting weighting capitalisation % % % More than 1.5bn 1.6 4.1 2.5 1.0bn to 1.5bn 17.8 14.1 3.7 500m to 1.0bn 41.1 40.3 0.8 300m to 500m 15.8 11.3 4.5 100m to 300m 18.7 15.5 3.2 50m to 100m 3.6 6.3 2.7 Less than 50m 1.4 8.4 7.0 Total 100.0 100.0 As at 31st January 2009 In the second half of the year we positioned the portfolio, within our diversified approach, to take advantage of falling interest rates by buying housebuilders, general financials, leisure and media stocks.
We felt that the reduction in demand for commodities as global economies slowed would result in a fall in inflation which would, in turn, allow Central banks to reduce interest rates: the oil price has fallen from a peak of $147 a barrel to about $44 now and base rates in the UK have been reduced to 1.0%, their lowest ever.
Although in practice the cost of debt remains relatively high and securing new borrowing facilities is difficult, those who do not have to renew their borrowings and who are not breaking their banking covenants will find the cost of borrowing reducing.
Our ten largest holdings reflect this positioning.
Of the ten largest holdings as at 31st January 2009 which are shown on page 12 only four were in the top ten last year: IG Group, United Business Media, Ladbrokes and Investec.
The new additions are two housebuilders, 8 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc formerly JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Investment Managers Report continued Bellway and Persimmon: a leisure company, William Hill: a media company, ITV, an oil and gas producer, Venture Production and a support services supplier, Babcock International.
During the year we met or visited about 250 companies and this remains a key component in our process of evaluating companies.
We believe that properly targeted company meetings can help us analyse smaller companies that are often overlooked by the mainstream, evaluate management and resolve issues.
Our fundamental analysis of companies is aided by JPMorgans in-house proprietary screening process which helps us to identify companies that exhibit the best value and growth characteristics.
Takeover activity was relatively low last year and in the coming year we expect corporate activity to centre on recapitalisation, debt for equity swaps and rescue rights issues rather than corporate acquisitions, management buyouts, private equity takeovers and initial public offerings.
Outlook These are dramatic times and they are unlike any which have been experienced in recent history.
It is clear that there is a collective global determination to maintain a supply of credit and to ensure the capital strength of the banks to avert the risk of a prolonged slump.
Confidence, however, remains low and fragile and will not be helped by deteriorating news on unemployment, economic output and corporate earnings.
Although still in the maelstrom, we are now working towards recovery, which will require private sector fide-gearing, asset prices falling to sensible levels, the recognition of the resulting financial sector losses and recapitalisation of the financial system.
Capital preservation is thus still important.
The risk of high levels of debt in individual companies is now well understood by the stockmarket but specific debt covenant risks and working capital risks are less well understood.
However, the unprecedented fiscal and monetary easing which is being applied, together with the collapse in the oil price, will mean that many people will feel a benefit in 2009 and perhaps create confidence that 2010 will be a better year.
We are seeking out strong companies which do have a viable future but where the stockmarket has become too negative.
Substantial falls in corporate earnings of perhaps 40% are already being discounted by the market although analysts profit forecasts for individual companies are still too high.
We now face the substantial risk that by printing money to reduce the value of the existing debt burden the Government could reignite fears of inflation.
In that case, real assets such as property, equities and index linked gilts will offer higher returns than government bonds and cash.
Because analysts forecasts for companies are still too high, we have omitted our usual table of forward market aggregate estimates.
However, for the record, they show that the Mercantile portfolio currently stands on a 12 month forward price to earnings ratio of 7.2X and dividend yield of 5.1%.
On a historic valuation basis the stockmarket is clearly cheap and long term value is present.
We plan to increase gearing, by investing more of the cash available to us, either if volatility drives the stockmarket lower or if the prospects for growth improve.
Martin Hudson Jane Lennard Investment Managers 24th March 2009
