10 CWI Business overview Our mission world class telecoms businesses Our mission is to own and operate world class telecoms businesses.
Market leader in Our businesses will be world class in terms of: the products we offer: the service levels we provide: the training, career development and engagement of our people: and of 20 26 our financial performance.
What we do mobile markets CWI formerly International owns and operates full service telecommunications businesses providing mobile, broadband and domestic and international fixed line services to homes, small and medium-sized of enterprises, corporate customers and governments.
27 34 The business is managed as four regional operations Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands each of which is self-sustaining, profitable and broadband markets cash-generative in its own right.
From our centre in London, we provide the businesses with the tools and support they need to achieve their goals, while driving improvements and identifying synergies as well as developing new of growth opportunities.
25 34 Caribbean fixed line markets Our Caribbean operation covers: Jamaica, Barbados, the Leeward Islands Anguilla, Antigua, Montserrat, St Kitts & Nevis, Windward Islands Dominica, Grenada, St Lucia, St Vincent and the Grenadines and the Offshore Financial Centres British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands and Turks & Caicos Islands.
We are the market leader in fixed line and broadband in all 13 markets and the leading mobile operator in nine.
In 2008 we launched our One Caribbean transformation programme, bringing together our 13 Caribbean subsidiaries under one management structure with a new common brand, LIME Landline, Internet, Mobile, Entertainment.
LIME is the only full service telecommunications provider across the Caribbean, providing customers with mobile, broadband, and domestic and international fixed line services, as well as supplying several of the regions largest enterprises with all their telecom needs.
Our single-business structure allows us to deliver cost savings, better service and regional pricing and propositions.
The opportunity to offer customers a single bill and, where we are able, bundled propositions is a significant competitive advantage.
11 Panama Our Panama operation is the standout telecoms provider in its market.
Our mobile market leadership position has grown over the past year, despite the introduction of further competition.
We are the market leader in fixed line with approximately 90% market share and in broadband with approximately 60% market share.
We are also the market leader in the enterprise telecom sector, winning several large government contracts in the past year, including the contract to supply the communications platform for a new 911 emergency service.
We are also the regional leader in carrier services, helping to make Panama a hub of telecommunications in the Latin America region.
Macau CTM, our operation in Macau, delivers the full suite of telecommunications services, including the exclusive provision of broadband and domestic fixed line services.
With approximately 40% market share and nearly 400,000 customers, we continue to lead what is one of the worlds most competitive mobile markets.
During 2007 08, we launched Macaus first 3G mobile network and by 31 March 2009, 40% of our mobile customer base was using our 3G services.
We have recently agreed a renewal of CTMs concession agreement with the Macau Government, subject to the ratification process.
Monaco & Islands Our Monaco & Islands operation has four distinct clusters Monaco Telecom MT : Channel Islands, Isle of Man & Bermuda CIIMB : Indian Ocean including the Seychelles and Maldives: and South Atlantic & Diego Garcia.
The operation has businesses in 22 markets at varying stages of development.
MT enjoys a strong position in Monaco, including the exclusive rights to provide fixed line and broadband services.
MT has also expanded its operations internationally into developing markets such as Afghanistan, Algeria and West Africa and is a partner in On Air, the worlds first in-flight mobile phone service launched by Ryanair in 2009.
In CIIMB we are continuing to develop our enterprise services for example, in 2008 09 we built our tenth data centre in Bermuda in response to high global demand for these services.
In December 2008, our business in the Maldives was granted a 15 year extension to its operating licence by the Communications Authority of the Maldives.
Our growth drivers We are well positioned to take advantage of a number of key growth trends across our markets and product segments.
As the leading mobile operator in the majority of our markets, we benefit from the development of mobile technology and the increased level of mobile usage and network traffic this generates.
Devices such as the BlackBerry and iPhone are leading to the creation of new mobile broadband and mobile software applications, many of which are able to be downloaded online, over a mobile network.
In some of our markets, particularly in the Caribbean, broadband penetration to homes and small businesses is still relatively low.
Penetration in most of these markets is expected to grow in the coming years, in line with increasing access 11m to computers and the introduction of mobile broadband services.
As demand grows in these markets, our business will benefit significantly as the primary broadband provider and a leading mobile player.
subscribers We also have a number of natural defences against any downturn in our markets.
Our revenue by product, geography and customer type are well diversified ensuring that the business is not heavily exposed to any single business line.
By geography, the largest portion of revenue about 40% is drawn from our Caribbean operation, which is undergoing a transformation programme targeted at improving cost, efficiency and service.
This programme is already starting to improve our financial performance, demonstrated by the US$29 million at constant currency reduction in operating costs in that operation in the last year with further improvement expected in the coming years.
Business review 12 CWI Business overview Our competitive position CWI is a strong competitor in all of our markets.
We are the market leader in 20 of the 26 markets in which we offer mobile services, 27 of the 34 markets in which we offer broadband and 25 of the 34 in which we offer fixed line services.
In our smallest markets we are often the sole provider of telecoms.
We have actively embraced the entry of competition in our former monopoly markets.
We have altered our business model and strategy in line with liberalising markets to ensure we continue to provide customers with the best products and services available in each territory.
Our competitors tend to be local or regional in nature, such as Jersey Telecom in the Channel Islands or Digicel in the Caribbean and Panama.
Unlike these competitors, we are able to bring global scale and experience to bear in these markets as well as the competitive advantage of a bundled proposition.
We also compete effectively against major global telecoms companies in a small number of our markets, such as Telefnica in Panama.
In 2008 09, our Panama operation faced the entry of two new mobile competitors but, through superior service and operations, it has grown its market leadership position and increased revenue and profits as the market has expanded with the new competition.
Our strategy and objectives Our strategy is to manage four self-sustaining and profitable operations, with a strong centre to drive outstanding levels of performance from each one.
Our strategy Individual businesses aim to be world class, competitive enterprises in their own right, with the added scale of a strong central owner.
is driven by The evolution of this strategy began 18 months ago, with a focus on fixing the basics transforming our underperforming businesses and ensuring all four levers businesses had the tools to compete in a liberalised market.
Over the past year we have progressed this strategy while ensuring that we are ready for Transformation any impact of the current economic climate.
Looking ahead, we will generate further value from our existing operations, Performance driving our strategy through the following four levers: improvement Transformation Each individual business will operate as a fully competitive enterprise, focused on meeting customer demand with excellent service and Synergies efficient operations.
Transformation programmes will be undertaken to ensure and expertise our people, culture, processes and technology are all geared towards these aims.
Performance improvement Constant performance improvement measures Growth will be put in place in each of our operations and in our London centre to meet the twin goals of increasing revenue and reducing costs.
Synergies and expertise We will seek synergies between the businesses and identify opportunities to share knowledge and expertise.
This will enable us to compete more effectively and take advantage of our global scale.
Growth We will develop organic growth opportunities in our existing businesses and in time consider expanding beyond our existing businesses into other valuecreating opportunities.
These levers will apply differently to each of our businesses reflecting the different stages they are at in their journey to becoming world class telecommunications businesses.
13 One Caribbean 13 islands, one business In September 2008, we launched Our initiatives are focused on improving our our One Caribbean transformation cost, efficiency and customer service levels, programme to bring together our 13 leveraging our economies of scale.
The subsidiaries in the region and create benefits we can achieve from working as one the first full service telecoms provider business instead of 13 are great not only will in the Caribbean.
they lead to a reduced cost base but a more efficient business means faster response We rebranded the single business as LIME times for our customers.
Landline, Internet, Mobile, Entertainment and the new brand was launched in November Its still early days for what is a long term 2008 with an extensive marketing campaign programme but we are already seeing the and the launch of a new regional website.
benefits in our results both financially and in our customer service metrics.
And things The new branding is one of many initiatives will continue to improve.
of the One Caribbean programme which brings our businesses together into a single www.
com operating structure, with pan-Caribbean customer propositions and a single set of results.
Weve launched our first regional services like Home Rate Roaming, are developing a regional shared services centre for finance and technology and consolidated our call centre services.
