48 Statement from the independent Non-executive Directors Since April 2006, Cable & Wireless has operated a governance Turning now to the four questions posed annually as part system where the activities of the Group are divided into two of Cable and Wireless plcs approach to measuring effective businesses CWI and Worldwide with a Central function acting corporate governance: as a portfolio manager.
The two businesses are headed by 1 What is the quality of the relationship between the Executive Directors reporting to the Chairman of Cable and Chairman and the Executive Directors?
Wireless plc with senior members of the Central function sitting During the year the Chairman has facilitated a significant as Investor Directors on the Operating Boards of each business.
management change whereby John Pluthero has returned The two Operating Boards meet monthly to focus on the issues to focus exclusively on the Worldwide business, as was always in that business.
The Group Board sits above the Operating the intention, and Tony Rice has been appointed as the Chief Boards to ensure that the strategies of both businesses deliver Executive of CWI.
This has involved a significant amount of shareholder value for the Group as a whole, while at the same the Chairmans time including chairing the CWI Operating Board time ensuring a high standard of corporate governance.
on a temporary basis to ensure that Tonys introduction into In the last 12 months the system has been subjected to its the CWI business could be managed seamlessly.
Despite the most rigorous test since inception.
Cable & Wireless had significant disruption which this type of management change been pursuing its plans for value realisation which could can have, the relationship between the Chairman and the have resulted in a separation of the two businesses.
Although Executive Directors has been maintained and remains strong.
these plans were put on hold in November 2008 due to 2 How open are the Executive Directors with the Board?
unprecedented conditions in the credit and equity markets, The Executive Directors are very open with the Board.
At each internal planning had reached an advanced stage.
This Group Board meeting, the Board receives detailed reports and resulted in some disruption to the businesses and within verbal updates from the respective Executive Directors of the senior management team.
This situation gave rise to Worldwide and CWI and on occasions from members of their a significant task for the Chairman to re-focus the Group team.
This is supplemented by minutes and reports from the as a whole on business as usual, to continue to perform well Investor Directors in relation to important matters which are against its objectives in a deteriorating economic environment dealt with at the Operating Boards.
The ability of the Nonand, crucially, to underpin and strengthen the current executive Directors to receive feedback from both the heads organisational and governance structure.
The Chairman of business and the Investor Directors is a crucial check and addressed the latter issue by appointing Simon Ball, Nonbalance which is designed to provide the Independent Directors executive Director, as an Investor Director on the Operating with more protection than a traditional governance system Board of each business in a non-executive capacity, giving the would offer.
Board additional insight into the operation of each business, thereby increasing visibility of the Groups operations.
3 What is the visibility of checks and balances between the Executive Directors?
In addition, there were a number of significant management Checks and balances between Executive Directors are a key changes during the year.
John Pluthero, who started the year as feature of the system.
Executive Directors sit on the Group and the Executive Chairman of both businesses, stepped down from the two Operating Boards, side by side, but playing different his CWI role to focus purely on the Worldwide business.
It is the role of the heads of each business to be Rice, previously Managing Director, Central and Group Finance accountable for the performance of their businesses whilst at Director, was appointed as Chief Executive of CWI, relinquishing the same time the Investor Directors challenge and hold them his Central responsibilities.
The role of Group Finance Director to account.
The system has been further strengthened by the is now held by Tim Pennington.
Tim, along with Nick Cooper, the appointment of Simon Ball as an Investor Director.
In his Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, is one of two extended role Simon offers a further challenge to the Executive people in the senior management structure who carry out two Directors when they are performing their roles and provides separate roles, one for Central and one for CWI.
In March 2009, enhanced visibility to the Non-executive Directors who do not John Barton joined the Group Board as a Non-executive Director attend the Operating Board meetings.
and a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Agns Touraine left the Group Board on 19 May 2009 and 4 Have all questions asked by the Independent Directors we thank her for her contribution which will be missed.
in Board and Committee Meetings been appropriately addressed?
Despite the volatility of the markets and the knock-on effect on Questions asked by the Independent Directors have been the strategic plans for the Group, the Independent Directors are properly addressed and they are satisfied that they have been of the belief that the Companys governance system has stood dealt with professionally throughout the year.
up well to the challenges it has faced through the year.
The successful operation of the system depends almost entirely on The Independent Directors are satisfied that the Companys all participants being fully aware of their roles within the overall corporate governance controls have been effective throughout system and by the transparency offered by the system to the the year ended 31 March 2009.
Despite a number of significant senior Clive Butler changes during the year, this principle has remained paramount Senior Independent Director and has reinforced our belief that the system remains the most 20 May 2009 effective system for Cable & Wireless in its current form.
