42 Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report together Dividends with the audited financial statements for the year The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.67 pence per ended 31 March 2009. ordinary share payable on 7 August 2009 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 June Principal activities, business review and results 2009.
An interim dividend of 2.83 pence per ordinary share was The Groups principal activities are detailed on pages 4 to 5. paid on 23 January 2009, resulting in a total dividend of 8.50 Through this Annual Report, including the Chairmans statement pence per ordinary share for the financial year.
and the business review section pages 6 to 38 that precede Share capital and treasury shares this report, the Board seeks to present a balanced and clear The authorised and called-up share capital of the Company, assessment of the Groups activities, position and prospects.
together with details of shares allotted during the year, are Each of these sections is incorporated by reference into this shown in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups results for the financial year are No additional treasury shares were acquired during the year.
shown in the consolidated income statement on page 63.
12.5 million treasury shares were transferred to the Cable and Directors Wireless plc Employee Share Ownership Trust to fulfil the The names and biographical details of the Directors are requirements of the Companys employees share schemes.
All of these Directors were in office At 31 March 2009, a total of 33.2 million 2007 08 45.7 throughout the year apart from Tim Pennington, who joined million ordinary shares were held in treasury, representing the Board on 11 November 2008 as Group Finance Director, 1.3% 2007 08 1.8% of called-up share capital.
and John Barton, who joined the Board on 9 March 2009 Companys shareholders as a Non-executive Director.
Agns Touraine resigned as As at 20 May 2009, the Company has been notified of the a Non-executive Director on 19 May 2009.
She joined the following substantial holdings of voting rights in the issued share Board in January 2005 and was a member of the Audit capital of the Company: Newton Investment Management Limited and Remuneration Committees.
13.030% : Orbis Investment Management Limited 4.9980% : and At the 2009 Annual General Meeting AGM, Richard Legal & General Investment Management Limited 4.0700%.
Lapthorne, who has opted to seek re-election at each AGM, Ethics will retire and offer himself for re-appointment.
Simon Ball, Cable & Wireless success flows from its commitment to John Pluthero and Kasper Rorsted will each retire by rotation at sound business conduct and the relationships it has with the 2009 AGM in accordance with Article 87 of the Companys key stakeholders shareholders, employees, customers, Articles of Association and will offer themselves for re-election.
business partners and suppliers, governments and regulators, Tim Pennington and John Barton will also retire at the AGM and communities and society, and the environment.
The Groups offer themselves for election in accordance with Article 86 of ethics policy applies to all Cable & Wireless companies and the Articles of Association having been appointed to the Board employees.
Where Cable & Wireless operates in conjunction since the last AGM.
with business partners, third parties or in joint venture The interests of the Directors and their connected persons in arrangements where it does not have management control, it the shares of Cable and Wireless plc, along with details of their aims to promote the application of this policy.
The Group seeks share options, are contained in the Directors remuneration to conduct its operations with honesty, integrity and openness, report set out on pages 50 to 59. and with respect for the human rights and interests of our employees.
The Group respects the legitimate interests of No Director had a material interest in any significant contract all those with whom it has relationships.
with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Richard Lapthorne and Tony Rice, together with Tony Rices Charitable and political donations spouse, purchased bonds issued by the Company during the During the year ended 31 March 2009, the Group gave period.
For further information, refer to note 40 of the 2.1 million 2007 08 1.5 million to charitable organisations consolidated financial statements.
including 120,000 2007 08 120,000 to the Porthcurno Trust, a charitable organisation in the United Kingdom.
More The Company has granted indemnities in favour of its information about the Groups support of the communities in Directors and former Directors who held office during the year which it operates is set out on pages 18 to 19 and 30 to 31. and certain Directors and former Directors of its subsidiaries against personal financial exposure that they may incur in the The Company does not make political donations and has no course of their professional duties as Directors of the Company intention of making donations to what are generally regarded as and or any subsidiaries as applicable.
These indemnities are political parties within the European Union.
As a precautionary qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of measure and in the light of the wide definitions of European the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act.
They were in force Union political organisations for the purposes of the 2006 Act, throughout the year and are still in force.
a resolution to permit the Company to make political donations and incur political expenditure was passed at the 2008 AGM.
The purpose of the resolution was to ensure that the Company did not unintentionally breach the 2006 Act.
This resolution will remain in force until 17July 2012 or the 2012 AGM, whichever is the earlier.
43 Supplier payment policy are reviewed by their respective Operating Boards and these The Company agrees payment terms with suppliers when it risk registers, together with a Central risk register, are presented enters into purchase contracts and it seeks to abide fairly by to the Audit Committee on a rolling 12 month basis.
The principal these agreed terms.
The average number of days between risks identified by the Group are set out on pages 37 to 38. the invoice date and the date of payment by the Company The Executive Directors report to the Board, on behalf of calculated by reference to the amount owed to suppliers management, significant changes in the Groups business and at the year end as a proportion of the amount invoiced by the external environment in which it operates.
In addition, they suppliers during the year was 27 days 2007 08 18 days.
provide the Board with monthly financial information, which Employee diversity includes key risk and performance indicators.
The Groups key The Groups employment policies comply with local internal control and monitoring procedures include the following: requirements and meet relevant standards on employment Financial reporting: Each year, an annual budget is agreed and of disabled people.
Full and fair consideration is given to approved by the Board.
At each Board meeting, actual results disabled applicants for employment and training, and career are reviewed and reported against budget and, when development is encouraged on the basis of aptitude and ability.
It is Group policy to retain employees who become disabled Investment appraisal: The Group has clearly defined policies whilst in its service and to provide specialist training where for capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets and appropriate.
detailed appraisal processes for such expenditure.
Employee involvement Monitoring systems: Internal controls are monitored through The Group communicates with employees in many ways, a programme of internal audits.
The Internal Audit function including regular briefings by management, newsletters, reports to the Audit Committee on its examination and intranet sites and consultation forums.
These communications evaluation of the effectiveness and adequacy of systems help to achieve a common awareness amongst employees of of internal control.
the financial and operational performance of the Group.
Financial controls: The Group has dedicated resource to embed processes and controls across the businesses.
It The Group is committed to ensuring that employees share in operates a number of additional self-assessment exercises, its success.
Employees are encouraged to participate in share which include monthly certification of compliance with key purchase schemes and hold investments in the Groups shares.
financial controls and an annual controls self-assessment.
Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes The latter exercise requires management to assess the The trustees of the Cable & Wireless Share Ownership Trust effectiveness of its fundamental operating controls over all exercise the voting rights on shares held in the employee trust aspects of its operations, in addition to the other financial in accordance with their fiduciary duties as trustees, which controls covered by our Financial Controls Toolkit.
The results include the duty to act in the best interests of the beneficiaries of this exercise are utilised by Internal Audit in planning its of the trust.
work for the forthcoming year.
Annual General Meeting Effectiveness of internal control The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Friday 17 July 2009 at The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, systems in operation during the financial year in accordance Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
Details of the resolutions to with the revised Turnbull guidance.
The processes as set out be proposed at the AGM are given in the Notice of Meeting.
above have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of this Annual Report.
Where appropriate, necessary Auditor action has been or is being taken to remedy any failings and Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as our external auditor weaknesses identified as significant during this review.
and to authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
The responsibility for internal control procedures within our joint ventures rests with the senior management of those operations.
Internal control, risk management and financial We monitor our investments and exert our influence through reporting Board representation.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a continual basis.
Change of control The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage, The Group has a number of contracts that are subject to change rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business of control clauses.
These primarily relate to financing facilities, objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, major customer contracts and licence and concession assurance against material misstatement or loss.
of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of control In particular, under the Groups 200 million revolving facility procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
agreement, unless all the lenders agree otherwise, on a change The Group operates a risk management process, under which of control the facility shall be cancelled in full and all outstanding both businesses identify the key risks to their plans, their amounts together with related charges become immediately due likelihood and impact and the actions being taken to manage and payable.
Consolidated risk registers for CWI and Worldwide Governance 44 Directors report Under the Groups US$415 million revolving facilities agreement, expenses incurred by the Company as a result of non-payment if on a change of control the lenders are not obliged to fund any the call remains unpaid for 14 clear days after the date of a notice.
further sums and, if the majority lenders require, on not less than In addition, failure to comply with any such notice may result in ten days notice, the facility shall be cancelled and all outstanding forfeiture of any share which is the subject of the notice, loans together with related charges become immediately due including any unpaid dividends.
The Directors may decline to register the transfer of any shares In the event of a change of control, these clauses may that are not fully paid, provided that such refusal does not require consideration to determine their impact on the Group.
prevent dealings from taking place on an open and proper basis.
At present, risks arising from a change of control are not Sanctions Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a considered to be significant.
The Group will take appropriate shareholder shall not be entitled to vote at any general meeting action to mitigate any risks arising from these events should of the Company or at any separate general meeting of the they occur.
For change of control provisions in relation to the holders of any class of shares in the Company or exercise any LTIP and Directors, refer to the Directors' remuneration report other right conferred by membership in relation to general on pages 50 to 59. meetings if the shareholder has not paid all amounts relating Rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares to those shares which are due at the time of the meeting, or The following section summarises the rights and obligations in if the shareholder is given a notice following a failure by that the Companys Articles of Association the Articles relating to shareholder or someone who appears to be interested in the ordinary shares of the Company.
The full Articles can be the shares to comply with a notice under section 793 of the found on the Companys website www.
Further, if a shareholder holding 0.25% or more of the issued shares of a class excluding treasury shares The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the or interested person is in default of a section 793 notice, the shareholders passed at a general meeting of the Company.
Directors may also state in the notice that: i the payment of The Company intends to alter its Articles at the 2009 AGM, any dividend shall be withheld: ii the shareholder shall not be and further details of the proposal are set out in the AGM Notice.
entitled to elect to receive shares in place of dividends withheld: Voting Each share other than those held in treasury allows and iii the transfer of the shares held by such shareholder shall the holder to have one vote at general meetings of the Company be restricted.
Certificated shares The Company can sell any certificated Dividends The Companys shareholders can declare shares at the best price reasonably obtainable at the time of the dividends by passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment sale if: i in a period of 12 years at least three dividends have cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
The become payable and no dividends have been claimed: ii the Directors may also pay interim dividends without shareholder Company has published a notice after the 12 year period stating approval if they consider that the financial position of the that it intends to sell the shares: and iii during the 12 year period Company justifies it.
Subject to shareholder approval, the and for three months after the notice, the Company has not heard Directors may operate scrip or dividend reinvestment plans or from the shareholder or any person entitled to sell the shares.
pay dividends by distributing assets.
No dividend carries a right The Directors may decline registration of certificated shares if: to interest from the Company.
If dividends remain unclaimed i a share transfer form is used to transfer more than one class of for 12 years they are forfeited by the shareholder and revert shares: ii transfers are in favour of more than four joint holders: to the Company.
or iii the share transfer form is not delivered to the office, or Distribution of assets If the Company is wound up, the such other place decided on by the Directors, accompanied by liquidator may divide the whole or any part of the assets of the the share certificate relating to the shares being transferred Company among the shareholders subject to the passing of unless the transfer is by a person to whom the Company was a resolution by a 75% majority vote of the shareholders.
No not required to, and did not, send a certificate and any other shareholder can be compelled to accept any shares or other evidence reasonably asked for by the Directors to show property which carries a liability.
entitlement to transfer the shares.
Partly paid shares The Company has a lien on all partly paid Uncertificated shares The Directors may decline registration shares and dividends, which has priority over claims of others of uncertificated shares if the transfer is in favour of more than to such shares covering any money owed to the Company for four joint holders or otherwise in accordance with the the shares.
The Directors may sell all or any of such shares Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. where: i the money owed by the shareholder is payable Interests in shares Except where express rights are given, immediately: ii the Directors have given notice demanding the Company will only recognise a current and absolute right payment, stating the amount due and that the shares will be to whole shares.
The fact that any share, or any part of a share, sold on non-payment: and iii the money has not been paid may not be owned outright by the registered owner is not of within 14 clear days of the service of the notice.
any concern to the Company.
The Directors may make calls on shareholders to pay any money US Holders The Directors may require a shareholder or other which has not yet been paid to the Company for their shares.
If a person appearing to be interested in shares, to disclose call is unpaid, the shareholder will be liable to pay interest and all 45 information relating to the ownership of such shares or to show Conflicts of interest that such shares are not held by a US Holder defined in the From 1 October 2008, there has been a requirement that Articles as being: i persons resident in the US who hold shares in Directors must avoid a situation where they have, or can have, a the Company and ii persons who appear to the Directors to fall direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, within sub-paragraph i of the definition of a US Holder.
The with the Companys interests.
Directors of public companies Directors may require a US Holder to sell their shares to someone may authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where who is not a US Holder, failing which, the Company may effect a appropriate, if a companys Articles of Association permit and sale of such shares on the US Holders behalf.
shareholders have approved appropriate amendments.
At the Companys AGM in 2008, the shareholders gave this approval.
Disputes Any disputes between a shareholder and the Company and or the Directors arising out of or in connection Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by with the Articles shall be exclusively and finally resolved Directors of any such conflicts and also for the consideration under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber and authorisation of these conflicts by the Board.
These of Commerce, as amended from time to time, in accordance procedures allow for the imposition of limits or conditions by with the Articles.
the Board when authorising any conflict, if they think this is appropriate.
These procedures were duly followed to approve Appointment and replacement of Directors appropriate conflicts following the enactment of the conflict The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors provisions in October 2008, and are now included as a regular are contained in the Articles, including the rules for who is standing item for consideration by the Board at its meetings.
eligible to be elected as a Director and the procedure to be followed to nominate such persons.
The Articles must be Going concern approved by shareholders in accordance with the legislation The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely in force from time to time.
to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the business overviews on pages 10 to 17 and 22 to 29.
The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a Director note 44 to performance review on pages 33 to 36.
Further, appointed in this way retires at the first AGM following his the consolidated financial statements includes the Groups appointment.
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its The Articles also provide that at every AGM, Directors who have financial risk management objectives: details of its financial been in office at the time of the two previous AGMs retire by instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit rotation, and detail the circumstances in which and how they and liquidity risk.
The Companys members may remove a The Directors believe that the Groups wide geographic spread, Director by passing an ordinary resolution for which special varying contract lengths and robust monitoring and forecasting notice has been given.
A Director will automatically cease to be processes place it well to manage its business risks in the a Director if: i they resign: ii they offer to resign and the other current uncertain economic conditions.
In addition, the Groups Directors accept that offer: iii all the other Directors being at forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably least three require it: iv they are suffering from mental ill possible changes in trading performance, indicate that the health and the Directors require them to cease to be a Director: Group is able to operate within the level of its current available v they have missed Directors meetings for a continuous period facilities.
A formal process for monitoring compliance with debt of six months without permission and the other Directors covenants is also in place.
Further information on debt and resolve that they shall cease to be a Director: vi a bankruptcy associated covenants can be found in note 27 to the order is made against them, or they make an arrangement or consolidated financial statements.
composition with their creditors: vii they are prohibited from being a Director by law: or viii they cease to be a Director under After reviewing budgets and other longer term plans and making the legislation or are removed from office under the Articles.
enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the Powers of Directors foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
As provided in the Articles, the Directors may exercise all the Companys powers provided that By order of the Board the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate that any Nick Cooper such powers must be exercised by the members.
The Directors Group General Counsel and Company Secretary have been authorised to issue and allot ordinary shares, 20 May 2009 pursuant to Articles 9-10 and have authority to make market purchases of shares pursuant to Article 6.
The powers under Article 10 are referred to shareholders at the AGM for renewal.
Shareholders are also requested to renew the Directors power to make market purchases of shares at each AGM.
Any shares purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
