22 Worldwide Business overview GREAT SERVICE, TAILORED SOLUTIONS WORLDWIDE IS A GLOBAL COMMUNICATIONS BUSINESS THAT PROVIDES MISSION CRITICAL TELECOMS TO MANY OF THE WORLDS LARGEST ORGANISATIONS.
What we do Worldwide formerly Europe, Asia & US specialises in providing high quality communications services such as IP, data, voice and hosting to large enterprise and global carrier customers.
This focus allows us to tailor our services to address their needs, making sure we deliver what these 153 customers need day in, day out.
We operate around the globe, providing connectivity to 153 countries.
Our COUNTRIES core markets are the UK, Asia, Middle East and Africa.
We have a particular CONNECTED strength in helping UK and European businesses expand into emerging markets, including India and South East Asia, as well as helping many of the BY OUR GLOBAL rapidly growing businesses in these markets expand into developed markets in Europe and the US.
NETWORK In January 2009, we became the first international telecoms provider to gain all the required security clearances from the Indian Governments Department of Telecommunications, allowing us to deliver our IP-based solutions directly in India.
During the year, we also increased our capability in the Middle East, responding to customer demand with new points of presence in Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Bahrain.
Whilst many of the economies we operate in have been slowing recently, our leading indicators of recession remain healthy as the work weve done over the past three years has positioned us well - we have a high proportion of long term contracted revenue, a powerful product portfolio and a large market to shoot for.
Our strength across Asia is playing a part in our continued success, as businesses look to capitalise on the growth still present in these developing economies.
Many of our customers are household names such as Adidas, the BBC and Morrisons.
Our acquisition of Thus in October 2008 gave us even greater scale with a number of new enterprise and Government customers including Scottish Power and HSBC.
Since this acquisition, we have transformed Thus into a business focused entirely on the 5.5 billion a year mid market sector and transferred around 600 enterprise customers to Worldwide.
The integration is delivering significant cost savings from network and property rationalisation, removal of duplicate capabilities and one set of product development.
Thus now operates as a separate business, with Worldwide providing network services.
23 As the complexity of communications technology increases, customers are increasingly looking to consolidate their disparate telecoms activity into fewer suppliers.
Our focus and experience with large businesses means were the partner of choice for Chief Information Officers and Chief Technology Officers who want to get on with improving their businesses.
Certain customers like Tesco and Aviva trust us to run their entire telecoms estate.
Our Multi Service Platform MSP is at the core of many of our customer solutions.
Its a highly advanced IP-based network supporting more than 150 customers.
Customers competitive advantage often relies on bandwidthhungry, business critical applications such as Oracle and SAP.
Our MSP has been designed to work with these applications, allowing customers to replace their legacy networks with a single, responsive, flexible and scalable solution which also takes cost out of their businesses.
Our capability also includes the only operational GSM-based fixed mobile convergence FMC solution in the UK.
Simply put, FMC allows mobile phone calls made on a companys premises to be routed through their data network, rather than via a mobile operators.
There are a number of advantages for businesses in doing this: it means customers will only receive one bill from one partner: it allows them to keep their existing handsets and BlackBerrys: and most importantly, with 50% of all business mobile calls made in the office, it offers the opportunity for considerable cost savings.
Hosting continues to be another important part of the wide range of services we offer, with customers increasingly asking us to manage their data centres on their behalf.
Our growth drivers Since we set out our strategy more than three years ago, our vision to be the first choice for mission critical telecoms for the worlds largest organisations is at the heart of everything we do.
In this economic environment, success comes from being able to stand head and shoulders above the competition offering customers compelling service and capability.
This has driven our success and its what will continue to drive us forward as we seek to be the number one in our chosen markets.
Consistently great customer service In an industry that often emphasises technology rather than customers, no wonder telecoms is sometimes a byword for poor service.
Were changing that, because we know that large organisations demand and need high quality service from the telecoms that we provide.
Weve done a lot in the last three years and our customers tell us they like what they see.
For example, with many of our customers, a key measure of our service is how we deal with any issues that arise.
Weve been working hard to make sure that, when theres a problem, we fix it quickly and keep our customer informed.
Over the last year, weve increased the amount of faults fixed within our service level agreement to 88% and the number of faults fixed at first point of contact by 65%.
But we know our customers are looking for more.
They want a communications provider thats not just looking to maintain delivery times, but actively looking to reduce them.
Thats why our CEO announced to the business in November 2008 that were re-engineering the way we deliver new orders, to give us a better, more scalable process.
And were not just changing our structure and processes.
Our colleagues are the most important part of great customer service.
We have a culture where everyone is encouraged to think customer, where they understand how critical our services are to customers and where theyll go the extra mile to make sure they give a consistently great service experience.
Business review 24 Worldwide Business overview Customer-driven global growth In the current economic environment, many customers are looking to emerging OUR markets for their future success.
Our capability in many of these markets across Asia, but particularly in India, is perfectly placed to help them do this.
STRATEGY Weve also continued to expand our partnerships with local telecoms suppliers.
For example, during the last year weve signed an agreement with Telecom Italia Sparkle, giving us enhanced reach around the Mediterranean Basin, and strengthened our partnership with Vietnam Data Communication.
SPECIALISING Like our recent expansion in the Middle East, were adding capability where our customers need it and where we know there will be a return on our investment.
IN LARGE CUSTOMERS Capability that solves customers business issues DELIVERING MARKETOur innovative capability will continue to attract new customers and win more business from existing ones.
Our ability to offer products like the UKs first on LEADING CAPABILITY demand IP contact centre for Thames Water will continue to differentiate us from our competitors.
Our FMC solution is unique to the UK market and has GIVING THE BEST been adopted by customers such as Tesco.
It offers customers the chance to develop more productive ways of working and opens up to us a corporate CUSTOMER SERVICE mobile market thats estimated to be worth 500 million per year.
Many of our solutions can be used by our customers to reduce the amount OFFERING CUSTOMERS of money theyre spending, for example, our managed video conferencing BEST VALUE solution offers the chance to reduce travel costs and increase productivity.
Our competitive position We operate both in the UK and in markets across the globe.
Internationally, we compete against the domestic telecoms incumbent in each country, as well as a number of other global competitors, like AT&T, BT, Orange and Verizon.
In the UK, whilst there are a number of competitors, the choice for large customers often comes down to us or BT.
We continue to be well positioned in our chosen markets.
Our market specialisation gives us a focus that most of our competitors, operating across a variety of market segments, cannot match.
It allows us to develop network, product and service solutions specifically tailored to large organisations.
Our brand is strong and recognisable to decision makers around the globe, but particularly in markets like the UK and India where weve been serving customers for more than 100 years.
More importantly, our brand stands for one thing above all else a commitment to great service.
Finally, our ability to supply connectivity into 153 countries, our MSP IP-based network and our capability to route traffic both ways around the world gives us a competitive advantage over many of our rivals.
Our strategy and objectives The success of our business during the last three years is down to the consistent focus on our strategy we want to be the first customer-defined communications services business in the world with the ambition to be the number one in our chosen markets.
We aim to do this by: Specialising in large customers Our focus on large enterprise, carrier and reseller customers means we have knowledge and experience of our customers that few can match.
By focusing only on this market, we can deliver an unparalleled customer experience.
This market provides us with the richest product set, has high operational barriers to entry for our competitors and is one weve many years experience in serving.
Delivering market-leading capability Our capability is customer, rather than technology, led.
Its designed to help our customers solve their business issues and make sure they can succeed, even in the challenging markets theyre experiencing today.
Giving the best customer service Were changing the game in an industry thats been synonymous with poor service.
Customer service is our number one priority and were continuing to develop a service-focused culture throughout our business.
Offering customers best value Were creating a proposition thats valued by our customers and economic for us.
Our aim is to give our customer the choice between great service and everyone else.
25 THUS ACQUISITION ACCELERATING OUR STRATEGY The acquisition of Thus in October 2008 was a way of accelerating our strategy by acquiring a significant number of large enterprise customers.
600 These customers include major enterprises like: LARGE CUSTOMERS HSBC We manage their IP virtual private network to connect ACQUIRED 2,600 sites, including data centres, their head office and branches across the UK: and Scottish Power We provide them with managed solutions to deliver voice and data throughout the UK.
Our acquisition is also producing savings in outpayments, operating 90M costs and capital expenditure.
In 2008 09, we have delivered EBITDA TOTAL ANNUAL synergies of 8 million and by 2011 12 we expect total EBITDA and SYNERGIES EXPECTED capital expenditure synergies of 90 million per annum.
These savings will be achieved though greater integration of the two businesses, for example, by interconnecting the two networks to increase our direct presence in Scotland and expand our capacity.
Well also make substantial savings by closing down some of Thus platforms, systems and processes and migrating customers on to our Multi Service Platform MSP.
In turn, this will allow us to focus on a single MSP-driven product set and processes that will help drive further operating efficiencies.
