40 Board of Directors N Richard Lapthorne John Pluthero Tony Rice Chairman of Cable and Wireless plc Executive Chairman, Worldwide Chief Executive, CWI Richard Lapthorne was appointed as Group John Pluthero was appointed as Executive Tony Rice was appointed as Chief Executive, Chairman in January 2003.
From 1999 to May Chairman of Worldwide in April 2006 CWI on 11 November 2008, moving from 2003 Richard was Chairman of Amersham plc having previously been Executive Director his role as Group Finance Director, a position now GE Healthcare having joined its Board as of that business.
During the period from he held from March 2006, having been a a Non-executive Director in 1988.
He was Finance 12 November 2007 to 11 November 2008, Non-executive Director since January Director of British Aerospace plc from July 1992 John was also Executive Chairman of CWI 2003.
Tony was Chief Executive of Tunstall and Vice Chairman from April 1998 until his prior to the appointment of a Chief Executive.
Holdings Ltd from March 2002 until its sale retirement in 1999.
Richard is a Non-executive From September 2002 until its acquisition in September 2005 and he continued as Director of Calibre Audio Library, Tommys The by Cable and Wireless plc in November a Non-executive Director of that company Baby Charity and is HM The Queens Trustee 2005, John was Chief Executive of the until April 2008.
Tony was previously Group at The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.
He was founder and CEO of Treasurer and then Group MD, Commercial Non-executive Chairman of New Look Group Freeserve now part of Orange UK, leading Aircraft of British Aerospace plc.
Tony is a and Morse plc until November 2007 and February it to its flotation, and prior to this, John held Non-executive Director of Punch Taverns plc 2008 respectively.
On 1 June 2009, Richard will various strategy and operations positions and was appointed as Chairman of Alexander be appointed as Non-executive Chairman of the within the Dixons Group.
John is a Director Mann Solutions on 28 July 2008.
He was a McLaren Group and Non-executive Director of of Merville Ltd.
Trustee of Help the Aged until 1 April 2009.
AR AR ANR Simon Ball John Barton Clive Butler Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director: Simon Ball was appointed a Non-executive John Barton was appointed a Non-executive Chairman of the Nominations Committee Director in May 2006 and is a member of Director on 9 March 2009 and is a member Clive Butler was appointed a Non-executive the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
On of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Director in May 2005 and is the nominated Senior 11 November 2008, Simon became an Investor John has been Chairman of Next PLC since Independent Director.
Clive is Chairman of the Director on the Worldwide and CWI Operating 2006 having joined their Board in 2002 and Nominations Committee and a member of the Boards.
Simon was Group Finance Director was Deputy Chairman from 2004.
He is also Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Clive was for 3i Group plc until November 2008 having the Chairman of Brit Insurance Holdings plc Corporate Development Director at Unilever plc, served on its main Board since April 2005.
In this and a Non-executive Director of WH Smith serving on its main board from 1992 until his capacity, he was a member of the Management plc.
John was formerly the Chief Executive retirement in 2005.
He also undertook the roles and Investment Committees, responsible for of JIB Group plc and Chairman of Jardine of Personnel Director and Category Director for financial management and coordinating strategic Lloyd Thompson Group plc and Wellington the Home and Personal Care division having direction.
Prior to this, Simon held a series of Underwriting plc.
worked in a variety of marketing and general senior finance and operational roles at Dresdner management roles since joining Unilever in 1970.
Kleinwort Benson, served as Group Finance Director for the Robert Fleming Group and was Director General, Finance for the Department for Constitutional Affairs.
41 Tim Pennington George Battersby Group Finance Director and Executive Director, Human Resources Chief Financial Officer, CWI George Battersby was appointed as Executive Tim Pennington was appointed as Group Finance Director, Human Resources in July 2004.
Director on 11 November 2008 having joined Prior to joining Cable and Wireless plc, George CWI as Chief Financial Officer on 23 September was an Executive Director of Amersham plc 2008.
Previously, Tim was CFO and an Executive now GE Healthcare responsible for human Director of Hutchison Telecommunications resources, pensions, health and safety and International Ltd, the Hong Kong based global environment.
Previously he held senior HR telecoms group.
During this time he managed positions in a number of FTSE 100 companies, that companys successful dual listing on the including Group HR Director appointments Hong Kong and New York Stock Exchanges.
at Laporte plc and Fisons plc.
George is a Tim was also Finance Director of Hutchison 3G Non-executive Director and Chairman of the UK Hutchison Whampoas UK mobile business Remuneration Committee at Hogg Robinson and has corporate finance experience with HSBC Group plc and was appointed to the Board of Investment Bank and Samuel Montagu & Co. Ofsted on 4 June 2008.
He was previously Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman of SHL plc.
ANR ANR Kate Nealon Kasper Rorsted Non-executive Director: Non-executive Director: Chair of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Kate Nealon was appointed a Non-executive Kasper Rorsted was appointed a Non-executive Director in January 2005 and is Chair of the Director in May 2003 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
She is also a member Audit Committee.
He is also a member of the of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Kate was Group Head of Legal and Compliance Kasper is CEO of Henkel KGaA, Germany.
at Standard Chartered plc until 2004 having Prior to joining Henkel in April 2005, Kasper previously practised international banking was Senior Vice President and General Manager, and regulatory law in New York.
Kate is a EMEA for Hewlett Packard and held various Non-executive Director of Shire plc, a senior senior management positions with Compaq.
associate of the Judge Business School at Kasper was appointed as a Non-executive Cambridge University and a member of the Director of Danfoss A S, Denmark on 24 April Advisory Council of the Institute of Business 2009 and was a Non-executive Director of Ethics.
She was also a Non-executive Director Ecolab, Inc. USA until July 2008. of HBOS plc until 16 January 2009.
A Denotes membership of Audit Committee N Denotes membership of Nominations Committee R Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee Governance
