The Merchants Trust PLC Directors The current Directors details are set out below.
All Directors are non-executive and independent of the Manager.
Mr H. A. Stevenson Chairman Born September 1942 joined the Board in September 1999.
Formerly Chairman of Mercury Asset Management Group plc, he is Chairman of Equitas Limited and Deputy Chairman of the Financial Services Authority.
Mr R. A. Barfield Born April 1947 joined the Board in May 1999.
Formerly Chief Investment Manager of Standard Life Assurance Company, he is a Chairman of The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC and a Director of JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Investment Trust PLC, The Edinburgh Investment Trust PLC and Standard Life Investments Property Income Trust Limited.
He is a member of The Professional Oversight Board and advises a number of pension funds.
Mr M. J. E. McKeon Born October 1956 joined the Board in May 2008.
He is Group Finance Director of Severn Trent plc and prior to that, from 2000 until 2005, he was Group Finance Director of Novar plc.
He held various senior roles at Rolls-Royce plc from 1997 to 2000.
He has extensive experience in a number of overseas positions, having worked at CarnaudMetalbox, Elf Atochem and .
Sir James Sassoon Chairman of the Audit Committee Born September 1955 joined the Board in July 2006.
He is a Director of Nuclear Liabilities Fund Limited and a member of the Economic Recovery Committee of the Shadow Cabinet.
He was formerly President of the Financial Action Task Force, Managing Director, Finance and Industry at HM Treasury and Vice Chairman, Investment Banking, at UBS Warburg.
Mr P. J. Scott Plummer Senior Independent Director Born August 1943 joined the Board in May 1997.
He is a Director of Buccleuch Estates Limited.
He was until November 2005 Chairman of Martin Currie Limited, and was formerly a Director of Martin Currie Portfolio Investment Trust PLC and Candover Investments PLC.
Mr H. E. Staunton Born May 1948 joined the Board in May 2008.
He is a non-executive director of Ladbrokes plc, Legal & General plc and Standard Bank Plc.
He was previously Finance Director at ITV plc and Granada Group plc.
He was also a non-executive director of Emap plc, BSkyB, Independent Television News Limited, Vector Hospitality plc and Ashtead Group plc, of which he was also Chairman between 2001 and 2004.
