The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report which would in turn lead to a breach of Section 842.
The Board relies on its company secretary and seeks advice from professional advisers to ensure compliance with the Companies Acts and UKLA Rules.
Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance best practice, including information on relations with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 23 to 27.
Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, RCMs accounting, dealing or payment systems or the custodians records may prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial position.
RCM has contracted operational functions, principally relating to trade processing and investment administration, to The Bank of New York Mellon London Branch.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by RCM and other suppliers and the key elements designed to provide effective internal control are included within the Internal Control section of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 25 to 27.
Financial: The financial risks associated with the Company include market risk price and yield, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Further analysis of these risks can be found in Note 21 on pages 46 to 50.
Future Development The future development of the Company is dependent on the success of the Companys investment strategy against the economic environment and market developments.
The investment manager discusses his view of the outlook for the Companys portfolio in his report beginning on page 6.
Going Concern The Directors have considered the Companys investment objective and capital structure and, having noted that the portfolio consists mainly of securities which are readily realisable, have concluded that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Net Asset Value The Net Asset Value of the Ordinary Shares of 25p at the year end was 306.2p as compared with a value of 492.3p at 31 January 2008.
Share Capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out in Note 11 on page 43.
Payment Policy It is the Companys payment policy for the forthcoming financial year to obtain the best terms for all business and therefore there is no consistent policy as to the terms used.
In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is our policy to abide by these terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at the year end 2008 nil.
Donations and Subscriptions There were no charitable donations and subscriptions in respect of the year 2008 nil.
No political donations were made during the year.
Final Dividend Subject to the final dividend being approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, payment will be made on 15 May 2009 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 17 April 2009 at the rate of 5.6p per Ordinary Share.
Further details are provided in Note 6 on page 40.
Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 The following information is disclosed in accordance with Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006.
Capital Structure The Companys capital structure is summarised on page 43.
