The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review Economic Background We have witnessed the sharpest economic downturn in decades.
Although a year ago an uncertain economic and credit outlook gave us reason for caution, the impact of the credit crunch on economic activity was far more severe than we expected or even contemplated.
Whilst it had looked as if the USA was entering a recession it was unclear whether that would spread to the UK or Europe and emerging markets were expected to remain robust.
As the year progressed, global growth expectations were reduced materially with all of the major G7 economies entering recessions.
Talk of emerging markets decoupling from the West proved to be fanciful with Chinese growth slowing sharply as exports collapsed and many smaller emerging markets suffering sharp contractions.
The credit crunch essentially stemmed from a downward spiral of falling asset prices causing banks to write down the value of their capital, threatening their solvency and forcing them to restrict lending.
In turn, this resulted in fewer buyers and many forced sellers of assets and once again to falling asset values.
Almost all risk asset classes were affected: mortgages, credit, property, equities and commodities.
Perhaps the defining moment of the crisis was the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers on September 17.
As unsecured creditors lost money in a bank, shockwaves travelled through the system and made banks extremely wary of lending to each other, exacerbating the already tight liquidity situation.
In short order we then saw the rescue of the large US insurer AIG, emergency funding for Royal Bank of Scotland to prevent a run on the bank and the orchestrated takeover of HBOS by Lloyds TSB.
The shortage of credit and a related sharp drop in confidence led to a collapse in demand for most goods and services in the second half of the year, exacerbated by destocking of the global supply chain.
Many factories literally ground to a halt and unemployment started to rise.
Governments and central banks responded to the unfolding crisis in different ways.
In the USA, where the problems were visible much earlier, interest rates were cut aggressively with progressively larger stimulus packages announced.
In the UK and Europe, inflationary pressures early in the period delayed significant policy action with the ECB actually raising interest rates in July.
As inflationary pressures subsided, interest rates were reduced later in the period and fiscal policy responses followed.
UK interest rates fell from 5.5% to 1.5% over the year.
Asian countries also responded with Japan cutting already low rates to virtually zero and the Chinese complementing monetary policy with a massive stimulus package to create and protect jobs.
Market Trends World stock markets fell heavily between May and October with the FTSE 100 index posting a total return for the year of -26.0%.
The FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index delivered a similar total return of -25.3%.
Volatility increased as the market fell and hit record levels in November.
Government bonds performed well as interest rates came down and investors sought safe assets but corporate bond spreads widened materially reflecting increased anxiety about credit risk.
Another major feature was in the currency markets where the pound fell heavily in the second half of the year, particularly against the dollar, dropping 27% from $1.99 to $1.45 over 12 months.
Commodity markets had a buoyant start to the year on hopes for Asian decoupling but collapsed in the summer.
The oil price rose from around $90 to over $140 in July before falling back to below $50 in November.
Performance within the stock market was increasingly polarised.
On the one hand were companies perceived to be relatively well placed, with strong balance sheets and less exposure to slowing economic activity.
On the other hand were those perceived to be at higher risk, either from cyclical challenges to their profitability or from having too much debt in a credit constrained environment.
Further differentiation came from exposure to foreign currencies with the weakness of the pound providing a major boost to companies with overseas operations although also increasing the Sterling value of foreign debt.
At the sector level the worst performers were banks, general financials, real estate and mining all down around 60% despite a sharp rally in mining shares in the first few months.
Life assurance and fixed line telecommunications were both down around 45% although the latter was due to company specific problems at BT.
Few sectors delivered positive total returns although pharmaceuticals was up 16% and tobacco and non-life insurance were just above breakeven.
Other relatively robust sectors included oil & gas, utilities, food and beverages which all fell less than 10%.
At the individual stock level there was even wider dispersion with 10 of the starting FTSE 100 stocks losing 75% of their value and 32 more than halving but only 5 rising by more than 10%.
Investment Performance After a volatile year, the portfolios total return ended marginally below the FTSE 100 benchmark, with a significant improvement in the second half.
The table below shows the top 10 individual contributions to the relative return.
Stocks from two sectors dominate the list: mining and banks.
