The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report The current Directors and their beneficial interests in the share capital of the Company as at 31 January 2009 and 31 January 2008 are listed below: Ordinary Shares of 25p 2009 2008 H. A. Stevenson 25,000 25,000 R. A. Barfield 2,440 2,418 Sir James Sassoon 35,600 35,600 M. J. E. McKeon 450 P. J. Scott Plummer 16,000 1,000 H. E. Staunton 10,000 No contracts of significance in which Directors are deemed to have been interested have subsisted during the year under review.
Contracts of service are not entered into with the Directors, who hold office in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Management Contract and Management Fee The management contract with RCM UK Limited RCM provides for a fee of 0.35% per annum 2008 0.35% of the value of the assets, calculated quarterly, after deduction of current liabilities, short term loans under one year and any funds within the portfolio managed by RCM.
The management contract is terminable at one years notice 2008 one year.
The Managers performance under the contract and the contract terms are reviewed at least annually by the Management Engagement Committee.
This committee consists of the Directors not employed by the management company in the past five years and therefore includes the entire Board.
During the year, the committee met the Manager to review the current investment framework, including the Trusts performance, marketing activity and total expense ratio.
The committee also reviewed the terms of the management contract and considered the level of the management fee.
The committee was satisfied with its review and believes that the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Related Party Transactions During the financial year no transactions with related parties have taken place which would materially affect the financial position or the performance of the Company.
Individual Savings Accounts The affairs of the Company are conducted in such a way as to meet the requirements for an Individual Savings Account and it is the intention to continue to do so.
Annual General Meeting Purchase of Own Shares The Board is proposing that the Company should be given renewed authority to purchase Ordinary Shares in the market for cancellation.
The Board believes that such purchases in the market at appropriate times and prices are a suitable method of enhancing shareholder value.
The Company would make either a single purchase or a series of purchases, when market conditions are suitable, with the aim of maximising the benefits to shareholders and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board.
Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing net asset value of the Ordinary Shares, this will enhance net asset value for the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore intended that purchases would only be made at prices below net asset value, with the purchases to be funded from the capital reserves of the Company which are currently in excess of 250 million.
The rules of the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules limit the price which may be paid by the Company to 105% of the average middle-market quotation for an Ordinary Share on the five business days immediately preceding the date of the relevant purchase.
The minimum price to be paid will be 25p per Ordinary Share being the nominal value.
Overall, this proposed share buy-back authority, if used, should help to reduce the discount to net asset value at which the Companys shares currently trade.
The Board considers that it will be most advantageous to shareholders for the Company to be able to continue to make such purchases as and when it considers the timing to be most favourable and therefore does not propose to set a timetable for making any such purchases.
