The Merchants Trust PLC Corporate Governance Statement The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code which was issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide, will provide better information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, except in relation to the Combined Code provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the Company as it is an externally managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Board The Board currently consists of six Directors, all of whom are non-executive and independent of the Companys investment manager.
Although the number of Directors will fall to five after the Annual General Meeting, it is intended to recruit another Director to bring the number back up to six.
The Directors biographies, on page 15, demonstrate a breadth of investment, industrial, commercial and professional experience.
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
Sir James Sassoon will be appointed as the Senior Independent Director to replace Joe Scott Plummer when he retires in May 2009.
The Board follows the AIC Code and considers Hugh Stevenson and Dick Barfield to be independent, notwithstanding that each has served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Board does not consider that length of service has diminished the independence of these directors and continues to be of the view that their extensive experience and active knowledge of the industry is of great benefit to the Board.
However, after the Annual General Meeting in May 2009, a majority of Directors will have less than nine years service.
The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly and as stated above we are looking to recruit another Director.
The Boards tenure policy is that new Directors stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and then at least one third of Directors retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting.
Every Director is required to seek re-election at least every three years and annually after nine years service.
The names of the Directors retiring by rotation and those other Directors retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association at this years Annual General Meeting are given on page 19.
The Board meets at least six times a year and convenes other meetings as and when required.
Between meetings, regular contact with the investment manager is maintained.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval to ensure it has full and effective control over appropriate issues.
These issues include approval of the Companys investment policy, capital structure, share price and discount, committee membership and terms of reference, financial reporting, risk management, board appointments and removals, corporate governance, internal controls and contracts.
A procedure has been adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that the Company complies with applicable rules and regulations.
When a new Director is appointed there is an induction process carried out by the investment manager.
Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys regulatory and statutory requirements and internal financial controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
During the year, the effectiveness of the Board and the performance of individual Directors was assessed through interviews conducted by the Chairman with each Director.
The Chairmans own performance was evaluated by the other Directors in discussions with Joe Scott Plummer as Senior Independent Director.
The results of the effectiveness assessment and performance evaluation have been presented to the Nomination Committee.
The effectiveness assessment determined that with the planned recruitment of new Directors the balance of the Board was satisfactory.
The Board has contractually delegated to the investment manager the management of the investment portfolio, and the day to day accounting and company secretarial requirements.
This contract was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered, including the financial control systems in operation, in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly from the investment manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
The Boards statement on its review of the management contract appears on page 20.
