The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review Contribution to Investment Performance relative to FTSE 100 Index Positive Contributions % Negative Contributions % Xstrata 1.2 HBOS -2.8 Rio Tinto 1.1 Bradford & Bingley -1.6 Lloyds TSB 1.0 BT -0.7 GlaxoSmithKline 0.9 Inchcape -0.6 Royal Bank of Scotland 0.6 Aviva -0.4 BAE Systems 0.5 GKN -0.4 FKI 0.4 AstraZeneca -0.4 HSBC 0.4 Man Group -0.4 Centrica 0.3 Reckitt Benckiser -0.4 Brit Insurance 0.3 BG -0.4 Positive and negative contributions can arise from under and outperformance of companies not owned.
We maintained a relatively low exposure to the mining sector.
As the sector rallied in the first half of the year this held back performance.
However the sharp sell-off in the second half brought down the index leaving Xstrata not owned and Rio Tinto sold during the period as the two largest positive performance contributors.
The banks sector was in marked contrast.
We started the year with a large position in the mortgage banks HBOS and Bradford & Bingley in particular.
These were extremely disappointing performers, as discussed below, and made the biggest negative contributions to performance.
In the second half of the year the banks sector made a small positive contribution as the underweight positions in Lloyds TSB, HSBC and the sale of Royal Bank of Scotland all made significant positive impacts.
Other positive factors were the large positions in GlaxoSmithKline, BAE Systems and Centrica which held their value well in a weak market, the takeover of FKI, and a re-rating of Brit Insurance.
On the negative side BT suffered profit warnings in their Global Services division, GKN and Inchcape were impacted by the sharp slowdown in the global automotive markets and Aviva and Man Group were weak in a generally poor environment for financial stocks.
The three remaining negative contributors were stocks that performed relatively well but where the portfolio had no exposure or held less than the index weighting, namely: BG, Reckitt Benckiser and AstraZeneca.
Portfolio Changes It has been a challenging period to manage an investment portfolio, especially with a high income requirement.
We have aimed at all times to maintain a long term perspective when making investment decisions but to be responsive to significant corporate developments and to take advantage of market volatility and opportunities.
Just as the market has polarised between relatively solid businesses and those perceived to be at greater risk, it is possible to think of the portfolio in these two broad groupings.
We have maintained a high exposure to the former, with significant stakes in many large, financially strong and globally diversified businesses in less cyclical industries.
These companies typically pay healthy and growing dividends.
We have also managed the exposure to the higher risk group, carefully reassessing existing holdings and seeking opportunities to buy excellent businesses at good prices.
The table below shows the largest ten net purchases and net sales.
Largest Net Purchases Largest Net Sales m m HBOS 14.9 HSBC 21.6 BHP Billiton 14.6 Rio Tinto 10.8 Man Group 12.4 GlaxoSmithKline 10.7 AstraZeneca 11.6 BP 10.4 Unilever 9.3 Lonmin 10.3 BT 8.9 Rexam 7.5 Inchcape 6.1 Smiths Group 6.5 BAE Systems 5.0 Anglo American 4.9 Arriva 3.4 Close Brothers 4.7 Legal & General 3.2 Lloyds Banking 4.0 7 The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review Early in the year we responded to the deteriorating economic outlook by positioning the portfolio more defensively.
We sold Lloyds TSB and reduced HSBC.
We also sold the remaining positions in DIY retailer Kingfisher and real estate company Segro and reduced the position in the paving and landscaping company Marshalls.
We introduced new holdings in the pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca and the food and household products manufacturer Unilever which both have relatively resilient, global businesses.
We also added to existing stakes in defence company BAE Systems, utilities Centrica, Scottish & Southern Energy and National Grid and food and beverages stocks Dairy Crest and Britvic.
Amongst the perceived higher risk companies, one theme we sought to exploit was to buy cyclical survivors.
These are companies operating in cyclical industries but with strong balance sheets and leading market positions that should survive even a protracted downturn and emerge with an enhanced competitive position.
Most of these high yielding shares were trading at depressed valuations reflecting cyclical risks but providing an opportunity for investors with a longer time horizon.
We bought four companies with net cash on their balance sheet: Home Retail Group, the owner of Argos and Homebase, should now benefit from the closure of some weaker competitors such as Woolworths and MFI.
Man Group, one of the largest hedge fund managers stands to gain over time from a consolidation to the largest players in the industry.
Balfour Beatty, a leading construction company, is predominantly exposed to public sector and infrastructure investment in the UK and USA and should gain from increasing investment in areas like public transport and utilities.
Finally IG Group is the market leader in spread-betting and is virtually creating the market as it rolls out its successful model to European and other countries.
We also purchased two companies in the higher risk area carrying some debt but trading on extremely low valuations.
We bought a small position in Informa, a broadly based media business, which has many high quality franchises in areas such as scientific publications and exhibitions.
Debt levels concerned the market but we believed the financial ratios were acceptable.
We also purchased Inchcape, the global car distributor and retailer with exclusive contracts to distribute Toyota cars in Hong Kong and Singapore amongst other franchises.
We believed it was extremely cheap as its geographic diversity had previously helped it weather regional downturns.
However we did not anticipate the unprecedented global collapse in car sales.
Another new addition was Arriva, the bus and rail company with operations in the UK and continental Europe.
There is a secular trend to greater use of public transport reflecting increasing traffic congestion and environmental policy.
Arriva benefits from this trend and has less exposure than most of its peers to the UK rail business which is vulnerable to any rise in unemployment.
Other top 10 purchases included adding to existing positions in BT and Legal & General on the view that the depressed share prices more than compensated for the issues in each business.
The banks sector warrants special comment as conditions have been exceptional.
In addition to the sales of HSBC and Lloyds referred to above, we made a number of switches in the first few months: selling out of Alliance & Leicester and building up the position in HBOS and to a lesser extent Barclays.
We also backed the HBOS rights issue.
Initially we believed that the domestic mortgage banks, such as HBOS and Bradford & Bingley would be able to raise mortgage pricing to offset the increasing bad debts in a slowing, but non-recessionary economy.
We also believed they would be less affected by tough investment banking markets as they had limited trading exposure in that area.
Their valuations looked very attractive in most likely scenarios.
However the severe credit crunch substantially raised the cost of funding, negating any re-pricing benefits and their balance sheets were severely damaged by writeoffs of investments in troubled assets.
As the economic downturn deepened beyond our initial expectations it became clearer that increasing bad debts and the liquidity drought would be too severe for the companies to survive independently.
We sold Bradford & Bingley in the summer and HBOS was eventually taken over to form the new Lloyds Banking Group.
On a more positive note, HSBC shares continued to perform well relative to the market until October as they were perceived to be a safe haven.
We sold down the Trusts position into strength and we made further sales as there was a risk that the dividend might prove unsustainable, making HSBC the largest sale in the year.
We also sold Royal Bank of Scotland in January with concerns over the outlook for the bank under majority government ownership and with little prospect of a dividend in the near term.
We carried out several transactions in an extremely volatile mining sector.
Early in the year, with worries over the outlook for South Africa, we reduced exposure to the platinum producers Lonmin and Anglo American, and reinvested in BHP Billiton, a more diversified oil and mining company.
As commodity prices and mining shares boomed over the summer we made significant sales, taking profits in Rio Tinto and Anglo American and selling the rest of Lonmin.
In October we were concerned that fragile debt markets might derail the BHP Billiton bid for Rio Tinto: we therefore sold the remaining Rio holding, partially reinvesting in BHP.
Turning to the major disposals from the portfolio, FKI was taken over by Melrose.
We decided to retain Melrose shares as their strong management team should be able to unlock significant value from restructuring the business over time.
Resolution also attracted a takeover and was sold.
We sold the financial conglomerate Close Brothers, life insurer Friends Provident and house-builder Persimmon on concerns that the 8
