The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report The Companys Articles of Association permit the Company to redeem or purchase its own shares out of capital profits.
Under the Listing Rules, the maximum number of shares which a listed company may purchase through the market pursuant to a general authority such as this is equivalent to 14.99% of its issued share capital.
For this reason, the Company is limiting its renewed authority to make such purchases to 15,411,738 Ordinary Shares, representing 14.99% of the issued share capital, provided that there is no change in the issued share capital between the date of this report and the Annual General Meeting to be held on 12 May 2009.
The authority will last until the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 or the expiry of 18 months from the date of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier.
The authority will be subject to renewal by shareholders at subsequent annual general meetings.
Allotment of New Shares and Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Approval is sought for the renewal of the Directors authority to allot relevant securities, in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 8,567,788, representing approximately 33% of the existing Ordinary Share capital.
This authority would expire five years from the date of renewal, if not previously revoked or varied.
A resolution was passed at the Annual General Meeting held on 13 May 2008 to authorise the Directors to allot the unissued Ordinary Share capital for cash.
The authority is renewable annually and expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2009.
A Special Resolution is therefore proposed under special business at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to renew this authority for a further year.
The power to allot new Ordinary Shares for cash, other than pro rata to existing shareholders, is limited to the aggregate nominal amount of 2,570,336 Ordinary Share capital, being approximately ten per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at the date of this report, provided that there is no change in the issued share capital between the date of this report and the Annual General Meeting to be held on 12 May 2009.
The Directors do not currently intend to allot shares under these authorities other than to take advantage of opportunities in the market as they arise and only if they believe it would be advantageous to the Companys existing shareholders to do so.
The Directors confirm that no allotment of new shares will be made unless the lowest market offer price of the Ordinary Shares is at least at a premium to net asset value, valuing debt at market value.
Auditors The Directors will place a resolution before the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors for the ensuing year.
A resolution to authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration will also be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
