The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report The Directors present the annual financial report of the Company and give their report for the year ended 31 January 2009. Business Review Business and Status of the Company The Company is an investment company as defined in Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust and was approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31 January 2008.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so that it should continue to qualify.
The Company will continue to seek approval under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
Regulatory Environment The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is subject to UK company law, financial reporting standards, listing rules, tax law and its own Articles of Association.
In addition to annual and half yearly financial reports published under these rules, the Company announces net asset values per share on a daily basis for the information of investors.
It provides more detailed information on a monthly basis to the Association of Investment Companies, of which the Company is a member, in order for brokers and investors to compare its performance with its peer group.
The Board of Directors is charged with ensuring that the Company complies with its own objectives as well as these rules.
The Board has appointed RCM UK Limited to carry out investment management, accounting, secretarial and administration services on behalf of the Company.
The Company has no employees or premises of its own.
Investment Objective and Policies The Companys objective is to provide an above average level of income and income growth together with long term growth of capital through a policy of investing mainly in higher yielding UK FTSE 100 companies.
The Companys investment performance is assessed by comparison with other investment trusts within the UK Growth and Income sector.
In addition, it is benchmarked against the FTSE 100 Index, reflecting the emphasis within the portfolio, as well as the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index, reflecting the Companys higher yield objective.
The Company pays quarterly dividends and the Board has a policy of making these progressive from year to year, in keeping with the Companys stated objective to provide an above average level of income and income growth.
The dividend has increased every year for the past twenty seven years and details of historic dividend payments are set out on page 5.
Performance In the year to 31 January 2009 the NAV per Share fell by 37.8%.
This compares with the capital return on the Companys benchmark indices of -29.4% FTSE 100 and -30% FTSE 350 Higher Yield.
At 31 January 2009 the value of the Companys investment portfolio was 411.8m.
The Investment Managers review on pages 6 to 10 includes a review of developments during the year as well as information on investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Board uses certain financial KPIs to monitor and assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: Performance against the benchmark indices The Companys performance is benchmarked against the FTSE 100 Index and the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index.
These are the most important KPIs by which performance is judged.
Performance against the Companys peers The Board also monitors the Companys performance with reference to its investment trust peer group.
Performance Attribution The performance attribution is considered at each Board Meeting and enables the Directors to judge how the Company achieved its performance relative to the benchmark index and to see the impact on the Companys relative performance of factors including stock and sector allocation.
A Performance Attribution Analysis for the year ended 31 January 2009 is given on page 5.
