dIreCTors rePorT Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the results of levels, and the extent of equity gearing, are discussed by the Board the Company for the year to 30 April 2009. and Managers at every Board meeting and adjusted accordingly with regard to the outlook.
New borrowings will not be taken out Business Review if this takes the level of effective equity gearing to over 30% of shareholders funds.
Equity exposure will, on occasions, be below Business and Status 100% of shareholders funds.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
Performance At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
In the opinion performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving of the Directors, the Company conducts its affairs so as to enable it its objectives.
to obtain approval by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The key performance indicators used to measure the progress and The Company was approved as an investment trust for the year ended performance of the Company over time are established industry 30 April 2008, subject to matters that may arise from any subsequent measures and are as follows: enquiry by HM Revenue & Customs into the Companys tax return.
the movement in net asset value per ordinary share on a total The Company will continue to seek approval under section 842 of the return basis: Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
the movement in the share price on a total return basis: Objective The Companys objective is to invest internationally to achieve the discount: and capital growth, which takes priority over income and dividends.
Investment Policy The five year record for the net asset value and share price Monks seeks to meet its objective of achieving capital growth performance compared to the FTSE World Index can be found on through investment principally in a portfolio of international quoted page 3 along with the five year record for the discount.
Equities are selected for their inclusion within the portfolio the total expense ratio can be found in the ten year record on page solely on the basis of the strength of the investment case.
17 along with other financial highlights.
In addition to the above, When investing, the Company is prepared to move freely between the Board also considers peer group comparative performance.
different markets as opportunities arise.
There are no limits to Review of the Year and Future Trends geographical or sectoral exposures, but these are reported to, A review of the year and the investment outlook is contained in the and monitored by, the Board in order to ensure that adequate Chairmans Statement and the Managers Portfolio Review on pages diversification is achieved.
The equity portfolio is relatively 4 to 8. concentrated for a global fund and, as at the financial year end, it contained 75 equity holdings including 12 investments in funds.
The Principal Risks and Uncertainties number of holdings in equities and funds will typically be between The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and its 70 and 200.
A portfolio review by the Managers is given on pages principal risks are therefore market related and include market risk 6 to 8 and the investments held at the year end are listed on pages comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, 12 to 16. liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of those risks and how they are managed are contained in note 23 to the financial Investment may also be made in funds open and closed-ended statements on pages 40 to 44. including those managed by Baillie Gifford & Co.
The maximum permitted investment in UK listed investment companies in aggregate Other risks faced by the Company include the following: is 15% of gross assets.
Asset classes other than equities will be Regulatory Risk purchased from time to time including fixed interest holdings, Failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements unquoted securities and derivatives.
The Company may use could lead to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio management financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
Breach of section 842 including reducing, transferring or eliminating investment risk in its of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 could lead to the investments and protection against currency risk and to achieve Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
Baillie Giffords Heads of Business Risk & Internal Audit and While there is a comparative index for the purpose of measuring Regulatory Risk provide regular reports to the Audit Committee on performance, no attention is paid to the composition of this index Baillie Giffords monitoring programmes.
The Managers monitor when constructing the portfolio and the composition of the portfolio investment movements and the level of forecast income and is likely to vary substantially from that of the index.
A long term view expenditure to ensure the provisions of section 842 are not breached.
is taken and there may be periods when the net asset value per share declines both in absolute terms and relative to the comparative Operational Financial Risk index.
Payment of dividends is secondary to achieving capital Failure of the Managers accounting systems or those of other third party growth.
The shares are not considered to be a suitable investment for service providers could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting those seeking a regular or rising income.
and monitoring or a misappropriation of assets.
The Board reviews the Managers Report on Internal Controls and the Reports by other third Borrowings are invested in equity and other markets when this is party providers are reviewed by the Manager on behalf of the Board.
considered to be appropriate on investment grounds.
Gearing THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 dIreCTors rePorT Gearing Risk The Board The Company may borrow money for investment purposes The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
If the investments fall in value, any It has a number of matters reserved for its approval including borrowings will magnify the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities strategy, investment policy, currency hedging, gearing, treasury are not renewed, the Company may have to sell investments to matters, dividend and corporate governance policy.
strategy session is held annually.
The Board also reviews the financial statements, investment transactions, revenue budgets and All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and gearing performance.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at every meeting.
to enable the Board to function effectively and to allow Directors to The majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities discharge their responsibilities.
The Board currently comprises four Directors all of whom are nonEmployees executive.
The executive responsibility for investment management The Company has no employees.
The executive responsibility for has been delegated to the Companys Managers and Secretaries, investment management has been delegated to Baillie Gifford & Co. Baillie Gifford & Co, and, in the context of a Board comprising only Social and Community Issues non-executive Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
The Senior As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or Independent Director is Mr DCP McDougall.
The Company however believes that it is The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership and governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
Details proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment are set including their relevant experience, can be found on page 18. out on page 22.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent Dividends professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 5.00p per ordinary Terms of Appointment share which, together with the interim already paid, makes a total of Letters which specify the terms of appointment are issued to new 6.00p for the year.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection on request.
If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary shares will be paid on 7 August 2009 to shareholders on the register at the A Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek close of business on 10 July 2009.
The ex-dividend date is 8 July election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election every three years and Directors who are also directors of another investment trust Corporate Governance managed by Baillie Gifford, or who have served for more than nine The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high years, submit themselves for re-election annually.
This statement outlines how Independence of Directors the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of published in June 2006 the Combined Code were applied the Managers and free of any business or other relationship which throughout the financial year.
could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Compliance The Directors recognise the importance of succession planning for The Company has complied throughout the year under review with company boards and the Boards composition is reviewed annually.
the provisions of the Combined Code except that a Nomination The Board is of the view that length of service will not necessarily Committee has not been established.
compromise the independence or contribution of Directors of an As the Board comprises only non-executive directors, all of whom investment trust company, where continuity and experience can be are considered to be independent, a Nomination Committee is a benefit to the Board.
The Board concurs with the view expressed considered unnecessary.
The appointment of new Directors is in the AIC Code that long serving directors should not be prevented considered by the Board as a whole and the Board conducts an from being considered independent.
annual review of its composition having regard to the present and Mr McDougall was a senior partner of Baillie Gifford & Co until future needs of the Company.
He is a director of Pacific Horizon The Association of Investment Companies AIC has published its own Investment Trust PLC which is also managed by Baillie Gifford & Code of Corporate Governance which provides a framework of best Co and he has served on the Board for more than nine years.
He practice for investment companies.
The Board is of the opinion that therefore offers himself for re-election annually.
Mr McDougall and the Company has complied with the principles of the AIC Code, Mr Ferguson are both directors of The Independent Investment Trust except that Mr JGD Ferguson is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Following a formal performance evaluation the Board has The Board believes it is appropriate for Mr Ferguson to be Chairman concluded that, not withstanding the above, both Mr McDougall of the Committee as he is considered to be independent and there and Mr Ferguson are independent in character and judgement.
Their are no conflicts of interest.
skills and experience add significantly to the strength of the Board.
20 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 dIreCTors rePorT Meetings Directors Attendance at Meetings There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment Audit policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue budgets, Board Committee dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
The Board Number of meetings 6 2 considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties JGD Ferguson 6 2 effectively.
The table opposite shows the attendance record for the Board and the Audit Committee meetings held during the year.
All of CC Ferguson 6 2 EM Harley 6 2 the Directors attended the Annual General Meeting.
DCP McDougall 6 2 Performance Evaluation An appraisal of the Chairman, each Director and a performance and investment management, have been delegated to the evaluation and review of the Board as a whole and the Audit Committee was carried out during the year.
The performance of each Director was Managers and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of the Management Agreement.
The Board acknowledges its appraised by the Chairman and the Chairmans appraisal was led by Mr DCP McDougall, the Senior Independent Director.
The appraisals responsibilities to supervise and control the discharge by the Managers and Secretaries of their obligations.
and evaluations considered, amongst other criteria, the balance of skills of the Board, the contribution of individual Directors and the overall Baillie Gifford & Co have been delegated responsibility for the effectiveness of the Board and the Audit Committee.
Following this design, implementation and maintenance of control policies and process it was concluded that the performance of each Director, the procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company and to manage Chairman, the Board and the Audit Committee continues to be effective its affairs properly.
This responsibility also extends to maintaining and that each Director and the Chairman remain committed to the effective operational and compliance controls and risk management.
A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments was carried out and the Board is satisfied that they are capable of The Baillie Gifford & Co Heads of Business Risk & Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk provide the Board with regular reports on Baillie devoting sufficient time to the Company.
There were no significant changes to the Chairmans other commitments during the year.
The reporting procedures for these departments are defined and formalised within a service level Induction and Training agreement.
Baillie Gifford & Co conduct an annual review of their New Directors are provided with an induction programme which system of internal controls which is documented within an internal is tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
Regular controls report which complies with Technical Release AAF 01 06 briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements that Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of Service Organisations made could affect the Company and Directors.
Directors receive other available to Third Parties.
This report is independently reviewed by relevant training as necessary.
Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors and a copy is submitted to the Board.
Remuneration The Companys investments are segregated from those of Baillie As all the Directors are non-executive, the provisions of the Gifford & Co and their other clients through the appointment of Combined Code in respect of Directors remuneration are not The Bank of New York Mellon as independent custodian of the relevant to the Company except to the extent that they relate Companys investments.
Consequently there is no A detailed risk map is prepared which identifies the significant risks requirement for a separate Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are considered by the Board as a whole within the limits approved faced by the Company and the key controls employed to manage these risks.
The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 26.
These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly to the Internal Controls and Risk Management nature and extent of the risks facing the Company and that they are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have been The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to assess whether further action is required to manage the risks identified.
The internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable Board confirms that these procedures have been in place throughout the Companys financial year and continue to be in place up to the but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
date of approval of this Report.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, Internal Audit evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of the need for an in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Revised internal audit function.
The Audit Committee continues to believe that Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
the Managers compliance and internal control systems and internal The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the audit function provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of system and they have procedures in place to review its effectiveness internal control, which safeguards shareholders investment and the on a regular basis.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
The practical measures to ensure compliance with regulation and company law, and to provide effective and efficient operations THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 dIreCTors rePorT Accountability and Audit Directors Interests The responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditors in connection with Nature Ordinary 5p shares held at the Financial Statements are set out on pages 25 and 27 respectively.
Name of interest 30 April 2009 30 April 2008 Going Concern JGD Ferguson Beneficial 220,000 220,000 The Companys assets, the majority of which are investments in quoted CC Ferguson Beneficial 50,000 29,265 securities which are readily realisable, exceed its liabilities significantly.
EM Harley Beneficial 200,000 200,000 Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on the going DCP McDougall Beneficial 1,382,500 1,382,500 concern basis as it is the Directors opinion that the Company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Directors at the end of the year under review, and their Audit Committee interests in the Company, are as shown above.
There have been no changes intimated in the Directors interests up to 10 June 2009.
An Audit Committee has been established consisting of all Directors.
Its authority and duties are clearly defined within its written terms of reference which are available on request and on the Companys The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for page of the Managers website: www.
The level of proxies lodged for Mr JGD Ferguson is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board each resolution is announced at the AGM and is published on the believes it is appropriate for Mr Ferguson to be Chairman of the Companys page of the Managers website Committee as he is considered to be independent and there are no www.
co. uk subsequent to the meeting.
Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date The Committees responsibilities which were discharged during the information on the Company from the Managers website.
year include: Voting Policy and Socially Responsible Investment monitoring the integrity of the half-yearly and annual financial The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys investment managers, Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote financial performance: against resolutions they consider may damage shareholders reviewing standards of internal control and risk management: rights or economic interests.
The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the governance factors when selecting and retaining investments and appointment of the external auditors and approving the have asked the Managers to take these issues into account as long remuneration and terms of their engagement: as the investment objectives are not compromised.
The Managers developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the do not exclude companies from their investment universe purely external auditors to supply non-audit services: on the grounds of environmental, social and governance issues reviewing and monitoring the independence, objectivity and but adopt a positive engagement approach whereby matters are effectiveness of the external auditors: discussed with management with the aim of improving the relevant policies and management systems.
The Managers policy has been reviewing the arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Co whereby its staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other Conflicts of Interest matters insofar as they may affect the Company: Each Director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest to the Board on an annual basis.
The Board considers these carefully, reviewing annually the terms of the Investment Management taking into account the circumstances surrounding them and, if Agreement: and considered appropriate, they are approved for a period of one year.
considering annually whether there is a need for the Company to Having considered the lists of potential conflicts there were no actual have its own internal audit function.
direct or indirect interests of a Director which conflicted with the The Audit Committee considers the experience and tenure of the interests of the Company.
audit partner and staff and the nature and level of services provided.
Investment Managers The Committee receives confirmation from the auditors that they An Investment Management Agreement between the Company and have complied with the relevant UK professional and regulatory Baillie Gifford & Co sets out the matters over which the Managers requirements on independence.
Non audit fees were 3,000 for the have authority in accordance with the policies and directions of, year to 30 April 2009 and were in respect of reviewing the Summary and subject to restrictions imposed by, the Board.
The Management Annual Report and reporting to the debenture trustees.
The Committee Agreement is terminable on not less than 12 months notice.
Careful does not believe that this has impaired the auditors independence.
consideration has been given by the Board as to the basis on which the management fee is charged.
The Board considers that Relations with Shareholders maintaining a relatively low total expense ratio is in the best interest The Board places great importance on communication with of all shareholders.
The Board is also of the view that calculating shareholders.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with the fee with reference to performance would be unlikely to exert shareholders and report shareholders views to the Board.
The Chairman a positive influence over the long term performance.
Details of the is available to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
Shareholders fee arrangements with Baillie Gifford & Co are shown in note 3 on wishing to communicate with any members of the Board may do so by page 33. writing to them at the Secretaries address on the back cover.
22 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 dIreCTors rePorT and sTaTeMenT of dIreCTors resPonsIbILITIes The Board considers the Companys investment management and Major Interests in the Companys Shares secretarial arrangements on an ongoing basis and a formal review is No.
The Board considers, amongst others, the following Name 5p shares held % of issue topics in its review: the quality of the personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs: the investment process and the results achieved to Barclays Plc 15,792,703 6.0 date: investment performance: the administrative services provided by U. S. Steel and Carnegie Pension Plan 12,820,000 4.9 the Secretaries: and the marketing efforts undertaken by the Managers.
Legal and General Group Plc 9,975,424 3.8 Following the most recent review it is the opinion of the Directors that Rensburg Sheppards Investment the continuing appointment of Baillie Gifford & Co as Managers, on Management Limited 9,900,292 3.8 the terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The above information has been intimated to the Company as at Directors Indemnity and Insurance 10 June 2009.
The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of each of its Directors.
The deeds cover any liabilities that may arise to a third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach of The principal reason for share buy-backs is to enhance net asset trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in respect of liabilities value for continuing shareholders by purchasing shares at a discount to the prevailing net asset value.
to the Company, any regulatory or criminal fines, any costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which the Director is convicted The shares were purchased at a price after allowing for costs or civil proceedings brought by the Company in which judgement is below the net asset value and subsequently cancelled, thereby given against him her.
In addition, the indemnity does not apply to reducing the issued share capital see note 14 on page 38.
As any liability to the extent that it is recovered from another person.
a result of such purchases since April 1999, the net asset value of the Company is approximately 5.9% higher now than it would The Company also maintains Directors and Officers Liability insurance.
Directors The Directors are seeking shareholders approval at the Annual Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, General Meeting to renew the authority to purchase up to 14.99% of can be found on page 18. the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the date of passing of the resolution, such authority to expire at the Annual General Meeting of Mr Harley retires and offers himself for re-election.
Mr McDougall, being the Company to be held in respect of the year ending 30 April 2010. a director of another investment trust managed by Baillie Gifford, and having served for more than nine years, retires and offers himself for reIn accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, election.
Following formal performance evaluation, the Board considers the maximum price excluding expenses that may be paid on the that the performance of Mr Harley and Mr McDougall continues to be exercise of the authority must not exceed the higher of: effective and that they remain committed to the Company.
The Board i 105 percent of the average of the middle market quotations for therefore recommends their re-election to shareholders.
the shares over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and Share Capital ii the higher of the last independent bid and the highest current Capital Structure independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys capital structure consists of 263,644,859 ordinary shares of 5p each at 30 April 2009.
There are no restrictions The minimum price exclusive of expenses that may be paid is concerning the holding or transfer of the Companys ordinary shares 5p per share.
Purchases of shares will be made within guidelines and there are no special rights attached to any of the shares.
established, from time to time, by the Board.
Your attention is drawn to Resolution 8 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Dividends The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
Interim Provisions of the Companys Memorandum of dividends are determined by the Directors, whereas the proposed Association and Articles of Association final dividend requires shareholder approval.
The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are currently Voting set out in the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Each ordinary shareholder present in person or by proxy is entitled to The Memorandum contains, among other things, the objects clause one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one vote for every which sets out the scope of the activities the Company is authorised to undertake.
The objects clause contains the investment restriction share held.
that the Company may not make any investment imposing unlimited Information on the deadlines for proxy appointments can be found liability on the Company.
The effect of Resolution 9 will be to remove on page 46. this investment restriction regarding unlimited liability from the objects clause with effect from the passing of the resolution, which will Purchase of Shares permit a broader use of derivative instruments in accordance with During the year to 30 April 2009 the Company bought back the Companys investment policy.
The Board believes that it is in the 535,000 ordinary shares nominal value 27,000 on the London best interests of the Company for it to be able to invest in certain Stock Exchange for cancellation.
The total consideration for these derivatives which may theoretically give rise to unlimited liability but shares was 1,990,000.
As at 10 June 2009, the Company had in practice have a liability which can be quantified on the basis of not bought back any shares since the year end.
The removal of this investment restriction will THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 dIreCTors rePorT remove any doubt as to the Companys ability to sell, as well as buy, Creditor Payment Policy these derivative instruments.
It is the Companys payment policy to obtain the best terms for all With effect from 1 October 2009, section 28 of the Companies business.
In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms Act 2006 will automatically import the Memorandum, including on which business will take place and it is its policy to abide by the objects clause, into the Companys Articles of Association.
The Company had no trade creditors at either 30 April Companies Act 2006 also provides that, with effect from that date, 2008 or 30 April 2009. unless a companys articles specifically restrict the objects of the company, its objects are unrestricted.
The Company is therefore, Disclosure of Information to Auditors proposing, as of 1 October 2009, that the objects of the Company The Directors confirm that so far as each of the Directors is aware are unrestricted.
there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors The Directors also consider it appropriate for the Companys are unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps that they might Articles of Association to take account of the other developments reasonably be expected to have taken as Directors in order to make in UK company law in relation to the further implementation of the themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Companies Act 2006 on 1 October 2009 relating to share capital that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
and the change of a companys name.
Independent Auditors With effect from 1 October 2009, the Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as independent capital.
The Company is therefore proposing changes to its Articles auditors to the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine of Association to reflect this.
The Directors will still be limited as to the their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
number of shares they can, at any time, allot in accordance with the allotment authority granted by shareholders.
Recommendation The Company is also proposing changes to its Articles of Association The Directors unanimously recommend you vote in favour of the to reflect the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which permit resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting as it is a company to change its name by other means provided for by its their view that the resolutions are in the best interests of shareholders Articles of Association.
It is proposed that the Articles of Association as a whole.
would authorise the Directors to pass a resolution to change the Companys name without requiring shareholder approval.
By order of the Board Accordingly the effect of Resolution 10 will be to update the Baillie Gifford & Co Companys Articles of Association in accordance with the further Managers and Secretaries implementation of the Companies Act 2006 on 1 October 2009.
