dIreCTors and ManageMenT Directors and Management Directors Directors Service Details JGD Ferguson Date of Due date for James Ferguson was appointed a Director in 2002 and became appointment re-election Chairman in 2005.
He is also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is chairman of Value and Income Trust plc, The Scottish Oriental JGD Ferguson 03 01 02 AGM 2011 CC Ferguson 01 09 03 AGM 2010 Smaller Companies Trust Plc, Edinburgh U. S. Tracker Trust and Northern 3 VCT Plc.
He is a director of The Independent Investment EM Harley 03 06 03 AGM 2009 DCP McDougall 30 11 99 AGM 2009 Trust PLC, Audax Properties PLC and Lloyds TSB Scotland PLC.
He joined Stewart Ivory in 1970, becoming chairman and chief executive in 1989 and retiring in 2000.
He is a former deputy Managers and Secretaries chairman of the Association of Investment Companies and is a former member of the Executive Committee of the Fund Managers Monks is managed by Baillie Gifford & Co, an investment Association.
management firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had been involved in investment management CC Ferguson since 1908.
Baillie Gifford are one of the largest investment trust Carol Ferguson was appointed a Director in 2003.
A qualified managers in the UK and currently manage eight investment trusts.
Chartered Accountant, she began her investment career with Ivory & Sime, an Edinburgh fund management group.
Thereafter, she moved Baillie Gifford also manage unit trusts and Open Ended Investment to Wood Mackenzie, stockbrokers, becoming a partner in 1984.
Companies, together with investment portfolios on behalf of pension Her most recent position was as Finance Director for Timney Fowler, funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the UK and a textiles company.
She is a non-executive director and chairs the overseas.
Funds under the management or advice of Baillie Gifford audit committees of Merrill Lynch Greater Europe Investment Trust total around 45 billion as at 10 June 2009.
Based in Edinburgh, plc and Vernalis plc.
She is a director of Invesco Asia Trust plc, they are one of the leading privately owned investment management Standard Life UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust PLC, the firms in the UK, with 32 partners and a staff of around 600.
Chartered Accountants Compensation Scheme and is chairman of The manager of Monks portfolio is Gerald Smith.
Gerald is a the Association of Investment Companies.
partner of Baillie Gifford and is the head of Baillie Giffords Global Opportunities Team.
He is also Baillie Giffords Deputy Chief EM Harley Investment Officer, is a member of their Investment Policy Committee Edward Harley was appointed a Director in 2003.
He joined and Chairman of their Emerging Markets Investment Policy Committee.
Cazenove in 1983, becoming a partner in 1994.
He has considerable experience of overseas markets, having worked in Baillie Gifford & Co are authorised and regulated by the Financial New York and latterly with responsibility for the firms business in Services Authority.
Latin America, S. E. Asia and Australia.
He is currently a director at Cazenove Capital Management and is president of the Historic Houses Association.
He is also involved with the charitable sector both as a trustee and as a member of investment committees.
DCP McDougall Douglas McDougall was appointed a Director in 1999 and is the Senior Independent Director.
He is chairman of The Scottish Investment Trust plc, The Law Debenture Corporation plc, The Independent Investment Trust PLC and Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust plc.
He is a director of Stramongate Assets PLC, Herald Investment Trust plc and Pacific Horizon Investment Trust PLC.
From 1969 to 1999 he was a partner in Baillie Gifford & Co and from 1989 to 1999 was joint senior partner and chief investment officer.
He is a former chairman of the Investment Management Regulatory Organisation, the Fund Managers Association and the Association of Investment Companies.
All Directors are members of the Audit Committee.
