Managers PorTfoLIo revIew Managers Portfolio Review We started the year with a substantial cash position and by the Returns From Markets year end this had risen as a percentage of shareholders funds as for the year ended 30 April 2009 the value of other assets has declined but we did not increase it in absolute terms and there was in fact a small reduction in net liquid Geographical performance against FTSE World Index in assets during the year.
At the start of the year we had almost no sterling terms exposure to banks or other companies closely associated with the growing problems in the financial sector but there were significant 10% positions in other economically sensitive areas.
Exposure to miners 0% was reduced early in the year but we maintained a large exposure to energy-related shares and largely avoided traditional defensives 10% such as beer, tobacco and pharmaceuticals on valuation grounds.
20% In his statement on pages 4 and 5, the Chairman has explained that 30% changes that were made to the portfolio in response to mounting evidence that the global economy was not simply growing more 40% slowly but instead heading into the worst recession since the end 50% of the Second World War.
We believe that spending on new UK CONTINENTAL NORTH JAPAN ASIA OTHER EUROPE AMERICA PACIFIC EMERGING plant and equipment is likely to fall substantially and will be slow to MARKETS recover, owing to the combination of excess capacity and financing Source: Baillie Gifford & Co constraints.
Monks portfolio In the immediate aftermath of the failure of Lehman Brothers, most FTSE World Index share prices fell and those of companies perceived to be the most All figures are calculated on a total return basis with net income economically sensitive tended to fall more than most.
market expectations for the likely fall in earnings and the timing Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
of the subsequent recovery appeared to be based on a mild decline in investment rather than a large fall.
We made sales of companies whose fortunes are closely tied to capital expenditure Largest positive contributions to performance: as, even though their share prices had fallen, they did not appear to have fallen enough to reflect the deterioration in their prospects.
OGX is a Brazilian oil and gas exploration company and at the Unsurprisingly companies in this category dominate the list of year end it was our largest single stock position.
It is a relatively largest negative contributors to performance.
The positive side of new company established by a leading Brazilian businessman, Eike the weakness in markets is that it has thrown up some opportunities Batista, who hired some of the most successful and knowledgeable to make new investments at attractive prices and a number of these staff from the exploration department of the state oil company, appear in the list of the largest positive contributors to performance.
Petrobras, for his new company.
Armed with their knowledge of offshore areas explored by Petrobras in the past they were successful We have also bought holdings in companies that are likely to benefit in acquiring at auction some highly prospective acreage at a low in a period of greater austerity and cost cutting such as the American cost.
The Company listed on the Brazilian market in June 2008 at a supermarket Kroger and the car parts retailer OReilly.
In aggregate time when oil prices were high, and widely expected to rise further, the net value of sales of equities exceeded that of purchases and the perception of Brazil as an attractive location for oil and gas during the year, mainly because we were finding more attractive exploration had been enhanced by major discoveries by Petrobras.
The listing raised sufficient funds to finance the planned exploration One of the more unusual features of this crisis has been the greater and development work, which can now be seen as a major degree of future financial distress implied by the prices of corporate advantage.
While we admired the company, we thought the shares bonds than reflected in share prices.
The widespread use of were fully valued at the time of the listing and so did not participate borrowed money to fund investment in corporate bonds and the in the public offering.
The shares initially rose after listing but the withdrawal of investment banks from active market-making have subsequent fall in the oil price and rise in risk aversion resulted in the contributed to a breakdown of large parts of this market and from price falling substantially.
We accumulated our holding in September time to time bonds have become available at distressed prices.
The and October when the price had fallen by 60% from its listing lack of liquidity and transparency in this market create practical price and two-thirds from its high point, at which point we thought it difficulties for investors but we have accumulated positions in a represented extremely good value, and it subsequently appreciated.
number of bonds that should generate returns similar or in some Imperial Energy was a London-listed oil company operating in cases greater than typical returns from investing in shares.
It had attractive assets in the Tomsk region where oil had The ten largest positive and negative contributors to performance been discovered but not exploited during the Soviet era.
Despite this, are described below.
In aggregate the negative contributions it nearly fell victim to the global financial crisis as it found itself unable outweighed the positive ones by a considerable margin but we to secure bank financing to fund its development programme and believe that the portfolio is now better positioned for the year ahead.
had to raise money in a one for one rights issue instead.
We took 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Managers PorTfoLIo revIew up our rights and it was subsequently taken over by the Indian oil to quality within the sector and was re-rated relative to its peers.
The company ONGC at a significant premium to the rights issue price.
holding was sold and the proceeds reinvested in other Japanese REITs.
Credit Suisse 0% Swap Rate Linked Note 2013.
This is a bond Fording Canadian Coal Trust was a Canadian company with whose value on maturity in 2013 is linked to the 30-year sterling attractive coking coal assets that was subject to a takeover bid from interest rate at that time.
It was purchased in 2006 and still has another Canadian mining company, Teck Resources.
The holding several years to run, but its market value rose over the Companys was sold in July 2008. year as the rate used to discount a payment in 2013 fell by more Largest negative contributions to performance: than longer term interest rates and the volatility of long term interest rates increased.
Maritime Capital Shipping is an unquoted bulk shipping company.
A planned initial public offering in July 2008 had to be abandoned Reinet is a new investment holding company formed as part of the as a result of difficult market conditions.
It has continued to trade re-organisation of the Rupert familys Richemont holding company profitably since then but it has been adversely affected by a forced by changes in taxation.
The main assets of Richemont were combination of falling freight rates and ship prices and its prospects a variety of luxury good business and shares in BAT and, as part of do not appear good.
In the light of the deteriorating outlook, the the re-organisation, shareholders in Richemont received BAT shares value of the investment has been written down.
and a small holding in Reinet, whose assets consisted of BAT shares and cash, plus warrants to subscribe for more Reinet shares using United States Steel is a leading American steel company.
Essentially this boiled down to an opportunity to acquire been benefiting from access to low cost supplies of iron ore and shares in BAT at a discounted price and the discount subsequently coking coal at a time when competitors were facing large increases narrowed.
in these raw material costs.
We took some profits in June 2008 but the majority of the holding was sold at a loss following the sharp Bay Haven C is what is known as a catastrophe bond.
It pays a downturn in the global economy.
high rate of interest but capital could be wiped out if losses from more than three major natural disasters from a list including US Norilsk Nickel is a Russian mining company that mainly produces hurricanes, European windstorms and earthquakes in the United nickel and palladium.
Demand for nickel is driven by stainless steel States and Japan rise above set levels or are greater than a set level production, which in turn is highly dependent on investment in new of magnitude within a specified period.
No events of sufficient size manufacturing capacity.
In addition to facing a sudden collapse in have so far occurred and the probability of a loss of capital has demand, the company became embroiled in a complicated dispute diminished as the bonds approach maturity.
between its major shareholders and we became concerned about the treatment of minority shareholders in any re-organisation and so Dragon Oil is an oil and gas exploration and production company sold the holding.
whose principal assets are in Turkmenistan.
Emirates National Oil Company owns a majority of the shares and the company benefits Arcelor Mittal is the worlds largest steel maker.
The investment from its expertise and connections.
Production is forecast to rise by case was based on increasingly rational pricing in a consolidating around 15% a year out to 2011.
We took a holding in January industry.
This investment case was undermined by a unexpectedly 2009 when the share price was depressed by the presence of a large collapse in demand and the holding was sold.
Aker Kvaerner is a Norwegian oil services company.
It has strong Brazil CPI linked bonds 2045 are Brazilian index-linked positions in a number of attractive areas including drilling equipment government bonds denominated in the local currency.
Real interest for deepwater drilling rigs and equipment located on the seabed rates are high in Brazil but have been falling and are likely to used in the production of oil from deepwater fields.
Unfortunately it continue to fall.
The only government bonds we hold anywhere has proved itself unable to manage a number of contracts effectively are index-linked bonds, the other holdings being US and Japanese and it is also exposed to a decline in investment spending in the oil government bonds.
Goldman Sachs is one of the leading investment banks in the world Baillie Gifford Pacific Fund is a pooled fund through which Monks and, following the disappearance of Lehman Brothers and the has the bulk of its exposure to the markets of the Asia-Pacific region retrenchment of many of its other rivals, it is well placed to benefit excluding Japan, Australia and New Zealand, and for which the from the large amount of fee income generated by bond and share manager receives no additional fees.
It performed poorly during issues as companies restructure their balance sheets.
This holding the year as it contained a large proportion of stocks which were was one of a small number of bank holdings purchased in the sensitive to global growth.
immediate aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the only Pacific Basin Shipping is a Hong Kong based bulk shipping one that can really be classified as a success so far.
company with an excellent track record in managing its fleet though Tokyu REIT is a Japanese real estate investment trust.
The company strengthened its balance sheet ahead has been out of favour with investors for most of the year despite of the downturn, in part by issuing a convertible bond, and should low vacancy rates and the high yields available on Japanese REITs, be able to ride out the current severe downturn.
Despite this there probably owing to concerns about the ability of trusts to roll over has been a substantial fall in the price of its shares.
Part of the maturing debts.
Tokyu REIT appears to have benefited from a flight holding was switched into the convertible bond in November 2008.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 7 Managers PorTfoLIo revIew National Oilwell Varco is an oil services company with strong Other notable positions: market positions in a range of products for the oil and gas industry.
In addition to those mentioned above, we have a number of other It is currently working through a large backlog of orders and is holdings in the oil and gas industry.
These are: Petrobras, the extremely profitable but it is unlikely to be immune from the difficulties Brazilian government controlled integrated oil company with large being experienced by many of its customers and the share price fell reserves and rising production: Diamond Offshore, Transocean substantially during the year.
and Seadrill, owners and operators of deepwater drilling rigs which remain in short supply and revenues are underpinned by long term TMK is a Russian supplier of pipes to the oil and gas industry.
Its contracts: Schlumberger, the worlds largest oil service company: Russian customers are suffering from the combined effects of low Cameron International, a supplier of vital equipment to the oil oil prices and an unfavourable tax system and investment spending industry: Petrofac, which builds oil and gas related industrial plants: is suffering.
The holding was sold over a period of several months and Wellstream, a supplier of flexible pipes and one of whose starting in November 2008. major customers is Petrobras.
Reliance Industries is an Indian oil company with an attractive Athena Debt Opportunities Fund is a fund set up to make selective exploration and production business that is growing from a small investments in oversold securitised debts.
The investment was made base but in the more immediate future profitability is likely to suffer in three stages starting in May 2008 and ending in September from a decline in margins in other parts of the business.
Since then prices of such securities have fallen further but was sold in November 2008. the portfolio has not suffered from significant defaults and if this continues to be the case it should generate an attractive return in the long run.
While individual holdings tend to be small, we also have a reasonably substantial investment in corporate bonds of various sorts.
This is an area of the markets where valuations reached a point at which an unprecedented level of defaults was implied.
By the end of the Companys year there were some signs of improvement and we were able to take some profits.
