Corporate Summary Significant changes to gearing levels will be communicated Investment Objective to Shareholders.
The Company aims to achieve a high and growing income combined with capital growth through investment in a The Directors are responsible for determining the investment portfolio of UK equities.
policy and the investment objective of the Company, while day-to-day management of the Company's assets has been Benchmark delegated to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
The Manager The Company's benchmark is the FTSE All-Share Index.
invests in a diversified range of UK companies, following a bottom-up investment process based on a disciplined Investment Policy evaluation of companies through direct visits by its fund The Company pursues a policy of investing in shares of managers.
Stock selection is the major source of added value, United Kingdom companies that have potential for real concentrating on quality first, then price.
Top-down earnings and dividend growth, while at the same time investment factors are secondary in the Manager's portfolio providing an above-average portfolio yield.
The emphasis is construction, with diversification rather than formal controls on the management of risk and on the absolute return from guiding stock and sector weights.
The Manager is authorised the portfolio, which is achieved by ensuring an appropriate to invest up to 15% of the Company's gross assets in any diversification of stocks and sectors, with a high proportion single stock.
Currently, the top five holdings may not exceed of its assets in strong, well-known companies.
The Company 40% of the total value of the portfolio, and the top three makes use of low-cost, flexible borrowing facilities to sectors represented in the portfolio may not exceed 50%.
enhance shareholder returns when appropriate.
"The Manager is permitted to invest in options and in structured products, provided that any structured product The Company maintains a highly-diversified portfolio of issued in the form of a note or bond has a minimum credit investments, typically comprising in the region of 30 to 70 rating of ""A""."
holdings but without restricting the Company from holding a more or less concentrated portfolio from time to time.
The A detailed description of the investment process and risk Company is unconstrained as to the market sectors in which controls employed by the Manager is set out on page 21.
portfolio at the year end is set out on pages 14 to 17, and its analysis on page 18.
At the year end the Company's portfolio The Company invests primarily in the equity securities of consisted of 45 holdings including four fixed-interest large, well-known UK companies with an emphasis on securities.
investing in quality companies with good management, strong cash flow and a sound balance sheet, and which are Capital Structure generating a reliable earnings stream.
The Company's issued share capital as at 30 June 2009 consisted of 64,689,458 Ordinary shares of 25p and The Company may use derivatives for the purpose of 1,727,000 Ordinary shares held in treasury.
At 11 September enhancing portfolio returns and for hedging purposes in a 2009, these numbers were unchanged.
manner consistent with the Company's broader investment policy.
Total Assets and Net Asset Value At 30 June 2009, the Company had Total Assets see It is the Company's policy to invest no more than 15 per definition on page 58 of 329.6m and a Net Asset Value per cent of its gross assets in other listed investment companies Ordinary share of 455.4p.
The Company complies with section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 Borrowings and does not invest more than 15% of its assets in the shares of any one company.
The borrowings at 30 June 2009 of 35 million represent 12% of Net Assets.
Borrowing facilities of 60 million are The Board is responsible for setting the gearing policy of the committed to the Company, of which 35 million is Company and for the limits on gearing.
The Manager is committed until 1 October 2009, and 25 million until 13 responsible for gearing within the limits set by the Board.
Financial covenants contained within the Board has set its gearing limit at a maximum of 25%.
loan agreements provide, inter alia, that borrowings shall at Gearing is used selectively to leverage the Company's no time exceed 45% of Net Assets, and that the Net Assets portfolio in order to enhance returns where and to the extent must exceed 200 million.
The Net Assets were 294.6 this is considered appropriate to do so.
Particular care is million at 30 June 2009.
If any of the financial covenants are taken to ensure that any bank covenants permit maximum breached, the lenders are entitled, following the serving of flexibility of investment policy.
notice to the Company, to declare the loans and all accrued 2 Murray Income Trust PLC interest, fees and other sums owed under the agreements to Customer Services be immediately due and repayable.
Please refer also to the Freephone: 0500 00 00 40 statement of Going Concern on page 28. open Monda y Frjday 9a m 5pm Uuration Email: inv.
com The Company does not have a fixed life.
Risk The UK equity market is volatile, and short-term movements may therefore be greater than justified by longer-term trends.
The use of gearing is likely to lead to an increase in the volatility of the Company's Net Asset Value.
Currently 50% of the investment management fees and interest costs are charged to capital.
This increases distributable income at the expense of capital growth, which will be reduced to the same extent.
The policy of investing in higher-yielding shares may also diminish capital growth.
There is no guarantee that the market price of investment trust shares will accurately reflect their underlying Net Asset Value or move in line with it.
Share Dealing Shares in Murray Income Trust can be bought in the open market through a stockbroker.
They can also be purchased through the Aberdeen savings schemes, and fully qualify for inclusion within tax-efficient ISA wrappers see pages 56 and 57.
Management Agreement The Company has an agreement with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, for the provision of investment management and other services for a fee, as detailed in the Directors' Report on pages 27 and 28 and in Note 3 on page 45.
AIC Murray Income Trust is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
com Company Secretary Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh, EH2 2BY Email: company.
co. uk Murray Income Trust PLC 3
