Manager's Review years, and house prices continued to decline, with Background Nationwide Building Society reporting a fall in house prices The deterioration in the global economy led to the UK equity of 15.8% during calendar 2008.
The MPC abandoned their market performing very poorly during the year to the end of policy of incrementalism, comforted by falling commodity June 2009.
The FTSE All-Share Index fell by 20.5%, with the prices, reducing base rates from 5.0% at the start of environment being exceptionally challenging for incomeSeptember to 2.0% by December, and then to 0.5% by seeking investors.
At the beginning of the period, fading March 2009.
In sympathy with the deterioration in the economic growth and the delayed impact of elevated economy and lower interest rates, sterling weakened commodity and energy prices were magnified by the fall of considerably, falling against the dollar, from just under $2 at Lehman Brothers.
These combined factors contributed to the the start of June to a low of $1.37 in March although it had threat of a systemic collapse of the global financial order.
recovered to $1.65 by the end of the period.
Since the nadir in risk appetite last Autumn, the unprecedented efforts by authorities on a global basis, in The market continued to be weak for the first two months of relation to both fiscal and monetary policy stimulus, look to 2009, as concerns regarding the fragility of the banking have avoided the most severe outcomes.
Authorities in the United Kingdom and consequences of the 'credit crunch' are unlikely to dissipate the United States were prompted into a further round of quickly.
bank bail-outs, while the Bank of England embarked on its programme of quantitative easing.
However, the market The financial year started with escalating energy prices, and, rallied from the start of March, as more benign economic with oil reaching over $140 a barrel, concerns over the data despite a fall of 2.4% in first quarter GDP, and a belief consequent impact on inflation.
With CPI reaching 4.4% in that the worst was behind us, resulted in an increased both July and August hitting a high watermark of 5.2% in appetite for risk assets.
During the last quarter of the period, September, the significant challenges faced by the MPC recovering economic newsflow manifested itself in signs of were highlighted by the three way split during both improvement in conditions in the domestic housing market meetings.
and the slow return of consumer confidence, coupled with readings, ahead of expectations, for the Manufacturing and Against a backdrop of financial fragility and deleveraging of Services PMI surveys.
the banking system, the global economy deteriorated.
By the early autumn, the worst fears of the market were beginning Two noteworthy aspects of the period have been the rise to materialise.
In the United States, Fannie Mae and Freddie and subsequent fall in volatility and the evaporation of Mac were taken under government control.
Volatility reached unprecedented levels Brothers collapsed, followed soon after by the Bank of during October and November, the corollary of this being a America purchasing Merrill Lynch and the bail-out of AIC collapse in risk appetite.
Corporate activity diminished as with an $85bn loan.
In the UK, with LIBOR increasing, credit access to capital was restricted.
However, the Company default swap spreads widened, particularly for banks whose benefited from an approach by Centrica for its shareholding business models were reliant on short-term wholesale in Venture Production.
The pace of equity issuance increased, funding.
This rapidly culminated in the announcement that from approximately 15bn in the first half of the Company's LloydsTSB would purchase HBoS, with concerns over financial year, to over 50bn in the second half, as competition set aside.
companies sought to repair or secure their balance sheets, with the recapitalisation of parts of the Bank sector being a By the end of September, the market was feeding on the contributing factor.
uncertainty regarding the approval of a US government rescue package, leading to sharp declines in share prices.
Over the first half of the period, the FTSE 100 Index During October, there were a host of bank bail-outs around outperformed both the Small and Mid Cap Indices, which the world, including Bradford & Bingley and Fortis.
In the UK, were suffering from their greater domestic exposure and the government took action to secure the banking system by generally weaker balance sheets of constituent companies.
guaranteeing bank deposits and debts, coupled with the However, during the second half of the year, this reversed injection of 50bn of capital.
sharply as risk appetite and the prospects of recovery returned.
In parallel with the declining equity market, the drumbeat of negative domestic economic newsflow grew louder over the Performance second half of 2008.
The Manufacturing and Services Purchasing Managers' Indices PMI highlighted a pattern of The Company generated a negative total return of 22.1% in dramatically weakening activity, reflected by a fall in GDP of the 12 months to 30 June 2009, compared to a fall in the 1.6%, over the fourth quarter of 2008.
In tandem with this, FTSE All-Share Index of 20.5%, a disappointing result on an unemployment increased to the highest level in over 10 Murray Income Trust PLC 7 Manager's Review continued Contribution to relative return 2009 absolute and relative basis.
Although on a gross assets basis Stock selection equities % the portfolio performed broadly in line with the Index, the OIL & Gas 0.8 gearing effect detracted from performance on a net assets Basic Materials 0.6 basis.
During the period, the Company reduced its borrowings Industrials 0.4 from 40m to 35m, given the Board's desire to maintain Consumer Goods 0.6 the gearing level below 115%.
We started the year with a Health Care 0.3 degree of put protection that helped to protect the portfolio, Consumer Services 0.8 albeit to a limited extent, from the significant fall in the Telecommunications 0.4 market.
Utilities 0.1 Technology - As the economic environment deteriorated, the market Financials 0.1 sought solace in more defensive companies and those with Total stock selection equi ties 0.8 strong cashflows.
As a consequence, across the market, of Asset allocation equities the larger sectors, Tobacco, Beverages and Pharmaceuticals 0.3 OIL & Gas outperformed, with the latter two generating a positive Basic Materials 2.8 absolute return over the year.
In contrast, the majority of Industrials 0.3 financial-related companies or those exposed to the global Consumer Goods 0.3 growth dynamic or international trade performed poorly.
In Health Care - particular, the Mining Banks and Real Estate sectors lost over Consumer Services 0.3 35% of their value.
Telecommunications 0.4 Utilities 0.1 The Company benefited from its underweight position in Technology 0.3 Financials 0.4 both Oil & Gas and Mining as commodity and hydrocarbon Total asset allocation equities 1.0 prices fell dramatically.
Both of these areas of the market had Non-equity Investments & Options 0.5 significantly detracted from performance during the prior Gearing cash effect 2.5 year.
Management fees & other expenses 0.3 Residual effect 0.4 The performance of Mothercare was particularly strong Total 1.6 taking advantage over the period of its acquisition of the Early Learning Centre and international growth.
AstraZeneca Sources : Aberdeen Asset Management, Mellon & Factset Notes: Stock Selection - measures the effect of equity selection relative to the also performed well, a function of its defensive profile, and its benchmark.
Asset Allocation - measures the impact of over or underweighting efforts to address patent challenges.
each industry basket in the equity portfolio, relative to the benchmark weights.
Non-equity Investments & Options effect - measures the impact on relative returns of the two asset categories.
Gearing cash effect - measures the Unfortunately, there were a number of holdings that mpact on relative returns of net borrowings.
Management fees & other performed very poorly over the year, including Premier expenses - these reduce total assets and therefore reduce performance.
The effect is calculated by dividing expenses incurred during the year by average Foods, SEGRO and Wolseley, where the build-up of financial total assets less current liabilities.
Residual effect - this arises as a result of the leverage amplified the effects of the economic slowdown.
different methodologies of calculating performance between the NAV total return, the benchmark provider Factset and the performance attribution The performance of BT was also disappointing, a function of system.
its relatively high gearing, pension deficit and issues in its Global Services division.
Amongst the Banks, both Barclays Portfolio Activity and Structure and Royal Bank of Scotland were sold down heavily as the credit crisis deteriorated.
Over the period, we have added a number of new holdings to the portfolio.
These new holdings share the distinguishing features of having strong competitive positions and robust Performance Attribution for the year to 30 June balance sheets, which we believe will outperform in a 2009 challenging economic environment characterised by restricted access to credit.
2009 % We introduced a position in Rolls Royce, given its growth Net asset value total return for year per 22.1 opportunities, long order book and particularly strong Ordinary share balance sheet.
In addition, we purchased a small holding in FTSE All-Share Index total return 20.5 Persimmon, where we felt that the shares had been oversold, Relative return 1.6 as, despite the current weak operating environment, the experienced management team and long land bank positioned the company well for the future.
These purchases 8 Murray Income Trust PLC were partly funded through the sale of retailers HMV and The result of the actions above has marginally altered the Kesa, and Aga Rangemaster, due to concerns over the sector positioning of the Company.
The weighting in the Oil outlook for consumer spending.
We also added a holding in & Gas sector has reduced slightly over the period, mainly due BHP Billiton, a diversified resources company with a strong to the sale of Venture Production.
The exposure to both the balance sheet, to the portfolio.
It has high quality iron ore Healthcare and Utilities sectors has increased, due, for the and oil assets, coupled with attractive expansion most part, to the strong relative performance of these opportunities.
To fund the purchase, we sold the holding in sectors as a whole.
Anglo American, due to concerns over the company's high debt level and its exposure to a relatively limited range of The weight in Financials has fallen due to the commodities.
In addition, the purchases of Prudential and the HSBC and Standard Chartered rights Concerns over the risk reward profile of the Bank sector led issues only partly offset the sales of SEGRO, Barclays and us to make a number of changes.
We sold LloydsTSB in view Royal Bank of Scotland.
of our apprehension over the proposed takeover of HBoS.
Later in the period, we also sold the holding in Barclays due Income to balance sheet concerns that had led to the decision to It has been a very difficult year for income investors.
The withhold dividend payments, and the opacity of capital combination of financial leverage, restricted access to credit markets profits.
Furthermore, we sold the position in the and recessionary conditions have led to a significant Royal Bank of Scotland, following a very poor trading update deterioration in dividend payments by companies across the that highlighted a far weaker capital position than our market.
These effects may not have fully worked through, expectations.
We felt that our exposure to the sector with dividends in aggregate expected to fall by 5% for the through HSBC and Standard Chartered offered less risk and a calendar year 2009, following a decline of 14% in the more secure dividend stream, and we took up the rights calendar year 2008.
As the number of rights issues has issues of both of these companies.
In addition, we purchased increased, the stigma associated with a dividend cut has a new holding in insurance company Prudential that provides lessened, and a number of companies have used the difficult access to an appealing Asian growth dynamic.
We believe environment as a reason for rebasing their payouts to that insurance provides attractive financial exposure, without shareholders.
the liquidity and wholesale financing issues of certain banks.
For the financial year ended 30 June 2009, the Company, in The sales of SEGRO, Premier Foods and Wolseley were driven tandem with the market, has witnessed a fall in the level of by concerns over the balance sheets and potential covenant income generated, with the revenue return per share breaches for these three companies.
These sales helped to declining from 29.3p to 28.1 p, or by 4.1%.
The reduction in fund the purchase of a holding in Pearson.
The company has interest payments on the Company's floating rate debt has a leadership position in education, particularly in the United been a significant factor in lessening the impact, compared States, in school textbooks and higher education.
There are to the fall in the market level of income.
excellent prospects to expand this business on an international basis.
We were approached by Centrica for our From an income perspective, Sterling's weakness has been holding in Venture Production and following a period of one of the few positive factors over the year.
Within the negotiation we decided to sell our shares for an appealing portfolio, there have been a number of disappointments, with price.
Over the year, we added to holdings that we believed holdings cutting their dividends, for example, Rio Tinto, GKN were attractively valued, including National Grid, Tesco, and BT.
As well as continuing to use reverse convertibles, we Unilever and Vodafone.
have started to write shorter-dated options to enhance and diversify the Company's revenue account.
Although we only A number of holdings in the portfolio had rights issues, expect these options to provide a small percentage of the including HSBC and Standard Chartered, both mentioned Company's total income, they provide a useful additional above, as well as Centrica, GKN, Land Securities and Rio benefit.
We continue to keep a very close watch on the Tinto.
We participated in these, as we believe the companies revenue account, and to model our forecasts on a have sound underlying businesses and would benefit from conservative basis.
We remain broadly comfortable with the being on a more stable financial footing.
income characteristics of the underlying portfolio.
During the period, we purchased reverse convertibles in BP Outlook and HSBC, which help to generate additional income for the At the time of writing, the market has recovered sharply Company, and we also rolled forward the British American from its March lows.
We have witnessed increasing signs of Tobacco reverse convertible.
stabilisation in the global economy, as the unprecedented Murray Income Trust PLC 9 Manager's Review continued monetary and fiscal policy actions have begun to take effect.
Valuations, on most absolute and relative measures, still look attractive on a longer-term basis.
However, we believe that for a sustained recovery we need to see, amongst other factors, a durable rebound in business investment and consumer confidence.
The former is complicated by high levels of spare capacity and the difficulty in securing longerterm bank finance, while the latter is hampered by rising unemployment, tight credit and falling housing wealth.
This leads us to express some caution about the pace of the recovery.
In these circumstances, we would expect goodquality companies, with strong competitive positions and robust balance sheets, to perform well, and this is how the portfolio is positioned.
Charles Luke & Anne Richards Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Investment Manager 15 September 2009 10 Murray Income Trust PLC
