Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the Net asset value total return relative to the Company's Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 30 benchmark June 2009.
Share price total return Discount to net asset value Performance attribution Review of the Business Earnings and dividends per share.
A review of the Company's activities is given in the Corporate Summary on pages 2 and 3, the Chairman's A historical record of these measures except performance Statement on pages 4 to 6, and in the Manager's Review on attribution is disclosed on pages 11 to 13.
This includes a review of the business of the performance with the Company's benchmark and selected Company and its principal activities, and likely future peer companies.
A range of comparator groups are used, developments of the business.
including the AIC UK Growth & Income peer group and the Open-Ended UK Equity Income peer group.
Investment Objective and Policies The Board's objective is to achieve a high and growing Management of Risk income combined with capital growth through investment in The Board regularly reviews the major strategic risks that the a concentrated selection of UK equities.
The shares that Board and the Manager have identified, and against these the make up the portfolio are selected from British companies Board sets out the delegated controls designed to manage that have potential for real earnings and dividend growth, those risks.
The principal risks facing the Company relate to while at the same time providing an above-average portfolio the Company's investment activities and include market yield.
The emphasis is on the management of risk and on the price, interest rate, liquidity and credit risk.
An explanation of absolute return from the portfolio, which is achieved by these risks and how they are managed is contained in Note ensuring an appropriate diversification of stocks and sectors, 18 to the accounts on page 50.
Such key risks relating to with a high proportion of its assets in strong well-known investment and strategy as, for example, inappropriate asset companies.
The portfolio at the year end is set out on pages allocation or gearing, are managed through investment 14 to 17, and its analysis on page 18.
The Company makes policy guidelines and restrictions, and by the process of use of low-cost, flexible borrowing facilities to enhance oversight at each Board meeting outlined above.
Operational Shareholder returns when appropriate, and the Board disruption, accounting and legal risks are also covered regularly reviews gearing, which was 12% of net assets at 30 annually, and regulatory compliance is reviewed at each June 2009 2008-10.0%.
The major risks associated with the Company are: Investments are not formally limited as to market capitalisation or sector weightings within the UK.
It is the Resource risk - like most other investment trusts, the Company's policy to have a focused portfolio.
There were 45 Company has no employees.
"The Company therefore relies holdings at 30 June 2009. on services provided by third parties, including in particular, the Manager, to whom responsibility for the management It is the Company's policy to invest no more than 15 per of the Company has been delegated under an investment cent of its gross assets in other listed investment companies management agreement the ""Agreement"" further details including listed investment trusts."
The Company's of which are set out on pages 27 and 28.
The terms of the investment policy is set out in full in the Corporate Summary Agreement cover the necessary duties and conditions on page 2. expected of the Manager.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager on a regular basis, and their Oversight and Review of Performance compliance with the Agreement formally on an annual The Board meets at least five times a year to review basis.
As well as carrying out the Investment objective - the objective of the Company is to matters set out in the Statement of Corporate Governance achieve a high and growing income combined with capital pages 30 to 35, the Board receives, for each meeting, a growth.
As a consequence, the investment portfolio may detailed portfolio report and an analysis of economic not always match that of the stock market as a whole, with indicators, and discusses performance and strategy, a consequential impact on Shareholder returns.
The Board's considering perceived risks and economic conditions.
It uses aim is to maximise absolute returns to Shareholders while measures such as attribution analysis against the benchmark, managing risk by ensuring an appropriate diversification of active weights and valuation matrices to assess the stocks and sectors.
Company's success in achieving its objectives.
The key Investment policy and gearing - a major risk affecting the performance indicators are established industry measures, Company is inappropriate sector and stock selection and are as follows: leading to under-performance relative to the Company's 24 Murray Income Trust PLC benchmark index and peer group.
In addition, the use of information on dividends is contained in the Chairman's borrowing facilities to invest in markets may have a Statement on pages 4 to 6. negative impact if markets fall.
To mitigate these risks, the Manager operates within investment guidelines and agreed Principal Activity and Status levels of borrowing.
Performance against the benchmark The Company is an investment company within the meaning index and the peer group is regularly monitored.
During the of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, and carries on year, an element of portfolio protection was put in place by business as an investment trust.
The Directors do not the purchase of put options.
envisage any change in this activity in the foreseeable future.
Discount volatility - investment trust shares tend to trade at discounts to their underlying net asset values, although In the opinion of the Directors of the Company, its affairs they can also trade at premia.
Discounts and premia can have been conducted in a manner as to satisfy the conditions fluctuate considerably.
In order to seek to minimise the which enable it to continue to obtain approval as an impact of such fluctuations, where the shares are trading at investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and a discount, the Company has operated a share buy-back Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
HM Revenue & Customs will programme for a number of years.
If the shares trade at a grant Section 842 status, if requested, provided that the premium, the Company has the authority to issue new Company's affairs have been conducted in such a manner as shares or re-issue shares from treasury.
Whilst these to satisfy the conditions of that section, although approval measures seek to minimise volatility, it cannot be for the period would be subject to review were there to be guaranteed that they will do so.
any enquiry under the Corporation Tax Self Assessment Regulatory risk - the Company operates in a complex regime.
HM Revenue & Customs approval for such status has regulatory environment and faces a number of related risks.
been given for the year ended 30 June 2008.
A breach of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 could result in the Company being subject The Company intends to manage its affairs so that the to capital gains tax on the sale of its investments.
Serious Company's shares will be qualifying investments for the breach of other regulations, such as the UKLA Listing Rules stocks and shares component of an ISA.
and the Companies Act, could lead to suspension from the Stock Exchange and reputational damage.
The Board Share Capital receives monthly compliance reports from the Manager to At the Annual General Meeting held on 5 November 2008, monitor compliance with regulations.
Shareholders approved the renewal of the authority permitting the Company to repurchase up to 9,681,959 of its Results and Dividends Ordinary shares, and gave approval for the Company to hold The total return attributable to equity Shareholders for the shares in treasury.
Shareholders also approved the renewal of year amounted to 88,597,000. the authority permitting the Company to sell or transfer up to 6,457,504 of its Ordinary shares out of treasury.
During A third interim dividend of 5.25p per Ordinary share was paid the year ended 30 June 2009, share repurchases totalling on 18 July 2008, and the final dividend for the year ended 30 28,000 Ordinary shares of 25p each 0.04% of the issued June 2008 of 11.25p per Ordinary share was paid on 6 Ordinary share capital at 30 June 2008 took place at an November 2008.
The first and second interim dividends for average price of 547.6p, to be held in treasury.
No Ordinary the year ended 30 June 2009 of 5.5p per Ordinary share each shares have been repurchased from the date of renewal of were paid on 16 January 2009 and 17 April 2009 the authority on 5 November 2008, nor subsequent to the respectively, making a total distribution to Ordinary year end, up to 11 September 2009.
During the year ended Shareholders of 17,632,000 as shown in Note 6 on pages 45 30 June 2009, and subsequent to the date of renewal of the and 46.
The sum of 518,000 has been added to the authority on 5 November 2008, 100,000 shares 0.15% of Company's revenue reserve.
The third interim dividend of the issued Ordinary share capital at 30 June 2008 were re 5.5p per Ordinary share was paid on 1 7 July 2009. issued from treasury at an average price of 417.4p.
Subsequent to the year end and up to 11 September 2009, The Directors now recommend a final dividend of 11.25p per no further Ordinary shares were re-issued from treasury.
Ordinary share payable on 28 October 2009 to holders of Ordinary shares on the register on 25 September 2009.
A The issued Ordinary share capital at 30 June 2009 consisted resolution in respect of the final dividend will be proposed at of 64,689,458 Ordinary shares of 25p and 1,727,000 the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Ordinary shares held in treasury.
At 11 September 2009, these numbers were unchanged.
Dividends are paid by means of three interim dividends, normally in January, April, July, and a final, after the Annual General Meeting in October or November.
Further Murray Income Trust PLC 25 Directors' Report continued Each Ordinary share of the Company, excluding shares held Resolution No.
9, if passed, will give the Directors authority in treasury, carries one vote at general meetings of the to sell Ordinary shares held in treasury on a non pre-emptive Company.
Under the Treasury Share Regulations, the holding of treasury shares is restricted to 10 per cent of the Company's issued share capital, no dividends may be paid on any shares Special Business at Annual General Meeting held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to such ssue of New Shares and Sale of Treasury Shares shares.
The benefit of the ability to hold treasury shares is Ordinary Resolution No.
8 in the Notice of Annual General that such shares may be resold.
This should give the Meeting will renew the authority to allot the unissued share Company greater flexibility in managing its share capital, and capital up to an aggregate nominal amount of 808,618 improve liquidity in its shares.
It is the intention of the Board equivalent to 3,234,472 Ordinary shares, or 5 per cent of that any re-sale of treasury shares would only take place at a the Company's existing issued share capital on 11 September price of greater than 0.5% above the net asset value 2009 excluding Treasury shares.
Such authority will expire prevailing at the date of sale.
It is also the intention of the on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a Board that sales from treasury would only take place when period of 15 months from the date of the passing of the the Board believes that to do so would assist in the provision resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means that the authority of liquidity to the market.
The Directors recommend that will have to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting.
shareholders vote in favour of Resolutions 8 and 9.
"When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 561 of the Share Repurchases Companies Act 2006 the ""Act"" provides that existing At the Annual General Meeting held on 5 November 2008, shareholders have pre-emption rights and that the new shareholders approved the renewal of the authority shares must be offered first to such shareholders in permitting the Company to repurchase its Ordinary shares."
proportion to their existing holding of shares.
However, shareholders can, by special resolution, authorise the The Directors wish to renew the authority given by Directors to allot shares otherwise than by a pro rata issue to shareholders at the previous Annual General Meeting.
9 will, if passed, principal aim of a share buy-back facility is to enhance give the Directors power to allot for cash equity securities up shareholder value by acquiring shares at a discount to net to an aggregate nominal amount of 808,618 equivalent to asset value, as and when the Directors consider this to be 3,234,472 Ordinary shares, or 5 per cent of the Company's appropriate.
The purchase of shares, when they are trading at existing issued share capital on 11 September 2009, as if a discount to net asset value per share, should result in an Section 561 of the Act does not apply.
This is the same increase in the net asset value per share for the remaining nominal amount of share capital which the Directors are shareholders.
This authority, if conferred, will only be seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolution No.
8. exercised if to do so would result in an increase in the net This authority will also expire on the date of the next Annual asset value per share for the remaining shareholders and if it General Meeting or after a period of 15 months, whichever is is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
This authority will not be used in connection with a purchase of shares will be made within guidelines established rights issue by the Company.
from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to seek shareholder authority to renew this facility for another year The Directors intend to use the authority given by at the Annual General Meeting.
Resolutions 8 and 9 to allot shares and disapply pre-emption rights only in circumstances where this will be clearly Under the current Listing Rules, the maximum price that may beneficial to shareholders as a whole.
The issue proceeds be paid on the exercise of this authority must not exceed the would be available for investment in line with the Company's higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market investment policy.
No issue of shares will be made which quotations for the shares over the five business days would effectively alter the control of the Company without immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
"Under higher of the last independent trade and the highest current the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is Shares Regulations 2003 as amended the ""Treasury Share carried out."
"The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per Regulations"" the Company is permitted to buy back and share."
Shares which are purchased under this authority will hold shares in treasury and then sell them at a later date for either be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
cash, rather than cancelling them.
The Treasury Share Regulations require such sale to be on a pre-emptive, pro Special Resolution No.
10 in the Notice of Annual General rata, basis to existing shareholders unless shareholders agree Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a by special resolution to disapply such pre-emption rights.
maximum of 14.99% of shares in issue at the date of signing Accordingly, in addition to giving the Directors power to allot this Report amounting to 9,696,949 Ordinary shares.
Such unissued Ordinary share capital on a non pre-emptive basis, 26 Murray Income Trust PLC authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Resolution 5, to this Meeting, or after a period of 15 months from the date of effect, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr passing of the resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means in Coats will retire from the Board with effect from the effect that the authority will have to be renewed at the next conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting or earlier, if the authority has been exhausted.
The Directors recommend that shareholders vote No contract or arrangement significant to the Company's business and in which any of the Directors is interested has in favour of Resolution No.
Amendment to Articles of Association A report on the Directors' Remuneration is set out on pages In order to reflect changes to company law in the United 36 and 37.
"Kingdom made by the coming into force of parts of the Companies Act 2006 the ""2006 Act"", shareholders voted to Directors' Interests adopt new Articles of Association the ""Articles"" of the The interests of the Directors in office at the end of the year Company at the 2008 Annual General Meeting."
"Further in the Ordinary share capital of the Company were as amendments to the Articles are required, to reflect the follows: implementation of the remaining parts of the 2006 Act, which will come into force on 1 October 2009 the ""New At 30 June 2009 At 1 July 2008 Articles""."
Ordinary shares Ordinary shares NonNonThe principal changes introduced in the New Articles are Beneficial beneficial Beneficial beneficial summarised in the Appendix to the Notice of Annual General P A F Gifford 24,351 21,168 - Meeting on page 63.
Other amendments, which are of a A J M Coats 5,000 20,000 5,000 25,000 minor, technical or clarifying nature including those which M Glen 3,000 3,000 - - merely reflect changes made by the 2006 Act or conform the N A Honebon 20,000 - 15,000 - language of the New Articles with that used in the model articles for public companies set out in the Companies H van der 7,500 - 7,500 - Klugt Model Articles Regulations 2008 have not been noted in the Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
11, to this effect, will be proposed at Mr Gifford's beneficial holding increased to 25,047 Ordinary the Annual General Meeting.
shares by the acquisition of 293 Ordinary shares on 17 July 2009, 212 Ordinary shares on 22 July 2009 and 191 A copy of the New Articles will be available for inspection at Ordinary shares on 24 August 2009.
As at 11 September the offices of Dickson Minto W. S. Royal London House, 2009, there have been no other changes in the above 22 25 Finsbury Square, London EC2A IDXandthe registered holdings.
office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted Directors' Insurance and Indemnities from the date of the Notice of the Annual General Meeting The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provision until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and on contained in the company's Articles.
The Directors of the the date of the Annual General Meeting at the Annual Company have, during the year ended 30 June 2009, been General Meeting from 12.15pm until the conclusion of the granted a qualifying third party indemnity provision, which meeting.
The Directors recommend that shareholders vote in remains in force.
Directors' and Officers' liability insurance favour of Resolution No.
11. cover has been maintained throughout the year at the expense of the Company.
Directors The Directors, who, with the exception of Mr Woods, held Manager and Company Secretary office throughout the year under review, are shown on pages Investment management services are provided to the 22 and 23 of the Annual Report, and their share interests are Company by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Mr Woods was appointed a Director on 15 secretarial, accounting and administrative services are December 2008, and is required therefore to stand for provided by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
election by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 4, to this effect, will be proposed at the For the year ended 30 June 2009, the management and Annual General Meeting.
secretarial fees payable to the Manager were calculated and charged on the following basis: Mr Gifford and Mr Coats retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Mr Gifford, being Murray Income Trust PLC 27 Directors' Report continued A monthly fee at the rate of one-twelfth of 0.55% on the November 2009.
The Company has opened negotiations for first 400 million of net assets, 0.45% on the next 150 a loan facility to follow on from the expiry of the 35 million million of net assets and 0.25% on the excess over 550 loan facility, but at this stage has not finalised terms, million.
The value of any investments managed within the although it expects to receive acceptable terms from its Aberdeen Asset Group is deducted from net assets.
The existing bankers or an alternative.
If acceptable terms are not investment management fee is chargeable 50% to revenue forthcoming, any outstanding amounts will be repaid and 50% against capital reserves.
A secretarial fee of 75,000 through the proceeds of equity sales.
per annum is also payable, which is chargeable 100% to revenue.
Creditor Payment Policy The Company's payment policy is to agree terms of payment The management and administration contracts may be before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware terminated by either the Company or the Manager on the of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
expiry of three months' written notice.
On termination, the The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year Manager would be entitled to receive fees which would end 2008 - nil.
otherwise have been due to that date.
Additional Information The management and secretarial fees paid during the year Where not provided elsewhere in the Directors' Report, the ended 30 June 2009 are shown in Note 3 on page 45. following provides the additional information required to be disclosed by Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006: In monitoring the performance of the Manager, the Board considers the investment record of the Company over the There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in short term and longer term, taking into account both its the Company other than certain restrictions which may from performance against the benchmark index and peer group time to time be imposed by law for example, insider trading investment trusts.
The Board also reviews the management [aw.
processes, risk control mechanisms and marketing activities of the Manager.
As a result of these reviews, the Board The Company is not aware of any agreements between considers the continuing appointment of the Manager to be shareholders that may result in a restriction on the transfer in the interests of shareholders because the Aberdeen Asset of securities and or voting rights.
Management Group has the investment management, marketing and associated secretarial and administrative skills The rules governing the appointment of Directors are set out required for the effective operation of the Company.
The in the Statement of Corporate Governance on pages 30 to Board continues to keep this matter under review.
The Company's Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of Corporate Governance shareholders.
The Statement of Corporate Governance is contained on pages 30 to 34.
The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which it is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a Audit Committee change of control of the Company following a takeover.
"Details of the Audit Committee are contained in the Statement of Corporate Governance under the heading Other than the management and administration contracts ""Audit Committee"" on page 32. with the Manager, further details of which are set out on page 27 and this page, the Company is not aware of any Political and Charitable Donations contractual or other agreements essential to its business which ought to be disclosed in the Directors' Report."
The Company has not made any political or charitable donations in the year 2008 - nil.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 27 October Going Concern 2009.
The Notice of Meeting is contained on pages 59 to 62.
The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Auditors Statements.
The Company has adequate financial resources to enable it to continue in operational existence for the The Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have expressed their foreseeable future.
Borrowing facilities of 60 million are willingness to continue in office.
Resolution 6, to re-appoint committed to the Company, of which 35 million is Ernst & Young LLP as the Company's Auditors, will be put to committed until 1 October 2009, and 25 million until 13 the forthcoming Annual General Meeting along with 28 Murray Income Trust PLC Resolution 7, to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
It should be noted that the only fees paid to the Auditors over the past nine years have been in respect of audit services.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors' Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's Auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Company's Auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Secretaries 40 Princes Street Edinburgh, EH2 2BY 15 September 2009
