Information about the Manager For Murray International Trust PLC, regional allocation of Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited funds in line with guidelines set by the AAM Investment The Companys Manager is Aberdeen Asset Managers Strategy Committee is the first stage of the portfolio Limited, a subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, construction process.
At this stage, house views on specific whose group companies as at 31 December 2009 have global sectors are also taken into account.
approximately 143.8bn of assets under management.
It manages assets on behalf of a wide range of clients Established themes and trends are considered within the including 30 investment trusts and other closed-ended process of country allocation, which is also influenced by funds, which have combined total assets of over 6.0bn.
analysis of key data covering macroeconomic and monetary factors, value and performance.
The Manager has its headquarters in Aberdeen and invests globally, operating from 31 offices in 26 countries.
Its Country selection is driven overall by short and medium investment teams are generally based in the markets or term estimates of macroeconomics, politics and liquidity, regions in which they invest: in the UK its main investment and the market implications of those.
centres are in London and Edinburgh.
Stock Selection Bruce Stout, Senior Investment Manager The investment manager, Bruce Stout, has responsibility Bruce Stout is a senior investment manager on the Global for portfolio construction across all regional segments.
Bruce joined Aberdeen or acquired Working closely with the relevant underlying desks in each companies in 1987 and has held a number of roles case, portfolio construction is an interactive process.
The including investment manager on the emerging markets Manager utilises a Global Equity Buy List which is team.
constructed by each of the specialist country desks.
This list contains all buy and hold recommendations for each The Investment Process, Philosophy and Style desk, which are then used as the investment universe.
If a Long term investment success demands a clear focus and stock no longer meets the criteria to be included on the a sound structure.
The Aberdeen Asset Management Buy List, it is sold within 30 days.
This process enables the Group AAM has as its primary objective in managing investment manager to better reflect top down themes Murray International Trust PLC the delivery of consistent that emerge from the global equity strategy and outperformance against the benchmark based on the investment themes meetings that take place monthly.
concept of seeking growth at a reasonable price.
Risk Controls To achieve this, a disciplined investment process has been Integral to the investment process is regular provision, by a developed.
However, to meet the different performance specialised team, of performance and risk analysis data to objectives mandated for specific funds, there is built in ensure that funds are operated within the terms of their flexibility.
Key decisions are implemented consistently across all As well as market price risk inherent in all portfolio funds and portfolio risk limits are set and closely investment, Murray International Trust is also exposed to monitored.
A continuous watch is kept over critical factors risk from movements in foreign exchange rates and that influence investment decisions, so that when views changes in interest rates.
Market price risk is managed by change, action is taken swiftly and decisively to reposition strict adherence to parameters set for portfolio portfolios.
The foreign exchange risk involved may be hedged by the use of forward currency contracts.
Interest Asset Allocation rate risk lies with the portfolio holdings of fixed income Based on the guidelines set by the AAM Investment securities and on-call deposits.
A detailed risk profile of the Strategy Committee, and after consultation with relevant Company is given in note 19 to the financial statements.
AAM area specialists, the investment manager of Murray International Trust PLC, Bruce Stout, recommends asset allocation to the Board.
There is a strong top down influence to establish the economic overview and to identify potential investment themes.
The approach is highly focused and portfolios are tightly constructed to provide the greatest scope for outperformance within the agreed risk parameters.
