Corporate Summary The Company Market capitalisation is not a primary concern.
The Company is permitted to invest up to 15% of its investments by value Murray International Trust PLC the Company or the in any single stock at the time of purchase.
Trust is an investment trust traded on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE Actuaries All-Share A detailed description of the investment process and risk Index.
Some 25,000 of its shareholders are private investors.
controls employed by the Manager is disclosed on page 19.
A Murray International Trust PLC offers the advantages of comprehensive analysis of the Companys portfolio is exposure to world markets.
The Company is invested in a disclosed on pages 12 to 15 including a description of the diversified portfolio of international equities and fixed twenty largest investments, the Portfolio of Investments by income securities.
value, attribution analysis, distribution of investments and distribution of equity investments.
Benchmark The Companys benchmark is a composite index made up as At the year end the Companys portfolio consisted of 62 to 40% of the FTSE World-UK Index and 60% of the FTSE equity and 14 bond holdings.
The Manager is authorised by World ex-UK Index.
the Board to hold between 50 and 150 stocks in the portfolio.
Investment Objective The primary aim of the Company is to achieve a total return The Board is responsible for determining the gearing strategy greater than its benchmark by investing predominantly in for the Company.
Gearing is used selectively to leverage the equities worldwide.
Within this objective the Manager will Companys portfolio in order to enhance returns where and seek to increase the Companys revenues in order to to the extent that this is considered appropriate to do so.
maintain an above average dividend yield.
Total gearing is not in normal circumstances to exceed 30% of net assets.
For this purpose sums held on cash deposit Investment Policy may be netted against the level of borrowings.
At the year end there was net gearing of 15.1% and particular care is The Companys assets are invested in a diversified portfolio taken to ensure that any bank covenants permit maximum of international securities and fixed income securities spread flexibility of investment policy.
across a range of industries and economies.
History It is the investment policy of the Company to invest no more than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment Murray International Trust PLC started its life in 1907 as The companies including listed investment trusts.
The Company Scottish Western Investment Company Limited.
The Scottish currently does not have any investments in other investment Western of the early days was very highly geared but it was companies.
Total gearing is not in normal circumstances to mainly invested in bonds, though the international spread exceed 30% of net assets with cash deposits netted against was just as great with countries such as Argentina, China, the level of borrowings.
Japan, Canada and many others appearing in the portfolio.
Although the range of currencies was much smaller, multi Delivering the Investment Policy currency or even gold-backed bonds were all the rage, as many of the eras bond certificates show.
The Directors are responsible for determining the investment policy and the investment objective of the Company.
"Day to The big move into equities came after the 1930s slump, day management of the Companys assets has been when bond defaults forced the purchase of higher yielding delegated to Aberdeen Asset Managers ""AAM"" or the equities to fund the costs of the Trusts gearing."
The Manager invests in a diversified range of Managers were not slow to spot an opportunity, but it international companies in accordance with the investment started as Hobsons choice, and was only later hailed as objective.
The investment manager, Bruce Stout, has responsibility for In 1929 just under 20% of the assets were in equities, in portfolio construction across all regional segments.
Working 1940 38%, in 1948 51% of the assets, which were still only closely with the relevant underlying fund management 2.65 million.
After deducting the preference shares which teams in each case, portfolio construction is an interactive were repaid in 1999 and debentures, the Company was process.
The Manager utilises a Global Equity Buy List effectively over 100% geared into equities by the start of the which is constructed by each of the specialist country great post war boom.
This list contains all buy and hold recommendations for each management team, which are After a number of amalgamations, the Company emerged as then used as the investment universe.
Stock selection is the a generalist investment trust.
However, there was an excess major source of added value.
of trusts with a similar broad remit, so towards the end of the 1970s the Board defined the investment brief more Top-down investment factors are secondary in the Managers narrowly as the achievement of growth in income and capital portfolio construction, with diversification rather than formal through a well diversified portfolio.
controls guiding stock and sector weights.
2 Murray International Trust PLC Symbolised by the name change from Murray Western to of capital growth, which will either be eroded or constrained.
Murray International Trust PLC in 1984, the focus has since Maintaining a high level of dividend may also diminish been on a relatively high yielding portfolio of equities in a capital value.
In common with most investment trusts, well diversified mix of world markets.
Murray International Trust is able to borrow for investment purposes.
The use of gearing is likely to lead to volatility in In 2008 the Board circulated to all shareholders a short the Net Asset Value NAV, meaning that a relatively small booklet to commemorate the centenary of the incorporation movement either down or up in value of the Companys total of the Company on 18 December 1907.
Further copies are assets will result in a magnified movement in the same available on the website or from the Company Secretary.
There is no guarantee that the market price of shares in investment trusts will fully reflect their Capital Structure underlying NAV.
The Companys issued share capital as at 22 February 2010 The market prices of fixed interest stocks and, to a lesser consisted of 95,606,624 Ordinary shares of 25p 98.9% of extent, convertibles may be affected by changes in interest the total share capital and 1,095,736 B Ordinary shares of rates.
25p 1.1% of the total share capital.
The difference between the rights of the B Ordinary shareholders and those of the Further details in respect of the risks associated with Ordinary shareholders is contained in the glossary on page investment in the Company are detailed in note 19 to the 59. financial statements.
Total Assets and Net Asset Value Share Dealing and ISA Status At 31 December 2009, the Company had Total Assets of Shares in Murray International Trust can be bought in the 882.3 million and a Net Asset Value per Ordinary and B open market through a stockbroker.
They can also be Ordinary share of 772.9p.
purchased through Aberdeen savings schemes and fully See definition on page 59. qualify for inclusion within tax-efficient ISA wrappers see page 58.
Borrowings Management Agreement Summary The borrowings are all drawn down in Japanese Yen and at 31 December 2009 represented the equivalent of 136.7 The Company has an agreement with Aberdeen Asset million or 18.4% of Net Assets without cash deposits netted Managers Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Aberdeen against the borrowings.
The Companys borrowing facilities Asset Management PLC, for the provision of management are further detailed in note 13.
Financial covenants services for a fee, as detailed in the Directors Report on page contained within the relevant loan agreements provide, inter 25 and in note 3 on page 42. alia, that borrowings shall at no time exceed 50% of Net Assets and that the Net Assets must exceed 250 million.
AIC The Net Assets were 741.8 million at 31 December 2009.
Murray International Trust is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
If any of the financial covenants were to be breached, the lenders would be entitled, following the serving of notice to Websites the Company, to declare the loans and all accrued interest, www.
co. uk fees and other sums owed under the agreement to be www.
com immediately due and repayable.
Company Secretary Duration Aberdeen Asset Management PLC The Company does not have a fixed life.
co. uk Principal Risks and Uncertainties Customer Services Many of the stocks in which the Company invests are Freephone: 0500 00 00 40 open Monday - Friday 9am - exposed to the risk of political change, exchange controls, tax 5pm Email: inv.
com or other regulations which may affect their value and marketability.
Currency fluctuations may also affect the value of the Companys investments and the income derived therefrom.
Companies in emerging markets are not always subject to the equivalent accounting, auditing and financial standards of those in the United Kingdom.
There may therefore be less supervision and regulation in this respect.
Currently 70% of the investment management fee and finance costs and 100% of the performance fee are taken out of capital.
This increases distributable income at the expense Murray International Trust PLC 3
