Managers Review Brazil returned 106%, whilst Japan declined -6%, in Sterling terms.
Other notable positive contributions included huge returns from Korea, Taiwan and Thailand, all three of which delivered 50% plus in Sterling.
On a regional basis the spread was not so pronounced, with Europe, North America and the UK up 20%, 15% and 28% respectively.
For the seventh time in the past decade Latin America produced the strongest returns, up 84% in Sterling terms.
The influence of Sterling was mildly restrictive on total returns.
The Pound Bruce Stout appreciated in the range of 5-15% against the Yen, US Dollar Senior Investment Manager and Euro, but declined the same amount against the Canadian, Australian and New Zealand dollar.
Below average Background returns were recorded in the USA for the eighth time over Global equity markets produced some surprisingly strong the past ten years.
returns over the past twelve months in Sterling terms.
These were secured against a fragile economic backdrop that Performance witnessed the introduction of numerous unorthodox policies The Net Asset Value Total Return for the year to 31 and relentlessly rising fiscal indebtedness.
Faced with December 2009 with net dividends reinvested was 28.6% widespread imbalances from ongoing credit contraction, compared with a return on the benchmark of 22.5%.
A full Governments in the Western World gambled on policy attribution analysis is given on page 16 which details the initiatives designed to bolster confidence and rekindle various influences on portfolio performance.
The net result was the largest transfer of private the 960 basis points before expenses of performance above liabilities on to the public sector balance sheet in history.
the index, asset allocation contributed 840 basis points and The positive response of equity markets and corporate bonds stock selection -460 basis points.
Structural effects relating suggest the majority of investors welcomed such actions.
to the fixed income portfolio, net of borrowing and hedging Well above average returns in both asset classes are costs, added a further 550 basis points of positive relative testimony to this.
Unfortunately sovereign bond markets performance, a reflection of the outperformance of equities were not so sanguine about evolving fundamentals.
Within the equity asset allocation, positive Recognising the enormous future liabilities associated with contributions came from underweighting the United States sharply deteriorating fiscal deficits, UK Gilts and US and overweighting towards Asia and Latin America.
Superior Treasuries endured their worst twelve month performance stock selection in the UK also enhanced overall performance.
Seldom in financial history have such polar opposites of investors perception prevailed: equity USA markets enthusiastically embracing widespread economic bailouts whilst sovereign bond markets fearfully fretting over The underlying economic health of the United States was of future financing obligations.
It remains to be seen which constant concern throughout 2009.
Statistically the view best reflects reality, but we remain steadfastly with the economy recovered from one of the longest and deepest cautious synopsis.
We expect the heavily indebted recessions on record, but statistics rarely tell the whole truth.
economies of the UK and US to remain hostage to foreign Beneath the surface deep rooted problems persisted.
capital inflows, burdened with structurally higher Property owners remained burdened with negative equity.
unemployment and resigned to long periods of below-trend Unemployment reached its highest level for twenty years growth.
Getting back to living within your means is a long, and mountainous levels of private and public sector debt painful process for all involved.
Thankfully, not all nations continued to fester on the American household and suffered from the economic woes of the West.
In Asia and Government balance sheet.
Somewhat reluctantly Latin America positive fundamentals prevailed.
Flush with consumers began to pay back debt.
Perhaps provoked more surplus savings from prudent monetary and fiscal discipline, by Hobsons choice than free will, it nevertheless was a step numerous developing countries experienced steady economic in the right direction.
Conversely, the Government lurched recovery following last years cyclical downturn.
No longer completely in the opposite way.
With all orthodox monetary overly dependent on exports, it was very encouraging to and fiscal policy options exhausted, the Authorities ramped witness the positive effects favourable demographics and up spending through enormous liquidity creation.
In doing rising real incomes are beginning to have on such emerging so, economic growth was rekindled, but at what price to economies.
An unhealthy reliance on government for growth was the predominant feature in 2009, but it The spectrum of stockmarket returns that prevailed over the cannot last.
Financial markets are well aware that fiscal year was one of the largest ever recorded.
At the extremes, over-indebtedness is a chronic condition that must 6 Murray International Trust PLC ultimately be treated by a long, slow, protracted withdrawal Europe from government dependency.
Failure to do so could have Of greatest concern to European politicians, policymakers serious repercussions on the US dollar and bond market.
and the public in 2009 was the alarming divergence of Against this backdrop, our long term view remains economic conditions throughout the region.
A protracted deleveraging cycle leading to a the good from bad was predominantly down to credit structurally higher savings rate is likely in America.
The collapse in worldwide demand badly affected would translate into a painful period of anaemic economic export dependent economies such as Germany, but such growth during which imbalances are redressed and where difficulties proved cyclical rather than structural.
headwinds against corporate profit and dividend growth Characterised by double digit savings rates, few property remain intense.
In short, a relatively unattractive investment market excesses and low levels of consumer credit, many environment for equities.
Consequently the portfolio countries in core Europe and Scandinavia avoided economic exposure to the United States remains very defensive in its slumps.
Indeed, most witnessed recoveries in economic nature.
The only notable investment activity over the period growth by late summer, albeit at a slow pace.
Conversely, was a new position in Schlumberger, a leading global oil for peripheral European countries carrying huge debt services company.
obligations, deep-rooted structural imbalances prevented any respite from economic recessions.
Spain suffered a UK spectacular property crash as excessive leverage was The beleaguered UK economy showed virtually no signs of unwound.
The negative wealth effect decimated the life throughout the period.
Enduring slumps in services, economy with a human cost of 18% unemployment and manufacturing and construction kept the economy mired in rising.
Ireland struggled to finance its economy as credit its longest recession on record and even the consumers conditions tightened, causing widespread contraction of all decade long love affair with credit began to show signs of economic sectors.
Worst of all, persistent fiscal overcooling.
Burdened by crippling debt servicing obligations and spending in Greece merited a sovereign debt downgrade and fearful of rising unemployment, consumers paid back more uncomfortable intervention from the International Monetary than they borrowed in 2009 for the first time since records Fund.
Considering the wide spectrum of economic began.
Given the dominance of consumer credit within UK conditions experienced in Europe, the European Central Bank economic policy this was remarkable.
Unfortunately the showed remarkable resilience with policy decisions.
Without year witnessed numerous record breaking events, most of resorting to the desperate measures deployed by the US them negative.
The nation amassed the largest budget Federal Reserve and Bank of England, namely quantitative imbalance of any OECD country.
Base rates fell to historical easing, the ECB diligently delivered on responsible directives.
lows, yet sovereign bond yields spiked sharply higher on very Consequently Continental Europe has credible deficit material gilt issuance.
The deficit funding gap was stretched reduction plans in place, and a solid platform for future beyond all recognition, widening out to its worst level since growth.
At the corporate level, European companies the Bank of England was first established in 1694.
With the delivered decent returns.
Core holdings such as Nordea Bank banking system effectively paralysed by poor asset quality in Sweden, industrial equipment manufacturer Schneider in and capital constraints, the Central Bank arguably had no France, German retailer Metro and Portugal Telecom all choice but to dramatically increase liquidity.
Eloquently performed well, exceeding both capital return and income referred to as quantitative easing, in reality it meant printing expectations.
A new position in leading global money.
Such desperate actions had negligible impact, except pharmaceutical company, Roche, was established, to attract the attention of sovereign rating agencies.
The emphasising our future confidence and commitment to outlook on Britains debt rating moved from stable to interesting investment opportunities still prevailing in Europe.
negative, a definite sign of growing international concerns.
The main issue going forward is the desperate need for a Japan credible plan to restore fiscal stability whilst simultaneously Contracting demand, declining property prices, effectively avoiding an economic depression.
Accomplishing such a feat zero interest rates, debt-deflation, deep economic recession, will be very difficult indeed given the structural economic negative real incomes and insolvent banks.
Whilst such imbalances that persist.
Not surprisingly, the outlook for harsh economic reality was new to much of the Developed domestic UK corporate profits and dividends remains opaque World in 2009, it was all too bitterly familiar to Japan.
High market expectations appear Having collapsed into deflation in the mid 1990s, many unrealistic relative to prevailing fundamentals.
The current believed economic conditions in Japan could not get any exposure in the portfolio remains skewed towards overseas worse.
The economys reliance earners, such as Rio Tinto, Standard Chartered and BAT, and upon and vulnerability towards exports was cruelly exposed this strategy will continue over the medium term.
The almost total wipe-out of machine tool and industrial exports contributed to a severe Murray International Trust PLC 7 Managers Review continued contraction in annualised growth.
More worryingly negative Stockmarket weakness during the first quarter of the year pricing prevailed and unemployment spiked sharply upwards.
provided excellent opportunities to increase exposure to Asia In the face of such adversity, the Japanese authorities were and Emerging markets.
Asia received the lions share of this.
Fifteen years of zero interest rate New positions were established in Petrochina and China policy and three enormous fiscal packages over the same Mobile, both dominant players in their respective industries.
There were simply no policy In addition, further investment was added to existing options left to try.
Left in a state of economic paralysis, the positions in Taiwan Semiconductor and Taiwan Mobile, two Bank of Japan has no option but to passively observe and cash rich companies with solid dividend prospects.
In Brazil, hope reviving global economic activity will lead to export a new holding was introduced in Vale, one of the worlds recovery at some point.
Policymakers in the UK and US who largest commodity companies.
Specific stock opportunities have recently followed the path of zero interest rates and also arose in Mexican Airport operator, Grupo Asur and over-spending ignore the Japanese experience at their peril.
Argentine steel pipe manufacturer, Tenaris.
Both received Against this economic backdrop it proved very difficult to additional investment over the period.
The portfolio of quality companies with solid market performance was exceptionally strong in 2009, this balance sheets and decent dividend returns held up relatively followed an exceptionally weak year in 2008.
The key to the well, but not enough to add value.
In a period of such strong future lies in valuation.
At current levels, the asset class does global market returns having any exposure to Japan was not appear expensive.
Corporate earnings and dividends are arguably too much.
Through overall gross asset appreciation rising, which should be supportive this year.
In a world where and divestment of Toyota, Orix and Bank of Yokohama growth is scarce, this is likely to increasingly attract the earlier in the year, total Japanese exposure declined to 6.4% attention of growth hungry global investors.
Expect this to fall further if better investment opportunities continue to surface elsewhere.
A simple question without a simple answer.
Asia and Emerging Markets Economists, politicians and policymakers constantly extol the It was with welcome relief that not all geographical regions virtues of returning to economic normality, but without spent the past year struggling to stay in business.
Asia and defining exactly what it is.
For decades now the Pavlovian the Emerging World showed strong resilience throughout.
response of policymakers to every credit crisis has been Unburdened by insolvent banking systems and fortified with identical.
Cut interest rates, increase government spending, hard-earned savings, countries such as China, India and Brazil create a further wave of leverage and thereby stimulate a demonstrated emerging economic maturity.
Years of new economic cycle.
For the architects of policy this process prudent monetary and fiscal policy provided the platform to is normal purely because of its historical success rate.
For withstand the cyclical global economic downturn and them it creates a normal business cycle, based on debt and prosper from others misfortune.
Although China and India credit.
For the heavily indebted Western World, we have witnessed growth rate declines to 8%, in a global context persistently argued that such actions will no longer prove such performance was rock-solid.
Unable to stomach the effective.
There is simply too much debt already shift of economic power from West to East, the Developed outstanding.
The financial tsunami that caused havoc World sneered and criticised stimulative fiscal initiatives throughout the world over the past twenty four months deployed in both countries.
This failed to recognise the brought with it irrevocable change.
The normality that positive ripple effects such actions had throughout the world.
emerges in its wake will bear little resemblance to the so More importantly, both countries could comfortably afford it.
called normality of the past.
Psychological scars run deep, More export oriented economies, such as Taiwan and Korea past mistakes are proving very costly to rectify and structural coped admirably with the downturn in demand.
Well vulnerabilities are being exposed.
In the post-credit crisis financed, relatively debt-free manufacturing companies world, deteriorating pension deficits, structurally higher located in both countries provided a text-book response on unemployment, anaemic income growth, onerous debt managing assets through adversity.
If when the global repayment and weak consumption will characterise recovery gains traction, we expect a sharp rebound in normality.
An insatiable demand for savings will limit industrial output.
Another standout in the Emerging World productive investment, consigning countries such as the UK was Brazil.
Commodity markets may have stalled in 2009 and US to below trend growth whilst imbalances are but domestic consumption in Brazil hardly missed a beat.
Fuelled by favourable demographics and rising real-income growth, consumers in the largest economy in South America Compounding an already problematic position is the need to kept spending.
With a World Cup in 2014 and the Olympics restore fiscal and monetary credibility.
Many countries in 2016 on the longer term horizon, domestic prospects in resorted to unorthodox policies and emergency initiatives to Brazil look well supported for several years to come.
These now need to be unwound.
The rise in sovereign bond yields is indicative of concerns 8 Murray International Trust PLC over future financing and sustainability of current policy.
An end to quantitative easing, and potential raising of interest rates may seem premature at present, but we make no apologies for raising concerns.
The risks associated with these are rising.
It remains to be seen just how and when Central Banks engineer this, but for those countries worst affected it is unlikely to be pleasant.
In anticipation, the portfolio has become more diversified and defensive of late.
Based on strong corporate fundamentals, exposure to Asia and Emerging Market remains high, but solid profit and dividend growth of incumbent companies justifies such positioning.
Exposure to the UK and the United States will stay relatively low, the emphasis being on global companies with overseas earnings.
Europe will continue to be well represented, bringing valuable sector and geographical diversification to the overall portfolio.
Overall, equity valuations are nowhere near as attractive as this time last year, but we believe potentially decent investment returns still exist for focused international investors.
Bruce Stout Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Investment Manager 22 February 2010 Murray International Trust PLC 9
