Marketing Strategy direction of AAMs Group Head of Marketing who has Murray International Trust PLC contributes to the Marketing extensive experience in the marketing and communications Programme run by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited of investment products.
He is supported by a team of AAM, on behalf of a number of investment trusts under marketing professionals.
This agreement sees the Companys contribution matched by AAM and is now 579,000 plus VAT for the year ending 31 August 2010.
The marketing Internet arrangements are reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
Murray International Trust has its own dedicated website: www.
This allows web users to access The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively information on the Companys share price performance, with existing shareholders and gain more new shareholders, capital structure, stock exchange announcements and thus improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and monthly reports.
The site is continuously being evaluated for rating of the Companys shares.
AAMs experience has also improvement.
shown that well-targeted marketing of the Companys investment merits through packaged products, whether Investors in the Share Plan and ISA can now use AAMs singly, or in conjunction with other trusts run by AAM, can secure system to view their valuations and transact on their be a cost-effective way of gaining new investors.
These aims can be met in several ways: The Board is committed to a close monitoring of the Marketing Programme.
The Aberdeen Group Head of Investor Relations Programme Marketing provides a written summary quarterly to the Board.
AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
Each If you have any questions about your Company, the Manager month, institutional investors and prospects receive a or performance, please telephone our Investor Services Managers report on your Company that includes detailed Department on 0500 00 00 40.
Alternatively, internet users performance analysis.
com or write to us at 10 Queens Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG.
Direct Response Advertising The Manager advertises the packaged product availability of The information on pages 57 and 58 has been approved for the the Trust in selected national press as well as the specialist purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets financial titles Act 2000 by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Direct Mail Periodic mail shots of information packs inviting named addressees to respond is a low-cost method of building awareness and investor databases.
Target groups include existing holders of other AAM investment trusts as well as known buyers of investment trusts.
Newsletter The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on markets and investment trusts managed by AAM is distributed free of charge.
Public Relations The Manager undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly through placed articles and ensure Company results and any corporate activity are brought to public attention.
Shareholder Services AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant literature on request and have queries answered immediately.
The Marketing Programme is under the Murray International Trust PLC 57 How to Invest in Murray International Trust PLC Duty currently 0.5% on purchases.
Selling costs are 15 Direct VAT.
The annual ISA administration charge is 24 VAT, Investors can buy and sell shares in Murray International calculated six monthly and deducted from income.
Under Trust PLC directly through a stockbroker or indirectly through current legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of a lawyer, accountant or other professional adviser.
Alternatively shares can be bought directly through Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children, Aberdeens ISA Transfer Investment Trust Share Plan and Investment Trust ISA.
You can choose to transfer previous tax year investments to us which can be invested in Murray International Trust PLC Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children while retaining your ISA wrapper.
The minimum lump sum Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM runs an Investment for an ISA transfer is 1,000 and is subject to a minimum per Plan for Children the Childrens Plan which covers a trust of 250. number of investment companies under its management including Murray International Trust PLC.
Anyone can invest Note in the Childrens Plan, including parents, grandparents and Please remember that past performance is not a guide to the family friends.
All investments are free of dealing charges on future.
Stock market and currency movements may cause the initial purchase of shares, although investors will suffer the value of shares and the income from them to fall as well the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a as rise and investors may not get back the amount they significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at 150 per originally invested.
trust, while regular savers may invest from 30 per month.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently As with all equity investments, the value of investment trusts 0.5% on entry.
There is no purchased will immediately be reduced by the difference restriction on how long an investor need invest in the between the buying and selling prices of the shares, the Childrens Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend market makers spread.
participation by instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In common with other schemes of this type, all investments are Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any held in nominee accounts.
tax relief will depend on the individual circumstances of the investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan treatment of ISAs may be changed by future legislation.
AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in Murray International Trust PLC can be purchased.
There are Keeping You Informed no dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although For internet users, detailed data on Murray International investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some Trust PLC, including price, performance information and a occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum investments monthly fact sheet is available from the Trusts website start at 250, while regular savers may invest from 100 per www.
co. uk and the TrustNet website month.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty www.
Alternatively you can call 0500 00 00 currently 0.5% on entry.
is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in a Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend participation by instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In common with Literature Request Service other schemes of this type, all investments are held in For literature and application forms for the Managers nominee accounts.
Investors have full voting and other rights investment trust products, please contact: of share ownership.
Telephone: 0500 00 40 00 Stocks and Shares ISA Email: aam@lit-request.
com An investment of up to 7,200 can be made in the Company For information on the Investment Plan for Children, Share in the tax year 2009 2010 and up to 10,200 in the tax year Plan, ISA or ISA Transfer please contact: 2010 2011.
Between 6 October 2009 and 5 April 2010, an additional 3,000 may be invested in an ISA, for the tax year Aberdeen Investment Trust Administration 2009 2010, provided that the ISA holder is aged 50 years or Block C, Western House over at the date of the additional investment.
Lynchwood Business Park Peterborough, PE2 6BP There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, although Telephone: 0500 00 00 40 investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can be a significant amount.
Investors only pay Government Stamp 58 Murray International Trust PLC
