Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 8.8p per Ordinary share was paid on 15 May 2009.
Interim December 2009. dividends of 5.6p each were paid on 14 August 2009, 13 November 2009 and 16 February 2010 making a total distribution to Ordinary shareholders of 23.7 million.
The Business Review Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 A review of the Companys operations is given in the December 2009 of 10.2p per Ordinary share payable on 14 Corporate Summary on pages 2 and 3, the Chairmans May 2010 to holders of Ordinary shares on the register at Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Managers Report on close of business on 9 April 2010. pages 6 to 9.
This includes a review of the business of the Company and its principal activities, likely future Whenever a cash dividend is paid on the Ordinary shares, a developments of the business, recommended final dividend bonus issue of B Ordinary shares is made to the holders of B and details of the issue of new shares during the year by the Ordinary shares.
In connection with the final dividend the Company.
The major risks associated with the Company are Directors will make a corresponding capitalisation issue of B detailed in the Corporate Summary on pages 2 and 3 and in Ordinary shares credited as fully paid.
This capitalisation note 19 to the financial statements.
Details of the risk issue will be equivalent in asset value to the final dividend management objectives and policies are provided in the now recommended on the Ordinary shares but excluding any Corporate Governance Statement internal controls report on tax credit thereon.
Subject to the approval of shareholders of pages 30 and 31.
Further details on how the portfolio is the final dividend, definitive certificates in respect of the managed to achieve the risk management policies and capitalisation issue will be posted on 15 May 2010. objectives are disclosed in The Investment Process, Fractional entitlements will be sold for the benefit of Philosophy and Style on page 19.
The new B Ordinary shares will rank equally Indicators for the Company including NAV and share price with the existing B Ordinary shares.
information are detailed on page 10.
9 to approve the above distribution will be The current Directors are Messrs J F H Trott, J D Best, K J proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of Carter and A C Shedden and Lady Balfour of Burleigh and Meeting is contained in the separate Circular to shareholders together with Mr D H Benson who retired on 22 April 2009 accompanying this Annual Report.
were the only Directors who served during the year.
The Net Asset Value per Ordinary and B Ordinary share at 31 The Company does not make political donations or December 2009 was 772.9p 2008 625.8p.
expenditures and has not made any donations for charitable purposes during the year and, in common with most Annual General Meeting investment trusts, the Company has no employees.
Directors & Officers liability insurance cover has been maintained The Notice of Annual General Meeting which will be held on throughout the year at the expense of the Company.
30 April 2010 is contained in the separate Circular to shareholders accompanying this Annual Report.
Principal Activity and Status Special Business at AGM The Company is an investment company in accordance with Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and carries on Share Buybacks business as an investment trust.
The Company is registered in At the Annual General Meeting held on 22 April 2009, Scotland with number SC6705.
In the opinion of the shareholders approved the renewal of the authority Directors of the Company, its affairs have been conducted in permitting the Company to repurchase its Ordinary shares.
a manner to satisfy the conditions to enable it to continue to obtain approval as an investment trust under Section 842 of The Directors wish to renew the authority given by the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
HM Revenue & shareholders at the previous Annual General Meeting.
The Customs will grant Section 842 status, if requested, provided principal aim of a share buyback facility is to enhance that the Companys affairs have been conducted in such a shareholder value by acquiring shares at a discount to Net manner as to satisfy the conditions of that section.
Approval Asset Value, as and when the Directors consider this to be for such status has been given by HM Revenue & Customs appropriate.
The purchase of shares, when they are trading at for the year ended 31 December 2008. a discount to Net Asset Value per share, should result in an increase in the Net Asset Value per share for the remaining shareholders.
This authority, if conferred, will only be Results and Dividends exercised if to do so would result in an increase in the Net The total gain attributable to equity shareholders for the year Asset Value per share for the remaining shareholders and if it amounted to 162.8 million.
22 Murray International Trust PLC is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any Annual General Meeting, if passed, will therefore give the purchase of shares will be made within guidelines established Directors the necessary authority to allot the unissued share from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to seek capital up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,417,559 shareholder authority to renew this facility for another year equivalent to 9,560,662 Ordinary shares and 109,573 B at the Annual General Meeting.
Ordinary shares or 10 per cent of the Companys existing issued share capital at 22 February 2010, the latest Under the Listing Rules, the maximum price that may be paid practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual on the exercise of this authority must not be more than the Report.
Such authority will expire on the date of the next higher of i an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average Annual General Meeting or on 30 June 2011, whichever is of the middle market quotations for a share taken from the earlier.
This means that the authority will have to be London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business renewed at the next Annual General Meeting.
days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: and ii the higher of the last independent trade When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 561 of the and the current highest independent bid on the trading Companies Act 2006 provides that existing shareholders venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price have pre-emption rights and that the new shares must be which may be paid is 25p per share.
offered first to such shareholders in proportion to their existing holding of shares.
However, shareholders can, by It is currently proposed that the purchase of shares by the special resolution, authorise the Directors to allot shares Company will be made from the realised capital reserve of otherwise than by a pro rata issue to existing shareholders.
The purchase price will normally be paid out Special Resolution No.
11 will, if passed, also give the of the cash balances held by the Company from time to Directors power to allot for cash equity securities up to an time.
aggregate nominal amount of 2,417,559 equivalent to 9,560,662 Ordinary shares and 109,573 B Ordinary shares or Special Resolution 12 will permit the Company to buy back 10 per cent of the Companys existing issued share capital at shares and to hold the shares bought back as treasury shares 22 February 2010, the latest practicable date prior to the rather than cancel them immediately.
The benefit of the publication of this Annual Report, as if Section 561 of the ability to hold treasury shares is that such shares may be Companies Act 2006 does not apply.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in nominal amount of share capital which the Directors are managing its share capital and improve liquidity in its shares.
seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolution No.
The Company would only sell on treasury shares at a This authority will also expire on the date of the next Annual premium to net asset value.
When shares are held in General Meeting or on 30 June 2011, whichever is earlier.
treasury, all voting rights are suspended and no distribution This authority will not be used in connection with a rights either by way of dividend or by way of a winding up is issue by the Company.
permitted in respect of treasury shares.
If the Directors believe that there is no likelihood of re-selling shares bought The Directors intend to use the authority given by back, such shares would be cancelled.
10 and 11 to allot shares and disapply preemption rights only in circumstances where this will be Special Resolution No.
12 in the Notice of Annual General clearly beneficial to shareholders as a whole.
As such, issues Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a will only be made where shares can be issued at a premium maximum of 14.99% of shares in issue at the date of the of 0.5 per cent or more to Net Asset Value.
At present, Annual General Meeting amounting to 14,495,683 Ordinary shares are available under the savings plans operated by the shares and 164,250 B Ordinary shares as at 22 February Manager.
In circumstances where the share price of the 2010.
Such authority will expire on the date of the next Company stands at a premium of 0.5 per cent or more to Annual General Meeting or on 30 June 2011, whichever is Net Asset Value, it may be advantageous for the Company earlier.
This means in effect that the authority will have to be to allot new shares directly to participants in the savings renewed at the next Annual General Meeting or earlier if the plans or to other prospective purchasers.
Such issues would authority has been exhausted.
only be made at prices greater than Net Asset Value, and would involve no dilution for existing shareholders.
The issue During the year ended 31 December 2009 and up to the date proceeds would be available for investment in line with the of this Report no share repurchases have taken place.
No issue of shares will be made which would effectively alter the control of the Issue of Shares Company without the prior approval of shareholders in In terms of the Companies Act 2006 the Act the general meeting.
Resolution 11 will also disapply preDirectors may not allot unissued shares unless so authorised emption rights on the sale of treasury shares as envisaged by the shareholders.
Once again, the pre-emption rights would only be Murray International Trust PLC 23 Directors Report continued disapplied where the treasury shares were sold at a premium Percentage of B Ordinary B Ordinary to Net Asset Value of not less than 0.5 per cent.
shares of 25p capital Amendment to Articles of Association T C Nominees Ltd of which 457,444 40.6 the undernoted has a A number of changes to the Articles of Association are being holding of 3% or over: put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Carol Barrie Trust 247,990 22.1 Meeting and further details of the proposals may be found in the accompanying Circular to shareholders.
The Hon Mrs C Baillie 207,501 18.5 Hamilton Trust The Directors consider that the above authorities are in the best interests of the Company and shareholders taken as a Directors whole and recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of The Directors, who held office during the year under review the resolutions, as the Directors intend to in respect of their together with their their interests are shown below.
All the own beneficial holdings of Ordinary shares amounting in Directors held office throughout the year under review with aggregate to 98,435 shares, representing approximately the exception of Mr D H Benson who retired from the Board 0.001% of the Companys issued share capital as at 31 on 22 April 2009 and Dr K J Carter who was appointed on 23 December 2009.
Share Capital Following his appointment, and being eligible, Dr K J Carter The issued Ordinary share capital at 31 December 2009 offers himself for election at the forthcoming Annual General amounted to 94,896,624 Ordinary and 1,087,392 B Ordinary Meeting.
Lady Balfour retires in accordance with the Articles shares.
Details of the changes in share capital during the year of Association of the Company at the Annual General are provided in note 14 to the financial statements.
On 16 Meeting and, being eligible, offers herself for re-election.
Mr J February 2010 the issued B Ordinary share capital increased F H Trott and Mr A C Shedden have both served on the Board to 1,095,736 B Ordinary shares following the capitalisation for more than nine years and in accordance with corporate issue of 8,344 B Ordinary shares in lieu of the third interim governance best practice will retire at the Annual General dividend.
Between 31 December 2009 and the date of this Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
report, a further 710,000 new Ordinary shares were issued Resolutions 3 to 6 to this effect will be proposed at the for cash at a premium to the prevailing net asset value.
Share Interests In accordance with the Articles of Association, Directors must offer themselves for re-election at least once every At 22 February 2010 the following share interests in the three years.
For those Directors who are not seeking reCompany above 3% had been notified: election at this time, it has been less than three years since their previous re-election.
Percentage of Ordinary Ordinary shares of 25p capital No contract or arrangement significant to the Companys business and in which any of the Directors is interested has Brewin Dolphin 9,005,050 9.5 subsisted during the year.
Speirs & Jeffrey 7,099,970 7.5 Rathbones 6,378,191 6.7 The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Aberdeen Asset Managers 6,362,604 6.7 Company were as follows: Savings Plans non discretionary 31 December 2009 1 January 2009 D C Thomson & Company 3,986,200 4.2 Beneficial Beneficial Limited J F H Trott 35,000 35,000 Legal & General Investment 3,836,484 4.0 Lady Balfour of 1,300 1,300 Management Burleigh D H Benson n a 4,000 J D Best 47,500 42,200 K J Carter 3,000 - A C Shedden 7,567 7,001 in the case of Mr Benson at date of retirement in the case of Dr Carter at date of appointment 24 Murray International Trust PLC Mr A C Sheddens beneficial holding increased to 7,635 party on the expiry of one years written notice.
On Ordinary shares by the acquisition, through the Aberdeen termination the Manager would be entitled to receive fees Share Plan, of 26 Ordinary shares and 42 Ordinary shares on which would otherwise have been due up to that date.
With the exception of these further disclosures, the above holdings The Board considers the continued appointment of the were unchanged at 22 February 2010, being the nearest Manager on the terms agreed to be in the interests of the practicable date prior to the signing of this Annual Report.
shareholders as a whole because the Aberdeen Asset Management Group has the investment management, secretarial, marketing and administrative skills required for Directors Fees the effective operation of the Company.
A report on the Directors Remuneration is set out on pages 33 and 34.
Corporate Governance The Statement of Corporate Governance forms part of this Manager and Company Secretary Directors Report and covers the Companys compliance with Investment management services are provided to the Combined Code and is shown on pages 27 to 31.
Company by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Company secretarial, accounting and administrative services are Audit Committee provided by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
Details of the Audit Committee are contained in the For the year ended 31 December 2009, the management and Statement of Corporate Governance under the heading Audit secretarial fees payable to the Manager were calculated and Committee on page 29. charged on the following basis: Directors and Officers Insurance an investment management fee payable to the Manager, The Company purchases and maintains liability insurance Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, of 0.5% per annum of covering the Directors and officers of the Company.
The the value of total assets, less unlisted investments and all Companys Articles of Association provide an indemnity to current liabilities excluding monies borrowed to finance the the Directors out of the assets of the Company against any investment objectives of the Company, averaged over the liability incurred in defending proceedings or in connection six previous quarters.
A fee of 1.5% per annum is charged with any application to the Court in which relief is granted.
on the value of unlisted investments.
The investment management fee is chargeable 30% against revenue and ISA Status 70% against realised capital reserves: and The Company intends to manage its affairs so as to be a fully included in the charge of 0.5% above is a secretarial fee of qualifying investment for the stocks and shares component 100,000 per annum which is chargeable 100% to revenue.
In addition, the Manager was entitled to a performance fee Going Concern on the following basis: In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils a fee of 5% of the first 2% of any outperformance of the guidance on Going Concern and Liquidity Risk issued in Companys net asset total return over that of its October 2009 the Directors have undertaken a rigorous benchmark: review of the Companys ability to continue as a going a fee of 10% of any additional outperformance against the concern.
The Companys assets consist of a diverse portfolio benchmark.
of listed equity shares and bonds which in most circumstances are realisable within a very short timescale.
The total amount of the fee earned by the Manager in any The Directors are mindful of the principal risks and one year comprising the basic management fee and the uncertainties disclosed on page 3 and have reviewed performance fee is capped at 0.8% of the average value of forecasts detailing revenue and liabilities and they believe the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
Any that the Company has adequate financial resources to performance fee is paid in equal instalments over a four year continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future period with any future underperformance offset against the and at least 12 months from the date of this Annual Report.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these accounts.
As part of the No fees have been charged in the case of investments going concern review the Directors noted that the Company managed or advised by Aberdeen Asset Management Group.
is in the process of negotiating with its bankers with a view The management agreement may be terminated by either to renewing its 55.9 million facility with Royal Bank of Murray International Trust PLC 25 Directors Report continued Scotland which expires on 10 March 2010.
If acceptable There are no agreements between the Company and its terms are available from the existing bankers or any Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
alternative the Company would expect to continue to have this facility: if, however, these are not forthcoming any Directors Conflicts of Interests outstanding amount will be repaid through the proceeds of The Board confirms that, as at the date of this Report, the asset sales.
Directors do not have any conflicts of interest which might require to be approved by the Board or otherwise recorded in Creditor Payment Policy the Companys Register of Conflicts.
The Companys payment policy is to agree terms of payment before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware Independent Auditors of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
The Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have expressed their The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year willingness to continue in office.
Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, along with Financial Instruments Resolution No.
8 to authorise the Directors to fix their The Companys financial instruments comprise its remuneration.
During the year the Auditors received 6,000 investment portfolio, cash balances, loans and debtors and VAT in relation to non-audit services, being the review of creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales the B Ordinary share capitalisation issue calculations and and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The agreed upon procedures in respect of the Half Yearly Report.
main risks that the Company faces arising from its financial instruments are disclosed in note 19 to the financial statements.
By order of the Board of Murray International Trust PLC Accountability and Audit Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Each Director confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, Secretary there is no relevant audit information of which the 40 Princes Street, Companys auditors are unaware, and he or she has taken all Edinburgh EH2 2BY the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order 22 February 2010 to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Additionally there are no important events since the year end.
Section 992 Companies Act 2006 The following further information is disclosed in accordance with Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006: The Companys capital structure and voting rights are summarised on page 3 and note 14: Details of the substantial shareholders in the Company are listed on page 24: The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and are summarised on page 33: Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association and powers to issue or buy back the Companys shares require a special resolution to be passed by shareholders: There are: no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the Company is party to that might affect its control following a takeover bid: 26 Murray International Trust PLC
