42 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 4 11 1 12 10 1 management positions prior to his appointment as an executive Sir Bill Gammell director in 2000.
Malcolm is a non-executive director of Cairn Chief Executive 57 India Limited and has recently been appointed as a nonSir Bill Gammell holds a BA in Economics and Accountancy executive director of Agora Oil & Gas AS, a privately owned from Stirling University and was awarded a knighthood in 2006 and unquoted oil and gas exploration company focused on for services to industry in Scotland.
Sir Bill has over 25 years exploration in Norway and the UK.
As an executive director of experience in the international oil and gas industry.
He founded Cairn, Malcolm has particular responsibility for security matters.
Cairn and was appointed Chief Executive on its initial listing in 1988.
He is the non-executive Chairman of Cairn India Limited 4 Phil Tracy and is a member of the Asia Task Force and the UK India Business Engineering and Operations Director 59 Council.
Sir Bill, who is an ex-Scotland rugby internationalist, Phil Tracy holds an MSc in Petroleum Engineering from is also Chairman of the Winning Scotland Foundation, a director Imperial College, a BSc in Chemical Engineering from Leeds of sportscotland and Glasgow 2014 Limited and a member University and is currently an Honorary Professor in the Petroleum of the British Olympic Advisory Board.
Engineering Department of Heriot-Watt University.
He is 2 a Chartered Engineer with over 36 years experience in the Dr Mike Watts international oil and gas industry.
He originally joined Cairn in Deputy Chief Executive 54 1988 and served as an executive director from 1989 until 1999.
Dr Mike Watts holds a First Class Hons degree and a PhD in He subsequently became managing director of Providence Geology.
He joined Shell in 1980, Burmah in 1985 and Premier Resources P. l. c. before rejoining Cairn in 2002 as Chairman of in 1986.
In 1991 he was appointed Managing Director of the Cairn Energy India Pty Limited, a post he held until May 2006.
Amsterdam listed Holland Sea Search NV, which was acquired He was appointed Engineering & Operations director in 2004 by Cairn in 1996.
Mike was appointed Exploration and New and has served as Rajasthan Project Director until December Business Director of Cairn in 1997 and Deputy Chief Executive in 2006 and again from December 2007 to June 2009, when he March 2009.
He has been closely associated with the emergence was seconded to Cairn India Limited.
Phil is currently Chairman of Cairn as the pre-eminent foreign owned oil and gas company of the Rajasthan Project Review Board.
in India and the major holder of frontier exploration acreage in Greenland.
Mike is also a non-executive director of SOCO 5 Jann Brown International plc.
As an executive director of Cairn, Mike has Finance Director 54 particular responsibility for providing assurance to the Cairn Jann Brown was appointed Finance Director of Cairn in 2006 Board on health, safety, environment including climate change, and is also a non-executive director of Cairn India Limited.
community and human rights matters.
She holds an MA from Edinburgh University and a diploma in 3 accounting from Heriot-Watt University.
She joined Cairn in 1998 Malcolm Thoms after a career in the accountancy profession, mainly with KPMG.
Chief Operating Officer 54 She is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Malcolm Thoms holds a BSc Hons in Physics from Edinburgh of Scotland and the Council of the Chartered Institute of University and an MBA from Heriot-Watt University and is Taxation.
As an executive director of Cairn, Jann has particular currently Trustee of the University of Edinburgh Development responsibility for employee matters.
In addition to her roles Trust.
He started his career as a field engineer with Schlumberger within the Cairn Group, she is the Senior Independent Director and subsequently became manager of its businesses in Qatar of Hansen Transmissions International nv, a Belgian engineering and Brunei.
He joined Cairn in 1989 and held a number of senior company which is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 43 7 2 6 9 8 3 5 6 9 Simon Thomson Todd Hunt Legal and Commercial Director 45 Non-Executive Director 57 Simon Thomson was appointed Legal & Commercial Director Todd Hunt was appointed an independent non-executive of Cairn in 2006.
He holds a LLB Hons from Aberdeen University director of Cairn in 2003.
He is President and joint owner and a Diploma in Legal Practice from Glasgow University.
of Atropos Exploration Company and Atropos Production He joined Cairn in 1995 as a lawyer before becoming Group Company based in Dallas, Texas.
He has over 30 years Commercial Manager.
Prior to his appointment as Legal & experience in the oil and gas industry.
Commercial Director, he served on the Group Management 10 Mark Tyndall Board now the Chief Executives Committee for six years.
Simon was recently appointed a non-executive director of Non-Executive Director 52 Grahams The Family Dairy Limited and is also a director Mark Tyndall was appointed an independent non-executive of the Winning Scotland Foundation.
He is Chief Executive of Artemis Investment Management Limited.
7 Norman Murray 11 Non-Executive Chairman 62 Iain McLaren Norman Murray was appointed an independent non-executive Non-Executive Director 59 director of Cairn in 1999 and Chairman in 2002.
He was a Iain McLaren was appointed an independent non-executive co-founder and former Chairman of Morgan Grenfell Private director of Cairn on 1 July 2008.
He was formerly Senior Equity Limited and was also a director of Morgan Grenfell Asset Partner for KPMG in Scotland and has significant experience Management Limited and a non-executive director of Bristow in the oil and gas sector.
Iain is also a director of The Scottish Helicopter Group Limited.
He is a past Chairman of the British Council for Development and Industry, Baillie Gifford Venture Capital Association and a past President of the Institute Shin Nippon PLC and Investors Capital Trust plc.
He is of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
He is also a non-executive Vice-President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants director of Greene King PLC and Robert Wiseman Dairies plc.
8 12 Hamish Grossart Dr Jim Buckee Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 53 Non-Executive Director 64 Hamish Grossart was appointed an independent non-executive Dr Jim Buckee was appointed as an independent non-executive director of Cairn in 1994 and became Deputy Chairman in director of Cairn in January 2009.
He has over 25 years experience on public company experience in the oil and gas industry having gained extensive boards in a wide range of industries, both in an executive and international experience with Shell, Burmah Oil and BP.
He is currently also Deputy Chairman appointed President of Talisman Energy Inc in 1991 and CEO of British Polythene Industries PLC, Chairman of Indigo Vision in 1993 and held both posts until retiring from Talisman in Group plc and a non-executive director of Artemis Investment October 2007.
