44 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors of Cairn Energy PLC present their annual report for the year ended 31 December 2009 together with the financial statements of the Group for the year.
These will be laid before the shareholders at the AGM to be held on Thursday 20 May 2010.
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND The Group made a profit after tax and exceptional items of $62.6m 2008: $366.7m.
The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings is the exploration for and development and production of oil and gas.
Details of the development of the Groups business during the year and the information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the Overview and Business Review sections on pages 1 to 41 of this document, which are deemed to form part of this report by reference.
Details of Cairns offices are given on the back cover of this report and details of Cairns advisers are given on page 148.
CHANGE OF CONTROL All of the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control and full details of these plans are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 77.
Generally, outstanding options and awards will vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, at that time.
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of a directors employment, each of the executive directors is also entitled, pursuant to their service contracts, to compensation of a sum equal to their annual basic salary as at the date of termination of employment.
There are no agreements providing for compensation to employees on a change of control.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Companys Corporate Governance Statement is set out on pages 52 to 61 and is deemed to form part of this report by reference.
DIRECTORS The names and biographical details of the current directors of the Company are given in the Board of Directors section on pages 42 and 43.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 45 DIRECTORS REPORT Continued Details of outstanding awards over ordinary shares in the Company held by the directors or any members of their families are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 73.
None of the directors has a material interest in any contract, other than a service contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Details of the directors service contracts are set out on pages 67 and 68 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Share Capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company are shown in Note 28 of the Notes to the Accounts.
As at 31 March 8 2010 1,398,639,179 ordinary shares of 13 pence each have been issued and are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Companys shares and the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Voting Rights Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, at a general meeting or class meeting, on a show of hands, every member present in person and every duly appointed proxy entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every share held by him.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior member who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A corporation which is a member of the Company may authorise one or more individuals to act as its representative or representatives at any meeting of the Company, or at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares.
A person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
Restrictions on Voting No member shall, unless the directors of the Company otherwise determine, be entitled in respect of any share held by him her to attend or vote at a general meeting of the Company either in person or by proxy if any call or other sum presently payable by him her to the Company in respect of shares in the Company remains unpaid.
Further, if a member has been served with a notice by the Company under the Companies Act requesting information concerning interests in shares and has failed in relation to any shares to provide the Company, within 14 days of the notice, with such information, the directors of the Company may determine that such member shall not be entitled in respect of such shares to attend or vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting or at any separate general or class meeting of the holders of that class of shares.
Proxy forms must be submitted not less than 48 hours excluding, at the Boards discretion, any part of any day that is a non-working day before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Variation of Rights Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, all or any of the special rights attached to any class may, subject to statute and unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to the shares of that class, be varied or abrogated either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate general meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class.
These provisions apply to the variation or abrogation of the special rights attached to some only of the shares of any class as if the shares concerned and the remaining shares of such class formed separate classes.
The rights attached to any class of shares shall, unless otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue of such shares or the terms upon which such shares are for the time being held, be deemed not to be varied or abrogated by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with or subsequent to the first mentioned shares or by the purchase by the Company of its own shares.
Transfer of Shares Subject to any procedures set out by the directors in accordance with the Articles of Association, all transfers of shares shall be effected by instrument in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors of the Company.
The instrument of transfer shall be executed by, or on behalf of, the transferor and except in the case of fully paid shares by, or on behalf of, the transferee.
The transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the register of members of the Company.
The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share unless such share is listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and traded on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
The directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in uncertificated form where the Company is entitled to refuse or is excepted from the requirement under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 to register the transfer and they may refuse any such transfer in favour of more than four transferees.
The directors may also refuse to register any transfer of a share on which the Company has a lien.
46 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT Continued The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share in certificated form unless the relevant instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share, is duly stamped or adjudged or certified as not chargeable to stamp duty, is lodged at the transfer office or at such other place as the directors may determine, is accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and is in favour of not more than four transferees jointly.
If the directors refuse to register a transfer, they shall, as soon as practicable and in any event within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with the Company in the case of a share in certificated form or the date on which the operator-instruction as defined in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 was received by the Company in the case of a share in uncertificated form or in either case such longer or shorter period if any as the Listing Rules may from time to time permit or require, send to the transferee notice of the refusal.
Major Interests in Share Capital As at 31 December 2009 and 31 March 2010, the Company had received notification that shareholdings of 3% and over were as follows: As at As at 31 December 2009 % Share capital 31 March 2010 % Share Capital BlackRock Investment Management 151,890,151 10.88 156,973,119 11.22 HSBC Global Asset Management 146,030,646 10.46 111,851,336 8.00 Baillie Gifford 76,693,239 5.49 86,940,670 6.22 Legal & General Investment Management 74,389,650 5.33 75,655,658 5.41 F&C Asset Management 59,013,080 4.23 51,800,793 3.70 Walter Scott & Partners 49,668,150 3.56 49,576,790 3.54 Schroder Investment Management 49,652,695 3.56 46,943,360 3.36 Fidelity Investments 46,212,080 3.31 55,513,689 3.97 Charitable and Political Donations The Company has a Charities Committee which is responsible for distributing the Companys charitable donations to selected charities within an overall annual budget.
There are currently seven members of the Charities Committee with alternates comprising a broad range of employees from across the organisation.
The Chief Executive is not a member of the Charities Committee.
During the year the Company made various charitable contributions in the UK totalling $704,039 2008: $285,968.
Contributions in the UK are made to a variety of charitable organisations whose areas of operation and activities are aligned with Cairns.
In addition, the Group provides funding to various charitable initiatives outwith the UK.
Further details of these can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on the Companys website.
No political donations were made and no political expenditure was incurred during the year.
Creditor Payment Policy and Practice It is Cairns payment policy to ensure settlement of suppliers services in accordance with the terms of the applicable contracts.
In most circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to business taking place.
Trade creditors of the Company at 31 December 2009 were equivalent to 24.4 days purchases, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers to the Company during the year.
Financial Instruments The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company are detailed in Note 30 of the Notes to the Accounts.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, UK legislation and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board.
The directors currently have powers both in relation to the issuing and buying back of the Companys shares and are seeking renewal of these powers at the forthcoming AGM.
Articles of Association Unless expressly specified to the contrary therein, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The directors of the Company who held office at 31 December 2009 confirm that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
In making this confirmation, the directors have taken appropriate steps to make themselves aware of the relevant audit information and that the Companys auditors are aware of this information.
AGM 2010 The AGM of the Company will be held in the Castle Suite of the Caledonian Hilton, Princes Street, Edinburgh EH1 2AB at 12 noon UK time on Thursday, 20 May 2010.
The Notice of AGM is set out on pages 144 to 147 inclusive of this document.
A form of proxy for use at the AGM is enclosed.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 47 DIRECTORS REPORT Continued The following provides an explanation of the proposed resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 7 are proposed as ordinary resolutions.
This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Resolutions 8 to 11 are proposed as special resolutions.
This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Resolution 1 Annual Report and Accounts The directors must lay the Companys accounts, the directors report and the auditors report before the shareholders in a general meeting.
Resolution 2 Remuneration Report Listed companies are required to prepare a directors remuneration report and put a resolution to approve the report to the shareholders at the AGM.
A copy of the Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 62 to 77 inclusive of this document.
Resolution 3 Re-appointment and Remuneration of Auditors The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at which accounts are laid before shareholders, to hold office until the end of the next such meeting.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors and resolution 3 proposes their re-appointment as the Companys auditors and also seeks authority for the directors to decide the auditors remuneration.
Resolutions 4 to 6 Election Re-Election of Directors Malcolm Thoms, Jann Brown and Simon Thomson retire by rotation at the AGM in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election as directors.
Hamish Grossart and Mark Tyndall will both retire by rotation at the AGM and will not be offering themselves for re-election.
The directors biographies are set out on pages 42 and 43 of this document.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that directors can be appointed by the Company, by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
The nomination committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and replacement of directors.
Further details of the rules governing the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 52 to 61 and in the Companys Articles of Association.
An explanation of the performance evaluation procedure carried out by the Company is also contained in the Corporate Governance Statement, on page 53.
Resolution 7 Authority to Allot Shares Resolution 7 seeks to renew the directors power to allot shares.
This resolution proposes that authority be granted in substitution of the existing authority to allot securities up to a maximum amount of 2,868,716.55, representing approximately 33.33% of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at 31 March 2010, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document.
Following guidance issued by the ABI in December 2008 and updated in November 2009, the Company is seeking an additional authority to allot securities in connection with a pre-emptive rights issue up to a maximum amount of 2,868,716.55, representing approximately 33.33% of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at 31 March 2010, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document.
The benefit to the Company of obtaining such authority on an annual basis is that it would allow the Company to implement a rights issue of up to approximately 66.66% of the issued ordinary share capital without the need to call an additional general meeting.
This would shorten the implementation timetable of such a rights issue.
The directors consider that the authorities sought pursuant to Resolution 7 are desirable to allow the Company to retain flexibility, although they have no present intention of exercising these authorities.
The authorities will expire on 30 June 2011 or, if earlier, at the end of the next AGM of the Company to be held in 2011.
As at 31 March 2010, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company did not hold any shares in treasury.
Resolution 8 Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Section 561 1 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that if the directors wish to allot any equity securities, or sell any treasury shares if it holds any, for cash, it must first offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Section 561 does not apply to allotments of equity securities made in connection with an employee share scheme.
Resolution 8 seeks to give the directors power to allot equity securities or sell treasury shares for cash as if section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply, in connection with rights issues, open offers and other pre-emption offers pursuant to the authority granted by Resolution 7, and otherwise up to a total amount of 430,350.52, representing approximately 5% of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital as at 31 March 2010, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document.
The power conferred by Resolution 8 will expire at the same time as the authority conferred by Resolution 7, unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting.
48 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT Continued Resolution 9 Market Purchase of Own Shares by the Company If passed, Resolution 9 will authorise the Company to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares.
Ordinary shares repurchased by the Company pursuant to such authority may be cancelled or held in treasury and then either sold in whole or in part for cash or cancelled in whole or in part.
The directors intend to take advantage of the flexibility offered by this resolution as they deem appropriate.
No dividends will be paid on treasury shares and no voting rights attach to them.
The maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares that may be purchased pursuant to the authority shall be approximately 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2010, being 209,656,012 ordinary shares.
The maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share pursuant to this resolution exclusive of expenses shall be the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Companys ordinary shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System SETs.
The minimum 8 price that may be paid for an ordinary share pursuant to this resolution exclusive of expenses shall be 13 pence, being the nominal value of an ordinary share.
In accordance with the Listing Rules, the Company will not repurchase shares in the period of 60 days immediately preceding the announcement of its interim results or the preliminary announcement of its annual results or, if shorter, the period from the end of the financial period concerned up to and including the time of a relevant announcement or, except in accordance with the Listing Rules, at any other time when, in terms of the Companys dealing rules, the directors would be prohibited from dealing in shares.
This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do so would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
This authority will expire on the earlier of 19 November 2011 or the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2011, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent annual general meetings.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during 2009.
As at 31 March 2010, options to subscribe for shares were outstanding over an aggregate of 5,731,581 ordinary shares representing approximately 0.41% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2010.
If the outstanding amount of the existing buy-back authority granted at the 2009 AGM was utilised in full prior to the 2010 AGM and the new authority was granted at the 2010 AGM and was then utilised in full, the options outstanding at 31 March 2010 would represent approximately 0.58% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Resolution 10 Adoption of New Articles of Association Resolution 10 proposes the adoption of new Articles of Association in order to update the Companys current Articles of Association primarily to take account of the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations, the implementation of the last parts of the Companies Act 2006 and amendments to the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The principal changes introduced in the new Articles of Association are summarised below.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006, the Shareholders Rights Regulations or the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, or conform the language of the new Articles of Association with that used in the model Articles for public companies produced by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills have not been noted below.
The new Articles showing all the changes to the current Articles of Association are available for inspection, as noted on page 147 of this document.
The principal changes which would arise from the adoption of the proposed new Articles of Association are set out below.
The Companys Objects The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are currently set out in the Companys memorandum and Articles of Association.
The Companys memorandum contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities the Company is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a companys memorandum.
The Companies Act 2006 provides that a memorandum will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
Under the Companies Act 2006 the objects clause and all other provisions which are contained in a companys memorandum, for existing companies at 1 October 2009, are deemed to be contained in the companys articles of association but the company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
Further the Companies Act 2006 states that unless a companys articles provide otherwise, a companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of its Memorandum which, by virtue of the Companies Act 2006, are treated as forming part of the Companys Articles of Association as of 1 October 2009.
Resolution 12 a confirms the removal of these provisions for the Company.
As the effect of this resolution will be to remove the statement currently in the Companys Memorandum of Association regarding limited liability, the new Articles of Association also contain an express statement regarding the limited liability of shareholders.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 49 DIRECTORS REPORT Continued 2.
Articles Which Duplicate Statutory Provisions Provisions in the current Articles of Association which replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main amended to bring them into line with the Companies Act 2006.
Change of Name Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only change its name by special resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a company will be able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles.
To take advantage of this provision, the new Articles of Association enable the directors to pass a resolution to change the Companys name.
Authorised Share Capital and Unissued Shares The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the new Articles of Association reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employee share schemes.
Redeemable Shares Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the terms and manner of redemption.
The Companies Act 2006 enables directors to determine such matters instead provided they are so authorised by the articles.
The new Articles of Association contain such an authorisation.
The Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did so the directors would need shareholders authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares, Consolidate and Sub-divide Shares, and Reduce Share Capital Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required specific enabling provisions in its articles to purchase its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves as well as shareholder authority to undertake the relevant action.
The current Articles of Association include these enabling provisions.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a company will only require shareholder authority to do any of these things and it will no longer be necessary for articles to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly, where possible, the relevant enabling provisions have been removed in the new Articles of Association.
Use of Seals Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required authority in its articles to have an official seal for use abroad.
Under the Companies Act 2006, such authority will no longer be required.
Accordingly, the relevant authorisation has been removed in the new Articles of Association.
Suspension of Registration of Share Transfers The current Articles of Association permit the directors to suspend the registration of transfers.
Under the Companies Act 2006, share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The power in the current Articles of Association to suspend the registration of transfers is inconsistent with this requirement.
Accordingly, this power has been removed in the new Articles of Association.
Vacation of Office by Directors The current Articles of Association specify the circumstances in which a director must vacate office.
The new Articles of Association update these provisions to reflect the approach taken on mental and physical incapacity in the model articles for public companies produced by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
Voting by Proxies on a Show of Hands The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Companies Act 2006 so that it now provides that each proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member, in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
The current Articles of Association have been amended to reflect these changes.
Voting by Corporate Representatives The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Companies Act 2006 in order to enable multiple representatives appointed by the same corporate member to vote in different ways on a show of hands and on a poll.
The new Articles of Association contain provisions which reflect these amendments.
Chairmans Casting Vote The new Articles of Association remove the provision giving the Chairman a casting vote in the event of an equality of votes at a general meeting as this is no longer permitted under the Companies Act 2006.
Notice of General Meetings The Shareholders Rights Regulations amend the Companies Act 2006 to require the Company to give 21 clear days notice of general meetings unless the Company offers members an electronic voting facility and a special resolution reducing the period of notice to not less than 14 days has been passed.
Annual general meetings must be held on 21 clear days notice.
The new Articles of Association amend the provisions of the current Articles of Association to be consistent with the new requirements.
50 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT Continued 14.
Method of Giving Notice The current Articles of Association provide that overseas shareholders who have not provided a UK postal address are not entitled to receive notices from the Company.
The new Articles of Association clarify that overseas shareholders may not provide an electronic address for this purpose.
Adjournments for Lack of Quorum Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 clear days after the original meeting.
The current Articles of Association have been changed to reflect this requirement.
Voting Record Date Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations the company must determine the right of members to vote at a general meeting by reference to the register not more than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting, not taking account of days which are not working days.
The current Articles of Association have been amended to reflect this requirement.
Resolution 11 Notice of General Meetings Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
Annual general meetings will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
The directors believe that it is appropriate for the Company to retain the flexibility of being able to call a general meeting on 14 days notice and in order to preserve this ability, Resolution 11 seeks such approval.
The flexibility offered by this resolution will be used where, taking into account all the circumstances, the directors consider this appropriate in relation to the business to be considered at the meeting.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM in 2011, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Recommendation The Board considers that all the resolutions to be considered at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommends that you vote in favour of all of the proposed resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
By order of the Board Duncan Wood Company Secretary 6 April 2010 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 51 GOVERNANCE 52 Corporate Governance Statement 62 Directors Remuneration Report 78 Principal Licence Interests 80 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cairn Energy PLC FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS 81 Group Income Statement 82 Statements of Comprehensive Income 83 Balance Sheets 84 Statements of Cash Flows 85 Statements of Changes in Equity 86 Notes to the Accounts 141 Reserves 142 Glossary of Terms 144 Notice of Annual General Meeting 148 Company Information
