BUSINESS REVIEW BERMUDA We closed Bermuda to new business in March 2009.
During the run-off period we will maintain high levels of customer service, continue to deliver operational efficiencies and tightly manage risk.
Andrew Darfoor CEO, Bermuda BERMUDA Old Mutual Bermuda Global Accounts Hedging Investment IT, Operations & Relationship Management & Liquidity and Administraion Management Management From its inception in 2000, Old Mutual Bermuda A significant attraction for customers was that OMB sold over 51,000 policies, with an aggregate assets are held in segregated accounts, with our premium value of over $9 billion, through a bank trust participation model ensuring that all plans were distribution strategy.
The business model addressed issued in Bermuda and governed by applicable a key customer niche by providing investment Bermuda law.
Our core business competency products to international, non-US citizen and remains meeting the needs of large financial non-US resident customers seeking a wide range institutions by providing innovative and competitive of investment choices multiple funds and fund investment solutions through an open-architecture families across a variety of international asset platform.
allocation portfolios, equity, bond, money market and fixed rate accounts, exposure to international economies and confidentiality through participation in a secure structure.
98 98 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 2009 Long-term insurance business policyholder liabilities Insurance contracts Policies sold by Old Mutual 51,000 Bermuda since 2000 Generic ownbrand, private label and proprietary Key markets and products versions of products were customised to As a leading and innovative provider of investment distributors needs and sold through over 70 products for international banks high net worth and financial institutions, primarily large international affluent customers, our product mix comprises three banks.
The business also served a range of private investment plans which currently have funds under and institutional customers.
management of $5.8bn: Following a change of Group strategy and a The Universal Investment Plan UIP : an significant recapitalisation of the business in 2008, international investment plan which offers longafter completion of a strategic review in 2009, term growth potential with a variety of investment OMB was closed to new business on 18 March options including international equity, bond, 2009 other than where contractually obliged to hedge and money market funds, as well as fixed accept premium add-ons up to the first policy rate accounts.
This plan also offers strategies to anniversary date.
help protect and potentially grow the investment The Guaranteed Index Plan GIP : an investment plan with index options that link returns to the values of the worlds major indices, while guaranteeing a minimum of 105% of the amount invested.
This plan gives investors full participation in any upside, subject to an annual cap The Guaranteed Rate Plan GRP : an investment plan offering a fixed rate solution that allows control over maturity and flexibility of return.
This plan enables investors to diversify by allocating into multiple guarantee periods.
Performance in 2009 Business transformed and delivering on run-off plan Highlights $m 2009 2008 % Change IFRS profit pre-tax 34 675 105% Insurance reserves excluding those held in the separate account 2,053 3,084 33% Operating MCEV earnings covered business post-tax 29 436 93% Highlights $bn 2009 2008 % Change Funds under management 5.8 5.8 0% Highlights m 2009 2008 % Change IFRS profit pre-tax 22 365 106% Stated on a start manager basis as USAM manages $1.1 billion of funds on behalf of Old Mutual Bermuda.
Old Mutual plc 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW BERMUDA CoNtINUED Overview IFRS pre-tax profit of $34 million for 2009 was The business performed credibly against its core significantly better than 2008 $675 million IFRS objectives, with all written policies passing their pre-tax loss for 2008 benefiting from expense first anniversary date meaning that no further reductions, lower DAC expense mainly due to policyholder premiums have been permitted since reduced unlocking and lower guarantee losses, August 2009. primarily as a result of improved effectiveness of the hedging programme, favourable equity Old Mutual Bermuda OMB s core focus in 2009 markets and currency movements, higher interest was to retain the key staff necessary to execute rates, lower volatility and improved fund basis the agreed run-off plan, reduce costs by half development.
The impact of selective releases of over a three-year period, improve operational hedge positions instituted in the fourth quarter of efficiencies, strengthen the governance structure, 2009 was also beneficial in reducing guarantee manage capital and liquidity, significantly improve losses in conjunction with reduced overall reserve management information analytics and continue requirements as a result of favourable markets.
fide-risking the in-force variable annuity book through a range of measures.
MCEV results The post-tax loss on the MCEV operating earnings In 2009, management implemented a soft-close of $29 million for 2009 was significantly better strategy to restrict fund choices and continued to than the prior year mainly due to the large negative improve hedge effectiveness by reducing basis fund assumption changes made in 2008 for the GMAB mismatches.
The business has been transformed strengthening and lower interest rates.
Surrender with a significantly improved understanding of development also led to persistency experience liabilities and associated management information variances.
systems developed, with robust financial metrics and a return to profitability.
Reserves Of total insurance liabilities of $6,741 million Significant reductions in the cost base were 2008: $7,018 million, $4,688 million 2008: delivered during 2009 over 40% expense reduction $3,934 million is held in the separate account, year-on-year, with further savings and operational relating to Variable Annuity investments, where risk improvement initiatives targeted for 2010.
Overall a is borne by policyholders.
The remaining reserves leaner business operating model has been adopted, amount to $2,053 million 2008: $3,084 million.
with ongoing cost efficiencies anticipated to drive Of this, $763 million 2008: $1,428 million is in down costs by a further 5-10% annually.
respect of GMAB GMDB liabilities on the Variable Aggregate surrender activity remains in line with Annuity business, and $1,290 million 2008: expectations.
Ultimately, surrender activity will $1,656 million for policyholder liabilities which are determine the speed of run-off and the extent and supported by the fixed income portfolio these timing of any associated capital, or cash, release.
liabilities include deferred and fixed indexed The business remains well capitalised and able to annuity business as well as Variable Annuity fixed meet all its future obligations, with the knowledge interest investments.
These non-separate account that retention packages are in place for key reserves represent the discounted future expected employees needed to execute on the run-off plan.
account balance needed to meet policy obligations.
OMB reserves are calculated on a policy-by-policy IFRS results basis and are updated frequently and verified Bermuda is now treated as a non-core business and independently through both internal and external its profit is therefore excluded from the Groups IFRS actuarial review, as well as subject to internal and adjusted operating profit.
The 2008 IFRS adjusted external audit, as part of the normal statutory audit.
operating profit has been restated on the same basis.
100 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 New fund mappings developed in 2009 commenced in the fourth quarter of 2009.
This has better allocated exposures to Asian and other been subject to strict oversight and is operated emerging markets which require higher levels within risk parameters agreed with the Group Risk of reserving given their inherent higher volatility, and Capital Committee.
The control systems in place thereby improving the accuracy of the reserves.
mean that the reinstatement of effective hedges OMB maintains a very significant surplus to its could be made very quickly if required.
The new minimum capital requirement, and no further cash approach continues to manage the underlying or capital injections are anticipated.
economics, but is more dynamic in nature, striking a balance between the potential changes in the Investment Portfolio income statement, cash flow movements and the No defaults were recorded in the year, with reported transactional costs.
Where considered appropriate, impairments of $20 million 2008: $56 million for the level of hedging activity may be adjusted, subject 2009.
The net unrealised loss position improved to to a strict stop-loss policy.
$29 million as at 31 December 2009 $277 million as at 31 December 2008 as spreads continued to The OMB hedge team evaluates the hedging narrow across key sectors.
strategy on a continuing basis, with any proposed changes to the strategy subject to strict oversight.
The book value of the portfolio fell from $1.3 billion A stop-loss protection protocol, and daily at the end of 2008 to $1.0 billion at the end of management and reporting of Value at Risk cash 2009, primarily to meet surrenders and withdrawals.
and profit & loss are used by the Group to monitor The fixed income portfolio remains at an A2 average business exposures.
quality, with an improvement to 95% investment grade compared to 2008 of 93%.
Priorities for 2010 With the business transformed in 2009, the key As at 31 December 2009, the book value, fair value priorities for 2010 are to: and unrealised loss of the investment portfolio with a market value to book value ratio of 80% or less was Further improve expense and operational $71 million, $50 million and $21 million respectively efficiencies delivered in 2009, maintaining cost compared to $521 million, $324 million and discipline and focus to deliver further planned $197 million, respectively, at 31 December 2008. expense reductions Manage capital and liquidity effectively Management of Hedging Further embed risk management into key The hedge policy originally adopted by OMB business decision making processes focused on hedging the underlying economic risk Continue to fide-risk the in-force variable annuity of the guarantees.
Generally this strategy reduces book, appropriately executing a dynamic the income statement exposure but can result in hedging program on key risks substantial cash flow movements as the realised Implement conservation efforts to better retain changes in value of the underlying derivatives are profitable non-guaranteed assets.
offset by an unrealised movement reflected in the reserves.
In a falling market this will result in large Outlook cash inflows while, in a rising market, there will be OMB aims to continue to aggressively execute cash outflows.
During most of 2009, hedges were against its run-off strategy, whilst maintaining high applied to a core number of components interest levels of customer service through continued rates, foreign exchange, equity markets, with an operational and service improvements.
A return to average hedge effectiveness of 95-96% achieved in more normal market conditions will further underpin the period to September 2009. the continued recovery in profitability, although the business expects increased volatility in earnings in Given the improvement in the capital position of the the medium term, particularly as the peak of the Group, combined with managements improved crystallisation of guarantees approaches in 2012 and understanding and management systems for then 2017. tracking the underlying risks, a process of selective and progressive release of the hedge position Old Mutual plc 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read
