GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2 1, 2, 3 Key: 1.
1 Member of the Group Audit F. C. A. Ireland, M. Sc.
Chairman Independent non-executive director and Risk Committee Patrick joined the Board and succeeded Chris Collins as Chairman Nigel has been an independent non-executive director of the 2 Member of the on 1 January 2010.
He also chairs the Nomination Committee.
He is also non-executive Chairman Nomination Committee 3 From 2007 until 2009, he was Vice Chairman of Zurich Financial of the Companys principal US holding company, Old Mutual Member of the Remuneration Committee Services, where he had specific responsibility for its international US Holdings, Inc.
He is a non-executive director of Chemtura businesses including those in South Africa.
He had previously Corporation, a governor of the London Business School and a held roles at Zurich as CEO, General Insurance and Banking of trustee of the Victory Funds.
Previously he was an Executive Vice its UKISA business division and Group Finance Director.
Qualified President and member of the office of the CEO of GE Capital, as a chartered accountant, his prior experience includes positions having spent 13 years with The General Electric Company, Inc. at Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, Fidelity Guaranty Insurance 1 Company a subsidiary of GE Capital, Barclays BZW and Eagle 5.
He is COO Retail, Asia and Latin America, Independent non-executive director of COFRA Group in Switzerland and also serves as a non-executive Mike joined the Board as an independent non-executive director director of Man Group plc and Bank of Ireland.
He is a qualified actuary and was formerly Principal Consulting Actuary and Head of Life practice at the 2 2.
A. F. C. A. M. C. T. consulting actuarial firm, Milliman, from 2002 to 2009.
Prior to Group Chief Executive that, he had been the senior partner at the practice from 1995, Julian has been Group Chief Executive of Old Mutual plc since having joined one of its predecessor organisations as a recently September 2008.
Julian joined Old Mutual in August 2000 as qualified actuary in 1971.
He is a past Member of Council and Group Finance Director, moving on to become CEO of Skandia Vice Chairman of the Institute of Actuaries, past Chairman of following its purchase by Old Mutual in February 2006.
Prior to the International Association of Consulting Actuaries and past joining Old Mutual he was Group Finance Director of Sun Life & member of the Board of Actuarial Standards.
He is also a nonProvincial Holdings plc and previously Chief Financial Officer of executive director of MGM Assurance and the Scottish Equitable Aon UK Holdings Limited.
Senior independent non-executive director Group Finance Director Rudi has been senior independent non-executive director Philip has been Group Finance Director since November 2008. since May 2008, having served on the Board since February He was previously Group Finance Director of Prudential plc 2002.
He also chairs the Remuneration Committee.
Rudi is from May 2000 until March 2008.
Prior to joining Prudential, he Chairman of Medinvest International SCA, Luxembourg.
He is was a partner in Arthur Andersen from 1993 to 2000.
He has also a member of the boards of the LGT Foundation, Common been Chairman of the 100 Group of Finance Directors, a Purpose International Limited and Prospect Publishing, founding member and trustee of the CFO Forum of European Insurance Company Finance Directors, and a member of the IASBs Insurance Working Group.
He is a member of the Code Committee of the Takeover Panel.
1 2 3 4 5 142 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 1 of the Governing Council of the Centre for the Study of Financial 9.
Innovation and of the International Advisory Board of Oxford Independent non-executive director Analytica.
He served previously as a member of the Executive Bongani has been an independent non-executive director since Board and Chief Executive, Private Banking, of UBS AG, and April 2007.
He became Chief Financial Officer of the South before that he was Group Treasurer and a member of the African mining group, Anglo Platinum Limited, in January 2009, Executive Committee of Midland Bank plc.
having previously been Finance Director of the South African electricity utility group, Eskom Holdings Limited, from 2004.
Prior to joining Eskom, he had been Treasurer and CFO of Shell southern Africa.
He is currently Chairman of the South African Independent non-executive director Revenue Services Receiver of Revenue Audit Committee.
Russell has been an independent non-executive director of the Company since June 2004.
He is Chairman of Anglogold Ashanti Limited, a member of the Conseil fide Surveillance of 10.
Paris-Orlans, SA and a non-executive director of a number of Independent non-executive director companies in the Rothschild Group.
He previously served on the Lars has been an independent non-executive director of boards of English China Clays plc, Wassall plc, Northern Foods the Company since November 2006.
He is also Chairman plc and Express Dairies plc.
His career began in the Finance of Skandia Insurance Company Limited, Hakon Invest AB, Division of the Anglo American Corporation of South Africa The Free Enterprise Foundation and Nringslivets Brskommitt Limited in Johannesburg.
In the 1970s he was General Manager Industry and Commerce Stock Exchange Committee.
He is Corporate Finance of Capel Court Corporation in Melbourne.
Vice Chairman of the Swedish Corporate Governance Board He joined Rothschild in 1977 and was Head of Corporate and of the Third AP Fund as well as a non-executive director of Finance from 1991 to 1996.
F. C. A. Non-executive director Independent non-executive director Reuel has been a non-executive director of the Company since Richard has been an independent non-executive director January 2006 and Chairman of Nedbank Group since May since September 2007.
He chairs the Group Audit and Risk 2006.
Reuel is Chairman of Aka Capital, which is 25% owned Committee.
Richard is Chairman of Bradford & Bingley plc, by Old Mutual South Africa and the single largest participant Northern Rock Asset Management plc and BrightHouse Group in Nedbanks Corporate Client Scheme established as part of Limited and is a non-executive director of British Land Group plc.
He is also a non-executive He was Group Chief Executive of Alliance & Leicester plc from director of Nampak Limited, Protea Hospitality Holdings Limited 2002 until his retirement in 2007 and is a former Vice President of and Corobrik Pty Limited.
His previous appointments include the British Bankers Association and former Chairman of Halfords Chairmanship of Eskom and non-executive directorships of Group plc.
Glaxo Wellcome SA, IBM SA, Vodacom, the JSE, JCI, Standard Bank Group and Liberty Life.
6 7 8 9 10 11 Old Mutual plc 143 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read
