RISK and RESPOnSIBILITY CuSTOmERS Consolidating our products to offer our Providing excellent service is critical to retaining customers a clearer and more efficient service.
our customers through tough and uncertain In 2010 we will continue refining our products and economic times.
businesses as we try to give our customers value for money and transparency, while offering the financial protection, advice and support that they need.
RESPOnSIBLE BuSInESS POLICY: CuSTOmERS So how did we address these core customer issues in 2009?
The Groups ability to manage and grow its customers investments is Providing regular communication a source of its value as a business, business units must: We need to make sure our customers understand Endeavour to deal with customers in a way that is open, honest how we have responded to the challenges that and fair: the market situation has posed and how they are affected by what has happened.
In 2009 we held Give the appropriate advice where permitted, to grow customers about 25% more meetings with the companies that assets in a way that meets their needs: invest in us, compared with 2008.
We expect a Sell and promote the Groups financial products in a way that is similar level of interaction in 2010.
Across the Group, clear and transparent: we made sure our customers were kept uptodate with emerging issues and latest developments.
Ensure that they provide clear information to customers about In most of our business units we have reviewed how their funds are invested: our customer communication strategies and Facilitate and listen to customer feedback and act on it: expanded our activities to include additional emails, enewsletters, seminars, blogs, meetings, videos, Rectify any errors that affect customers as quickly as possible Q&A sessions and letters from CEOs.
These tools that are identified by the Group and are within its control.
have enabled us to explain to our customers how our businesses have been affected by the financial crisis, specific portfolio developments, market changes and performance across the year.
We provide over 12 million customers internationally with longterm saving products, asset management, Providing financial advice and banking and shortterm insurance products and assistance to our customers services.
Old Mutual has a long history of providing financial tools, training and advice to corporate and individual If we are to manage their financial requirements well, customers to help increase financial literacy levels, we must understand their needs and provide them improve financial management and help our with accurate advice, the most suitable products customers to understand our products and see and good service.
This means working with all our how to benefit from using them.
Providing this customers personal and business in a way that support across the Group was more important is open, honest and respectful.
At a time when the than ever in 2009. wider financial sector is under close scrutiny, this is more important than ever.
Our customer service centres provide appropriate advice across all our business units.
When relevant, We continue striving to deliver high levels of we provide free seminars to help advisers prepare customer service.
All our businesses have clearly for changes in the regulatory environment.
In many communicated processes enabling customers to of our businesses we provide additional support give feedback on the services we provide, so that and free management seminars for our small we can respond to any problems promptly and business customers.
In 2009, for example, Skandia effectively.
UK launched a new online financial planning tool In 2009, key elements of good customer service enabling advisers to demonstrate how to maximise included: taxefficient withdrawals from collective investments and investment bonds.
Making sure our customers were uptodate with developments within our business and Improving product offering across the sector: and service In 2009 we reviewed the products and services we Providing financial advice at a time when offer across many of our business units to ensure customers were most likely to need it: that what we offer our customers is simple and efficient, and creates wealth over the longterm.
132 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 This process is never complete, but we made CuSTOmERS progress during the year and it will continue EmPLOYEES dEVISE CuSTOmER across the Group in 2010.
FOCuSEd ImPROVEmEnTS Skandia Investment Group has undertaken a project which involves reviewing Skandia Investment Skandia has turned to its Management Limiteds SIML fund range in the UK.
employees in Sweden for The bulk of the project has been completed, with ideas on how to improve the merging of seven funds and closing of 15 funds its products and services.
and share classes, to produce a clear and cohesive This has encouraged the fund range.
Within this project, Skandia UK and whole business to focus on Skandia International have also taken measures efficiency and quality service, to simplify and reduce the number of inhouse life with hundreds of practical and pension funds.
As a result, the number of UK ideas being put into practice.
funds has been reduced by one third of its original For example, customer service teams have agreed on new size.
This means that the business is focused on roles where individuals take responsibility for gaining a deeper delivering performance by managing more money knowledge of a specific product: they then share their knowledge through fewer funds creating a more streamlined with the rest of the team, particularly when that product changes.
By bringing together existing funds, we The scheme has also led to the development of an intranet site are in a greater position to deliver more value for where all employees can share their ideas, track what every team is customers: managing fewer funds with larger assets doing and see how actions are making a difference to customers.
enables economies of scale that can be passed on Our employees can really see what a difference and contribution to clients.
We have cut some annual management they make to the business.
charges by about 25% which, together with the adoption of a more flexible investment approach, It really encourages employees to get directly involved in making has been very positive for our clients.
Preventing financial crime Lena Hk, Information Manager of Skandiabanken and Reducing the Groups vulnerability to financial crime Skandia Private is a central component of our risk programme.
It is an area on which we continue to focus our attention, having set up a dedicated team at Group level in Recognition for our service to our 2007.
The team focuses on important risk and customers regulatory areas such as money laundering, bribery Across the Group we work hard to provide and corruption, whistleblowing and sanctions choice and flexibility to our customers, whose compliance across the Group.
We continue to develop innovative, value for money and transparent savings During 2009 we worked closely with all our and investment products.
In 2009, our reputation for businesses to maintain vigilance in this area.
good customer service and the strong relationships We emphasised the importance of engaging senior we have with our customers earned us a number of management across the Group with our financial awards, including: crime specialists to fully understand the risks and responsibilities associated with financial crime.
Old Mutual South Africa won the Best South The Groups Audit and Risk Committee also African Customer Service Centre award at received annual updates on the state of our financial the African Stars Awards and the Longterm crime controls.
Insurance Industry Service Excellence award from the Ask Afrika Orange Index: Our Group Information Security Working Group, consisting of representatives from across the In Norway, Skandiabanken was ranked by EPSI business units, met four times in 2009 to share Rating Extended Performance Satisfaction security best practice and identify common areas Index as the best customer service provider in need of specific focus.
Additional networks across all industries: are also in place between Group businesses that Skandia International won Best Commitment share particular crime issues, such as Nedbank to Service at the International Investment Fund and Skandiabanken.
At Nedbank we are exploring and Product Awards: various biometric solutions for preventing identity theft and deterring bank robberies.
Learnings from Skandia:BSAM won the Best Customer Service this will be shared where relevant across the Group.
award from the China Information Associate and China Service Trade Associate.
Old Mutual plc 133 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read
