IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION Exposure to diverse geographies helps LTS profitability in difficult markets LTS reported strong results, with improved margins and IFRS operating profits up 52%.
Funds under management grew strongly, with positive net client cash flows.
Sales for the whole of LTS were down only 6% for the full year and returned to growth in the second half rising 5% compared to the same period in 2008.
Emerging Markets sales were better in the first half than the second, reflecting the later timing of the recession in South Africa.
Wealth Management sales performance in the second half was particularly strong as was Nordic, with very good NCCF and funds under management.
US Life sales were as planned.
LTS Adjusted operating profit by division Adjusted operating profit AOP m Emerging Markets 446 2009 Nordic 62 685m Retail Europe 22 Wealth Management 106 US Life 49 IFRS basis pre-tax Annual premium equivalent by division Life assurance sales APE m Emerging Markets 393 2009 Nordic 235 30 30 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc Retail Europe 67 000m Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Wealth Management 617 US Life 49 BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS The Long-Term Savings Division LTS, brings all of the Groups long-term savings businesses together.
The vision of LTS is aligned to that of the Groups vision, which is to be our customers most trusted partner passionate about helping them achieve their lifetime financial goals.
We intend to achieve this vision by being the leader in the management of personal finances within our selected markets, for predominantly middle income and affluent customers.
KEY FACTS Adjusted operating profit AOP Funds under management FUM 2009 2009 685m 112.2bn 2008: 452m 2008: 91bn Net client cash flow NCCF Return on equity ROE bn % 09 1.9 09 15.2 08 1.3 08 9.9 Number employed Some of our brands 22,269 LTS Executive Committee 1 Jonas Jonsson 3 Chris Chapman 5 Paul Hanratty CEO, Retail Europe CEO, US Life CEO, Long-term Savings and Chairman, Old Mutual 2 Kuseni Dlamini 4 Bob Head South Africa CEO, Emerging Markets CEO, Wealth Management and Old Mutual South Africa 6 Bertil Hult CEO, Nordic 1 2 3 4 5 6 Old Mutual plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED By leveraging our expertise and capabilities, identifying and delivering synergies and deploying our technology more effectively we will unlock value for customers and shareholders.
Paul Hanratty CEO, Long-Term Savings and Chairman, Old Mutual South Africa LONG-TERM SAVINGS Paul Hanratty CEO, LTS Kuseni Dlamini Bertil Hult Jonas Jonsson Bob Head Chris Chapman Rose Keanly Steven Levin CEO, Nordic CEO, Retail CEO, Wealth CEO, US Life Head, LEAN Head of CEO, Emerging Markets Europe Management Operations Product Development Appointed: March 2010 Leveraging the core expertise and capabilities Long-Term Savings Overview that we have within our businesses: In March 2009 we announced that one of our Ensuring more effective deployment of five strategic priorities was to Leverage scale in technology and platform: and our long-term savings businesses.
In order to Identifying and exploiting synergies.
achieve this objective we announced the creation of the Long-Term Savings Division LTS, bringing The LTS Executive Committee includes the CEOs of all of the Groups long-term savings businesses all the LTS Business Units Emerging Markets, Retail together for the first time.
The vision of LTS is to Europe, Nordic, Wealth Management and US Life.
be our customers most trusted partner in helping This structure enables rigorous discussion within LTS them achieve their lifetime financial goals, within and brings to the surface areas where synergies can our selected markets.
We intend to achieve be gained and capabilities replicated.
this objective through the unlocking of value for customers and shareholders by: 32 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Funds under management 43.5bn in Emerging Markets What is LTS?
Highlights of the past year LTS is Old Mutual's long-term savings business.
2009 was a challenging, yet exciting, year for LTS.
This includes both life and non-life investment Our goal as we began to develop the strategy products, which we provide to help our customers for the LTS division was to create more value for improve their financial health or to manage their customers and shareholders from combining personal finances.
Across our various businesses, the LTS businesses.
As part of this strategy, we we have real competitive advantage as a result of exited Australia, Chile and the Eastern European the following: countries where we did not have a meaningful presence.
In addition, we restructured our Wealth 1.
Access to customers Management and Retail Europe businesses for We have excellent access to customers through a optimal performance and combined China, India, range of different distribution channels, which are Colombia, Mexico, OMSA and the Rest of Africa into founded on long and trusted relationships.
an Emerging Markets business unit to leverage the 2.
Excellent customer solutions extensive knowledge of emerging markets already in We have built up a reputation for having excellent existence in OMSA.
solutions which meet the needs of our customers.
Financial performance These are generally tied to the provision of advice, See Group Finance Directors report page 16. whether by us, or via independent distribution channels.
Looking forward to 2010 2010 is going to be a key year for LTS with our 3.
Scale focus centred around the delivery of our strategy The scale of our LTS business allows us to achieve specifically in relation to the cost and revenue significant economies, including process and IT synergies identified, the delivery of the Wealth efficiencies, which permit us to deliver excellent Management strategy as included in its section customer service at a lower cost.
below, and continuing to leverage our skills and 4.
Delivering returns consistent with needs capabilities.
We will prepare each of the businesses Across our LTS business we have a common in the LTS division for growth and optimal approach to delivering investment returns for performance in their respective markets, and while customers.
This is about delivering value and returns the year ahead will be undoubtedly be testing as consistent with their needs.
Customer focus is the the uncertainty of the markets continues, we are hallmark of the LTS business.
We believe it provides confident that the LTS businesses will not only us with a competitive advantage as it builds trust exhibit the resilience evidenced by the 2009 financial amongst customers and can be related back to their results, but also produce a strong performance in specific needs and risk profiles.
2010 as a result of the newly-focused strategy.
The rationale for the business Within LTS, returns and growth rates are high.
It is well-balanced in terms of its financial characteristics, having a mix of high return, cash-generative businesses OMSA, Namibia and Colombia, high profit growth businesses Wealth Management and Nordic, and high embedded value growth businesses European Retail, Africa, Asia and Mexico.
The overall result of managing these businesses together is to generate a good cash return coupled with strong profit and embedded value growth over the long-term.
In addition, there is a great opportunity to increase returns by identifying and further developing synergies across the Group.
Old Mutual plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED Emerging Markets LONG-TERM SAVINGS: EMERGING MARKETS Emerging Markets New Markets Rest of Africa South Africa Old Mutual Investment Administration OMLACSA Group South Africa OMSTA OMIGSA Latin America Corporate Joint ventures in Retail Mass China & India Retail Affluent LTS Emerging Markets provides innovative financial solutions that meets the needs of international LTS solutions addressing both protection and savings investors.
The investment boutiques include: Emerging Markets Nordic needs in 10 countries with a combined population a number of specialist equity businesses: Retail Europe of over 2.6 billion in Africa, Asia and Latin America.
a fixed income capability in Futuregrowth: Wealth Management Our biggest business is in South Africa, where we are a number of businesses which blend multiple US Life the largest financial services company as measured asset classes to create risk profiled solutions by assets under management.
We also serve other for investors: African countries through our operations in Namibia, an index-tracker capability in Dibanisa Fund Zimbabwe, Malawi, Kenya and Swaziland.
Under Managers: New Markets we provide financial services to Latin a property asset management and property America through Skandia Colombia and Mexico, management capability in Old Mutual and in Asia through joint ventures Old Mutual Kotak Investment Group Property Investments Mahindra in India and Skandia:BSAM in China.
OMIGPI : Our business comprises asset management, life a multi-manager capability through SYmmETRY, insurance, banking and short-term insurance.
In which creates portfolios for institutional investors life insurance we provide wealth management, blending best of breed asset managers across investment products, retirement savings, life multiple asset classes: insurance and disability insurance to individuals and a private equity and infrastructure investment groups in all 10 countries in which we operate.
capability: and In South Africa we provide asset management Old Mutual Specialised Finance OMSFIN, services through Old Mutual Investment Group South which is active in corporate lending, securities Africas OMIGSA boutiques.
OMIGSAs investment lending and structured products.
boutiques collectively span all key asset classes We offer life insurance services in South Africa and employ unique strategies that meet the different through Old Mutual Life Assurance Company needs and risk profiles of their customers.
This gives South Africa OMLACSA.
This has three distinctive our customers access to a comprehensive range of business units: savings and investment solutions.
We are expanding Retail Affluent business provides life, disability, our reach outside the traditional South African retirement annuities, savings and investment customer base by offering property, infrastructure, products to individuals earning more than exchange traded funds ETF and hedge-fund R12,000 per month.
Our multi-channel 34 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 distribution approach gives us extensive reach.
businesses in the industry: we have a higher Retail Affluent has 25% market share of its credit rating than any of our competitors.
2.9 million target market of customers.
In 2009 We have the largest distribution capability we got R2.1 billion Life APE sales from all in the South African long-term industry: our distribution channels and R24.3 billion non-life combination of tied agents, independent inflows.
financial advisers, bank distribution, corporate Retail Mass business meets the financial advisers and direct distribution enables us to services needs of the mass market, which is reach a full spectrum of potential customers.
defined as all those individuals who earn a In the rest of Africa, our businesses dominate monthly personal income of less than R12,000: the local markets in which they operate.
an estimated 10.2 million individuals in South Excellent risk management and sophisticated Africa.
In 2009 we received R1.5 billion APE from product design capabilities make us a profitable all our channels.
In the last five years, Retail Mass one-stop financial services provider with leading doubled its APE driven by demographic shifts products across all the customer segments making it the fastest growing segment.
on the number of customers we have a market In Latin America we are a premier player in share of 37% if we only take the traditional life managing corporate voluntary pensions, with a company competitors into account and 24% if rapidly growing market share.
we incorporate all players including banks in In China we are the market leader in unit-linked this space.
Corporate segment provides investment, Business model retirement, insurance, structured products and Our current business is designed to maximise advisory services to corporate, institutional and assets under management AUM and margin while parastatal customers.
are customised depending on the investors We maximise AUM by: requirements.
These include smoothed bonus portfolios where we have 70% of the Growing our sales through growing our market, absolute growth portfolios, structured distribution ahead of our competitors, solutions, annuity products which account segmenting our customer base to service for more than 60% of the SA market, group affluent, mass and corporate customers assurance products as well as third-party asset appropriately, and providing class-leading management.
We offer other multi-managed products.
asset management solutions and administer Providing attractive investment performance, a range of retirement schemes for corporates aided by our model of having multiple boutiques and umbrella arrangements.
Many of these with their own specialist focus.
schemes are defined contribution and openEnsuring that money does not leave the architecture.
Through Old Mutual Actuaries and company unnecessarily.
We seek high Consultants OMAC we offer advisory services persistency though good customer management to 150 sizeable retirement funds as well as and service, strong investment performance and medical schemes.
sales force training to manage sales quality.
We maximise margin by leveraging our risk In the rest of Africa most of our life products are management and product development capabilities distributed by tied agents.
In Zimbabwe we offer to yield differentiated products where we can make short-term insurance through RM Insurance a good margin.
For commoditised products we Company and a range of banking services through leverage our brand and distribution footprint to reach Central African Building Society CABS, Zimbabwes more customers than our competitors.
As at the largest building society.
end of December we had 2,535 tied agents serving In Latin America we serve a mix of retail affluent, the Retail Affluent segment of OMSA.
Our key retail mass and corporate customers with an openproduct offerings include Greenlight, a flexible architecture of international and domestic unit trust and comprehensive range of life, disability, and funds.
In China we mainly serve the affluent market future-needs cover.
A range of retirement savings and in India we mainly serve retail mass.
plans, annuities, investment and income products are provided through different wrappers which We continue to build on our strengths: include the Max, Investment Frontiers and Galaxy Old Mutual South Africa has a strong balance product ranges.
sheet and is one of the best capitalised Old Mutual plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED For OMSAs Retail Mass segment, channels agreements for business units and is directly linked to LTS Emerging Markets to market include salaried tied agents selling how they are rewarded.
Nordic predominantly through worksite marketing, Group Sophisticated risk management processes ensure Retail Europe Schemes, independent financial advisers IFAs, that we deliver what we promise to customers.
Wealth Management direct channels, partnerships with other retail chain Our capital adequacy reserves CAR ensure that US Life stores and banks.
We offer savings, retirement and we can weather adversity, and we add a significant life cover and funeral cover products.
In 2009 we margin to statutory requirements so that we can meet started offering lending products to this market substantial deviations.
The life company in South through Old Mutual Finance.
At the end of 2009 Africa currently holds at least 1.25 times statutory we had 2,694 tied agents.
CAR as a minimum internal CAR, which, together In Latin America, we distribute primarily through with some strategic holdings such as investments in tied financial planners and in China through multiple Nedbank and M&F, is not distributed to shareholders.
We also determine economic capital the minimum capital needed to meet worst-case loss in economic In the rest of Africa most of the life products are value, due to risks arising from business activities distributed by tied agents.
and working to integrate that with the existing capital In South Africa, in 2009, the total contribution to Life management framework.
Staff incentives are based APE sales from agents in Retail Mass was 76% and on economic profit.
Our distribution through bank financial advisers Generally we achieve higher margins in riskier within Nedbank constitutes an important channel.
markets and segments, or where competition is Our key relationships with Nedbank and Mutual and lower.
Margin is also affected by liability profile.
Federal M&F are delivering real value.
In Namibia and We make higher margins on insurance contracts Swaziland we have a bancassurance arrangement than on pure investment contracts.
We launched the OM Investment Credit Card in South Africa with Nedbank support and We manage expenses tightly, and costs per are currently reviewing the possibility of transactional policy are well below those in developed markets.
We distribute some of our Customer service, technology and policy products through Nedbank Financial Planners, administration service for the Retail Affluent, which delivered R167 million APE of sales in 2009.
Retail Mass and Corporate businesses in OMSA Procurement synergies with Nedbank and M&F are and some of the other African businesses are delivering cost savings on both sides.
We will continue provided by Old Mutual Service Technology and to leverage our relationship with M&F to grow the Administration OMSTA.
We established OMSTA value of our business.
in 2003 to improve customer service and provide IT capabilities while substantially reducing costs Product development through economies of scale.
OMSTA services Among the most distinguishing features of all Old Mutuals customers, intermediaries and Old Mutuals products are their simplicity and retirement fund members across our full product transparency, so we take care to follow this range through our extensive network of service philosophy diligently when designing products and centres, call centres and internet.
economies while enhancing service quality, and we We use a host of surveys and focussed groups to are looking to use its capability across the other LTS ensure that we continue to deliver on our promises divisions to benefit from its low cost base and boost and meet our customers needs.
LTSs competitiveness in other geographies.
Experience has shown that we also develop Our business plan sets delivery targets that we products relatively cheaply when compared to track monthly.
The strategy development cycle, competitors and that we are quick to market: running from November to May, feeds into the thereby enabling us to boost our return to business planning cycle which runs from June to shareholders.
During the strategy development cycle, the management team sets the strategy and In line with international trends and the need provides context and direction to guide business to ensure products are appropriate for todays planning.
We set both financial and non-financial environment, we are now continuously developing objectives for a three year cycle.
Delivery against investment and savings products which the agreed plan is reviewed monthly, quarterly have significantly lower charges and capital and annually and we take remedial action where requirements, increased transparency and flexibility.
The plan forms part of the performance 36 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5,229 tied distribution intermediaries in South Africa cartel activity, and new corporate governance Market overview rules brought significant changes relating to Board South Africa membership and remuneration.
The impact of recession on the jobs market was much worse than anticipated.
Nearly eight hundred Future regulations that will present opportunities thousand workers lost their jobs.
Local equity and threats to us are retirement fund reform and the markets followed a similar pattern to international proposed introduction of a National Health Insurance markets, with a dramatic fall at the beginning of Scheme.
The government is working on reforming the year followed by a significant recovery in H2.
the retirement fund industry within a broader The All Share Index rose by 29% in 2009, with framework of an integrated social security system, dramatic variances in sector performances.
Inflation aiming to secure retirement savings.
fell, from a peak of 8.6% in March, to 6.3% in Other Emerging Markets December.
The rand appreciated by 22% against In the rest of Africa, economies are expected to the US dollar and 14% against the British pound have achieved positive growth in 2009.
According mainly as a result of a narrowing trade deficit.
to Central Bank of Kenya, Kenya is expected to The local financial services sector was severely grow between 2.5% and 3.0%, while Swaziland is affected by the South African recession as job losses expected to grow by 0.4% in 2009. led to a decline in disposable incomes.
Competition In Latin America economic growth was mixed, has continued to increase as banks, life assurers with Mexican real GDP growth of 2.9% during and asset managers increase their product offerings Q3 signalling that recovery has started while the in an effort to grow their share of customer wallets.
However, In addition, new market entrants unburdened by Colombian GDP was expected to grow strongly legacy issues are challenging existing practices.
in Q4 and we anticipate overall positive growth The overall savings rate in South Africa remains low, in 2009.
The Government of Mexico is facing a with a large proportion of savings being channelled decline in revenues and therefore it passed a new into non-financial investment vehicles such as tax law for 2010 which primarily raises income tax to property.
Demographic shifts have seen a fastcorporations and individuals.
growing black middle-income market accumulating Equity performance was mixed across the rest of savings and wealth while the baby-boomer our emerging markets.
The Kenyan NSE All Share market enters the wealth-decumulation phase.
Index declined by 2.4% in 2009 and the Malawian The economic growth of recent years has boosted All Share Index dropped by 15.4%, while equities the emerging and middle-income market segments, rose 43% in Mexico and 53% in Colombia.
presenting us with significant opportunity.
We see further opportunities in the mass market, created Inflation declined across many countries.
In by growth in customer numbers and income as well Zimbabwe the introduction of a multi-foreign as low penetration of financial service solutions.
currency regime helped to deliver lower inflation.
However, in 2009 this growth was threatened by In Mexico the central bank left rates unchanged at customers high levels of indebtedness, which 4.5% in November as inflation had declined below resulted in higher rates of early policy termination.
During Q4 2009 Colombias central bank reduced interest rates by 50 bps to The regulatory regime has been evolving to 3.5% as inflationary had dropped to 2%.
secure greater transparency and protection for consumers over the past 10 years.
New commission Political stability generally increased across the rest regulations for savings policies were implemented of Africa.
Peaceful elections were held in Malawi in from 1 January 2009, moving from fully upfront May and in Namibia in November.
Zimbabwe has commission to part upfront and part spread over the seen some political stability since the formation duration of a policy.
This was a profound change for of the all-inclusive government, although there the long-term insurance sector and we implemented are still outstanding issues arising from the Global adviser retention strategies to ease advisers Political Agreement on which it is based.
Kenya transition to the new regime.
The government has remained calm and is busy with constitutional also introduced a Consumer Protection Bill aimed reforms: however tensions in the alliance remain.
at establishing national norms and standards Strategy for consumer protection and the Protection of Our strategy for growth aims to transform us from Personal Information Bill which will affect the way a traditional life insurer to a leading provider of we collect, store, process and use customer data.
investment and savings solutions to every South Amendments to the Competition Act included African.
It will require us to: personal accountability for individuals who instigate Old Mutual plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED Use our strong operating position in South HOW WE DO BUSINESS Africa to expand selectively further into Africa SHARING ECONOMIC BENEFIT IN this is a source of immense growth potential, and in the parts of Africa where we already SOUTH AFRICA operate we intend to grow by optimising existing operations and developing wider Old Mutual is committed to putting broad-based Black Economic financial services Empowerment BEE into action.
Ensuring that our economic benefits Grow the value of our business in Latin America and opportunities are spread equitably across South African society by building the brand, sharing best practice with is part of our procurement policy.
In 2009, OMSA Group Procurement our South African operations, extending product introduced a quarterly BEE procurement report collating information ranges and expanding to reach a wider range of from across Old Mutual SA.
We are also working closely with customers.
Masisizane to establish BEE supplier accreditation and supplier development frameworks.
Operational highlights 2009 South Africa The way we work with our suppliers is important for building strong OMSA has committed to transform itself from a and mutually beneficial relationships so that we participate actively in traditional life assurer to a modern savings and the economic transformation of South Africa.
Heidi Kincaid, Head of investment business.
This journey has necessitated Procurement, OMSA a shift in focus and step forward in performance across all areas of the business, and we have made great strides in leveraging technology to gain Become a consistently top performing asset competitive advantage, reduce costs and raise manager in every asset class creating a service levels.
compelling profile for OMIGSA boutiques, improving our investment performance, We continue to improve our customer value expanding the boutique offering and growing proposition by enhancing our product offering and the number of boutiques to occupy niche by becoming more customer-centric.
In June we positions launched a credit card account that lets users invest Build a leading investment brand we are for the future every time they shop.
The relaunched already seen as the No1 long-term insurance Severe Illness Benefit on Greenlight was well brand in our markets and are increasingly received.
We launched a new bonus series for the recognised as a leading savings and investment Absolute Growth Portfolios to enhance the product brand attractiveness to Corporate customers following Broaden our offerings to meet customers negative bonus smoothing account balances after needs updating and improving our current the market fall in Q1 2009. product range and expanding it to include We aim to give our customers outstanding long-term products aimed at the Foundation Market investment performance and remain committed to Grow access to customers and distribution our embedded boutique asset management model.
ahead of our competitors this is the key to At the 2009 Raging Bull Awards, Old Mutual Income competitive advantage in our market Fund was named Best Domestic Fixed Interest Maintain cost efficiency operational excellence Income Fund and the Old Mutual Mining and and cost control will enable us to offer our Resources Fund was named Best Domestic Equity customers affordable and competitive products Resources & Basic Industries Fund.
at a sustainable margin, and through OMSTA we will continue reducing the operational cost We have continued to focus on selectively growing of the business, leveraging IT and improving our distribution footprint by retaining and attracting customer service to provide a solid platform for intermediaries and building relationships with them.
growth Despite the economic challenges we expanded Position Old Mutual as the leading South African our tied distribution from 5,181 to 5,229 advisors corporate citizen in financial services OMSA in 2009.
In August we gained access to a niche has always played a leading role in supporting market of private and retirement fund customers the economy and people of South Africa, and by acquiring ACSIS.
In its first full year of trading we will continue doing this through broadOld Mutual Finance expanded its distribution reach based initiatives that create opportunities for and had 63 branches by the year-end.
disadvantaged people and businesses alike 38 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 We successfully integrated Futuregrowth into dollar, with the closing rand rate rising against those the rest of the asset management business, currencies by 13% and 22% respectively.
The with remarkably high retention of key investment impact of the economic volatility led to an increase professionals and customers.
in the share of risk product sales across our product lines relative to savings and investment products.
In South Africa we reviewed our shareholder portfolio to hold more cash and reduce exposure to equities.
South Africa constitutes approximately 94% of the As a result our capital position remained strong: IFRS adjusted operating profit of our Emerging the ratio of admissible capital for the life company Markets Business Unit.
to the statutory capital adequacy requirement was South Africa 4.1 times, compared to 3.8 times at the end of 2008.
In South Africa, our business has been resilient Other Emerging Markets with strong profitability and high return on allocated To extend our product offering we introduced capital in very difficult economic conditions, with Retail Mass products in Kenya and we have started our like-for-like sales on an APE basis up marginally expanding nationally utilizing innovative forms compared to prior year after excluding Nedgroup of distribution and money collection including Life sales in 2008.
We continued to invest in our cell phone.
distribution capability and as a result, we grew market share in our core product ranges and are In Zimbabwe, we successfully managed the transition well positioned to benefit from the recovery in to a dollarised environment and our strategy to consumer confidence.
Nevertheless, the demand for maintain this business through the political and our products during 2009 was adversely affected by economic difficulties is starting to bear fruit.
We are in rising unemployment and generally low consumer the process of upgrading our infrastructure, obtaining confidence across the economy.
These factors, operational efficiencies and launching new products.
among others, have put pressure on disposable We are well positioned in Zimbabwe given our broad income, resulting in a number of customers range of financial services.
This poor persistency In Swaziland we completed our first full year of experience adversely affected the claims experience operation and also launched a range of Corporate in the year.
However, through continued investment, products.
we improved the service levels to our customers.
This is evidenced by the number of service awards In Namibia we developed and rolled out an we continue to win.
We were awarded first place innovative lending product.
In addition we for service excellence in the long-term assurance successfully implemented a new retirement category in the 2009 Ask Afrika Orange Index administration system.
national surveys as well as the 2009 award for Best In Malawi we made great strides in developing a National Call Centre.
We continued expanding our local asset management capability and this has distribution footprint by retaining and attracting laid the foundation for unit trusts the first to be intermediaries and growing our relationships provided in Malawi.
Despite the economic challenges, we have expanded our tied distribution from 5,181 Performance in 2009 intermediaries in 2008 to 5,229 intermediaries Excellent results is a tough operating environment in 2009, and we successfully completed the For key figures see highlights table on page 40. acquisition of a 100% share in ACSIS, a South Overview African asset management firm, in August, thereby Emerging Markets economies rallied strongly during gaining access to a niche market of private and the second half of 2009, benefiting from a weaker retirement fund customers.
2009 was also the first dollar and higher commodity prices after the credit full year of trading of Old Mutual Finance OMF, our crisis.
South Africa experienced a comparatively new retail loan business, which has expanded our modest and short recession in the first half of 2009, distribution reach by establishing 65 OMF branches but returned to growth in the third quarter and in 2009. ended the year with positive quarterly GDP growth.
In June 2009 we sold our shares in the Nedgroup Life We expect this momentum to continue into 2010. and BOE Private Client joint ventures to Nedbank.
The South African equity market enjoyed a very As a result we now exclude Nedgroup Life sales from strong final quarter as local and foreign investors our life sales and embedded value for both 2009 and moved into equities.
Growth also resumed in Latin 2008 sales and margin numbers.
However, for IFRS America and Asia from the third quarter onwards.
and AOP profit reporting, these businesses have still Markets rallied strongly during the second half of the been included for the first 5 months to 1 June 2009 year and emerging markets currencies generally and for the full year in 2008. appreciated strongly against both the pound and Old Mutual plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED Highlights Rm 2009 2008 % Change 3,263 Long-term business adjusted operating profit 3,398 4% Asset management adjusted operating profit 958 921 4% Long-term investment return LTIR 1,658 2,032 18% Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis pre-tax 5,879 6,351 7% Return on allocated capital OMSA only 26.0% 27.8% Operating MCEV earnings covered business post-tax 2,794 5,237 47% Return on embedded value covered business post-tax 9.8% 14.4% Life assurance sales APE 5,178 5,105 1% Unit trust mutual fund sales 36,421 41,418 12% PVNBP 37,339 36,675 2% Value of new business 853 813 5% APE margin 16% 16% PVNBP margin 2.3% 2.2% Net client cash flows NCCF Rbn 20.5 27.3 25% Highlights Rbn 2009 2008 % Change Total funds under management 518.4 552.6 6% Of which, SA client funds under management 448.7 443.0 1% Excludes Nedgroup Life sales.
The comparative including Nedgroup Life are as follows: APE: R5,537 million: PVNBP: R37,959 million: VNB: R934 million: APE margin: 17%: PVNBP margin: 2.5% Other Emerging Markets will significantly boost sales.
We also intend to tap Namibia into the expertise in South Africa to develop a range We achieved remarkable results in a year of of transferable and suitable product-types such as immensely tough trading conditions.
Sales of the smoothed bonus and umbrella products.
recurring premium products, which is core to the life Asia company, ended 12% up on the prior year.
There Old Mutuals operations in Asia consist of a joint was a swing to investment business and we grew venture with the Beijing State-owned Asset our Unit Trust sales by 62% from 2008.
The bulk Management Company in China Skandia:BSAM of our Unit Trust sales went into the money market which sells unit-linked and universal life products, fund, which is competing effectively with similar and a 26% share in Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual funds run by banking institutions.
in India, a life assurance joint venture with the We developed and rolled out an innovative lending Indian-listed financial services company, the Kotak product.
In addition, we successfully implemented a Mahindra Group.
new retirement fund administration system.
India accounts for the bulk of our Asian sales, Rest of Africa with APE of R1.8 billion INR10.3 billion and, We continue to manage our investments in the Rest despite our business there growing faster than the of Africa for value, although they remain small relative rest of the sector during the first quarter of 2009, to our profile in South Africa in 2009. sales were down 26% in rand terms from the 2008 comparative 19% in local currency terms.
Latin America Its strategy has subsequently changed to focus on Whilst our businesses in Latin America are small more profitable growth, as opposed to pure revenue relative to others in the Emerging Markets Business generation.
Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual is still Unit, we have had an excellent profit growth of 133% growing at an encouraging rate on a relative basis in rand terms in very difficult economic conditions.
and now occupies 10th position in the industry Non-life sales were strong despite the slow start for Individual business, with 1 million lives insured, of the year following the H1N1 outbreak.
We have and 9th position in the industry for Group business, developed a new Retail Mass product in Mexico to with 1.4 million lives insured.
be launched in 2010 and we are confident that this 40 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 2.6bn Population of the countries served by Emerging Markets APE sales in sterling terms in China Skandia:BSAM Single-premium sales LTS increased by 19% in local currency terms from Single-premium sales were down 6% on prior year Emerging Markets CNY77 million R92 million to CNY92 million due to lower annuity sales.
Corporate annuity sales Nordic Retail Europe R113 million for the year.
The increase in APE were affected by volatility in the market during the Wealth Management sales was largely a result of a strong growth in first half of the year which led to greater caution US Life single premium sales, up 112% to CNY679 million by trustees, as well as some pension funds being R836 million.
Our business in China continued under-funded and, hence unwilling to transfer to experience strong competitive pressure from their business to us and having to make a net a number of direct competitors in the market.
The industry ranking for Skandia:BSAM, measured Life sales in the second half of the year improved on a gross written premiums basis, improved from by 35% in rand terms compared to the first half and 40th at H1 2009 to 38th by year-end.
A number of by 1% compared to 2008, as confidence began to new products are currently in the pipeline for 2010. return to the economy and markets rallied.
In Retail Life sales summary Affluent, life sales improved by 26% in the second Over the whole year, life sales improved by 1% from half after we enhanced our Investment Frontiers 2008, despite the tough environment.
In South fixed bond and Greenlight products.
In Retail Mass, Africa, this was mainly as a result of strong growth of we improved our life sales by 33% in the second half recurring-premium sales of 8% which was partially as a result of the increase in productivity of our sales offset by a 6% drop in single-premium sales.
We secured new customers into our umbrella scheme, called Evergreen, in the last quarter of Recurring-premium sales the year, which boosted our Corporate recurringRisk premium sales by 57% compared to the first half of Recurring-premium risk sales increased primarily the year.
The strong pipeline we had in Corporate in due to: the first half of the year materialised in the second promotion of the Severe Illness Benefit on the half of the year, resulting in 45% growth in singleGreenlight product, where sales in the Affluent premium sales over the first half.
Market grew by 11%: Unit trust sales 5% growth in our sales force in Retail Mass and Unit trust sales were 12% behind 2008, with lower an increased focus on risk products, which led flows through Old Mutual Investment Services to a 31% growth in the Retail Mass market: and OMIS in 2009 partially offset by good flows into success in securing large schemes in money market unit trusts early in the year and Corporate, leading to a 62% increase in Group inclusion of Futuregrowth unit trusts in our product Assurance sales over the 2008 level.
Money market unit trusts slowed Savings down in the second half of the year as a result of OMSA sales of recurring-premium savings products a decline in interest rates.
The 2008 comparative declined 7% relative to prior year.
Lower sales in numbers were boosted by a one-off R2bn inflow into our Retail segments, which were partially offset by the Money Market fund from the Galaxy platform.
strong sales in the Corporate segment.
Sales of Sales in the second half of R19.1 billion showed an recurring-premium savings products were down improvement on the first half levels of R17.4 billion.
23% in the Retail Affluent segment as customers IFRS AOP Results were reluctant to commit to long-term savings Adjusted operating profit was down 7%, driven products in light of the higher risk of job losses mainly by a reduced LTIR, and the long-term and lower disposable incomes.
In the Retail Mass business profits declined by only 4% from prior year segment, recurring-premium savings sales were level.
This was mainly due to: down 5% mainly as a result of economic pressures.
The new commission structure on savings products impact of lower equity levels on asset-based also contributed to the lower sales of recurringfees and investment variances: premium savings products in the Retail segments.
mortality and disability losses on Group However, we grew our recurring-premium savings Permanent Health Insurance and Group Life sales by 139% in the Corporate segment as a result Assurance products: of higher sales of our umbrella funds, our increased a small charge for share-based payments this focus on building the direct sales channel and year compared to a large credit in the prior expanded distribution through retail intermediary year as a result of the strong Group share price channels.
performance: and the loss of seven months contribution to profit from joint ventures with Nedbank.
Old Mutual plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED Excluding the contribution from Nedgroup Life in to R36.4 billion in 2008, and the impact of adverse both 2008 and 2009, profit on the life business was operating assumption changesR1.0 billion flat compared to the prior year.
primarily related to persistency and the capitalisation of certain project expenses.
In South Africa, life business adjusted operating profit declined by 19% in the second half of 2009, Net Client Cash Flow mainly because the first half included higher Retail net client cash flow was positive but overall contribution from reserve releases than the second net client cash flow was R20.5 billion negative due half, as well as the absence of profits from Nedgroup to the previously reported net outflow of R16.2 billion Life and BOE.
from the Public Investment Corporation PIC.
Net client cash flow in the Retail Mass and Retail Affluent Asset management operating profit in South Africa channels improved on the prior year as a result of was down 16% on prior year as a result of: ACSIS and unit trust sales in the Affluent segment, lower average asset values and a reduction good sales protection sales growth and better than in the proportion of assets held in equities expected mortality experience in the Mass segment.
which attract higher fees adversely impacting Corporate and OMIGSA experienced net outflows.
base fees: This was a result of higher benefit withdrawals lower third-party managed funds especially withdrawal benefits from pension funds lower transactional revenue in Old Mutual on the back of job losses across the economy, two Properties business: large terminations in Corporate, and net outflows mark-to-market losses in our Old Mutual from Futuregrowth in OMIGSA, as well as the Specialised Finance OMSFIN business: and PIC outflow previously mentioned.
We anticipate higher share-based payment costs.
further withdrawals from PIC in 2010 as part of their planned mandate reallocation.
The factors above were partially offset by higher performance fees earned in the second half of the Investment performance year and higher revenue on the term portfolio of Overall OMIGSA investment performance continues OMSFIN as the interest rate cycle turned.
Fifteen of our collective investment management profits increased by 68% in the scheme funds ended the calendar year in the top second half of 2009 compared with the first half quartile of their respective industry categories over following the recovery of equities and improved one year, with ten and eleven funds achieving OMIGSA investment performance, which resulted top quartile ranking over three and five years in higher performance fees.
Notable performance has come from asset management result included an increase in Macro Strategy, where all three of their Flexible, asset management profits in Latin America.
Balanced and Stable Growth unit trusts are positioned in the top quartile of their respective LTIR was 18% lower at R1,522 million after a categories over the calendar year to end December.
330 basis point decrease in the rate of expected Similar recovery has come from Value Equity and return from 16.6% in 2008 to 13.3% in 2009, Select Equity, where their High Yield Opportunity combined with a marginally lower average asset Fund, Growth Fund and Top Companies Fund are all base.
The asset class split for 2009 was 30% in the top ten funds out of 76 in the General Equity equities, 70% cash and bonds, compared to 48% category over the year.
equities and 52% cash and bonds for 2008.
Funds under management Value of new business and margins Funds under management of R518 billion decreased The value of new business margin excluding for Emerging Markets as a whole, mainly due to Nedgroup Life remained flat at 16% on an APE the inclusion in 2008 of Skandia Australias funds basis and improved from 2.2% in 2008 to 2.3% under management approximately R25 billion.
in 2009 on a PVNBP basis mainly due to more Skandia Australia was sold in March 2009.
FUM in favourable operating assumptions changes for OMSA improved by 2% from 2008 as a result of the new business.
acquisition of ACSIS and positive market returns, MCEV Results partially offset by negative net client cash flow.
Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV Marketing operating earnings after tax declined by 47% from In 2009 the strength of the Old Mutual brand the 2008 level.
This was mainly due to lower than and its reputation for integrity, financial strength, expected returns which decreased by R1.7 billion reliability and performance enabled us to perform based on lower one-year swap rates and a lower well in South Africa despite the difficult economic opening embedded value of R28.4 billion compared environment.
42 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The strategic thrust of our brand communication Our commitment to customer service is activity in 2009 was engagement and demonstrated by: communication with customers, distribution Top ratings for service in the long-term channels, employees and stakeholders to amplify assurance category in both the 2008 and 2009 reassurance and trust in OMSA.
We took a multiAsk Afrika Orange Index Service Excellence faceted approach using advertising, advertorials, Benchmark surveys, which measured service material for face-to-face meetings, media activity, across 54 companies from 11 industries, and digital marketing and sponsorship.
The campaign Winning the Best Customer Service Centre worked on many levels from communicating award at the 2009 Business Process enabling specific facts about capital strength, liquidity and South Africa BPeSA Awards performance of smoothed bonus products to People emphasising the longer-term context by promoting We maintain a working environment that supports our investment principles and providing general the recruitment of highly effective employees, reassurance through green TV commercials.
improves productivity and fosters relationships that Our engagement and communication with build on the diversity of the workforce.
Of our total stakeholders and investors during the financial crisis workforce, about 85% are employed in South Africa.
earned us first place among the JSEs Top Ten listed Our employee engagement programme in South companies, ranked by revenue, in the New YorkAfrica Siyakhula aims to foster staff participation based Reputational Institutes Global Reputation and innovation.
We also came first in the Sunday In line with our shift away from heavy capital Times Top Brands Awards in the Long-Term products, in 2007 we introduced an economic profit Insurance category.
based variable pay scheme for employees in South In addition to this activity, our business segments Africa outside OMIGSA to incentivise efficient and OMIGSA maintained a stream of product management of capital as well as growth of profits.
and service innovations both to meet Employees receive a proportion of the economic immediate customer needs and to drive longerprofit generated in the year, to cultivate a culture term competitive advantage.
Examples include of teamwork while ensuring that we appropriately The Money Plan from Old Mutual Finance, reward individual effort.
which brings together a unique mix of financial In the rest of Africa we have crystallised our focus services, financial education and debt repayment on people by developing a comprehensive People planning.
Our Corporate business unit launched Strategy.
A key element of the strategy is to a Financial Wellbeing Programme that provides support a culture of delivery and high performance.
financial education to its retirement fund members This is further supported by a robust performance and employees.
management practice that aims to ensure focus on Old Mutuals thought leadership position continues all aspects of the business.
OMIGSAs economists have been Latin America has a performance management quoted extensively on the markets and the economy process implemented with active participation of and the launch of the Old Mutual Savings Monitor the team leaders and their team members.
For the stimulated debate on the need for higher savings in senior management the process is conducted South Africa.
according to the balanced scorecards criteria from Customer service the group.
We focus relentlessly on becoming more customer Risks centred and enhancing the customer service We continue to manage our risks and develop our we deliver through our call centres, internet and Risk Management capabilities in alignment with extensive branch infrastructure.
We have combined Groups Enterprise Risk Management framework.
all customer servicing for the Retail Affluent, Retail Refer to Risk and Responsibility section for details Mass and Corporate businesses in OMSTA to relating to Group Risk Management.
ensure consistently high service levels across our entire customer base and use IT to help improve service.
We are also driving service levels higher by using LEAN methodology to re-engineer business processes.
Old Mutual plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED The long-term outlook for the savings and Priorities for 2010 investment environment is positive and is supported In 2010 we will remain focused on: by a combination of factors: Growing sales through expanding distribution: the prudent fiscal and monetary policies of the Continue improving our investment past years are expected to continue the recent performance: trends of the economy returning to a robust Investment in service and continuously growth path by the end of 2010: improving the level of service delivery: and the growing emerging black middle class and Tightly controlling our expenses.
affluent markets, supported by the reduction in We are also continuing to focus on our expansion interest rates in 2009, the now-growing economy into the rest of Africa.
Africa is an important and Black Economic Empowerment efforts growth market given improvements in governance should sustain consumer spending growth: and increased disposable wealth, leading to an the Governments continuing investment in increasing demand for financial services products.
infrastructure and public sector employment In Latin America we will continue to focus on how programmes: to grow the business by leveraging strengths and Governmental policies for the formulation of a capabilities in OMSA and the rest of the group.
framework for mandatory retirement savings: We will continue broadening our retail product and offering, expanding our distribution and developing improvements in the level of financial education asset management capability for our corporate and the transparency of financial products.
The short-term picture looks increasingly optimistic, Outlook but remains at risk from market volatility as well as The South African economy emerged from recession volatility in the rand.
We are monitoring the current in the third quarter although consumer confidence situation with increasing vigilance and are well remains low.
Latest government predictions are positioned to react quickly to any unfavourable for the South African economy to grow by 2.3% eventualities.
in 2010, and consumer confidence is expected to continue to increase.
However, some concerns remain as private debt levels are still above sustainable levels and further job cuts are expected despite the economic recovery.
We believe that the outlook for the rand is favourable because of the high interest rates, a narrowing trade deficit, the global recovery and growing confidence regarding South Africas economic policy direction, as evidenced in the recent Budget.
44 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Nordic LONG-TERM SAVINGS: NORDIC Nordic Corporate Sweden Private Sweden Norway Denmark Unit link, Traditional life Banking, Unit link, Traditional Unit link, Traditional life Healthcare, Banking Healthcare life, Healthcare Healthcare, Investment Mutual funds, Investment Management, Risk Management, Risk Shared service and Common Functions Our Nordic business operates in Sweden, Denmark Skandiabanken, once a niche player in the Nordic and Norway.
We provide some 2.5 million retail banking market, is now established as a full-range and corporate customers with a wide range of online retail bank serving customers in Sweden and products including traditional life, unit-linked, Norway.
It is well positioned to take advantage of the healthcare insurance, banking, financial advisory growing demand for direct self-service solutions in and mutual funds.
We are differentiated in the marketplace by our Our Corporate business operates in Denmark and broad product mix combining insurance, banking Sweden, serving small and medium enterprises, and investment business and gain competitive large companies, international corporates and the advantage from our market-leading expertise and public sector.
It distributes its products through proven business model.
independent financial advisers IFAs, other external partners and a directly-employed sales force.
Skandia has operated in the Swedish market for over 150 years and is a strong and well-respected Our Retail business operates in Norway and brand.
It became part of Old Mutual in 2006.
We are Sweden, targeting affluent and mass affluent organised into four business areas focused on sales customers.
We serve this market mainly through our to specific customer groups: directly employed advisers, the internet and IFAs.
Private Sweden, our retail business in Products offered include: Sweden, offers savings products and financial Unit-linked advice from our banking, unit-linked, mutual We offer a wide range of unit-linked funds across funds and traditional life business a variety of asset classes and risk profiles.
These Corporate Sweden offers products and funds, including those from our own fund companies, financial advice from our unit-linked, healthcare are managed externally: we select and monitor and traditional life business managers using our unique evaluation process.
Corporate Denmark offers products from Traditional life our unit-linked, healthcare and traditional life Traditional life products are an important part of our business integrated product offering in the Swedish market.
Private Norway, our retail business in Norway, As the markets largest life company, Skandia Liv is offers products and financial advice from our active in both the private and occupational pensions bank business.
We provide insurance products with a Business model security profile featuring long-term savings with a In 1990 we launched Swedens first fund insurance guaranteed yield plus protection.
In 2009 Skandia company, Skandia Link.
Today Skandia Link offers Liv was rated as one of the top traditional life savings products for both private and corporate assurers by independent Swedish consultants and business.
Old Mutual plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED Mutual funds Fund.
We launched Direktpension in Dep to replace LTS Emerging Markets We offer mutual fund products through our banking a previous unit-linked capital insurance product Nordic subsidiary, Skandiabanken.
Skandia Fund Products which had become unprofitable because customers Retail Europe offering is accessible for unit-linked savings, are reducing the length of time for which they hold Wealth Management direct savings, individual pension savings through savings products.
US Life Skandiabanken and for premium pension savings Market overview through the national  The personal market is increasingly important PPM system.
Customers decide how they wish in Sweden and Norway, as reduced state and their money to be managed by choosing from PPMs employer pension benefits place more responsibility range of funds.
on individuals to secure their own future finances.
Banking A growing number of people are approaching and Skandiabanken is an online retail bank offering a reaching retirement age and increasingly need to make full banking service.
Its offering to private individuals their own investment allocation decisions.
This means is strengthened by selling our non-insurance growing demand for holistic advice and close products.
It also serves as a direct distribution customer relationships.
All our major competitors in channel for us, targeting self-service clients with a Sweden are Nordic bancassurance entities.
full range of savings products through a new online The demand for advice and self-directed solutions, platform.
In 2009 it won several awards in Norway combined with growth in the personal market, are and Sweden for its outstanding service and we major business opportunities that we will focus strengthened the savings offering by widening the on in the coming years.
The consumer market is fund range, introducing discounted share trading characterised by diversity of savings instruments and and launching a number of new saving products.
The main types of savings Private healthcare are insurance a market worth SEK700 billion, We offer private healthcare products to companies bank deposits SEK700 billion, mutual funds and their employees.
Our healthcare division also SEK600 billion, equities SEK600 billion and supports our unit-linked and traditional life business bonds SEK100 billion.
Total industry revenues in in Sweden and Denmark, adding value to the the individual savings market are expected to grow pension scheme products and broadening our from between SEK40 billion and 50 billion in 2008 product offering.
to between SEK70 billion and 80 billion by 2015 driven primarily by market appreciation, increasing Skandia Liv disposable income and asset reallocation.
Skandia Liv is a traditional life assurance company serving customers in Sweden and Denmark.
It is Customer behaviour is changing in the Nordic a wholly-owned subsidiary of Skandia but is run market.
The new generation favours interneton a mutual basis.
It operates within a strict local based services, which drives demand for increased legal framework and the benefits usually associated transparency and unbundling of products, services with share ownership accrue to Skandia Livs and prices.
Insurance products and pricing are policyholders rather than the holding company.
The market for Consequently, Skandia Liv is not consolidated into insurance-based long-term savings products is the Groups accounts.
being impacted by the withdrawal of tax incentives.
Product development The changing dynamics of the Swedish corporate We aim to develop products that meet our customers market are leading to increased focus on the needs and demands, using customer surveys, unaffiliated part of the market.
Corporate pensions competitor benchmarks and market analysis.
In parallel are the dominant segment of the Swedish life to this, our product approval process assesses market, a sector in which we have traditionally been how effectively each new product creates value for very strong.
However, our strategies to increase customers and for shareholders, for example in terms sales in this segment need to reflect the way the of capital efficiency and long-term profitability.
corporate market is changing, with growing use of collective agreement procurements and increased New products developed in 2009 include Hlsa pressure on prices.
Swedish brokers are responding in i Sjuk a corporate healthcare product, to these changes by shifting their focus to small and Garantipension Plus an alternative product within mid-sized companies and to individuals.
the new PA-KFS-plan, new pregnancy insurance, property insurance in co-operation with Dina In Denmark the authorities continue to focus on Frskringar, Skandia Vlger a fund of funds increased transparency regarding cost of pension solution, and new funds such as the Lynx Dynamics products and tax reforms are reducing tax benefits 46 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 2.5m Nordic business retail and corporate customers on insurance.
A complete commission ban in Corporate Sweden Our fundamentally strong Denmark will be introduced on 1 January 2011. position faces price pressures and changed market conditions.
To maintain our market Strategy position we are focusing on small and mediumOur key objectives to 2012 are to: sized companies, owner-managed companies Grow in the private savings market in Sweden and management plans, mainly for businesses and Norway in our existing customer base.
We will move Retain existing corporate business in Sweden closer to our customers and develop attractive Strengthen our position and grow in Denmark new propositions, effective processes and Improve and develop risk and capital improved service levels.
management Performance in 2009 Increase operational efficiency.
Continued strong net client cash flows, rising To achieve our vision of having the most satisfied FUM and strengthened relations with distributors customers in the savings market we aim to move For key figures see highlights table on page 48. from our current position as a product supplier mainly offering insurance products to become a Sales more customer-oriented financial solutions provider New sales in Nordic increased by 8% compared to characterised by operational excellence.
the prior year, driven by the very successful Skandia Dep product sold through Skandiabanken direct We will improve and develop our customer sales, the internal advisory channel and brokers.
interface, enhance our product offering and make Retail business was strong with muted impact on our products available to customers through our particular target markets from the recession.
The key challenge will be to build However, the effects of the economic downturn did attractive offerings that provide both end-customers have an adverse impact on occupational pension and distributors with advisory tools and quality sales in the Swedish corporate sector with lower advice, innovative products, top-quartile returns and inflows as a result of less workforce mobility, the markets best customer service.
lower salary increases, and higher than expected Private Sweden Although our current market premium cessations due to layoffs.
We closed position is relatively small compared to main down sales of an unprofitable unit-linked product in competitors, we have important strengths: our September 2009 and this had a meaningful impact customer base, well-known brand and our on sales growth in the final quarter of 2009. insurance platform and expertise.
We aim to Nordic had excellent growth in mutual fund sales, grow by moving closer to the end-customer which increased by 47% compared to the prior year.
with a new distribution model, integrated The driver behind this growth was Skandia Global channels, a full-range savings offering and well Hedge, one of the best performing hedge funds in defined service levels offering holistic advice.
Sweden, which attracted SEK950 million of inflows.
Our focus segments are affluent and mass In addition, during 2009 there was a material inflow of market clients among our existing customer customer fund holdings from other banks as the result base, particularly over-55s.
of a marketing campaign launched early in the year.
Private Norway We are currently a niche player positioned as an innovative daily IFRS AOP results banking partner with a strong position as a IFRS AOP decreased 32% in 2009 compared to the customer-friendly internet bank.
The fall in interest rates in Sweden and grow by expanding our product offering with specific differences in valuation basis between IFRS more savings, insurance and investment assets and the liabilities under Swedish regulations products, adding advisory services to become a resulted in unrealised losses of SEK119 million in the savings partner.
assets backing reserves in the unit-linked and health Corporate Denmark We are seen as a businesses.
Interest rates are now at a historical challenger and innovator providing excellent low in Sweden.
The health insurance business pension products for companies with under rebranded as Lifeline was also negatively affected by 100 employees.
We aim to grow by increasing the higher cost of claims and lower premium income.
our distribution power with new channels and We have re-priced the business and made changes offerings to position us as a trustworthy deliverer to both products and policy conditions.
In Denmark, of products and services to larger companies.
where similar actions were taken in early 2009, the We will focus on packaged offerings and business showed considerable improvement in efficient customer solutions and administration.
the second half of 2009, and similarly the Swedish business is expected to improve in 2010.
Old Mutual plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED Highlights SEKm 2009 2008 % Change 502 Long-term business adjusted operating profit 754 33% Banking business adjusted operating profit 193 283 32% Asset management adjusted operating profit 42 39 8% Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis pre-tax 737 1,076 32% Return on equity 11.7% 17.0% Operating MCEV earnings covered business post-tax 965 1,839 48% 8.1% Return on embedded value covered business post-tax 12.9% Life assurance sales APE 2,819 2,599 8% Unit trust mutual fund sales 4,708 3,207 47% PVNBP 13,774 12,108 14% Value of new business 526 397 32% APE margin 19% 15% PVNBP margin 3.8% 3.3% Net client cash flows SEKbn 11.6 7.0 66% Highlights SEKbn 2009 2008 % Change Funds under management 127.2 91.9 38% Return on equity is IFRS AOP post tax divided by average shareholders equity, excluding goodwill, PVIF and other acquired intangibles Skandiabankens results were weaker due to growth.
The business mix was positively affected by lower net interest income following the repo rate the closure of the private regular premium unit-linked declines during the year and the impact on the product referred to above, which was replaced by a margin of prudent liquidity management.
Credit much more profitable, lower commission product.
losses increased marginally, but the credit loss ratio The assumption changes are driven by changed is still at a low level 0.14% in 2009 compared to mortality pricing and positive experience as well 0.13% in 2008, reflecting the low-risk nature of as high transfers into the unit-linked decumulation Skandiabankens lending business, and the stability product, thereby prolonging the duration significantly.
of the Nordic residential market.
The effects came through during the second half of 2009, and PVNBP margin improved from 3.3% for IFRS AOP was positively affected by increased 2008 to 3.8% for 2009, and APE margin from 15% investment value in the private equity portfolio of for 2008 to 19% for 2009.
The second half of 2009 showed strong results in the unit-linked business due to The price pressure in the Swedish market continues, positive growth in FUM driven by positive stock especially in the corporate market.
In the medium markets trends, together with a strong NCCF, term, the margin is still expected to remain in the thus increasing fund-based income.
high teens, but this will require continued high new sales, product development and cost control.
We are continuing to review the expense base of the business, and will seek to cut costs in 2010 where MCEV results we are able to do so.
Operating MCEV earnings were down 48% on the comparative period mainly due to lower than Skandia AB and Skandia Liv have decided that for expected existing business contribution arising from the time being there will be no changes made to the historically low interest rates, capitalised one-off corporate form of Skandia Liv, but that they will be developmental project costs, and increased outward moving forward with the objective One Skandia, transfer assumptions during the accumulation maintaining a close cooperation between the phase of corporate business.
The closing MCEV two companies.
has increased substantially, especially in the second Value of new business and margins half of the year, due to the impact on non-operating The value of new business and profit margin earnings of strong stock market performance increased substantially during the second half leading to large positive investment variances, and a of 2009, due to a more profitable business mix, positive operating assumption changes and sales 48 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11.0bn Funds under management in Nordic release of provisions after the settlement of certain of child pornography using payment systems, and LTS longstanding litigation matters.
this work won much positive PR and publicity in the Emerging Markets Swedish media during 2009.
Nordic Net Client Cash Flow Retail Europe Net client cash flow for the year was an exceptional, Our PR activity in 2009 doubled our positive Wealth Management and record high of, SEK 11.6 billion, representing exposure in the media, benefiting sales, net client US Life 13% of opening funds under management.
The cash flow and our brand image.
positive performance was largely driven by a We continuously run roadshows for both corporate combination of strong Life sales, especially the and private customers.
These are very popular and Investment Portfolio product, regular premium unitsuccessful both for launching new propositions and linked sales, and lower outflows related to maturities for disseminating information and education about and surrenders in the occupational pension savings and investments.
Positive flows in mutual funds also Customer service contributed to this performance.
Net client cash flow We have launched our common vision to have the increased 66% compared to the prior year, although most satisfied customers in the savings market it weakened in the second half as a result of the across the whole organisation, and this is beginning increase in the pace of corporate outflows.
to influence our processes and customer relations: Funds under management Skandiabanken Sweden won the Funds under management at 31 December 2009 Teleperformance award for best customer were SEK127 billion, up 38% from the level at service in all categories in 2009 and the 31 December 2008, and 18% from 30 June 2009.
Q Service best bank customer service award The increase was due to strong net client cash flow in 2010 and positive development on the equity markets.
Skandiabanken Norway won the Norsk This is a significant improvement compared to Kundbarometer 2008 citation for most satisfied previous periods.
customers for the eighth year running Our 2009 investment performance was excellent.
We have simplified our customer For the third consecutive year, Skandia Link was communications and application forms awarded best performance among the unit-linked Skandiabanken Norway has introduced companies in the Swedish market.
During 2009 enhanced self-service functionality for lending Skandia Links average client enjoyed investment We have improved share trading facilities for performance of 29%.
Average performance on a corporate and personal customers weighted index 66% MSCI AC World and 34% We have improved the information on our OMRX Total Market during the same period was Skandia.
Customers are increasing their appetite for Corporate Sweden has improved its customer investment risk by weighting a larger proportion of invoicing processes.
their holdings in equities and, in particular, emerging In our customer satisfaction research, Skandia markets equities.
Norway and Denmark both achieved strong Marketing results: Skandia Norways customer satisfaction As indicated in the Product development section levels are among the highest for all businesses in above, we had a busy year for new product Norway.
Distributors in Sweden rated us extremely launches, which we supported with appropriate highly and we remain one of the top two in this marketing and promotion.
Skandia Swedens satisfaction ratings were In Sweden, Skandia Link earned the Risk & affected by the crisis of confidence in all Swedish Frskring award for best average return to financial institutions which followed the market customers on a threeand five-year basis for the turmoil in Autumn 2008 and Spring 2009: despite third year running.
On the back of this we ran some this, satisfaction was unchanged among private very successful marketing campaigns focusing on customers and reduced only modestly among our investment performance.
We believe that being a good corporate citizen is good for business.
For more than 20 years we have run the Skandia Ideas for Life corporate social responsibility programme, which works to protect children and young people and support their social development.
Skandiabanken has teamed-up with voluntary organisation ECPAT to block purchases Old Mutual plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED Target Result Priorities for 2010 2008 2009 2009 We will continue working towards our vision of Satisfied customer having the most satisfied customers in the savings index Private Sweden 63 64 63 market.
The focus will be on building high-quality, innovative offers for end-customers and distributors Satisfied customer by providing advisory tools and quality advice, index Corporate innovative products, top-quartile returns and Sweden 58 59 56 excellent client service.
We will continue to develop new investment portfolio products, supported Satisfied customer by initiatives to achieve operational excellence.
index Corporate Our priorities for 2010 to 2012 are: Denmark 63 64 64 Drive growth in the Swedish and Norwegian Satisfied customer personal savings markets, strengthen our index Private Norway 80 80.5 80.5 position and grow in Denmark Achieve operational excellence by retaining Satisfied distribution existing corporate business in Sweden and index Sweden 57 58 63 increasing our operational efficiency People Achieve excellence in risk and capital In 2009 we launched our Nordic People Strategy management.
initiative aimed at improving our people processes, Outlook strengthening our performance culture and Although the financial markets continue to be supporting the overall business plan.
This has volatile, the outlook for the Nordic markets remains made very strong progress.
The mass corporate market is challenging leadership development programme for new leaders, with an increasing movement towards low margin a talent management review process is underway tendered business.
We continue to focus on and key decisions have been taken on training and strengthening the market position by delivering development.
We have also produced guidelines for first-class products and offerings to customers handling underperformance, for implementation in both on the private market, as well as the higher 2010. margin segment of the corporate market.
A key part Risk of this is the improvements to the Skandia Nordic We continue to manage our risks and develop our platform, Skandia.
se, which was re-launched during Risk Management capabilities in alignment with the the second quarter of 2009.
With the launch of a Groups Enterprise Risk Management framework.
series of combined offerings such as the Skandia Refer to Risk and Responsibility section for details Investment Portfolio, Skandia Dep, we have started relating to Group Risk Management.
to exploit the potential of decumulation products and increased cross-selling.
We have also strengthened our ALM capacity, improved our operating model HOW WE DO BUSINESS to be more customer oriented, and announced changes in the commission structure to improve ENCOURAGING SUSTAINABLE future profitability.
With increased focus on customer VALUE CREATION needs and profitability, we remain convinced that we can turn this period of disruption into a lasting We want to improve the transparency of the companies we invest in.
The broad product mix and market So Skandia joined 12 of Swedens largest institutional investors in position of our business gives us a competitive 2009 to launch a Sustainable Value Creation Initiative.
As part of this advantage in a challenging market.
we published surveys of governance and policies for sustainable value We are disposing of further private equity assets creation in the 100 largest corporations on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and expect a pre-tax profit of approximately and the 74 companies in the Oslo Brs Benchmark Index.
SEK126 million from this source in 2010.
This index encourages companies to develop sustainably while at the same time creating long-term economic value for their shareholders.
Hans Svensson, Head of Public Affairs and CR, Skandia Insurance Company 50 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Retail Europe LONG-TERM SAVINGS: RETAIL EUROPE Retail Europe Markets Control Operations Country Sales and Finance, Actuary, Legal, Customer Service, Broker Relationships Compliance IT Retail Europe consists of four local businesses: options.
In 2009 we introduced the new product Skandia Austria, Skandia Germany, Skandia Poland Safety Plan, which includes a guarantee at maturity, and Skandia Switzerland.
All are active in the same in Switzerland.
product market recurring unit-linked life business We will continue to optimise our portfolio in 2010 focused on old-age provisioning and have aided by our collaboration with Skandia Investment similar business models.
They serve the savings Group, which helps us provide innovative and and investment needs of similar retail customer return-oriented solutions for our customers.
segments and operate on related platforms.
Market overview The core product range covers regular and singleDriven by the European regulators, the increase in premium unit-linked products, supported by pure regulatory and transparency requirements to improve investment solutions and disability solutions.
customer protection continues to put pressure on Business model small and mid-sized distributors and providers in all We operate in interesting markets that offer markets.
This was particularly evident in Germany great opportunities: 140 million people the with the introduction of the new Insurance Contract overwhelming majority of them retail customers Law in 2008. threatened by financial uncertainty due to Regulatory pressure has led to some consolidation fundamental demographic change and the ongoing and a significant decline in the number of crisis in public retirement provision.
The impact was reinforced primarily through co-operation with about 12,000 by some insurers seeking to secure their access independent distributors.
Our main strengths are our to distribution by buying stakes in independent innovative products, investment competence and distributors.
The financial crisis has undermined customers We follow a value-driven business model, applying confidence in financial services generally and a strong key performance indicator focus to all unit-linked products in particular.
More than ever, relevant business areas.
In sales, for instance, we they are now looking for orientation, simplicity are more concerned with the value of new business and reliability.
Traditional life insurance products than the quantity of new contracts.
We also pay from highly reputable companies could benefit close attention to the existing business book, significantly from this uncertainty.
maintaining quality by rewarding low surrender rates.
We take business decisions at the appropriate levels Uncertainty during the financial crisis drove some to ensure we stay close to our markets without customers to cut their investment in long-term losing necessary central oversight.
In addition, increasing cost transparency and customer uncertainty raised legitimacy issues Product development for distributors.
As a result, life businesses suffered In our markets we are seen as one of the leading from higher lapse rates and surrenders: and new unit-linked suppliers, with innovative and flexible unit-linked business in Germany, for instance, products and strong investment knowledge.
While decreased by 33% compared to 2008.
In response, our focus in the past has not been on guarantees, some competitors increased their commission we add guarantee features when sensible.
payments to compensate distributors for decreasing For instance, our businesses were the first in their market volume.
markets to offer guarantee funds as investment Old Mutual plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED attraction of guaranteed products increased.
Strategy This impacted the normal increase in new business Our federal model of standalone businesses in towards the year-end which did not materialise to Central Europe has been successful in growing the same degree as in previous years.
Overall APE these businesses from the outset.
But the model sales in Retail Europe decreased by 34% compared needed some changes in response to increased to the prior year.
competition and consolidation, as well as the increased burden of consumer protection and 2009 was a critical year for Retail Europe during regulation.
So we created Skandia Retail Europe in which key foundations have been laid for the 2009 to build one efficient business unit out of four future development of the business.
In particular formerly autonomous local companies.
This should an integrated senior management team has been generate scale benefits and a better allocation of established and functional heads have been resources through cross-border integration.
appointed for key cross-European functions, such as finance and risk.
The business is now working As a first step the new business unit appointed a as a cross-border team whilst at the same time cross-border senior management team bringing maintaining focus on the distributor requirements in together new managers from other parts of the each market.
Group and experienced managers of the local companies.
We then launched the new Skandia In the second half of the year, efforts to tackle new brand in all markets.
The main ambition of the new sales development were increased within all Retail senior management is to develop a common market Europe businesses.
The objective is to grow to approach that serves as a catalyst for harmonising achieve critical mass in all our chosen niche markets.
capabilities, processes and workflows across Examples include intensifying the relationship with borders.
The transformation project is currently special distribution partners in Germany, the initiation building a new harmonised operating model with the of cooperation agreements with Deutsche Bank in intention to transfer parts of policy administration Poland, and the development of the new Safety Plan and IT to South Africa in collaboration with OMSTA.
Our mid-term target is to increase the number of The combined impact of these initiatives and the contracts in force to 1 million by 2014. recovery of the stock market meant that in the fourth quarter new sales rose by 57% compared to the Performance 2009 previous three months, driven particularly by the Key foundations laid for the future development German and Polish markets.
The variance against of the business the fourth quarter of 2008 was reduced to 10%.
Sales This impact was most marked in Poland where in The countries served by Retail Europe were the final quarter sales were 145% above the same impacted by the difficult economic environment period in 2008 and 73% above the previous quarter.
which affected consumer confidence in our Similarly, German sales in the final three months of products.
Unit-linked markets decreased materially the year exceeded the previous quarter by 76%.
in premium size during 2009, whilst the relative Highlights m 2009 2008 % Change Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis pre-tax 25 36 31% Return on equity 9.0% 18.6% Operating MCEV earnings covered business post-tax 49 18 372% Return on embedded value covered business post-tax 7.9% 2.6% Life assurance sales APE 75 114 34% Unit trust mutual fund sales 27 59 54% PVNBP 603 699 14% Value of new business 6 13 146% APE margin 8% 11% PVNBP margin 1.0% 1.8% Net client cash flows bn 0.6 0.6 0% Highlights bn 2009 2008 % Change Funds under management 4.7 3.7 27% 52 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 140m Population in the markets served by Retail Europe Overall, the rally in sales, underpinned by the rally in Net Client Cash Flow LTS equity markets, positioned the business well at the Net client cash flow NCCF in 2009 remained robust Emerging Markets end of the year after a very weak first half of 2009. at 551 million due to stable regular-premiums Nordic Retail Europe and was flat relative to 2008.
The continued strong IFRS AOP Results Wealth Management performance of the NCCF represented 15% of the The IFRS AOP for 2009 was 25 million, 31% lower US Life opening funds under management.
than in 2008, mainly affected by reduced fees, a lower investment result and a policyholder profitThe strong result is driven by the positive sharing agreement with the regulatory authorities development of surrender experience which was for the German business.
The main contribution to 20% below 2008 in the unit-linked business.
the IFRS AOP in 2009 was made by the Austrian Actions taken to increase customer and broker business, exceeding the prior year result, driven by communication led to this positive result despite the lower administration costs and reduced commission ongoing volatility in financial markets.
All markets achieved positive IFRS results.
Funds under management All businesses realised substantial cost savings Funds under management ended the year 27% in administration and staff costs in 2009, aligning above the position at 31 December 2008, heavily the cost base to the reduced sales environment.
benefiting from market performance and stable However these savings were partially offset by NCCF.
This includes positive market movements on the investment to integrate the new management portfolio values of 19% of opening FUM, reflecting structure, and the one-off costs from closing the the rise in financial markets seen across the globe in businesses in Hungary and the Czech Republic, the second half of 2009.
In the German business the and our contribution towards the now-closed 2 billion mark was exceeded for the first time.
Equity funds particularly benefited from the capital Value of new business and margins market developments in 2009.
Actively managed The 2009 value of new business VNB was negative portfolios as well as guarantee funds rose in line 6 million, significantly below 2008 which was with total client funds 31% and 27% compared to 13 million.
This was close to leading market indices such as the MSCI World in EUR The negative VNB and negative profit margin were which rose by 23%.
mainly driven by the decrease in new sales which caused sales volume acquisition expense overruns FUM was supported by the effective asset mix of the that could not be entirely compensated for by portfolio and reflects the investment appetite of our savings in expenses.
A reduction in higher margin customers.
Although client funds were impacted by single-premium business also added to the shortfall.
the fall in equity markets during the financial crisis Despite the lower new sales Poland maintained a they have benefited from the recovery that started positive profit margin in 2009. in the second half of the year and this trend is expected to continue throughout 2010.
MCEV Results The decrease in 2009 MCEV operating earnings Customer service is mainly driven by the lower new business All our national businesses have won awards contribution, adverse experience variances and for their outstanding service to distributors and changes in operating assumptions.
In comparison to the 2008 results, experience People and assumption changes had a negative impact We strive to connect company and personal of 24 million.
This is as a result of the one-off targets for an optimal approach to performance experience variances and a further assumption management.
We reward employees for achieving change for profit-sharing in Germany, as well as both company targets and individual goals.
Sales expenses overruns, other minor methodology force compensation is based on value-oriented changes, and the recognition of one-off targets, not mere volume.
This was offset by Risk positive persistency assumption changes and less We continue to manage our risks and develop our adverse persistency experience than in 2008.
Risk Management capabilities in alignment with The management action taken in 2009 and the Groups Enterprise Risk Management framework.
rebound in the markets provide a positive backdrop Refer to Risk and Responsibility section for details to the MCEV prospects for 2010. relating to Group Risk Management.
Old Mutual plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED Priorities for 2010 Outlook Grow through common approach to markets, Retail Europe faces another challenging year, but developing from product supplier to solution we are confident of increasing market share and provider strengthening our position.
Our core strength is the Streamline and optimise business and flexibility of our unit-linked concept with embedded product portfolio guaranteed funds and our strong investment Improve services to business partners and expertise.
We have established a systematic customers change management approach to steer and Share know-how and capabilities within the successfully implement the ongoing transformation Group e. g. the intended transfer of parts of of the business in the challenging international policy administration and IT to South Africa in environment.
We continue to explore opportunities collaboration with OMSTA to create efficiencies by utilising the skills, and Embed one lean retail organisation.
capacity available in the South African business.
Despite the ongoing uncertainty in our markets, we expect improved performance and profit growth in 2010.
54 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Wealth Management LONG-TERM SAVINGS: OLD MUTUAL WEALTH MANAGEMENT Wealth Management Markets Centralised capabilities UK International Continental Europe Fund range Finance IT & Strategy offshore France, Italy development Old Mutual Wealth Management provides adviceSkandia International is the offshore wealth driven, predominantly single-premium unit-linked management arm of the Old Mutual Group, propositions to affluent and high-networth conducting business in Asia, the UK, South customers across continental Europe, the UK and Africa, the Middle East, Europe and South a number of international markets.
Our aim is to offer and deliver segment has a significant proportion of middle-aged attractive offshore market-led solutions for the customers, demographic shifts over the longer term long-term savings and investment needs of are providing growth prospects through people living high-networth customers internationally, building longer and through growth in individual wealth levels.
sustainable and profitable growth in international Wealth transfer to the next generation provides markets.
In the UK, the Combining these businesses into one Wealth affluent segment represents approximately 83% Management organisation provides significant of managed funds and between 50% and 60% in opportunities.
Our common focus on affluent the large European markets Boston Consulting customers, and the dominance of single-premium Group, 2007. investment business in this segment, create Our organisation comprises three strong businesses: significant prospects to leverage infrastructure, scale opportunities and product knowledge.
Skandia UK is a leading provider of longterm investments with innovative solutions Our customer offer includes unit-linked life for wealth building and wealth management, insurance, pensions and mutual funds.
It is based offered through the independent financial on open and guided architecture, giving customers adviser IFA channel on our market-leading and their advisers access to a wide range of funds platform.
Our proposition is based on the belief managed by third-party providers.
To meet customer that financial services should be focused on demand our offer includes both regular-premium each individuals goals, rather than on pushed and single-premium products, although the latter products.
Our offer is built on choice and predominates.
The product set is customised to the transparency to enable customers to make needs of local markets: informed financial decisions.
Our UK business has been transitioning over Skandia Wealth Management Continental time from providing an insurance-wrapped, Europe targets the affluent segment in narrow product offer to an open-architecture, continental Europe predominantly Italy and platform-enabled offering in line with market France.
It offers high-quality service through trends.
Our product set is therefore divided multiple distribution channels with a broad between a legacy portfolio and our marketproduct offering to meet affluent customers leading platform proposition.
During 2009 investment needs through the various phases of we transferred a large portion of our portfolio their lives.
onto our platform product range, where our Old Mutual plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED customers have access to a wider choice of attractive feature.
Our product offer is supported LTS Emerging Markets products, funds and investment propositions.
by a comprehensive suite of trust options and Nordic online facilities.
The transition to platform enablement positions Retail Europe us well in the UK market, which remains Our distribution is advice-led, in line with the Wealth Management primarily IFA driven.
Advisers are increasingly preferences of the affluent customer segment.
In the US Life adopting platforms as a means of managing UK, distribution is solely through IFAs.
The larger customers investment portfolios, driven by IFAs and networks, which we manage as key customer preferences for understandable and accounts, represent approximately 60% of total transparent propositions, regulation that requires new business income.
In the last quarter of 2009 regular review of investments, and new adviser we reviewed our UK sales structure to ensure our remuneration models.
As a result, our business business model is fit for the future and aligned to is moving towards a more efficient structure that advisers support needs.
We closed a number services IFAs better through online technologies of regional offices and created a new, enhanced and tools.
We believe there are opportunities sales organisation consisting of field consultants, to extend our UK platform to our other markets a complementary centralised business consultant across Europe and elsewhere.
team and a team focused on delivering value to our corporate partners.
In our international markets we We offer our UK customers several product distribute through international banks, private banks wrapper possibilities: and financial advisers.
We distribute in continental Pensions a range of pension wrappers Europe through independent financial advisers, to meet the retirement-planning needs of banks, sales networks and our own sales force.
All our We also have an institutional sales force distributing pension products offer wide investment choice Skandia Investment Group SIG funds to institutional in funds where the underlying investments are customers.
Our distributor offer is based on strong through third-party fund managers.
Assets are relationship management, high-quality service and invested either directly into third-party funds responsiveness to market needs.
Our partnering or through our range of blended investment approach has succeeded in delivering new business solutions.
even during 2009s difficult market conditions.
Investment bonds our investment bond Our business success has been based on core offers access to third-party funds and blended capabilities stemming from our corporate heritage investment solutions, all managed by third-party as an open-architecture pioneer.
Our independence fund managers in a product structure that is and track record of innovation continue to tax-efficient for certain customer segments.
distinguish us in the market, while our experience in platform-enabled business is a strong asset.
Protection we also offer premium protection We strive to deliver high-quality service and solutions in the form of unit-linked whole life responsiveness to our customers and distributors, product and critical illness cover.
Average and see this as a sustainable source of competitive premium sizes are high and typical customers advantage.
include the self-employed and entrepreneurs as well as customers seeking protection linked to We are structured to stay close to our individual efficient inheritance tax solutions.
markets while benefiting from centralised capabilities, oversight and optimisation in fund range In Continental Europe, our offer consists development, strategy, finance and IT functions.
predominantly of unit-linked business in a life We believe this approach provides opportunities assurance wrapper, supplemented by a mutual to leverage infrastructure and management funds offer launched in 2009.
An important part processes across the business, especially as we of our proposition is the ability to customise build a pan-European business based on common products for individual distributors clients.
Features such as automatic stop-loss enable customers to take advantage of equity market Business model growth while managing downside risk.
Our business model is scale-driven, with part of our income related to the value of funds under The most important product for our management FUM.
As FUM are driven by the International business is our awardattractiveness and relevance of the product winning portfolio bond.
This bonds flexibility offer, we continuously strive to increase product enables customers to invest in virtually any breadth and depth around local market needs.
Our tradable asset and in a variety of currency distribution strategies aim to maintain and develop denominations.
Its portability is another 56 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Number 1 Skandias position in the UK platform market by assets our market presence and make us the provider A Latin American MCB redemption product, of choice to distributors.
Our policy is to invest in sold through existing distribution channels distribution channels with long-term sustainability to meet the growing market need for an and good persistency in business.
Our strong international non-contractual savings product market positions in product provision, relationships A non-accredited product for Singapore, and FUM give us strong bulk purchasing power in launched to expand Skandia Internationals the asset management market, which allows us to target customer base in this growing market offer our fund range at very competitive prices.
A refreshed version of Old Mutual Guernseys perennially successful life account range, The global recession has hit providers volumes which offers a more competitive charging across the world, but as local economies emerge structure while maintaining its flexible method from recession we expect our new business of investing overseas volumes to benefit from improved investor Daily trading features in Italy, which allow greater confidence.
investment flexibility and significantly enhance Since our distribution is centred mainly on our offer independent channels, a large proportion of total A number of distributor-specific products in expenses consist of sales incentives, which are fully France, specifically targeted at the private variable in line with volume.
As our internal expenses bank channel are, to a large extent, fixed, we achieve economies A number of new tools and features on our of scale as volumes increase.
Operational efficiency platform in the UK, including an ISA allowance remains important to keep costs at optimum levels.
tool and a tax-efficient withdrawals tool.
Sharing technical, operational and management An important part of creating winning propositions infrastructure across the Wealth Management is our fund selection, development and packaging business helps us to maximise efficiency.
This is delivered through Skandia Our planning and control processes are focused Investment Group SIG, which brings together all on value creation over the long-term as well as Skandias investment research, analysis, portfolio short-term capital usage.
Our decision criteria take management, open-architecture and investment into account the prospects of earning returns above product expertise.
SIG works closely with the LTS the cost of capital, to ensure that both customers business units to deliver investment management and shareholders receive added value.
solutions that suit customer requirements in our various markets and offer us attractive economics.
Product development Central to SIGs capability is the development of Our platform provides a convenient, transparent blended solutions, such as the highly successful and flexible online approach where customers are risk-targeted Spectrum fund range launched in able to grow, protect and use their wealth with the 2009, and multi-manager propositions such as the support and guidance of a financial adviser.
During 2009, SIG evolved its fund Skandias platform, they can see their full investment range to adapt to changing customer needs in the portfolio in one place, and can understand the light of the significant market changes experienced investment strategy that lies behind it.
The new fund range offers also enables advisers to manage their customers customers a more compelling choice of investment investments.
It provides an end-to-end process solutions with the benefit of improved performance.
starting at risk-profiling the customer through to sourcing the appropriate investments through The strength of our product offer was recognised various tools and features.
During the year we through a number of awards in 2009, including: further enhanced the functionality on the platform: Best Multi-Manager in the Moneyfacts Awards we now offer customers access to valuation and Investment, Life and Pensions online switching, recognising their increasing desire Best Regular Premium Investment Product for self-service in line with their experience in areas UK Offshore, Best New Product Far East such as online banking.
We will further develop and Best Online Proposition Far East in the these features and services in 2010 to ensure that International Adviser Life Awards customers can access the information they need Best Fund Platform in the Logica UK when they need it.
Platform Awards Enhancing our product range to better serve the Best International Life Group in the needs of local markets is a priority.
In 2009 we International Fund & Product Awards launched a number of innovative products and Best Fund Supermarket in the Professional features, including: Adviser Awards.
Old Mutual plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED have started to see a reversal of this trend as equity HOW WE DO BUSINESS markets recover.
TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY Recent budget announcements in the UK have curtailed the tax relief available to wealthier At Skandia UK treating our customers fairly is a top priority.
Weve individuals, making investments into pensions less had Treating Customers Fairly TCF champions in place since 2005, attractive.
As a result, these customers may turn to working on ways to develop and promote best practice within teams.
other types of savings for their retirement.
We have They also help ensure that their teams keep TCF in mind in everything a full range of tax wrappers to meet their needs.
they do and every decision that affects customers.
Whether running The recent changes to ISA allowances for overTCF workshops, leading by example or measuring TCF standards, 50s, increasing their annual allowance to 10,200, these champions play a vital role in making sure we continue to treat caused a surge in ISA new business across the our customers fairly.
In the Customer Service Division we communicate with our Compared with single domestic markets, the customers daily.
Its vitally important to put ourselves in the offshore financial services industry offers greater customer's shoes continually both to ensure we treat them fairly, and diversity of geography, customer base, distribution, also to support our vision of delivering service excellence and process risk management and competition as well as efficiency.
Kaila Bishop, Customer Services, Skandia UK Group opportunities generated by variable macro and micro conditions.
Market overview The implementation of Solvency II will emphasise Demographic changes in Europe and across our low-risk, capital-efficient business model.
the globe will continue to result in individuals We expect to have an advantage over other market needing to save for the long term.
The affluent players that carry product guarantees on their and high-networth segments of the market are balance sheets.
This capital saving will enable us to expected to grow as people become wealthier and channel comparatively more capital into the further wealth transfers to the next generation.
Although development of business opportunities and to grow competition in these segments is tough, we believe our business.
that the economics remain attractive.
As definedStrategy benefit schemes become increasingly unaffordable, In line with the Old Mutual Groups overall strategic defined-contribution schemes are expected to initiatives, we are focused on building scale, become the norm for employer-provided premium maintaining our strong capital positions and obligations in the future, which will favour our streamlining our portfolio over time.
To this end, products in the market.
our strategy aims to: The global financial crisis has reinforced an Deliver innovative products to meet local market existing need for quality advice and transparency.
needs and increase the breadth and depth of This favours our strategic focus on advice-led, our product offer choice-driven investments which will gain further Evolve the customer and distributor proposition support from forthcoming regulatory changes.
as we anticipate and respond to changes in In the UK, for example, the requirements proposed preferences, behaviour and market dynamics by the Retail Distribution Review aim to provide Optimise our fund portfolio to the benefit greater clarity about the services being provided, of customers with the charges for this service potentially being Seek opportunities to expand our platform specifically agreed between the adviser and the technology and infrastructure across the customer.
We expect that other global markets will business move to similar regulations in the future.
Skandias Pursue volume in profitable products and modern solutions already meet some of the new channels and improve profitability where requirements and the proposition will be developed opportunities arise.
further to offer the necessary flexibility.
During 2009 we sold Bankhall, an organisation The credit crunch of 2008 and 2009 resulted in low offering support services to directly regulated customer appetite for investing new money, putting advisers, to increase focus on our core business.
pressure on new sales in the financial sector.
During the crisis, customers moved away from riskier asset classes such as equity into more stable categories such as cash and fixed interest.
More recently we 58 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Performance in 2009 Improved sales performance in Old Mutuals largest market Highlights m 2009 2008 % Change Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis pre-tax 106 150 29% Return on equity 7.9% 9.7% 4 Operating MCEV earnings covered business post-tax 229 102% Return on embedded value covered business post-tax 0.3% 14.3% Life assurance sales APE 617 664 7% Unit trust mutual fund sales 3,210 2,561 25% PVNBP 5,042 5,540 9% Value of new business post-tax 49 67 27% APE margin 8% 10% PVNBP margin 1.0% 1.2% Net client cash flows bn 2.5 2.0 25% Highlights bn 2009 2008 % Change Client funds under management 46.9 38.9 21% Return on equity is IFRS AOP post tax divided by average shareholders equity, excluding goodwill, PVIF and other acquired intangibles Overview source: Lipper at the end of the fourth quarter, well Wealth Management operated in volatile markets ahead of our competitors.
The UK has experienced a severe in the UK platform market is aligned with our focus recession, while France and Italy have also been on delivering transparent, convenient and efficient impacted to a lesser degree.
We are pleased with the momentum in have now recovered somewhat, customer this business which was recognised in the positive confidence in savings has been significantly responses from a syndicated study conducted affected by uncertainty.
During the second half of among pensions and investment providers by ORC, 2009, sentiment improved and, as our customer a UK market research company, in the third quarter.
proposition became sharper, we saw good growth in International markets our sales, strong net client cash flows and a marked In the markets in which Skandia International uplift in funds under management.
The fourth quarter operates primarily UK offshore, the Far East, Latin was particularly strong, contributing 203 million of America and the Middle East, the negative impact the total 617 million APE sales for the year, and of the global recession has had a lagged effect 1,066 million of the 3,210 million unit trust mutual compared to 2008 when new sales were relatively fund sales for the year.
unaffected, with 2009 showing falls in inflows Sales compared to 2008.
However, sales in the second UK market half of 2009 showed some improvement on the firstIn the UK, our platform proposition is working half.
Single-premium business represents 44% of well.
This was particularly evident in the second our International business.
In the UK single-premium half of the year when sales reached record levels offshore market we have overtaken two competitors and we adjusted our product offering to sustain and are now ranked second with a 14% market its relevance in the changing market environment.
share based on statistics for the third quarter of The degree to which business is transitioning to the year source: MSE, a 4% increase on previous our platform-enabled model is highlighted by the periods.
The UK offshore market represents 26% of material increase in contribution from non-covered our total business.
mutual fund business in the UK, which recorded Following a change in government pension a 22% increase in sales when compared to 2008. legislation, we have decided to cease writing new By contrast, our covered business sales in the pension business in Finland and are reviewing our UK declined by 6% year-on-year as customer other products.
Pensions were a significant profit investment preference continued to shift towards generator for Skandia International in the past, mutual funds, and away from the more traditional life and the curtailing of that activity there will result product offerings.
We remained the leader in the UK in changes to the emphasis of the business and platform market, with 33% market share in assets reduce the cost base.
Old Mutual plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED Continental Europe A significant portion of the UK AOP result, in both LTS Emerging Markets In continental Europe France and Italy, we have 2008 and 2009, arises from gains in respect of Nordic benefited from close and positive relationships with policyholder contribution.
These gains fluctuate over Retail Europe distributors, resulting in sustained inflows throughout time, although we would expect a normalised level Wealth Management the year.
We continue to explore mechanisms to of gains to be 30-35 million per annum.
In 2008 US Life improve traction in these markets both in terms and 2009, the gains recognised within the adjusted of the efficiency of our operational structure and operating result amounted to 59 million pre-tax the nature of our relationships with distribution and 96 million pre-tax respectively, reflecting the channels.
Our continental European business market volatility experienced.
In accordance with overall delivered covered business APE sales 54% industry practice and our stated accounting policy, higher than in 2008 on a sterling basis, as both these gains have been smoothed through our results new and existing distributor relationships generated over a three-year period, rather than recognised improved sales.
In Italy our market share assessed immediately in AOP.
In 2010 we expect the gain as new sales in the unit-linked segment grew from to be approximately 100 million pre-tax, falling approximately 4% at the end of 2008 to 12% at the to 60 million pre-tax in 2011, before it reverts to end of 2009 source: Ania.
In France, the market normalised levels in 2012. remains oriented towards guarantee products but Under the revised management structure of the sales in the last quarter showed some recovery, Wealth Management unit, a robust programme rising by 33% over the previous quarter of 2009 is underway to adjust how we serve the market, in sterling terms.
We have decided to reduce our particularly in the UK, and to restructure the activity with financial planners in Spain given the operational infrastructure supporting the business.
lack of business, and we will adjust our headcount Besides ensuring that our market offering is oriented accordingly.
towards servicing the needs of our distributors, IFRS AOP results the programme is expected to deliver cost savings IFRS pre-tax adjusted operating profit was 29% across the business of 45 million on a run-rate basis below prior year levels.
This reflects the operating by 2012, with associated one-off restructuring costs leverage of the business, with lower year-on-year at approximately the same level.
13 million of costs net sales and lower average levels of funds under have been already incurred in the 2009 AOP results, management over the course of the year resulting with the majority of the balance anticipated to be in reduced management fee revenues.
Lower incurred during 2010, and an associated run-rate interest rates have negatively impacted shareholder saving of 11 million already achieved.
We have also investment return and profit levels on the protection streamlined the operations of Skandia Investment business in the UK.
These negative movements Group SIG, appointing a new head and announcing were partially offset by increased policyholder the closure of the US sales office, which has resulted contribution profit recognition in accordance with the in 1 million restructuring costs in 2009. three-year smoothing policy.
The large contribution Value of new business and margins to profits of the fourth quarter of 2008 following Compared with 2008, the value of new business and the market weakness are smoothed over twelve profit margins were influenced by three main factors: quarters and so the full-year impact is only felt Lower sales volumes across all markets, during 2009. with APE down 7% year-on-year, which had The IFRS AOP pre-tax result was negatively a negative impact of 5 million on VNB and a impacted by one-off items in 2009.
As previously 10 basis point reduction in the PVNBP margin.
announced, there were a number of write-offs in the This was offset by the positive impact of the first half of the year, relating to unit allocation errors reduction in the effective tax rate on business in International 19 million and France 4 million, value created on new sales in our offshore a 6 million provision in the UK for legacy product markets, delivering 11 million of VNB and valuation and a write-down of 6 million on a 22 basis points of PVNBP margin.
property unit trust investment relating to the The internal expense base did not scale down Glanmore fund.
in line with reduced sales production.
Rather the On a post-tax basis, the IFRS AOP result was 8% internal acquisition expense base grew year-onbelow 2008, due to a large reduction in the AOP year leading to a 15 million reduction in VNB effective tax rate.
The effective tax rate for 2008 was and a 30 basis point reduction in PVNBP margin.
unusually high at 38%, compared to 19% in the The increase in expenses reflects investments current year.
in the platform business, but highlights the opportunity for further operational efficiencies in the future.
60 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 46.9bn Funds under management in Wealth Management MCEV results conditions.
2009 surrender experience, influenced The Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV by broker-specific surrenders and changed operating earnings after tax declined from regulations in Finland, has prompted us to review 229 million in 2008 to a loss of 4 million in and strengthen our persistency assumptions, the 2009.
The change was mainly due to a lower than effect of which can be seen in the MCEV indicators.
expected existing business contribution based on With recent improvements in surrender rates our lower one-year swap rates, a lower new business outlook for persistency in the coming periods is contribution, adverse experience and operating cautiously positive.
assumption changes partially offset by the removal Strong inflows and maintained focus on persistency of dividend tax in International.
For the latter effect, have resulted in good net client cash flows in the impact on adjusted net worth was recognised continental Europe which were significantly higher within the operating earnings, while the impact on than in 2008 and reached 19% of opening funds VIF was recognised in non-operating earnings.
under management on a sterling basis.
In 2009 the adverse operating assumption changes Funds under management of 99 million were the net impact of: Funds under management recovered strongly in strengthening persistency assumptions in 2009 as global equity markets lifted from their low both the UK and International businesses levels at the start of the year and as a result of -81million, of which -24 million was in strong net client cash flows.
2009 full-year funds response to the new regulation in Finland, under management were 21% above the 2008 capitalisation of planned development and closing position.
Net client cash flow contributed project spend together with a strengthening of 6% in asset growth, while market movements on maintenance expenses -66 million, the portfolio added a further 15% to total funds a higher fee income assumption 36 million, under management.
Throughout the year, we and have witnessed gradual changes in the asset mix, changing a morbidity risk assumption in the UK as customers started shifting from conservative to align with positive experience 12 million.
portfolios with high fixed income weightings into relatively more risky asset classes as equity markets The fall in operating MCEV earnings is the driver of recovered.
This has a positive impact on the run-rate the 14.6% year-on-year fall in RoEV.
of our revenue streams, which are substantially Net Client Cash Flow driven by fund rebates.
Net client cash flow showed a 25% improvement on Investment performance on funds selected and the prior year, driven by good new sales inflows and managed by SIG showed a marked improvement in improving persistency.
2009, with both our core range of researched third On the UK platform, annualised surrender rates party funds and our proprietary funds performing improved from approximately 14% of average funds well, particularly since the restructure of the UK under management at the beginning of the year to fund range during 2009.
In addition, SIGs Asset 12% by the end of 2009.
As we migrate business Allocation Model Portfolios have consistently to the platform, the UK legacy business has seen outperformed benchmark since launch, with lower inflows coupled with higher surrender rates, significantly lower levels of volatility relative to which resulted in negative net client cash flow for benchmark.
2009 was an excellent year for SIG, the year from this part of the business.
Surrender with overall fund range performance in the top rates on the legacy book appear to be stabilising, quartile in the industry, having 64% of funds ahead and a retention team has been mobilised locally to of benchmarks.
improve persistency, including assessing options for The improvements in investment performance controlled transfers to the platform where this would in 2009 were aided by the establishment of a serve customer investment objectives.
However, we dedicated portfolio management team, while the do anticipate that the traditional book of business UK fund range restructuring concentrated effort will gradually decline as more investors move away and scale into funds, cut total expense ratios and from the legacy products towards the platformenabled the use of tactical asset allocation for the enabled investment propositions.
In addition, improving economic and Net client cash flow in our offshore business was market conditions boosted risk appetite, with active impacted mainly by lower sales levels, with surrender managers being rewarded for taking risk.
levels remaining relatively high as a result of market Old Mutual plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED LTS Marketing Customer service Emerging Markets Throughout 2009 we continued our drive to increase We are committed to providing consistently high Nordic brand awareness with advisers and end-customers standards of service to customers and distributors.
Retail Europe and to deliver solutions tailored to customer needs.
Recognition of our drive for service excellence during Wealth Management Examples of our marketing activity during the 2009 included: US Life year were: Two five-star ratings Investment Provider and The annual Skandia UK Trailblazer roadshows, Life & Pensions Provider in the FT Adviser held in September, which earned excellent Online Service Awards and a five star rating in feedback from the 1,600 advisers who the industry Financial Adviser Awards for the attended.
Trailblazer is a series of events 12th year running, recognising the high service designed to help distributors prepare for the quality we maintained despite the platform changing regulatory environment and build migration programme running throughout long-term value in their business giving us the year an opportunity to share our distributor support Best Commitment to Service in the proposition International Fund & Product Awards Our sponsorship of the Sky Sports coverage Second place for quality of service in the IFA of golf and sailing during the year, to increase channel, in a study by a leading publication consumer brand awareness among key target in France.
This initiative has successfully People increased Skandia brand awareness in the We use a balanced scorecard approach to market.
Also in the sporting arena, Skandia performance management, measuring and continued its sponsorship of the GBR sailing rewarding employees based on their performance team in 2009 across a range of financial, customer, operational The launch of the Skandia Global Dynamic and organisational learning objectives.
We believe Equity Fund in April 2009: offering customers a in benchmarking remuneration against the market focused and flexible global equity solution that for specific roles, with variable pay reflecting the combines both manager selection and active achievement of objectives linked to customer and asset allocation in a single fund, it has been a shareholder value.
top-quartile performer from its inception Risk The launch of the highly successful Skandia We continue to manage our risks and develop our Spectrum Funds an investment solution Risk Management capabilities in alignment with giving IFAs the tools to match a customers Groups Enterprise Risk Management framework.
risk appetite with funds that aim to create the Refer to Risk and Responsibility section for details maximum return for that profile relating to Group Risk Management.
The launch of the Skandia European Best Ideas Fund an actively managed pan-European Priorities for 2010 fund solution, giving European customers the Build and expand the customer and distributor benefits of robust asset allocation, manager proposition selection and manager blending through Build profitable volume through investment in our Multi-Manager approach.
The fund has products, service and distribution performed in the top quartile since inception Maintain and improve operational efficiency, In France we introduced Skandia Initiatives, reducing duplication and streamlining processes a roadshow programme that aims to support Lay the foundations for extending our UK IFAs in business development, and again platform infrastructure to other markets.
participated in the annual Patrimonia trade event.
This was an opportunity to showcase our new advisory option on the Archipel platform, as well as our IFA segmentation programme.
Both initiatives have been very successful in raising awareness of our products.
62 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 and offers with continued focus on transparent, Outlook advice-led business.
Over the last quarter of 2009, we attracted markedly better new business inflows on the back of Our market share has grown over 2009, which sustained financial market performance during 2009. demonstrates that our products and service quality While the recovery in the global economy is still remain relevant in the market.
As the market fragile and individuals economic situations remain recovers, we expect this to position us strongly constrained, we believe that customer appetite for for further growth in funds under management.
long-term investment is returning, while the gap The development of product spread and depth in between the need to save and actual savings levels the UK platform market is critical to the success of is increasing.
The sustainability, speed and strength the business and we will be accelerating our focus of the economic recovery are difficult to predict: on this in the period to 2012. however, we are cautiously optimistic.
We expect Our efficiency programme is intended to align the that competition will be tough in 2010 as providers cost base of the business with the nature of the race to capture the returning market.
We believe that lower-margin platform business.
We expect that, those providers with market-relevant product offers coupled with improving volumes and revenue, and high levels of service quality and responsiveness this will have a positive effect on IFRS and MCEV will be the winners.
Further restructuring costs The aftermath of the recession and its long-term are expected in 2010.
We have set ourselves goals impacts on customer behaviour, trust and risk for 2012 of delivering a return on equity of 12-15%, appetites is likely to be significant for the industry net client cash flow of at least 5% of opening funds over the next few years.
However, we believe under management, as well as 45 million of cost we are well-positioned to respond to these savings as previously mentioned.
changes as we build out our product proposition Old Mutual plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED US Life LONG-TERM SAVINGS: US LIFE US Life OM Financial Life OM Re Insurance Company Underwriting and Investments and Administration Sales Distribution Risk Management Capital Management Management US Life primarily consists of OM Financial Life include the OMGuarantee-Platinum series and the Insurance Company and its subsidiary, OM Financial OMGuarantee-Plus series.
Life Insurance Company of New York.
It covers all Protection products 50 US states as well as the District of Columbia.
We offer one principal protection product line: fixed Our products are designed to deliver excellent indexed universal life FIUL products.
These provide profitability while providing customers with flexible life assurance protection in the event of transparency and value-driven benefits.
The indexed universal life product Fixed indexed annuities FIAs is designed to provide supplementary retirement Our FIA products have been highly ranked in the income options for customers who use preferred top six companies for market share from 2004 to loan features for tax advantage.
Our two core FIUL 2008 by Advance Index Product Sales & Marketing products are OMLife-Choice and OMLife-Elite.
They guarantee the policyholder no loss of In the middle-income to upper-middle-income principal due to market risk with a return derived segment of the market that we target, consumer from the greater of a guaranteed fixed rate or a needs are not particularly complex.
In the US, the formula relative to equity market index movements.
ratio of life insurance coverage to household income By hedging the potential equity index upside using is no more than 3:1, regardless of income level.
equity index options and futures, we give customers By contrast in Japan, where the ratio is 10:1, there is the potential for equity market gains while managing greater understanding and appreciation of the value exposure to loss of principal.
Under these contracts of life insurance.
we invest in a portfolio of bonds and other fixed What our customers want is a product solution income securities that earn a spread above the cost for a particular financial objective, such as a taxof options and futures and rate guaranteed to the advantaged supplemental retirement income or a policyholder.
Specific product names include the way to reduce the risk of financial loss.
Customers OMIndex-Safety series available in 4, 7 and 10-year want to trust that these products will perform as durations, OMIndex-Escalator available in 6, 8 and the company and agent represent.
They want 10-year durations, OMIndex-Accelerator available information available at the touch of a keystroke or in 7 and 10-year durations OMIndex-Spectrum 9, within a minute of dialling a toll-free number.
Meeting OMNYIndex-Safety 7 and OMNYIndex-Spectrum 10. service expectations is critical to the long-term Fixed annuities success of insurance companies operating in the Similarly to FIAs, under these fixed-rate contracts US market.
we invest in a portfolio of bonds and other fixed We are building products and services that cater income securities that earn a spread above the to customers in the 63% of American households rate guaranteed to the policyholder.
There are two with incomes between $35,000 and $250,000 main types of fixed annuities: one aims primarily per year.
Our niche will be in the $75,000 to to offer a tax-efficient way of saving money for $150,000 household income market.
Our products retirement, and the other to provide an income will be distributed through independent agents stream for life.
Our fixed annuity product offerings 64 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 78m Baby-boomers in the US, the target market for US Life and managing general agents MGAs who are People, products and processes are the keys to our focused on serving our target markets.
Effectively success, and we can be a key to the success of our meeting the basic risk and retirement needs of this distribution partners.
To be successful in both the customer segment will give Old Mutual tremendous shortand long-run, we must: opportunity for growth and market share attainment Be innovative adding depth and breadth in the US.
to our product line and positioning ourselves Most US households have not saved an adequate creatively in the marketplace by addressing retirement account to assure the same quality of customers income replacement and retirement life they enjoyed during their income-earning years.
income needs With the market downturns of 2001 and 2008 Develop excellence in recruiting and training many baby-boomers will struggle to accumulate distribution partners refining our processes to enough funds to retire comfortably.
They will look recruit wholesale and retail distributors, bring to companies to meet their income needs through them into production and make them steadily guaranteed minimum income benefits via annuities more productive and tax-free loans in cash value accumulation Create positive experiences making our life policies.
The little things matter: positive service experiences matter.
The market dynamics for the US will continue to provide significant opportunities around the broader Capital and cash management are our primary middle market and the ageing baby-boomer drivers for decisions, particularly in light of the severe demographic.
change in the economic climate that began in Q4 2008.
Our capital level is substantially dictated Business model by regulatory and rating agency requirements, which We distribute our products through independent we meet by taking appropriate action regarding agents.
The majority of sales are generated through types of assets, reinsurance, available product established groups of MGAs, similar to large features, benefits and mix of product offerings.
brokerage firms in the UK, who typically offer agents a range of annuity and life assurance products from In our product development process, we aim for various providers.
In the US it is not economic for designs that contribute to maintaining an overall insurance companies to target agents directly with return in the 10% to 12% range while generating a their products: the MGA is the intermediary between significant value of new business.
the agents and the insurance companies, of which Our business planning and forecasting processes there are about 20 core competitors in our chosen include detailed analysis of the sources of actual markets.
After a culling process earlier in the year, capital which is compared to the required capital we currently have contracts with some 260 MGAs.
Components of each are monitored monthly Our relationships with our top distribution partners for management action, particularly on the asset continue to be an area of strength.
The process includes identifying and planning contacts date back a decade or more, and such for potential events that could either increase surplus long-term relationships help us to weather change.
or reduce required capital as well as striving to mitigate such events.
We provide differentiated support to our Power Partners key account MGAs and their downstream During 2009 we engaged Goldman Sachs Asset agents by offering: Management GSAM as advisers to provide oversight and additional analysis on the structured Excellent products we will continue to offer a securities in the US Life investment portfolio.
After broad portfolio of unique products built to serve a thorough review of GSAMs capabilities, including the needs of middleand upper-middle-income support of the impairment audit process for customers structured securities at the close of the first half of the Educational workshops we host workshops year, we engaged GSAM as lead asset manager of designed to help advisers grow their practices the US Life investment portfolio, with responsibilities to the next level and regularly deliver actionable spanning the full spectrum of fixed income securities.
sales programmes to agents in the field As lead manager, GSAM is also responsible for Special programmes for our top producers providing investment input that informs our overall loyalty deserves to be rewarded, so we offer asset allocation, and has dedicated actuarial a number of unique services for our most resources to help us move towards portfolio productive advisers and our compensation segmentation.
We continue to work with our existing programs and services are tiered so that we give affiliated asset managers, Dwight Asset Management the best service to the most productive agents.
and Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney and Strauss.
Old Mutual plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED dollars and a need for wide-ranging life insurance Product development and savings products Source: US Census Bureau.
The growth in the US Life business since 2000 The fact that many of these individuals can has been predicated on a partnership with core expect to spend a quarter to a third of their life in distributors on product design and exploitation retirement Source: Economist Jeffrey Brown further of niche markets: for example, in the mortgage compounds their need for protection, accumulation term market we provide death benefit protection and income distribution products.
to individuals financing or refinancing a home.
While we determine the retail strategy, the product Strategy solutions are most often created in partnership with We have scaled the business to achieve profitable distributors.
This assures the partner company that growth.
The agent-culling process and streamlined we are on-target with the product design while also product portfolio have focused the company on securing shelf space with MGAs that help in the steady, quality new business through our core development process.
We have made early efforts to garner support with this key group, including Market overview the introduction of information-rich marketing There is a push for federal regulation of the programmes and a more personalised approach to insurance business to ensure consistency across handling day-to-day requests.
This could offer companies and agents economies of scale in compliance: but a Our core products strategy reduced the annuity more onerous regime similar to that for securities portfolio from over 50 products to 23 and the life dealers could drive out companies and agents that portfolio from nine products to two.
By taking sell primarily or only fixed products and do not wish this streamlined approach we aimed to continue to entertain the associated upfront costs and new providing our agents with sustainable solutions in business strain.
Thus far, such a change appears uncertain times: the products we continue to offer highly unlikely for the next few years because the today provide the flexibility and benefits to meet proposals under consideration in Congress generally customers future expectations.
do not apply to the insurance business.
The current risk to maintaining capital levels is having A regulatory change US Securities and Exchange to sell assets in a declining market to meet liability Commission SEC Rule 151A that could reduce obligations, and the impact on required capital of the viability of indexed life and annuity products declining credit ratings.
Our action to mitigate these is currently being challenged in the US Court of risks included liquidity analysis, which resulted in Appeals.
In effect it would mean that indexed a higher than normal cash balance held through products would be treated like securities and could September to avoid selling assets in a depressed only be sold through agents who have securities market, as well as monthly monitoring of ratings licenses.
Originally Rule 151A was scheduled to migration.
In addition, we actively monitored and go into effect in 2011 if it survived legal challenges.
planned for beneficial regulatory action designed to The SEC has now agreed to an additional two-year relieve the impact of ratings changes as well as other deferral, which means it is unlikely to take effect surplus relief action.
As surrenders have declined before 2013: meanwhile, the SEC could decide not we have invested more cash while maintaining a to go forward with it, or it could be struck down in prudent level based on our analysis.
We have also legal challenges yet to be lodged if it is reissued.
selected assets for sale where the loss is offset by At state level, regulators continue to impose the release of required capital for asset risk.
additional requirements to enhance consumer As part of the business transformation initiative we protection during the sale of insurance products.
reduced the number of internal customer service Many of our core competitors are in the early and IT staff and renegotiated all major Third Party phases of their own re-engineering efforts.
These changes did taken tough, swift action very early on in the market not reduce our service capability and we earned our downtown, we gained significant competitive edge.
best-ever ratings from agents for overall customer Many of our key distribution partners commented service levels and call centre responsiveness.
positively on our early action and transparency The average annual cost per contract for customer throughout the transformation process in Q4 2008 service including TPA and IT has reduced by 22% and during 2009. from over $54 in 2008 to under $43 for 2009.
Additional full year savings coming through in 2010 Many of the customers we aim to attract are babywill further improve the average cost per contract.
boomers, a group totalling over 78 million people in the US with estimated net worth of nearly $17 trillion 66 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Performance in 2009 Continued progress to improve profitability and enhance risk management Highlights $m 2009 2008 % Change Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis pre-tax 76 425 118% Return on equity 10.5% 25.3% 417 Operating MCEV earnings covered business post-tax 676 162% Return on embedded value covered business post-tax 22.7% 97.6% Life assurance sales APE 107 251 57% PVNBP 1,000 2,307 57% Value of new business 22 21 205% APE margin 20% 8% PVNBP margin 2.2% 0.9% Net client cash flows $bn 1.5 0.4 275% Highlights $bn 2009 2008 % Change Funds under management 16.7 15.2 10% Calculated as the operating MCEV earnings post-tax divided by the absolute value of the opening MCEV Stated on a start manager basis as USAM manages $6bn of the funds on behalf of US Life Overview APE for the Universal Life product suite was down During 2009 we successfully transformed and 57% to $22 million on an APE basis and our core scaled back the business.
The major actions life product, Indexed Universal Life, fared the best of reducing the product profile, scaling back out of all life product segments, partially due to distribution with a focus on top-tier producing the elimination of Universal Life products other agents, lowering staff numbers, and carrying out than Indexed Universal Life.
Indexed Universal Life a full review of our outsourcing model are now continues to offer attractive sales potential in the life complete.
As a result of these actions, we made market due to indexed crediting options, and taxsignificant strides in addressing the three core advantaged growth and income options.
Term Life focus areas in the business, which are operational sales were suspended in 2009 due in part to their efficiency and cost control, product and assumption capital inefficiency as a product.
risk, and the ongoing effort to fide-risk the companys Although volumes were managed down by design, fixed income investment portfolio.
key distributors that drive our sales remain largely Sales intact year on year.
In the annuity distribution Total US Life sales APE basis were down 57% channel, four of the top five and eight of the top ten over the comparative period as a result of a planned distributors are the same in 2009 as in 2008.
In the reduction in the number of products offered as well as life distribution channel, three of the top five and focusing on top-tier producing agents and conserving seven of the top ten distributors are the same in 2009 capital.
As planned, total gross sales declined from as in 2008.
Having recently concluded our annual $1,950 million in 2008 to $860 million in 2009. distributor conference, general consensus was that Elsewhere, the wider life insurance industry suffered a US Life exceeded expectations in dealing with difficult decline in sales not seen since the end of World War II.
economic conditions in 2009 through a transparent communications plan, creating a new foundation for The product profile was streamlined to focus on future growth.
Confidence from this group remains more profitable sales and products with lower high and key distributor relationships are strong.
Fixed indexed annuity FIA sales were down 47% to $60 million on an IFRS AOP results APE basis.
This product line is our key offering, Pre-tax adjusted operating profit IFRS basis contributing 56% of total APE for 2009 and currently was $76 million for 2009 compared to a loss of offers attractive margins.
It meets the needs of $425 million for 2008.
Gross margins prior to DAC customers who seek principal protection, as well amortisation of $430 million in 2009 compared to as fixed interest guarantees or a guaranteed fixed a loss of $54 million in 2008.
The prior year was income.
Immediate annuity sales represent 18% of impacted by a $436 million mortality assumption total 2009 APE and remain an important offering as change for the Immediate Annuity line.
The underlying they contribute to capital in the year of sale.
additional $48 million of margin earned in 2009 is Old Mutual plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED primarily driven by the annuity product lines which for this block after the recent reserve strengthening, LTS Emerging Markets showed better underwriting experience.
Although the experience Nordic on the Immediate Annuity line improved over 2008 from the total SPIA annuity block can be expected Retail Europe while 2009 includes a gain arising from commutation to be volatile, since it is a small book with some large Wealth Management of 17 large cases.
The FIA line generated higher individual contracts, we are confident that the reserve US Life surrender charges as a result of increased surrender adjustments made in previous periods are adequate activity.
Offsetting the better underwriting experience to cover the future expected outcomes in respect of was lower net investment income due to holding this business and the transaction described above cash at the low interest rates of the period and the supports this view.
Changes in lapse assumptions increased level of surrender activity.
DAC amortisation due to improved experience resulted in a small gain, was $354 million and $368 million respectively for while amendments to the opening TVOG time value 2009 and 2008.
Unlocking in 2008 was due to of options and guarantees balance and the lapse prospective annuity assumption changes while that methodology also gave a small net gain.
We consider of 2009 was due to the retrospective amortisation that the anticipation of attractive crediting rates impact of surrenders and the decline in premiums available from the rise in equity markets during 2009 from Universal Life sales.
had a progressively beneficial impact on surrenders.
IFRS operating expenses were $58 million or 33% The large movements in non-operating earnings lower over the comparative period resulting from demonstrate the sensitivity of the US Life MCEV tight expense management and cost renegotiations to changes in the economic environment, as of three key service providers.
market consistent methodology means that results move more directly in line with the movements in Value of new business and margins the market in general.
Since assets are marked Value of new business increased by $43 million to market the high unrealised losses in the bond over the comparative period, with the margin for portfolio have a large impact on the MCEV.
The increase in margin was mainly The $1.8 billion decrease in unrealised losses in due to higher swap rates and the focus on selling 2009, partially offset by a significantly lowered more profitable business.
Management actions liquidity premium assumption 100 basis points in to improve margins on fixed indexed annuities 2009 from 300 basis points in 2008, was the key have also increased the value of the in-force book.
driver of a net positive $681 million and 8.30p per The traditional life business has been shrunk share impact on non-operating earnings, to the because of its capital inefficiency.
Group MCEV earnings per share respectively, at MCEV results 31 December 2009.
Operating MCEV earnings improved significantly up Net Client Cash Flows $1,093 million from the prior year loss of $676 million.
Net client cash flows were negative due to the This was mainly due to increased expected existing decision to reduce new business volumes and business contributions, which accounted for also an increase in surrender activity during the $363 million of earnings in this reporting period first half-year.
We believe that this was driven by compared to $44 million in the comparative period, policyholder liquidity needs and the adverse effect and the large negative experience variances and that the equity markets had on our fixed index assumption changes in 2008 which were not repeated annuity returns.
During the second quarter of in 2009 experience variances were negative $2 million 2009, a conservation programme was introduced in 2009 compared to negative $280 million in 2008, to focus on the reduction of full surrender activity.
and assumption changes had a positive impact of The programme delivered benefits and surrender $47 million in 2009, compared to negative $619 million experience trended downwards in the second half of in 2008.
MCEV does not capitalise investment spreads 2009.
By the end of the year the four-week average in excess of the adjusted risk free reference rate upfor full surrender activity was nearly half the level front, as was the case under EEV.
Were these spreads seen at the peak in the second quarter of 2009 and to be capitalised, the increase in embedded value from was in line with long-term expectations.
the 2008 level would be in excess of $900 million.
Unlike for 2008, guarantees on the policies in force in Funds under management 2009 although above the low reference risk free rates Funds under management ended the period prevalent for the period, were generally less than the at $16.7 billion, up 10% from the opening actual yield earned on the portfolio.
position primarily due to a $1.3 billion 10% increase in the market value of the investment During the period we commuted a block of our SPIA portfolio and investment income for the period.
contracts to the owners through their third party This was partially offset by negative net client cash advisors at a value less than the reserve established 68 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33% Reduction in operating expenses by US Life flows of $1.5 billion, or 10% of opening funds the prospect of stabilising and improving earnings under management.
quality, the likelihood of coupon deferrals for weaker financial hybrids, such as those of US regional Investment portfolio banks, appears to be diminishing.
Against the The fixed income portfolio continued to be affected backdrop of improved liquidity in the capital markets by poor economic and volatile financial market and a recovery in economic activity, high yield conditions.
However, the fair value of the portfolio default rates are expected to decline by around 50 increased $1.3 billion from year-end 2008.
The yield to 75% from prior year levels and investment grade on the book value of the fixed income portfolio was downgrades are expected to return towards historic 5.82% including cash and other invested assets, norms.
This implies that the worst of corporate and has not changed significantly from that of 2008, defaults and ratings downgrades has passed.
as reinvestment of cash has not materially changed the overall yield.
We ended the year with $0.8 billion The fair value of the US fixed income investment 5% of holdings in cash and short term holdings, portfolio at 31 December 2009, after recognition of reflecting purchases of assets from cash inflows, the impairments, totalled $15.3 billion compared to as well as with cash proceeds from fide-risking and $14.0 billion at 31 December 2008. gain-harvesting transactions.
Purchase activity Impairments has targeted NAIC 1 to 2 rated securities including During 2009, there were three defaults in the selectively into the financial services sector.
The net corporate bond portfolio of $14 million included in unrealised loss position on the fixed income security the total $389 million of IFRS impairment losses portfolio improved to $0.5 billion at 31 December on 82 securities.
These were partially offset by 2009 $2.3 billion at 31 December 2008, reflecting $35 million of net investment trading gains.
As of a broad recovery in financial markets in general, and 31 December 2009 compared to 31 December narrowing corporate credit spreads in particular and 2008, $807 million of investment grade securities selective fide-risking.
It has continued to improve to were downgraded to non-investment grade and below $0.2 billion as at the end of February 2010.
$35 million of non-investment grade securities Continued Government purchases in the residential have been downgraded further.
Impairment losses mortgage bond markets, and increased support included $235 million related to structured securities, to the commercial mortgage market through with the losses being due to adverse changes in programmes such as the Term Asset-Backed expected future cash flows.
The impairment losses Securities Loan TALF and Public-Private Investment were primarily in residential mortgage-backed Program PPIP have also led to narrowing spreads securities $138 million, commercial mortgageacross structured securities, which have also been backed securities $80 million, preferred stocks and favourable to the portfolios unrealised loss position.
hybrid securities $43 million net and 13 corporate As the Federal Reserves support of the Agency holdings $111 million, the most significant of which market through explicit purchase of such securities were related to financial sector issuers.
comes to an end in the first quarter of 2010, it is likely The fixed income portfolio has exposure to that Agencies could retreat from current valuations.
approximately $0.8 billion of preferred stock hybrid As such, despite excellent collateral quality, we view instruments amounting to approximately 5% of Agencies as posing potential spread-widening risk.
the portfolio at 31 December 2009 compared to Similarly, very highly-rated, long maturity securities $0.6 billion 5% of the portfolio at 31 December 2008, are at risk of underperformance or negative price with the bulk of this exposure concentrated in the action as long-dated Treasury yields move higher on financial services sector.
During the first half of 2009, the back of mounting Federal deficits and the need these holdings came under pressure as concerns to fund ongoing stimulus programmes.
about financial institutions continued to mount In the Approximately $1.5 billion of the fixed income second half of 2009, however, the fair value of these portfolio is classified as Loans and Receivables, securities have recovered sharply, as results from the which are carried at amortised cost.
As a result, Federal Reserves stress test of banks were released, $45 million of unrealised losses on a mark-to-market and banks and other financial institutions successfully basis are not reflected in the balance sheet in raised capital to bolster their balance sheets.
We monitored closely and reduced our exposure During the last three quarters of the year, the to hybrid preferred securities and other assets in financial services sector securities were generally advance of adverse rating migration e. g. Dubai the largest contributors to the improvement in the Ports in 2009 through trading activity.
We also net unrealised loss position for the fixed income selectively harvested gains to offset realised losses.
With increased access to capital and We are encouraged with the progress we have Old Mutual plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED been able to make with better understanding and Now, and for the foreseeable future, our approach LTS Emerging Markets anticipating the dynamics of the portfolio through focuses on fresh, flourishing and grounded aspects Nordic our own processes and close co-operation with our of nature characteristics that we believe endRetail Europe expanded investment management roster.
customers can more easily relate to the products.
Wealth Management OM Financial Life Insurance Company regulatory Customer service US Life capital, including capital contributions, increased A key objective in 2009 was to deliver enhanced slightly compared to statutory 2008 levels as strong and proactive customer service through a series of statutory operating earnings offset investment initiatives: impairments.
OM Financial Lifes required capital was Introduce proactive service model through TPA essentially unchanged at the targeted 300% level.
Perot Systems In the end, higher risk-based capital charges resulting Implement in-force web capability from credit rating migration of the portfolio due to Provide enhanced in-force illustration capability investment downgrades did not have a significant Establish case management services within impact in 2009.
As expected, credit rating migration underwriting took place within the corporate bond portfolio but this Establish and train sales support pre-sales was offset by improved charges on the structured teams in Baltimore and Lincoln security portfolio.
The main reason for this was the Implement customer relationship NAIC RMBS rating initiative that adjusted the asset management capability risk required capital to account for loss severity in the Review key distribution relationships and identify structured security portfolio.
As yet no adjustment service enhancement opportunities to the CMBS ratings requirement has been agreed Review progress through independent research.
although this and other relief measures are likely to be All these were successfully completed.
Feedback discussed by the regulators and the Industry.
from MGAs and agents has been very positive, The risk-based capital ratio increased from 305% and this anecdotal response has been confirmed at year end 2008 to 312% at 31 December 2009 by independent surveys of our writing agents by based on the small movement in both capital and Service Quality Measurement SQM and LIMRA.
The US Life business in aggregate SQM benchmarks over 350 leading North American did not need additional capital from the Group in call centres annually, asking customers about 2009, although capital was repositioned between their service experience.
The 2009 survey showed companies within the US Life Group through the that we improved performance compared with transfer of $30 million from OM Re to achieve the 2008 and exceeded world-class benchmarks on 312% year end result.
Given our anticipated level two key measures: first call resolution and overall of impairments for 2010 of $55 million, and the net customer satisfaction.
We asked LIMRA to conduct capital consumption of our sales plans, we do not a fifth survey of 7,000 life and annuity producers to consider it likely at this stage that we will require evaluate the service we give them and determine further new capital for this business.
if service had improved since the previous survey Marketing in November 2008.
Its overall finding: Old Mutual Our re-engineering and cost-cutting measures improved in four areas since the 2008 survey ease eliminated the majority of our traditional print, of doing business, call centre, sales support and broadcast and web-based advertising.
However, as new business underwriting.
These translated to part of the product portfolio overhaul we enhanced a large increase in the companys overall ratings.
the look, feel and content of all the marketing We received the best ratings for service delivery since materials that help our agents to sell Old Mutual we started the survey in 2005. products.
The new materials feature more visually People appealing imagery, simplified product mapping Our business transformation programme in late and naming to tie the product portfolio together, 2008 and early 2009 reduced our workforce by highly stylised concepts and sales ideas to extend approximately 50% and consolidated it into one site Old Mutuals brand recognition and revised content in Baltimore, Maryland.
The process was designed to to help agents understand and communicate key streamline and right-size the business while retaining benefits.
Launched in October, they were warmly the key talent needed to move the company forward.
welcomed by our field force.
The impacted employees were handled with respect Changing market dynamics dictated a shift in and dignity and offered assistance with their career our presentational approach.
In the past we had transition.
Communication throughout the process portrayed successful, wealthy baby-boomer types was key to its success.
living the high life in some style and splendour.
70 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 We recognise that our future success depends Outlook on having an engaged and committed workforce, By leveraging the business transformation successes and the business is now staffed with talented accomplished in 2009, we are well positioned to employees who are delivering on our business generate modest, quality returns in the coming strategy.
We have a performance management year.
Sales levels in 2010 are expected to increase system that clearly aligns employee and business over 2009 levels, but within the capital utilisation goals and rewards employees for accomplishments parameters set for the business and with a targeted and contributions.
A special recognition programme, focus on profitable products.
New FIA and Universal our Anchor Achievement Awards, rewards Life products are expected to be introduced in the individuals who go above and beyond their normal second quarter of 2010.
Expense actions taken work responsibilities and provide outstanding in 2009 will provide a lower cost base in 2010. performance.
We have function-specific action plans Capital self sufficiency is again the goal of the to engage every employee in our business.
And our business for 2010 and the balance sheet, including development programmes prepare our managers for invested assets, is more conservatively positioned the responsibilities of retaining employees and offer than prior quarter-ends.
In 2010, we are assuming a the general staff opportunities to grow and develop long-run rate of impairments at 30 basis points of our their skills.
All these initiatives demonstrate our bond portfolio for IFRS AOP.
commitment to our employees, their value, and their The economic backdrop in the US continues to importance to the success of the business.
be quite muddled, with financial market returns Risk reflecting a sense of optimism and confidence that at We continue to manage our risks and develop our times appears at odds with core economic metrics.
Risk Management capabilities in alignment with the The impact of the governments extraordinary stimulus Groups Enterprise Risk Management framework.
efforts has had a direct effect on the narrowing of risk Refer to Risk and Responsibility section for details spreads across the board, and credit is flowing again relating to Group Risk Management.
However, the labour market remains challenging, with the unemployment rate Priorities for 2010 hovering at around 10%, and companies still reluctant Strengthen the core competencies of the to materially expand payrolls.
The backdrop of high business in distribution channels, asset liability unemployment and below-average economic growth spread management, product development and continues to weigh on sentiment in the housing platform outsourcing market and this gives rise to risks to surrender levels.
Embed risk management practices The exposure of the US bond market to real estate Maintain 300% RBC ratio through integrated impairments represents a further source of uncertainty capital and sales management as does the potential price impact on higher quality Optimise risk return trade-offs on investments bonds if rates rise.
Strengthen employee experience and retain talent.
Old Mutual plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read
