FAST READ OUR STRATEGY Our strategy is to build a long-term savings, protection and investment group by leveraging the strength of our capabilities in South Africa and around the world.
We will focus, drive and optimise our businesses to enhance value for shareholders and customers.
OLD mUTUAL STRATEGIc PRIORITIES We are passionate about developing the best proposition for our 1 Develop the customer customers, by building on our history of innovation and resolute customer focus.
This includes expanding our product range, proposition and experience developing our advice capability which is a fundamental part of the value we provide to our customers and endeavour to treat customers fairly everywhere.
To ensure that we provide value to shareholders and customers, we 2 Deliver high performance need to drive high performance in our businesses by delivering profitable growth, operational efficiency, and by optimising risk and return.
in all business units We will utilise our provide capabilities in South Africa and around 3 Share skills and experience the world to drive revenue and cost improvements across the Group, by leveraging policy administration capabilities in South Africa, across the Group driving global IT and procurement synergies and sharing product development ideas.
A key to our success is that we demand and reward excellence in 4 Build a culture leadership, teamwork and delivery of results for all our people.
This includes defining and embedding a high-performance of excellence leadership model, against which we can assess, develop and remunerate our leaders.
To deliver the full value of the Group to shareholders we need to optimise 5 Simplify our structure our structure.
This means that we will exit non-core and sub-scale businesses, reduce exposure to businesses that fall outside our Group to unlock value risk appetite, run-off non-disposable assets for value and optimise our structure for strategic, regulatory, capital and governance purposes.
bUSINESS DRIvERS To do this we expect businesses in our portfolio Operate within our capital and risk requirements to make a meaningful contribution to the Group.
Be capable of achieving 15% ROE They are required to: Add value to another part of the Group Have growth potential in their markets Have a clear plan to deliver profitable, sustainable growth Create shareholder value into the future.
4 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
