mANAGEmENT STATEmENTS GROUP EXEcUTIvE cOmmITTEE The Committee meets regularly to address strategic issues, to review the Groups progress against its business plan for the year and to discuss other high-level matters affecting the Groups performance or prospects.
In addition to the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, there are seven other positions on the Group Executive Committee.
Standing: Seated: Don Hope, Paul Hanratty, Philip Broadley, Paul Maddox, Julian Roberts, Tom Turpin, Don Schneider, Andrew Birrell Mike Brown 28 28 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Julian Roberts 52, B.
FIA Group Chief Executive Chief Executive Officer, Long-Term Julian has been Group Chief Executive of Old Mutual Savings and Chairman, Old Mutual plc since September 2008.
Julian joined Old Mutual South Africa in August 2000 as Group Finance Director, moving Paul was appointed Head of Long-Term Savings in on to become CEO of Skandia following its purchase March 2009 and Chairman of Old Mutual South Africa by Old Mutual in February 2006.
Prior to joining in September 2009.
He has been with Old Mutual Old Mutual he was Group Finance Director of Sun Life South Africa OMSA since 1984.
He is a fellow of & Provincial Holdings plc and previously Chief Financial the Institute of Actuaries and has held a number of Officer of Aon UK Holdings Limited.
These included Head of Product Development, General Manager, Finance and Actuarial Philip Broadley 49, M. A. F. C. A. and Head of the Retail business of OMSA.
He joined Group Finance Director the Board of the OMSA life business in 2003 and Philip has been Group Finance Director since became Managing Director of OMSA in 2006.
He was previously Group Finance Director of Prudential plc from May 2000 to March Don Hope 53, Head of Strategy 2008.
Prior to joining Prudential, he was a partner in Development Arthur Andersen from 1993 to 2000.
He has been Don was appointed Head of Strategy Development at Chairman of the 100 Group of Finance Directors, a Old Mutual in March 2009.
He joined Old Mutual as founding member and trustee of the CFO Forum of Group Treasurer in May 1999, with responsibility for European Insurance Company Finance Directors, developing the Group's international treasury function.
and a member of the IASB's Insurance Working He was appointed to the role of Chief Executive Officer Group.
He is a member of the Code Committee of the of Old Mutual Bermuda Limited in August 2008.
was Chairman of the Intech Fiduciaries Ltd and the Old Mutual Australia Ltd boards until their sale from Andrew Birrell 40, B.
Sc Hons, the Old Mutual Group, a role he assumed in November FASSA, FFA, ASA, CERA 2007.
Before joining Old Mutual, Don was Group Group Risk and Actuarial Director Treasurer of Eagle Star Holdings plc, a subsidiary of Andrew has been Group Risk and Actuarial Director B.
He joined Old Mutual South Africa in August 2007 as Chief Risk Officer and was Paul Maddox 49, M. A. F. C. A. appointed Group Chief Actuary at Old Mutual plc in Head of Strategic Implementation July 2008.
Previously he was Chief Operating Officer Paul joined Old Mutual in February 2009 on a longand Chief Financial Officer at Investec Securities.
Prior term secondment from Ernst & Young where he was to this he was Chief Financial Officer at Capital Alliance the Partner in charge of the Programme Advisory Holdings.
His early career was at Metropolitan Life.
Paul has spent the last 20 years as Andrew is a Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries, Fellow a management consultant delivering major change of the Actuarial Society of South Africa, an Associate programmes in Financial Services, including the highly of the Society of Actuaries and a Chartered Enterprise successful Chip and Pin Programme, which was the Risk Analyst.
biggest change in the UK payments industry since decimalisation.
Paul started his career by qualifying Mike Brown 43, BCom, as a Chartered Accountant with Deloitte Haskins Dip Acc, CA SA, AMP and Sells.
Chief Executive, Nedbank Group Don Schneider 53, B.
A. M. A. Mike Brown has been Chief Executive of Nedbank Group Limited since March 2010.
He was previously Group Human Resources Director the Chief Financial Officer of Nedbank Group and Don joined Old Mutual in May 2009 from Merrill Nedbank Limited from November 2004.
Prior to that Lynch, where he was Senior Vice President and he headed Property Finance at Nedbank and before Head of Human Resources for their Global Wealth that he was an executive director of BoE Limited.
Prior to that, he headed HR for their Global Markets and Investment Banking Division.
Don originally joined Merrill Lynch in 1997 as Head of International Human Resources, based in London, where he was responsible for all HR activities outside the US.
Prior to joining Merrill Lynch, Don worked for Morgan Stanley for 13 years and he held a variety of senior HR roles.
Don started his career as a consultant in human resources.
Tom Turpin 49, BS Accounting President and Chief Executive Officer, Old Mutual Asset Management US Tom was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer, Old Mutual Asset Management US in June 2008.
He previously served as Chief Operating Officer of Old Mutual US.
Prior to that, he was Managing Director and Head of Defined Contribution Plans at Putnam Investments.
From 1982 to 1993 he held a variety of leadership positions with The Boston Company.
Tom is a member of the board of Old Mutual US Holdings and a member of the boards of directors of several affiliated companies and affiliate managed investment funds.
Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc 29 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read
