CONFIDENT COVERAGE Leveraging new technology In order to deliver improved products and service to our valued stakeholders we implemented a number of new technology systems.
As a result, we have seen major improvements in our operational efficiency and broker service.
The systems provide a strong foundation on which to run our new and existing products.
The graph below, which illustrates improved efficiency, shows a considerable decrease in the number of outstanding pieces of work e. g. registered claims, etc.
The spike was as a result of problems experienced with the implementation and bedding down of the new system.
This project has been a great success.
Outstanding items 000's 20 15 10 5 0 Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec 2008 2008 2008 2009 2009 2009 2009 84 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW SHORT-TERM INSURANCE Mutual & Federal M&F is the second-largest short-term insurer in South Africa, with offices in South Africa, Namibia and Botswana.
It provides a full range of insurance products to commercial and domestic customers, principally in four major portfolios: Commercial, Personal, Risk Finance and Credit.
KEY FACTS Adjusted Operating Profit AOP Combined ratio 2009 2009 70m 98.0% 2008: 76m 2008: 96.1% Underwriting result m 09 10.63 08 19.56 Number employed Our brand 2,331 Keith Kennedy MD, Mutual & Federal Old Mutual plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW SHORT-TERM INSURANCE CONTINUED Mutual & Federal SHORT-TERM INSURANCE: MUTUAL & FEDERAL Mutual & Federal Business Support including Claims Human Services Admin, development product development, Resources Finance, Accounting, and Sales underwriting, - Investments, acturial, IT, etc Governance, Secretarial, etc Mutual & Federal M&F is the second-largest The Credit portfolio is underwritten by a subsidiary short-term insurer in South Africa, with offices in of M&F and is offered within a market segment South Africa, Namibia and Botswana.
It provides where the group dominates the market.
a full range of insurance products to commercial Business model and domestic customers, principally in four major The companys success is built on strong portfolios: Commercial, Personal, Risk Finance relationships with intermediaries, who introduce and Credit.
more than 90% of its business.
These intermediaries The Commercial portfolio is the largest, with a range from small and medium-sized operations broad spectrum of customers ranging from small concentrating on domestic business to large national businesses to large corporations.
It covers primarily corporate brokers who provide specialised services property, accident, motor, engineering, marine and and manage large portfolios.
Each portfolio is managed in line with the market The Personal portfolio provides domestic within which it is offered.
The Personal portfolio household, motor and all-risk short-term insurance comprises higher volumes of lower-value premiums products to domestic customers of all ages and and generally requires less underwriting involvement, various financial groups.
It offers white-labelled while the Commercial portfolio includes larger intermediary-branded products and an inrisks requiring detailed surveying, underwriting and house branded product, Allsure, which provides reinsurance structuring.
Because we are able to offer comprehensive cover.
It also includes a hospital this full range of services, we can tailor products to cash plan and personal accident policies as well customers specific requirements and help them as low-cost products covering livestock and with their overall risk management.
M&F operates centralised claims and administration The Risk Finance portfolio, comprising alternative for the risks written.
Management of the investment risk transfer products, is provided by a highly portfolio is subcontracted to Old Mutual Investment capable team which is well regarded in the industry Group South Africa.
as one of South Africas largest suppliers of risk financing solutions, primarily to medium-sized commercial customers.
86 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21.2% Mutual & Federal return on equity Product and service developments Strategy We are extensively overhauling the M&F policy M&F aspires to be the strongest and most administration systems to ensure faster, better successful short-term insurer in its chosen markets.
service and greater processing efficiency.
To date We remain focused on profitability while addressing we have widely implemented paperless transaction new and existing markets, channels and products to processing and introduced a new customergenerate growth.
orientated computer system for our flagship We are strongly committed to the intermediary domestic insurance product, Allsure.
channel and further development of broker Our claims service and settlement philosophy remain relationships.
a primary source of competitive advantage, and our A new management team is in place to deliver reputation for fast, efficient and fair claims settlement the strategy that will make M&F a multi-channel, continues to attract and retain customers and process-efficient company that is able to service intermediaries.
all of its channels cost-effectively and in a way Market overview that will drive end-customers to demand the Although the short-tem insurance market grew Mutual & Federal brand.
in 2009, the growth was slower than in previous Operational highlights 2009 years due to the unfavourable economic climate.
In 2009 we implemented a regionalisation model There was a sharp decline in vehicle and home sales for our operations, introduced the Allsure computer and domestic business was particularly affected.
system and improved the groups Business Process The market remains stable and established insurers Management capability.
During 2010 and 2011 the continue to generate underwriting surpluses, albeit new computer system will be rolled out to other at a lower level than in the previous five years.
portfolios and the business processes will be further Market data suggests that bankand broker-owned refined to enhance customer service.
insurers have shown above-average growth and The restructured group has brought a greater direct insurers have continued to expand faster proportion of customer-facing staff onto a widely than the overall market.
In some cases this has distributed platform, which will help to promote been at the expense of traditional insurers, who are growth.
continually seeking ways to regain market share.
These changes are also expected to deliver further The continuing emergence of a larger middle class cost reductions in 2010 and 2011. and the high levels of infrastructural spending in the Underwriting profitability depends on the country have, to some extent, moderated the impact fundamental soundness of the companys portfolios, on insurers of reduced consumer spending.
managements diligence in rate setting, and ongoing The market continues to be firmly regulated by the adherence to responsible underwriting standards.
Combined with strong management measures, the significant improvement in investment markets has helped to strengthen overall company solvency.
Old Mutual plc 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW SHORT-TERM INSURANCE CONTINUED Performance in 2009 Return to stability Highlights Rm FY 2009 FY 2008 % Change Underwriting result 140 299 Long-term investment return LTIR 791 925 13 Restructuring costs 55 Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis pre-tax 918 1,169 21% Gross premiums 8,456 9,159 8% Earned premiums 6,874 7,669 10% Claims ratio 69.4% 67.1% Combined ratio 98.0% 96.1% Solvency ratio 55.9% 41.0% 21.2% Return on equity 1 year average 29.0% Highlights m FY 2009 FY 2008 % Change 70 Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis pre-tax 76 8% The ROE is now shown over a 1 year average equity base previously 3 years average to achieve consistency with the rest of the Group.
IFRS AOP results Solvency margin Following adverse investment conditions and Following improvements in investment return high levels of claims in early 2009, the company and underwriting stability during the second recovered well in the later parts of 2009. half, the solvency margin the ratio of net assets Management action on profitability led to the to net premiums improved to 56% at year-end cancellation of some personal scheme business 2008: 41%.
This is well within our target range.
This contributed to a fall in premiums for Acquisition of minority shares by Old Mutual 2009 as whole.
The acquisition of the minority shares in M&F was Despite the underwriting loss recorded in the concluded successfully in early February 2010. first half, there was a significant improvement in Although the finalisation was delayed by certain underwriting results during the second half and an outstanding approvals, the overall process was overall underwriting surplus of 2% was achieved.
completed with limited disruption to staff and This followed the implementation of various customers.
Management can look forward to closer corrective measures and a generally improved working relationships with Old Mutual and increased trading environment.
opportunities for growth and profitability through joint ventures and other cooperation.
Investment returns were strongly higher in 2009 as world financial markets returned to greater stability.
Marketing Total actual investment return for the year amounted We maintained our short moments advertising to R660 million compared to a loss of R146 million campaign and approach in 2009.
This emphasised in 2008. the importance of reliable insurance and has a strong people theme to further reinforce the During the year the company completed the relationship element of short-term insurance.
implementation of a sophisticated state-of-theThe advertisements also aim to foster relationships art system for processing a large portion of the with younger individuals from diverse cultural personal portfolio.
Whilst this caused unfortunate and ethnic backgrounds, as our customer base declines in service levels in the first half these has traditionally been predominantly white and were largely remedied by the year-end and have middle-aged.
resulted in substantial improvements in processing opportunities for customers and intermediaries.
88 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The impact of our advertising and marketing has HOW WE DO BUSINESS been somewhat constrained over the past two M&F HELPS BOOST FINANCIAL years by the potential sale of the company.
But even though this resulted in some loss of drive and focus, LITERACY market research indicates that the short moments campaign has been successful in promoting name At Mutual & Federal weve been investing in financial literacy and logo recognition.
education as part of our membership of the South African Insurance Customer service Association and the Financial Sector Charter.
For example, our Customer service suffered to some extent during Managing Your Money initiative is helping to improve the low levels 2009 as a result of the restructure, system of mathematical literacy in South African schools.
It provides training implementation and uncertainty surrounding future workshops for teachers with lesson plans, worksheets and student company ownership.
Management undertook assignments all aligned with the school curriculum.
extensive roadshows to meet intermediaries and By investing in financial literacy were not only benefiting the discuss service difficulties: these meetings again communities we operate in but also increasing the potential for new evidenced the strength of our broker relationships, customers in the future.
Michael McCann, Regional Sales Manager, which will continue to improve as intermediaries Mutual & Federal experience the significant benefits which the new systems offer.
People M&F has always enjoyed a reputation for having the Priorities for 2010 most capable and qualified employees and is often M&F has been through a significant period of regarded as the training ground of the short-term restructuring and systems implementation over insurance industry.
This is the result of our ongoing the past two years.
This was difficult but was an commitment to training and effective operation of important and necessary step towards creating recognition and reward programmes.
We continue a sound base on which to grow revenue over the to improve employee satisfaction and drive coming years.
We now have the following priorities: transformation of the business: and we have made significant strides towards meeting employment Growing the business through a multi-channel equity objectives despite considerable difficulty in distribution model recruiting suitably qualified staff.
Maintaining process enhancements and optimisation by continuously improving and Risk bedding-down the business model We continue to manage our risks and develop our Completing the IT strategy of moving to Risk Management capabilities in alignment with the state-of-the-art technology platforms Groups Enterprise Risk Management framework.
Maintaining tight control over capital and Refer to Risk and Responsibility section for details solvency.
Outlook Despite unusually heavy rains in the Johannesburg area of South Africa, which led to higher than usual personal-lines claims in the early months of 2010, we remain confident with regard to our underwriting prospects.
M&F has a strong brand in the southern Africa market and good relationships with its intermediary partners.
The next few years promise much as we look to leverage these relationships, as well as good systems and processes, in order to drive profitable and sustainable growth.
Old Mutual plc 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read
