ALIGNED VIEW Strength of diversity, power of focus With 18 distinct investment firms, over 160 investment solutions and 161.5 billion in assets under management, Old Mutual Asset Management remained competitive with strong operating earnings and free cash flow through the worst of the market downturn.
Through leading client service practices, solid long-term investment performance and decisive management actions, the business is poised to perform well during market recovery.
Early indicators point to success as second half earnings were 83% ahead of first half and operating margins had returned to 21% on a run rate basis by year end.
We partner with diverse boutique investment firms to offer investment disciplines focused on the financial needs of our clients.
This partnership coupled with the strength, experience, and financial support of a 161.5 billion global investment management platform serves as the foundation to deliver exceptional results for clients and shareholders.
90 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW US ASSET MANAGEMENT Based in Boston, our business consists of 18 distinct boutique investment firms managing $261 billion across all major investment strategies for institutional clients, high net worth individuals and retail investors around the world: some 25% of our clients are non-US based.
Our boutiques are headquartered predominantly in North America, with two in London.
KEY FACTS Adjusted operating profit AOP Funds under management FUM 2009 2009 83m 161.5bn 2008: 97m 2008: 164.9bn Margin % 30 20 10 0 H1 H2 H1 H2 2008 2009 Number employed Some of our brands 1,544 US Asset Management Executive Committee 1 Matthew Appelstein 3 Tom Turpin 5 Julian Sluyters Executive Vice President, President and Chief President and Chief Executive Head of Sales and Marketing Executive Officer Officer, Old Mutual Capital 2 Matt Berger 4 Linda Gibson 6 Jim Mikolaichik Senior Vice President, Chief Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Head of Strategy, Product and Corporate Development 1 2 3 4 5 6 Old Mutual plc 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW US ASSET MANAGEMENT CoNTINUED US Asset Management US ASSET MANAGEMENT Old Mutual US Asset Management Affilated Investment Old Mutual Capital Old Mutual Asset Old Mutual Global Old Mutual Asset Firms 18 total US mutual funds Management Trust Funds offshore Management Company fund platform International international distribution We have built a leading asset management Over time the largest firms in the business may business in North America through a combination change, depending on investment performance, of acquisitions and strong organic growth.
market cycles and demand for particular investment Our business model provides a strategic framework styles.
The sources of profits within the affiliate in which boutique asset management businesses portfolio also change.
We continue to enjoy the privilege of serving of asset classes in our portfolio mitigates to some some of the largest and best-known institutions degree the risk of extreme earnings volatility, e. g. universities, corporations, defined benefit plans, reflected in our positive operating earnings and defined contribution plans, sovereign wealth funds competitive margins in the current difficult market around the world.
Our strict adherence to pure environment.
As markets grow, operating leverage institutionalised investment processes, consistently provides for a degree of margin expansion.
strong investment performance and concentration Collectively, US Asset Management offers over on customer service provides long-term partnership 140 distinct investment strategies.
We grow our with our customers.
marketable investment capacity and maintain Based in Boston, our business consists of 18 diversification in our offerings by seeding strategies, distinct boutique investment firms managing recruiting investment talent and acquiring $261 billion across all major investment strategies firms.
Each member firm has its own vibrant, for institutional clients, high net worth individuals entrepreneurial culture of investment management and retail investors around the world: some 25% of capabilities focused on its particular area of our clients are non-US based.
The institutional approach of the member headquartered predominantly in North America, firms ensures consistency of style and process with two in London.
Dwight Asset Management, across market cycles.
a fixed income manager, is the largest with 22% We have a distinct competitive advantage in our of our total funds under management.
The next ability to attract and retain talented investment largest managers are Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney professionals through a consistent approach to profit & Strauss, a value equity manager 21%, Acadian sharing and equity ownership structures thereby Asset Management, an international equities ensuring the longevity of the investment firms and manager 19%, and Rogge Global Partners, a customer relationships.
Most of the boutiques global fixed income manager 14%.
have profit-sharing arrangements in which they earn a percentage of operating profit.
Most also have long-term equity plans.
The combination of profit-sharing and equity plans ensures that each boutiques interests are closely aligned with those of our shareholders and customers.
A thoughtful approach to succession planning, which provides an orderly transfer of ownership and management responsibilities to successive generations of investment talent, also contributes to the longevity of individual firms.
92 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 18 Specialised boutique investment firms We believe the current business model is best Business model positioned to achieve our long-term strategic vision.
Our vision is to be a market-leading asset It offers clear sources of competitive advantage, management firm delivering high-quality investment including: solutions to clients while providing exceptional business results.
Our business is structured as an Attraction of deep investment expertise with actively-managed holding company that fosters entrepreneurial drive investment autonomy among its specialised Low turnover of key investment talent boutique firms to achieve investment and operating Firm longevity excellence.
Ability to source and integrate new investment capabilities The operating model has five focus areas: Thought leadership in product development, Investment excellence: We present clearly packaging and distribution articulated investment processes and solutions Diversity of boutiques, providing value and to clients through our 18 boutique investment stability throughout market cycles management firms.
These firms strive to exceed Professional business management and a scaled performance expectations through consistently infrastructure platform with shared services and applied investment processes.
and retain top investment talent by offering Market overview investment autonomy and equity ownership.
The current market environment presents both Customer service and distribution: opportunity and challenge for the asset management The 18 boutiques provide high-quality service industry.
There is continuing pressure on earnings to support client objectives.
Distribution across the industry due to the volatility of change professionals embedded in boutiques, as well as in asset levels, although recovery of global markets centralised distribution support, continually seek has provided a stronger asset base to finish the year.
opportunities to meet evolving client and market The action taken by most firms to reduce headcount demand.
and expenses will provide effective operating Diversification of investment solutions: leverage as markets return to growth in line with Our experienced management team regularly historic averages.
Firms operating from a position reviews and positions the enterprise-wide offering of capital strength will continue to focus on adding of investment solutions to maximise value creation investment talent and acquiring complementary for clients and shareholders.
It also aims to investment capabilities.
As market volatility returns minimise volatility in funds under management closer to normal there has been some consolidation, and earnings, and to achieve diversification with leading companies acquiring firms to strengthen benefits, through effective management of the distribution and investment capabilities as well as boutique portfolio.
As part of this process, several firms Global leverage: We use existing Old Mutual have sought external capital from the public markets Group capabilities to grow a global portfolio to fund strategic growth plans and more will follow.
We continue to pursue partnerships and leverage existing global Competition in North America remains strong, with infrastructure at Skandia, OMIGSA and other each of our boutiques facing significant competition business units to drive profitable expansion.
The immediate Financial and operational management: differentiating factors between firms are often Our senior management team closely monitors investment performance and product capabilities.
financial and operational objectives to create and Our investment managers have a record of delivering preserve value for shareholders aggressively.
excellent long-term performance and we have the This close oversight is critical to the generation ability to leverage the diverse styles of individual of free cash flow to provide strong returns and investment teams.
As a result, we are able to seek support growth opportunities.
Effective risk targeted investment opportunities to broaden our management is the foundation of our business product capabilities.
relationships and we proactively seek full compliance with internal controls and regulatory requirements.
Old Mutual plc 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW US ASSET MANAGEMENT CoNTINUED Investment firms with undiversified portfolios, Streamline the portfolio over time: We made dominant equity weightings or performance fees progress in achieving operational efficiencies with high water marks are the most susceptible to in 2009.
Old Mutual Capitals retail platform earnings pressure.
A significant number of asset was realigned to focus on the  firms restructured in late 2008 and sold marketplace.
We improved the boutique 2009 to alleviate anticipated margin pressure.
investment firms earnings potential by closing However, many were careful not to reduce expenses an underperforming boutique as well as targeting any more than necessary in the short term, to general expense savings.
Provision of shared avoid compromising their positioning for the next central services to our affiliates is a key benefit of wave of growth.
Global market recovery and strong the multi-boutique model, delivering operational performance will help to raise performance and leverage across the business, supporting lifttransaction fees.
outs and incubation of new teams, and allowing investment professionals to maximise their focus Regulation is materially impacting the asset on customer service.
One of our key initiatives management industry in response to significant for 2010 will be to review and enhance the losses by investors across most markets.
The US current shared services structure to maximise Government expects to deliver continued change to potential for further value creation.
the nations financial regulatory framework, including Leverage scale in long-term savings asset management organisations and retirement businesses: We continue to seek ways to plan sponsors.
As a result, less-established leverage scale across the Old Mutual Group and investment managers may face additional risk opportunities to work with Skandia Investment management and market pressures.
This will present Group and OMIGSA to drive further synergies.
opportunities for traditional asset management firms Strengthen governance: We work closely with with strong governance to gather assets and acquire the Group on strategic business planning and new investment capabilities.
positioning US Asset Management within the Strategy Group model for the future.
We also continue Our strategy directly supports four of the Groups to monitor our operations closely for financial five strategic priorities: and operational risk and openly participate in implementing Group-level finance transformation Maintain and strengthen capital position: initiatives.
Our business continues to be a source of capital.
We will continue to grow it prudently Our business is well positioned strategically to take by reinvesting earnings in talent and strategic advantage of market, demographic and related acquisitions that create shareholder value trends as we continue to develop innovative product over time.
solutions, deliver strong investment performance and grow our business.
We maintain expertise in sourcing, cultivating and integrating investment talent and capabilities in our business.
We have also placed emphasis on thought leadership in product development, packaging and distribution while enabling investment professionals to focus on investment management and delivering superior investment results.
94 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Proportion of clients of US Asset 25% Management who are non-US based Performance in 2009 Earnings grew strongly in the second half of the year as markets recovered Highlights $m 2009 2008 % Change Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis pre-tax 130 181 28% Return on Capital 4.1% 7.2% 18% Operating margin 20% Net client cash flows $bn 7.1 5.2 37% Funds under management $bn 261 240 9% Highlights m 2009 2008 % Change Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis pre-tax 83 97 14% Overview due largely to a decrease in management fees, While market conditions during 2009 were driven by lower average funds under management challenging, it was a year in which we completed as a result of market weakness in the first quarter successfully a number of long-term strategic and cyclical lows in performance fees.
However actions to reposition the business.
These actions the impact of lower revenues was partly offset included realigning our retail platform to focus on by continued success in managing expenses.
the professionally-sold marketplace, integrating a The result also includes $12 million in significant cash-management team at Dwight, reorganising one-time restructuring costs related primarily to our our central distribution structure and optimising our retail business.
shared services model to deliver further economies Operating margin and cost management of scale.
Provision of central services to our affiliates Operating expenses for 2009 were down 22% is a key aspect of the multi-boutique model, compared to the prior year, enabling us to delivering operational leverage across the business, experience significant leverage in 2010 from the supporting lift-outs and incubation of new teams, recent and ongoing recovery in market levels.
and allowing investment professionals to maximise The full year operating margin of 18% was down their focus on managing money for customers.
2% from 2008, driven by the pace and severity of Investment Performance market declines and lower revenues late in 2008 Long-term investment performance from our and early in 2009.
The margin for the second member firms remains strong.
At 31 December half of 2009 was 21%, an improvement on our 2009, 58% of assets had outperformed their 2008 full year margin of 20%.
This reflects the benchmarks over the trailing three-year period and success of expense management actions taken by 50% of assets were ranked above the median of management in response to declining revenues.
their peer group over the trailing three year period.
As previously indicated, expense reductions in our Over the trailing five-year period, 61% of assets retail business will deliver $15 million to $20 million outperformed their respective benchmarks and 52% of annual expense savings from 2010. of assets were ranked above the median of their Net Client Cash Flows peer group.
Value equity and global fixed-income Net client cash flows of $7.1 billion, 3% of opening continue to rank amongst our top performing asset funds under management, were broadly in line with classes.
Recent challenges among our quantitative the average of our peer group for the year.
The managers are showing signs of improvement as result was driven primarily by outflows at Acadian, markets return to historical patterns of performance Barrow Hanley and Dwight, partially offset by strong with a bias toward higher-quality investments.
inflows at Heitman, Campbell and Thompson, Siegel IFRS AOP results and Walmsley.
Despite the challenging environment Strong market growth and a reduction in the nearly half of our managers experienced net cash expense base of the business drove significant inflows for the year.
earnings growth during the second half of the year, with IFRS adjusted operating profit of $84 million increasing 83% $38 million over the first-half result.
IFRS adjusted operating profit of $130 million for the full year was down $51 million 28%, This was Old Mutual plc 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW US ASSET MANAGEMENT CoNTINUED Funds under management Marketing Funds under management increased 9% $21 billion We re-organised our distribution structure by during 2009 with a 16% market uplift offset in appointing internal candidates as heads of part by asset outflows.
Growth and diversification the US and non-US institutional channels and through international distribution remains a key hiring a third senior executive to focus on the element of our strategy, with non-US clients professional buyer channel which encompasses comprising 25% of total funds under management Registered Investment Advisors RIAs, family at the end of the period.
We also hired three additional distribution specialists to support these Affiliate developments new roles.
The reorganisation is intended to add As previously announced, equity plans were depth to individual boutiques sales efforts without implemented at five affiliates during 2009, and we encroaching on their independence.
will complete the rollout for the remaining firms during 2010.
Alignment of the interests of affiliate People management was a key factor in the success of We will achieve competitive advantage through the our cost management initiatives during 2009 and strength and capability of our people.
A continuing remains a vital component of our long-term strategy, goal in 2010 is to sustain a work environment that critical to talent retention and positioning the manifests our core values and attracts and retains business for sustainable long-term growth.
Additional goals are to implement strategies for building on the existing talent pool, Retail developments refining our talent assessment and management Efforts to reposition Old Mutuals US retail platform process, and reinforcing a culture of pay for in 2009 were successful.
A strategic assessment performance that will drive key talent commitment of the business was completed and resulting and motivation.
We will also continue monitoring recommendations executed by the end of 2009. potential legislation to ensure that current incentives Actions taken during the second half of 2009 are in line with future requirements.
All these provided a refreshed and more focused product efforts are vital in an increasingly competitive asset offering aligned with the best of Old Mutuals management industry.
Retail distribution will more specifically target Registered Risk Investment Advisors RIAs, Family Offices, and We continue to manage our risks and develop our Bank Trust channels which are among the fastest Risk Management capabilities in alignment with the growing segment of the financial services industry.
Groups Enterprise Risk Management framework.
The traditional and alternative investment expertise Refer to Risk and Responsibility section for details of Old Mutuals distinct institutional boutiques relating to Group Risk Management.
aligns well with the needs of the professional buyer market.
Overall, retail efforts provided a reduction in spending and increased margins for the business while preserving a valuable retail shareholder base with significant opportunity for growth in an important distribution channel for the future.
96 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Prior to the current market troubles, customers Priorities for 2010 were migrating asset allocation decisions toward For 2010 and beyond we have five strategic international, global and alternative strategies and priorities: we believe these trends will continue in 2010, Maximise the value of our client proposition by Churn of underperforming managers in traditional delivering consistently high-quality investment domestic equity and fixed income mandates will performance, innovative solutions and best-inpresent opportunities to gain new client funds to class service manage.
Search activity steadily increased in the Ensure excellence in distribution and service by second half of 2009 with the winners being those supporting boutiques distribution efforts investment firms that are truly institutional quality and Continue to diversify the marketable capacity of offer risk management, continuity of firm personnel, our investment management capabilities strong ownership structures and transparency of Continue to leverage best practice in managing investment process with longevity of performance.
boutique investment firms around the Group Our efforts to reposition the business and the and driving greater global distribution for our recovery in capital markets in 2009 position existing boutiques us well for growth in 2010.
In the absence of a Achieve all the above within a framework of continued recovery in global equity markets, future strong financial and capital management.
earnings growth for US Asset Management will be Outlook restricted.
However, our track record of investment We remain cautiously optimistic on the recovery of performance and global business focus has global markets in 2010.
However, there may be a positioned us well relative to our competitors, and wider dispersion of growth rates between regions our diversified asset client mix will continue to help and historically high volatility throughout the year.
Difficulties within financial institutions have created significant opportunities for investment businesses with strong balance sheets to position for the next growth cycle and win the war for investment talent within the US.
Market volatility has widened the gap between top quartile and bottom quartile performers with an expectation that clients will continue to increase the rate of replacement for underperforming managers and asset classes.
While we have a number of accounts at risk at certain affiliates, our overall new business pipeline is robust and we expect to remain in the top half of our peer group in terms of net client cash flows.
Old Mutual plc 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read
