RISK and RESPOnSIBILITY SuPPLIERS So what were the main developments in our supplier We work with many different suppliers across the relationships and activities during 2009?
Group and are committed to acting fairly and Developing stronger relationships honestly in all our dealings with them.
with suppliers Our reputation is one of our most important assets and the relationships we build with our suppliers RESPOnSIBLE BuSInESS POLICY: contribute directly to that reputation.
Our Code SuPPLIERS of Business Conduct, in combination with the commitments to suppliers outlined in the new It is important for us to be consistent in the way we manage our Responsible Business Policy, sets clear standards.
relationships with all our suppliers to raise standards across the The implementation of procurement policy is Group.
So we have included in our Responsible Business Policy a set managed by procurement teams at local level and of commitments related to the suppliers we work with.
we work with all our suppliers to help them meet Business units must: our requirements.
In 2010 we will be reviewing how procurement is monitored within each business unit.
Where appropriate treat suppliers as partners to create longterm As part of our work to strengthen relationships relationships: throughout our supply chain, our business units run Act fairly and honestly with suppliers see additional detail in regular supplier forums to share best practice and society section : seek feedback.
During 2009 we started to look at ways in which we can stimulate greater feedback Factor the environmental and social impact of their suppliers into from our supply chain.
Old Mutual South Africa their procurement decisions, where practical: OMSA, for example, has a Procurement Council to Work with their suppliers to create awareness and progress provide a feedback channel, tracking progress over understanding of the social and environmental impacts on them: time through monitoring and auditing.
Have adequate procurement controls including but not limited Greening the supply chain to, segregation of authorisation of expenditure and selection of Where practical, we consider the environmental vendors suppliers.
impacts of our suppliers activities in our procurement decisions: and we work with suppliers to raise their awareness and understanding of these impacts and improve their performance.
We work with thousands of suppliers.
Our choice of suppliers, and the way we deal with them, not Nedbank and Skandia Nordic are showing only reflects the values we have as a company but leadership in this area, and plans are in place also determines how strong and mutually beneficial to share their best practice with the rest of the our supplier relationships are, both now and in the Group in 2010.
At Nedbank, for example, we have future.
The relationships we develop secure us focused particularly on suppliers with the largest highquality, reliable and costeffective products and environmental impact and have moved to electronic services: and the business we bring to our suppliers invoicing where possible.
assists their growth and development.
Improving black economic To further improve our procurement, in 2009 empowerment in South Africa we integrated it into our new Responsible In all our business relationships in South Africa, Business Policy.
As part of this, we made a across Old Mutual South Africa, Nedbank, and commitment to strengthen our relationships Mutual & Federal we aim to ensure that we act with suppliers.
A number of our business units within the spirit of the BEE strategy, as well as in have been developing ways to consider social line with the letter of the law.
This includes our and environmental impacts in their procurement relationships with our suppliers.
decisions, and are working with suppliers to help Where possible we practise affirmative procurement them understand these issues.
In South Africa, by sourcing goods and services from: where we are the largest financial services business, the countrys Black Economic Empowerment BEE All suppliers based on their BEE Procurement strategy has a material impact on our business: Recognition Level: in 2009 we continued working to ensure that the Blackowned small and medium enterprises economic benefits and opportunities we generate including microenterprises : are spread equitably across South African society.
140 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Nedbank, for example, has a dedicated BEE SuPPLIERS Procurement Management Unit.
This sets the COunTInG THE CaRBOn COST framework rules for BEE procurement, in line with OF TRaVEL the Nedbank Procurement Policy, and engages with all parts of the business in achieving BEE goals and targets.
At Nedbank, environmental issues affecting procurement At OMSA, the Transformation Committee and are discussed at bimonthly Procurement Council receive quarterly reports on all Group Procurement aspects of procurement.
Through the Procurement Committee meetings and Council we are working closely with Masisizane actions to reduce the banks a nonprofit organisation set up by Old Mutual to environmental footprint support national economic transformation and are implemented via the with the business units to establish BEE supplier committee.
accreditation and supplier development frameworks.
Having investigated buying behaviours and updated policies, in 2009 the team steppedup its focus on meeting our intensity reduction targets for travel and paper use.
A sustainable travel task team has been established and all business travel must now be preauthorised and the carbon cost of the travel indicated on the order form.
The footprinting information for flights includes the carbon cost of travel to and from the airport, based on distance, car and fuel type.
During 2009, we initiated several projects to ensure that the bank and its suppliers remain focused on environmental sustainability issues Howard Stephens, Chief Procurement Officer, Nedbank SuPPLIERS STICKInG TO THE ECOLaBEL In 2009, Skandia Nordic joined Swedens Svanen ecolabel network.
This means that when we buy office furniture, head office catering, and travel including hotels, trains and air travel, we use only those goods and services that display the Svanen ecolabel.
The label is awarded only to the most environmentally sound products and services, and also takes into account factors such as fair trade.
Concern for the environment is an important part of our corporate responsibility work, and joining the network was a very practical way to take action.
Per Lindell, Environment Controller, Skandia Nordic Old Mutual plc 141 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read
