CONTROLLED THINKING Improvement in non-interest revenue NIR NIR, including the consolidation of the Bancassurance and Wealth joint ventures, grew by 11.0% to R11,906 million 2008: R10,729 million.
Like-for-like NIR increased by 6.1% driven by good growth in commission, fee and trading income, partially offset by a reduction in fair-value gains from R368 million in 2008 to R44 million.
Commission and fee income was 12.4% higher, largely from volume growth in retail transactional banking and increases in fees charged across the bank.
Non-interest revenue Rm 09 11,906 08 10,729 72 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW BANKING Nedbank Group is South Africas fourth largest banking group measured by assets.
It has a strong retail deposit franchise and its corporate lending market share is over 20%.
Headquartered in Johannesburg, Nedbank has large regional operational centres and a distribution network throughout South Africa, with facilities in other southern African countries.
KEY FACTS Total assets Return on equity ROE Total capital 2009 2009 adequacy ratio 47.9bn 11.5% 14.9% 2008: 41.3bn 2008: 17.7% 2008: 12.4% Net interest income Net interest margin m % 09 1,238 09 3.39 08 1,057 08 3.66 Number employed Some of our brands 27,346 Tom Boardman Mike Brown Former Chief Executive, Chief Executive, Nedbank Nedbank Old Mutual plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW BANKING CONTINUED Nedbank BANKING: NEDBANK Nedbank Nedbank Nedbank Retail & Business Bancassurance Central Support Capital Corporate Banking & Wealth Clusters Nedbank Group Limited Nedbank is a bank is to increase the non interest revenue NIR to holding company.
Its principal subsidiary is Nedbank expenses ratio from the current 78.9% to above Limited.
The companys ordinary shares have been 85% in the medium-to-long term.
listed on the JSE Limited since 1969.
During 2009 the group structure was further Nedbank Group is South Africas fourth largest simplified through Nedbanks acquisition of Old banking group measured by assets, with a strong Mutuals minority stake in the Bancassurance and retail deposit franchise.
Its corporate lending market Wealth joint ventures, and the outstanding 49.9% share is over 20%, Nedbank Capital is ranked as share in Imperial Bank, resulting in Nedbank having one of the top three in key investment banking the second largest share of the vehicle financing league tables and the bank leads the commercial market at 30%.
The Imperial Bank acquisition property finance market with over 30% market became effective in February 2010. share.
Nedbank Business Banking is the second Product Development: largest business bank in the urban areas and the Nedbank Retail Retail business is the fourth largest retail bank in In a largely commoditised business environment South Africa by assets and transactional products Nedbank Retail has concentrated on ensuring that with the second largest retail deposit market share.
its processes and systems are streamlined and Nedbank operates a universal bank model through best suited to customers needs.
We do not expect five main business clusters: Nedbank Corporate, Nedbank Retails major product offerings to change Nedbank Capital, Nedbank Business Banking, dramatically in 2010.
Some focus areas include: Nedbank Retail and Nedbank Bancassurance Expanding the range and distribution of foreign and Wealth.
Together these offer a wide range of exchange products banking, bancassurance, asset management and Enhancing cash distribution strategies wealth management services.
Prepaid and debit card acquisition strategies In addition to its Johannesburg headquarters, The introduction of further bundled product Nedbank has large regional operational centres and options a distribution network throughout South Africa with Continuing review of product profitability, facilities in other southern African countries.
These specifically in pricing for credit, where increased facilities are operated through Nedbanks subsidiary price differentiation is key to attracting good and affiliated banks, as well as through branches and quality customers representative offices in key global financial centres.
Leveraging the existing cost infrastructure as well as a focus on cross-sell initiatives to grow nonNedbank Group has a strategic alliance with the interest revenue.
pan-African banking group, Ecobank, enabling Nedbank to provide its customers with a one bank Nedbank Business Banking experience across 33 African countries.
Nedbank Business Banking operates a unique decentralised business model, allowing quicker The largest portion of Nedbanks earnings and customer decisions with better credit assessment economic profit are generated from its wholesale using local knowledge.
The solutions for customers business, supplemented by other income from include: lending and deposit taking activities.
A key focus 74 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Nedbanks market position in South Africa 4 measured by assets NetBank Business, an electronic banking HOW WE DO BUSINESS solution for customers with some of the most BACKING OUR SERVICE PROMISES advanced security technology available in WITH CASH South Africa.
The system allows for easy offsite updating without impacting customer activity Nedbank Retails AskOnce promise campaign guarantees that we Unique cash handling solutions for customers.
will continually enhance our customers banking experience through Nedbank Corporate excellent service.
We remain fully committed to this, and in 2009 Nedbank Corporate will also focus on initiatives extended the six AskOnce propositions to include one for new clients towards improving the level of non-interest revenue, switching their current accounts to Nedbank: well move their debit including: orders for them, hassle-free.
If we break an AskOnce promise and its brought to Nedbanks attention, we give R50 4 to charity.
To date, Bundling transactional products and services this has raised donations totalling more than R90,000.
to help reinforce cross-selling and collaboration We believe AskOnce will set a new benchmark in the services with other units of the bank industry.
Saks Ntombela, Managing Executive, Nedbank Retail Developing many new products, especially with regard to cash handling solutions where several proof of concept initiatives have already been initiated Developing value add information based Changes in products and services envisaged for solutions to meet customer needs.
These include: 2010 include: A new cash management solution that offers Extending the reach of current capabilities to sweeping and offsetting of balances across new markets and selected sub-segments of the different accounts and currencies current customer base Auto reconciliation services Managing product profitability and customer Electronic bill presentation and payment requirements E-statements.
Focusing on allocation of capital and resources Further enhancing the primary customer to opportunities that generate higher noninterface NetBank Business: in 2010 we will interest revenue, while continuing to offer existing complete the original programme, allowing us products to a wider range of customers.
to migrate the corporate client base and close Nedbank Bancassurance & Wealth down the historical channels.
Bancassurance & Wealth delivered various new While some new products are being implemented products during 2009, primarily simple savings in the card and mobile space, the focus within the and risk products, enabling customers to reduce Africa portfolio remains on updating existing systems risks associated with the current economic cycle.
and ensuring that the current suite of products is run The asset management division successfully effectively and that revenue collection is optimised.
launched new international investment products Nedbank Capital including AAAf rated Money fund as well as the In this challenging economic environment Nedbank international Best of Breed offering.
Capital maintained a conservative stance in its In 2010 we intend to expand the life assurance trading activities.
This included trading less risky product range beyond credit and simple life as foreign exchange and debt activities and a focus on well as growing selectively our short-term offering high quality larger stocks in equity trading activities.
into personal accident, warranties and other The business also continues to grow its annuity after-care products.
Old Mutual plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW BANKING CONTINUED Increased focus on the cross-selling process yielded Market overview more rigorous measurement and management The South African banking industry experienced an information, introduction of a sales steering exceptionally tough and volatile year as a result of committee to provide oversight as well as roll-out of the global recession combined with cyclical credit additional training and coaching tools.
stress in the domestic economy.
Nedbank Corporate South Africas banking system has remained Corporate Banking is embarking on research resilient.
This is reflected in the country's into the sectoral view of the various industries.
improvement from 15th to 6th place in the latest This research is expected to generate incisive valueWorld Economics Forum Global Competitiveness chain analysis and therefore increase understanding Report ranking on the soundness of banks.
of the various value drivers across the industries.
Strategy This should underpin Corporate Bankings guarded South Africa accounts for over 60% of Africas growth strategy of growing selected assets that banking economic profit.
Nedbanks primary focus generate positive and sustainable economic profit.
is to Win in banking in South Africa by growing Property Finance is addressing the currently its share of economic profit in South Africa and depressed property market segments with a southern Africa primarily through transactional selective asset growth strategy.
Pricing of capital banking growth.
and, subsequently, assets becomes key to winning Nedbank Retail new deals.
The division will be further expanded Nedbank Retail aims to grow its footprint through through the addition of Imperial Banks property non-traditional channels, including cashless finance business.
branches and in-retailer branch expansion.
It Nedbank Africa will continue improving efficiencies continues to focus on growing deposits and its and organic growth of its current businesses.
share of transactional and savings account balances Key areas of focus for organic growth will be on at a rate ahead of its asset growth, in order to the businesses in Zimbabwe MBCA and Namibia.
reduce its reliance on expensive wholesale funding.
The team will also continue to pursue selective The acquisition of Imperial Bank will allow the acquisitive growth within the SADC markets.
combined vehicle finance business to compete more Strengthening the Nedbank-Ecobank alliance will effectively through cost and process efficiencies that continue to be an area of focus and growth in 2010. come with scale.
Nedbank Capital Nedbank Business Banking Nedbank Capital is in the final stages of replacing its Business Bankings strategy for 2010 is to deliver a derivative systems, allowing improved management step change in revenue growth to achieve its vision and risk analysis in the trading areas, and of becoming the leader in Business Banking for implementing an enhanced foreign exchange and South Africa by 2011.
The foundations for this were money market system.
laid in 2009 and, despite the challenging external environment, Business Banking maintained its focus on customer acquisition and cross-selling and was also able to ensure greater discipline and rigor with respect to customer pricing and fee collection.
These initiatives will continue into 2010.
76 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Leveraging the Ecobank alliance and penetrating Nedbank Group acquired the Old Mutual minority African countries in sectors where Nedbank Capital stakes in the Bancassurance and Wealth joint has specific sector expertise remains an important ventures with effect from 1 June 2009: growth opportunity.
In addition, alliances with 50% of BoE Pty Limited other institutions are being considered to address 50% of Nedgroup Life Assurance Company strategic deficiencies in certain products and 29.7% of Fairbairn Private Bank geographies.
Generation of non-interest revenue will The purchase of the joint ventures has removed all be to continue to be a focus when providing balance structural and legacy obstacles.
This now presents sheet lending.
an opportunity to become more customer-centric Nedbank was the first African bank to apply the and focus on maximising value through cross-selling Equator Principles and Nedbank Capital has and further penetration of the Nedbank and Imperial successfully leveraged its carbon expertise to Bank customer bases.
As a result, the component develop the carbon strategy for Nedbank and to businesses of Bancassurance and Wealth have help customers generate carbon credits.
been restructured to deliver on this strategy.
Nedbank Bancassurance & Wealth The most significant change to the structure includes Bancassurance and Wealth was historically part the consolidation of four previously independent of Nedbank Retail but from August 2009 became asset management operations and the alignment a separate business division.
The positioning as a of the local and international Wealth Management customer-facing business has increased the focus businesses into a single high-networth proposition.
and opportunity to generate non-interest revenue and economic profit.
The businesses within Bancassurance and Wealth encompass life assurance, short term insurance, financial planning and insurance brokerage, fully-fledged private banking and fiduciary services locally and internationally as well as asset management.
Performance in 2009 Resilient performance in a challenging environment The full text of Nedbanks results for the year ended 31 December 2009, released on 25 February 2010, can be accessed on Nedbanks website http: www.
co. za Highlights Rm 2009 2008 % Change Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis pre-tax 6,192 8,800 30% Headline earnings 4,277 5,765 26% Net interest income 16,306 16,170 1% Non-interest revenue 11,906 10,729 11% Net interest margin 3.39% 3.66% Credit loss ratio 1.47% 1.17% Cost to income ratio 53.5% 51.1% ROE 11.5% 17.7% ROE excluding goodwill 13.0% 20.1% Highlights m 2009 2008 % Change Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis pre-tax 470 575 18% Prior year AOP included an amount of R726 million in respect of the sale of Visa shares.
As reported by Nedbank in their report to shareholders as at 31 December 2009 Old Mutual plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW BANKING CONTINUED Banking environment basic EPS declined by 28.8% from 1,558 cents Demand for credit slowed dramatically and retail to 1,109 cents.
These results are in line with the impairments increased significantly as consumers guidance given in the third-quarter trading update.
came under severe pressure from falling income, job Nedbank's return on average ordinary shareholders' losses, declining asset prices and record high debt equity ROE, excluding goodwill, decreased from burdens.
By the end of 2009 growth in asset-based 20.1% to 13.0%.
ROE decreased from 17.7% to finance had slowed to 1.0% year-on-year.
These declines were driven rates were reduced by 450 basis points to cushion primarily by increasing retail impairment levels and the effects of a rapidly slowing economy and the negative impact from lower endowment earnings increasing unemployment.
that reduced headline earnings, together with Corporate demand for credit lost momentum due strengthened capital levels as shareholders' equity to weak global and local demand, which eroded growth far exceeded growth in total assets.
corporate profits through weaker pricing power, Nedbank Retail's credit quality deteriorated in 2009, lower commodity prices and a strong rand.
Support with impairments worsening significantly, although came from construction projects and increased the rate of new defaults slowed in the second half of government spending, boosted primarily by the the year.
Business banking and wholesale banking public sectors infrastructure drive and preparations impairments ended the year at better levels than for the 2010 FIFA World Cup.
Despite the negative economic trends dominating Nedbanks funding and liquidity levels have remained much of 2009, underlying trading conditions sound as a result of ongoing focus on increasing showed early signs of improvement around the and strengthening liquidity buffers, lengthening third quarter.
This was led by a rebound in growth the funding profile, maintaining a low reliance on in emerging markets, especially China and India, interbank, foreign and capital markets, as well as and was followed by initial indications of recovery in robust balance sheet management.
A strong, broadmost industrialised countries, chiefly brought about based deposit franchise also provides Nedbank with by unprecedented government intervention and diverse funding sources.
massive fiscal and monetary stimulation.
Improved Financial performance commodity prices and global demand brought an Net interest income NII element of relief to domestic export manufacturers, NII grew 0.8% to R16,306 million.
Following a lifting South Africa out of official recession in the 450 basis point interest rate cut during 2009 and third quarter.
There are early signs that the sharp the resulting effect of lower endowment income, drop in interest rates is starting to revive household Nedbank's net interest margin decreased in line credit demand as house prices showed modest with expectations to 3.39% from 3.66% in 2008. signs of a slow recovery towards the end of the year.
The primary drivers of margin compression were: Key to the outlook for 2010 will be employment liability margin compression reflecting the higher growth.
After job losses of nearly one million during cost of term funding: lower endowment on capital the downturn, employment showed early signs and non-repricing of transactional deposit accounts of stabilising in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Job that are not rate-sensitive: and quicker downward creation in the formal sector is likely to be slow, with repricing of interest-earning assets compared with an overall 2% employment gain for the year being interest-earning liabilities.
This will support household income and offset by the repricing of asset margins in line with lead to some improvement in consumer finances Nedbanks risk-based pricing policies.
The rebound is likely to be Impairments charge on loans and advances slower than in previous cycles given weak consumer The credit loss ratio of 1.47% for 2009 2008: 1.17% and business confidence and tighter lending criteria.
showed signs of improvement after having peaked at Review of results 1.67% at 31 March 2009.
For Old Mutual reporting purposes, IFRS AOP The credit cycle has to date largely impacted pre-tax profits fell by 30% to R6,192 million.
consumers and the smaller businesses, as reflected Headline earnings decreased by 25.8% in the continued deterioration of retail credit loss from R5,765 million to R4,277 million.
High levels of unemployment, lower collateral earnings reduced by 24.7% to R4,826 million values due to weak housing and vehicle markets, 2008: R6,410 million.
and delays in recoveries resulting from debt Diluted headline earnings per share EPS decreased counselling have all played a part in the increase in by 29.8% from 1,401 cents to 983 cents.
Diluted defaulted advances in retail secured loans.
78 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 470m Nedbanks adjusted operating profit pre-tax Wholesale banking credit loss ratios have improved Bancassurance and Wealth NIR increased by since June 2009 and remained better than 61.7% to R1,518 million for the year, driven primarily anticipated for this part of the economic cycle.
from the consolidation of the joint ventures for On the whole credit quality in the Capital, Corporate seven months and with good performances from and Business Banking books has remained within the asset management, financial planning and life acceptable levels, although in this volatile economic insurance businesses.
On a like-for-like basis NIR for environment the risk of corporate default remains Bancassurance and Wealth increased by 4.7%, with high.
good growth in the SA businesses.
Defaulted advances increased by 56.3% from Expenses R17,301 million to R27,045 million and represent Nedbank Group continued to maintain tight control 6.0% of total advances.
Total impairment provisions on discretionary spending while investing in strategic increased by 24.7% from R7,859 million to R9,798 areas of the business.
Although early arrears have improved for the 9.9% to R15,100 million 2008: R13,741 million.
last seven consecutive months in the year, defaulted This increase was impacted by the consolidation advances have continued increasing albeit at a of the Bancassurance and Wealth joint-venture slower rate.
acquisitions with effect from June 2009.
On a like-for-like basis, excluding the joint-venture Non-interest revenue NIR acquisitions, expenses increased by 7.7%.
NIR, including the consolidation of the Bancassurance and Wealth joint ventures, grew by Associate income 11.0% to R11,906 million 2008: R10,729 million.
Associate income decreased to R55 million in 2009 Like-for-like NIR increased by 6.1%, driven by 2008: R154 million as a result of the BoE Private good growth in commission and fee income and Clients and Nedgroup Life Assurance Company jointtrading income offset to an extent by fair-value venture acquisitions that were previously accounted gains, which dropped from R368 million in 2008 to for as joint ventures under the equity method.
The drop in fair-value gains is mainly Taxation the result of Nedbank reporting, in 2008, fair-value The taxation charge excluding taxation on nongains of R207 million from the mark-to-market of trading and capital items decreased by 29.9% from its own debt, which we mentioned was unlikely to R1,757 million in 2008 to R1,232 million.
be repeated and was highlighted as poor-quality Non-trading and capital items income that was not attributed to capital.
In 2009 Income after taxation from non-trading and fair-value gains on Nedbank's debt amounted to capital items decreased to R549 million for the R6 million.
The main contribution Commission and fee income was 12.4% higher, in 2009 came from the accounting revaluation largely from volume growth in retail transactional of the Bancassurance and Wealth joint ventures banking and increases in fees charged across immediately prior to their acquisition, while in the the bank.
previous year the main contributor was R622 million Trading income increased by 18.6% from after-tax profit from the sale of Visa shares.
R1,553 million in 2008 to R1,841 million in 2009, Capital reflecting robust trading activity in treasury, Nedbank Group remains focused on optimising and investment banking and the global market strengthening its capital ratios.
ratios have increased significantly and continue to be maintained above Nedbank's target ratios.
Nedbank holds a surplus of R13.5 billion above its minimum total regulatory capital adequacy requirements.
Capital adequacy 2009 ratio 2008 ratio Target range Regulatory minimum 9.9% Core Tier 1 ratio 8.2% 7.5% to 9.0% 5.25% Tier 1 ratio 11.5% 9.6% 8.5% to 10.0% 7.00% Total capital ratio 14.9% 12.4% 11.5% to 13.0% 9.75% Capital adequacy ratios include unappropriated profit at year-end.
Old Mutual plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW BANKING CONTINUED Regulatory capital adequacy ratios increased mainly Nedbank maintains a low reliance on interbank, due to the retention of earnings and a key focus capital market and foreign funding.
Its small on the optimisation of capital and risk-weighted proportion of foreign funding at just over 1.0% is assets, enabled by enhancing data quality and more driven by its regional focus where 91.4% of its asset selective asset growth using our economic-profitbase is in South Africa.
Low historic reliance in the based 'managing for value' philosophy.
This resulted abovementioned markets creates diversification in risk-weighted assets decreasing by 8.1%, which opportunities subject to pricing.
is well below overall balance sheet growth of 0.6%.
Nedbank continues to adopt a strategy of applying Nedbank was also able to maintain its dividend best international practice, with the Basel principles cover at 2.3 times while increasing capital.
on sound liquidity management having been further To increase conservatism, Nedbank increased its embedded during this financial period.
target debt rating solvency standard from Ato A Total assets for internal economic capital requirements in line Total assets increased by 0.6% to R571 billion with the higher target ratios for regulatory capital 2008: R567 billion.
During the year: cash and announced early in 2009.
A more conservative securities declined by 8.2% mainly from the definition of available financial resources to cover the maturing of R10 billion of additional liquid assets.
economic capital requirements was also introduced.
This was offset by the purchase of replacement Nedbank currently holds a surplus of R11.8 billion government bonds of R4 billion to hedge long-term against its economic capital requirements.
This is debt instruments: and Nedbank showed lower calibrated to the new A debt rating including a 10% trading and derivative balances mainly arising from buffer, which is assessed against comprehensive foreign exchange movements.
This was balanced by: growth in intangible assets Nedbank's leverage ratio total assets to ordinary related to the Bancassurance and Wealth jointshareholders equity at 14.4 times 2008: 16.2 times venture acquisitions: growth in investments from the is conservative by international standards and in line first-time consolidation of Nedgroup Life: and an with the local peer group.
Liquidity Advances and Deposits Nedbanks liquidity position remains sound, with Advances increased by 3.7% to R450 billion, a loan-to-deposit ratio of 95.9%.
Management reflecting: ongoing growth in Nedbank Capital and continues to focus on diversifying the funding Imperial Bank: slower growth in Nedbank Corporate base, lengthening the funding profile and further and Nedbank Retail: and reduced advances in strengthening and increasing the liquidity buffers.
Nedbank Business Banking due to a slowdown in client demand for credit and a reduction of singleIn addition to the strong deposit franchise across product loans in line with the drive to reduce higher Nedbank Retail, Nedbank Business Banking and risk exposures and focus on primary clients.
Nedbank Corporate providing a diverse funding mix, Nedbank successfully increased the size of its Growth in advances took place across a number liquidity buffer in 2009 and lengthened the overall of categories, including personal loans, mortgage funding profile in order to achieved improved assetloans, preference shares, deposits placed under to-liability matching.
Increased focus on capital reverse repurchase agreements and other loans, market issuance under the domestic medium-term offset by a decrease in low-margin overnight loans.
note programme, the introduction of innovative Overall market share increased by 1.4%.
fixed-deposit products for retail clients and a broader Nedbank has focused on managing for value and offering of money market products were the primary selective asset growth while improving margins, drivers behind the lengthening of the funding profile.
resulting in bank advances growth and lower levels During the year the following programmes were of advances in the trading portfolio.
undertaken to diversify the funding base and Nedbank retained a strong ratio of advances to lengthen the bank's existing funding profile: the deposits of 96%.
It grew deposits in line with its issuing of R5.6 billion of senior unsecured debt, requirement to fund the growth in balance sheet which was five times oversubscribed: the raising assets, with deposits increasing by 0.5% to of R153 million in perpetual preference shares: R469.4 billion 2008: R466.9 billion.
In the retail obtaining a $100 million credit line from a foreign deposit market current and savings account balances development bank: and focusing on the retail remain at low levels as consumers reduce debt levels.
deposit base through innovative products.
In the wholesale deposit market current and savings 80 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 accounts as well as fixed deposits have increased, Customer Service partially offset by a reduction in other term deposits.
Nedbank Retail World class service is essential to Nedbanks Optimising and diversifying the funding mix and customer-centric approach.
In 2009 it extended lengthening the profile continued to be a key the Ask Once campaign, which is Nedbanks management focus.
Despite intense competition in guarantee to customers that it will continuously the local deposit market, Nedbank has maintained enhance their banking experience, to include a its strong deposit franchise and continues to hold specific service promise for customers wishing to the second largest share of household deposits at switch their current accounts to Nedbank.
During the year a number of innovative retail deposit products were successfully introduced, Nedbank Retail has made significant strides in including Nedbank's Equity-linked Deposit, improving its customer service in recent years, EasyAccess Deposit and Platinum Park-It.
although competitors have narrowed the gap and it is important that focus is maintained on improving Marketing service further through investing in staff and Strategically aligned brand communications have innovative systems, processes and offerings tailored continued to position Nedbank as respected, to customer requirements.
caring, understanding and aspirational bank.
It has placed increased emphasis on its green credentials, Nedbank Business Banking community and customer involvement and range of The main focus in Business Banking was on affinity offerings.
business alignment to clearly defined customer segments.
Higher complexity, high value customers The Nedbank Cup made a significant contribution are now serviced by dedicated teams with the to increasing brand awareness and positively appropriate support structure and staff experience influencing consumer perceptions.
For our high volume of smaller customers ranked as the number one bank sponsoring soccer with less needs and lower-value business we use in South Africa.
Overall awareness of Nedbank more streamlined processing and a lower-cost as a soccer sponsor increased to 64% in 2009 support structure.
2008: 28% and awareness in the mass market has doubled since 2008 to 77%.
In the 2009 independent BMI-T survey, Nedbank Business Banking was acknowledged as having Retail marketing focussed on driving customer achieved the biggest improvement in customer acquisition, non-interest revenue, service and pricing service out of the four big banks in South Africa.
as well as assisting customers through a very difficult year.
A number of new transactional and investment The focus in 2010 will be on strengthening Business offerings were introduced as well as a free software Bankings service culture through a series of package enabling customers to budget and manage conversations, activities and campaigns.
On the service front, Nedbank Corporate commitment to world-class service continued Service remains a key priority for Nedbank through the Ask Once service offering.
Corporate and their top customers are supported by Business Banking maintained a high profile in a dedicated service capability.
the market, strengthening its positioning as a The Startrack Survey is one of the most important bank that partners for growth for a greater South measures used by Corporate Banking in assessing Africa, whilst promoting specific investment and the effectiveness of its relationship with customers transactional banking product offerings to selected and is closely monitored each year.
ranks the performance criteria that are important In the corporate and capital markets, core positioning to customers and how Corporate Banking rates on campaigns have aimed at raising the brand profile those criteria.
The top five performance criteria in and communicating key business differentiators.
2009 relate to the turnaround of customer requests, Ongoing attention has also been given to tactical accessibility, efficiency in problem solving and the communications, highlighting selected deals as well relationship managers knowledge of systems as localised events and strategic sponsorships.
and products and their delivery on promises.
In comparison to previous years Nedbank Corporate The effectiveness of the overall marketing efforts Banking improved its overall ranking.
It was ahead is reflected in the steady improvement in all of its competitors in three of the top five criteria and independently measured key brand metrics.
was ranked first on the criteria relating to turnaround Nedbank continues to gain brand equity in and accessibility.
Old Mutual plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read BUSINESS REVIEW BANKING CONTINUED The Ecobank alliance has provided a strong platform different roles within the bank.
Executive scorecards to support customer needs across the continent and are signed off annually by the Board and are key the recently launched Centre of Excellence gives drivers for the staff remuneration and development.
customers a single interface for accessing services Reward mechanism across the alliance.
Synergies are also materialising Nedbank Group adopted a total-reward philosophy as we introduce alliance customers to Nedbank that is integrated into its people management Corporates existing products, such as NedTreasury, processes.
Remuneration schemes are not excessive in order to meet their banking needs.
and are conservative when measured by both local The outsourcing arrangement with Wells Fargo and global standards.
In 2004 headline earnings Wachovia gives customers access to self-service declined 3% and bonus pools were reduced by functionality enabling them to bypass historical 33%.
Bonus schemes were refocused in 2009 to manual paper based systems.
recognise headline earnings and economic profit against pre-determined targets, as well as increased Nedbank Capital capital and liquidity weightings in scorecards.
Nedbank Capital continues to focus on being an integrated investment bank.
During the year it won a Performance is measured at a group, business unit number of awards including: and individual level against agreed financial and non-financial targets after the year-end results Africa Investor ICT Telecoms Deal of the Year are finalised.
The incentive pools are based on a award for the Neotel deal: combination of group economic profit EP, headline Africa Investor Transport Deal of the Year award earnings and the individual business non-financial for the Bakwena deal: and driver performance.
African Banker Deal of the Year award for the Bakwena refinancing deal.
Whilst market-related remuneration is distributed for meeting the agreed targets, performance in excess Nedbank Bancassurance & Wealth of these targets is rewarded through additional Asset management performance, both across the incentives created through a short-term incentive unitised and private client businesses, was well scheme and recognition programme.
Nedgroup Investments recently received the award of third place in the Domestic Nedbanks long-term incentive schemes are primarily Management Company of the Year, and received aimed at retaining key, high-impact employees.
two Raging Bull awards for individual funds.
They are intended to motivate high performers to remain with Nedbank whilst aligning their individual The wealth businesses continue to excel in interests with those of shareholders.
BoE Private Clients was rated No.
1 in service and advice in an independent survey Risk by SMRC Marketing Solutions Pty Ltd and Fairbairn Refer to Risk and Responsibility section for details Private Bank was voted Best International Wealth relating to Risk Management.
Priorities for 2010 The recent changes to the Wealth Management Improving the profitability of Nedbank Retail: structure will facilitate improvements in service Improving Nedbank's non-interest revenue, delivery by building a consistent advice process particularly through bancassurance activities and and creating better alignment across the local and improved cross-selling in other areas: international Wealth Management businesses.
Increasing the number of new primary customers across all parts of the business and maintaining People existing primary customers through improved Nedbanks Corporate Performance Management value-added services: CPM is based on the Total Performance Building on Nedbanks inherent strengths and Management approach.
It is used to monitor and substantive market share in the wholesale and manage both corporate and individual performance business banking sectors: against key performance indicators, aligned to Responding to opportunities arising from the groups business plan, which ultimately drive increased broadband and mobile banking economic profit.
accessibility and seeking innovative ways to Nedbank uses a Balanced Scorecard approach expand the retail distribution network: to monitoring and managing performance.
Optimising the allocation of capital to business Performance measures in the scorecard focus on activities through the business cycle in order to the delivery of the business strategy, organisational grow businesses with high forecast economic culture and HR strategy and are weighted for 82 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 profits and to anticipate activities which are Interest rate cuts from 2009 will continue to have vulnerable to large cyclical impairments: a negative endowment effect on banking interest Expanding internationally within SADC and the margins, but should be partially offset by a gradual rest of Africa within acceptable risk limits: decrease in impairments as recoveries and arrears Building on Nedbank's leadership in levels improve.
The reversal of provisions in the transformation, corporate social investment and balance sheet is expected to take longer as the environment.
defaulted advances continue to increase, albeit at a slower rate.
Nedbank remains cautious about Outlook impairments as, although corporate impairments Nedbank currently anticipates gross domestic have been benign, there could be large oneproduct GDP growth of around 2.2% in 2010, off charges that are difficult to predict, and it is indicating slightly better prospects for the banking uncertain how the current economic challenges sector.
The global environment and the 2010 FIFA could further impact consumers.
World Cup are primary factors influencing domestic recovery, although the global recovery remains While the economic environment remains fragile, fragile and reliant on continued government support.
the business outlook inevitably remains uncertain.
The short-term outlook for 2010 assumes that Local retail trading conditions are expected interest rates will remain unchanged for the year.
to improve as disposable incomes stabilise, Nedbank Group's performance in 2010 is likely to retrenchments ease, general labour conditions start reflect: growth in advances in the mid single-digits: improving, debt burdens moderate and house prices continuing pressure on interest margins as a result start to recover.
Interest rates are likely to remain of a continued negative endowment effect and steady at current levels and lead to lower impairment anticipated to be compressed by a further 10 to 20 levels.
The 2010 FIFA World Cup is expected to lift basis points: continued improvement in the credit confidence and encourage an increase in household loss ratio but remaining above the target range: mid credit demand and transactional banking volumes.
double-digit growth in non-interest revenue, and Fixed-investment activity is expected to remain lower double-digit expense growth, resulting from modest as a result of excess capacity in the the consolidation of the Bancassurance and Wealth private sector and some loss of momentum in the joint-venture acquisitions for the full period in 2010, Government's infrastructure spending programme compared with the seven months in 2009: a further as several large World Cup-related projects are strengthening of capital adequacy ratios and focus completed.
These developments are likely to on funding and liquidity: and the drive to extract constrain corporate demand for credit, while strong value from the acquisitions made in 2009. competition will place pressure on margins.
Old Mutual plc 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read
