Robert G Dench - Chairman - Age 59 Bob Dench joined Paragon as a non-executive director in September 2004 and was appointed Chairman in February 2007.
During an extended career with Barclays he held a number of senior positions in the UK and overseas, leaving in 2004.
He is also a non-executive director of AXA UK plc and AXA Ireland Limited and of Clipper Ventures plc.
Nigel S Terrington - Chief Executive - Age 49 Nigel Terrington joined the Group in 1987 and became Chief Executive in June 1995, having held the positions of Treasurer and Finance Director.
Prior to Paragon, he worked in investment banking.
He has previously held the positions of Chairman of the Intermediary Mortgage Lenders Association and Chairman of the FLA Consumer Finance division.
He is currently a member of the HM Treasury Housing Forum and has also been a member of the Executive Committee of the Council of Mortgage Lenders and a Board member of the Finance and Leasing Association.
Nicholas Keen - Finance Director - Age 51 Nick Keen joined the Group in May 1991 and became Finance Director in June 1995 having previously held the position of Treasurer.
Prior to joining the Group he worked in Corporate Banking, Treasury and Capital Markets.
He is Chairman of the Paragon Credit Committee.
John A Heron - Director of Mortgages - Age 50 John Heron joined the Group in January 1986.
He was appointed as Marketing Director in 1990 and in 1994 played a pivotal role in re-establishing the Groups mortgage lending operations as Managing Director of Paragon Mortgages.
As Director of Mortgages, he is responsible for both Paragon Mortgages and Mortgage Trust.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers and a member of the Executive Committee of the Council of Mortgage Lenders.
Christopher D Newell - Non-Executive Director - Age 49 Christopher Newell has been a director of Altium Capital Limited since 1990.
He was a director of Artemis Investment Management Limited from its formation until 2006.
He is a Chartered Accountant and joined the Board of Paragon as a non-executive director in November 2001.
He is Chairman of the Paragon Audit and Compliance Committee.
Terence C Eccles - Non-Executive Director - Age 63 Terry Eccles joined Paragon as a non-executive director on 1 February 2007.
He is also a non-executive director of Bluebay Asset Management PLC.
He was previously Vice Chairman of JPMorgan Cazenove.
Since joining the JPMorgan Group in 1970 he held a wide range of roles in London, New York and Hong Kong.
Since 1986 he was involved with the development of the firms financial institutions business, becoming its head and then chairman.
He has advised on many of the more significant transactions in the financial services industry.
He is the Senior Independent Director.
Edward A Tilly - Non-Executive Director - Age 66 Ted Tilly was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 April 2008.
Mr Tilly was the senior independent director of Retail Decisions PLC from January 2000 until January 2007.
He has held a number of directorships including Chairman of Barclays Life Assurance Company Ltd from 1999 to 2003.
Prior to this, Mr Tilly was Chairman and Chief Executive of GE Capitals European insurance division.
Mr Tilly was with the Legal & General Group for nearly thirty years where he held a number of senior positions including Director Life and Pensions and Director International.
Alan K Fletcher - Non-Executive Director - Age 59 Alan Fletcher was appointed as a non-executive director on 25 February 2009.
Mr Fletcher has considerable experience in financial services, including pension fund trusteeship and investment fund management.
He was Chairman of Neville James Holdings prior to its acquisition by Challenger International of Australia, following which he was Sales and Marketing Director of Challenger Group Services and a director of Challenger Life UK from 2002 to 2003.
Since 2000 he has been non-executive Chairman of Hyperama plc and, since 2003, Chairman of Fresh Professional Development Limited, which specialises in delivering financial and business skills courses to the legal sector.
In 2007 he was elected to the General Synod of the Church of England and in 2009 was elected to the Pensions Board of the Church of England.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 13
