PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 DIRECTORS Bill Alexander CBE Chairman of the Main James DAlbiac Board and of the Management Engagement James DAlbiac was a partner in Rowe & Pitman, Committee a director of Mercury Asset Management and a Bill Alexander is currently non-executive chairman director of Jupiter Asset Management.
of Wigborough Ltd, and The Henley Festival Limited.
He was previously Chairman of Xansa Antony Hardy Chairman of the Audit plc and Chief Executive of RWE Thames Water Committee Antony Hardy is a non-executive director of plc, and also held non-executive appointments at Montanaro UK Smaller Companies Investment RMC plc, and GB Airways Ltd and Laporte plc.
Trust plc, Investment Adviser to Essex County Council Pension Fund and South Yorkshire Vivian Bazalgette Pension Fund.
He is adviser to a number of Vivian Bazalgette is a non-executive director of endowed charities and trusts, a director of Henderson High Income Investment Trust plc and Sableknight Limited and was previously Brunner Investment Trust plc.
He is also an Investment Manager of the Church adviser to BAE Systems Pension Fund and to the Commissioners for England.
Nuffield Foundation and a Trustee of both Kings College Hospital Charitable Trust and The Bob Yerbury Dulwich Estate.
He is currently a Governor of Bob Yerbury is a Senior Managing Director of Dulwich College.
He previously held the position Invesco Ltd. and Chief Investment Officer of of Chief Investment Officer of M&G between Invesco Perpetual.
His investment career now 1996 and 2000 and, following the takeover of spans 40 years to date, having led the North M&G by Prudential, was appointed Chief American team at Invesco Perpetual for 14 years, Investment Officer of Prudential from 2000 to becoming Chief Investment Officer in 1997 and 2002.
He handed over his CEO responsibilities on 1 September 2008, Sir Martyn Arbib continuing as CIO of the investment team in Sir Martyn was the founder and Chairman of Henley and with his wider group responsibilities.
Perpetual plc, which became part of The Invesco He holds an MA in Mathematics from Cambridge Group on 7 December 2000, and left the University and qualified as an Actuary at Equity & company in 2002.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries FIA.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Management Engagement Committee.
