PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 MANAGERS REPORT Market Review Global equity markets have endured one of the most turbulent periods on record.
Although the effects of the credit crunch were starting to take hold in the first half of 2008, the decision by the US government to allow Lehman Brothers to go bankrupt substantially changed the course of the recession.
The aftermath of this decision saw a paralysis of economic activity around the world and very sharp declines in financial markets in the last quarter of 2008.
Policymakers were pushed into aggressive action to assist banks through a variety of measures including outright nationalisation, capital injection and the issuance of state guarantees.
While government action across the world ensured that the banking system stabilised, governments were not able to prevent the immediate hit to the real economy from the freeze of credit that followed the Lehman Brothers failure.
The sudden withdrawal of credit to corporates and households resulted in a material contraction in GDP in the developed world.
On the domestic front, the Bank of England BoE Monetary Policy Committee cut UK interest rates aggressively during the year in an attempt to mitigate the worst effects of the credit crunch.
At the end of March 2009, the Base Rate stood at 0.5%, the lowest level in the BoEs 315-year history.
The UK economy, however, continued to deteriorate.
GDP growth for Q4 2008 confirmed that the economy had entered a recession, evidenced by data showing that unemployment was starting to rise sharply and that the Governments fiscal position was deteriorating at a much faster pace than expected.
The financial landscape has changed substantially over the last 12 months, with many of the worlds largest financial institutions having disappeared or been restructured.
Within the UK sector, the changes have been no less dramatic: HBOS was sold to Lloyds TSB following serious concerns about its viability and Bradford & Bingleys mortgage business was nationalised and its savings assets sold off to Spains Santander.
The UK government has assumed a much more prominent role in the financial services industry, part nationalising RBS and the newly formed Lloyds Banking Group, while Barclays opted not to take the government assistance, choosing instead to raise additional funding from Middle Eastern and other private investors.
Putting recent falls into context, the FTSE All-Share Index has declined for seven consecutive quarters, which is worse than the aftermath of the TMT bubble in 2000 01 and the recession of 1973 74.
Portfolio Strategy and Review The Companys net asset value, including reinvested dividends, fell by 23.7% during the 12 months to the end of March 2009, compared to a fall of 29.3% from the FTSE All-Share Index total returns.
In relative terms, the Trust recorded resilient performance even though the negative returns generated by the portfolio are disappointing.
This fall in the NAV was not helped by the Managers strategy to maintain a degree of gearing during the review period.
Nevertheless, it is certainly the case that the cautious macroeconomic view was justified and consequently the defensive positioning of the fund, with large holdings in Utilities, Tobacco and Pharmaceuticals, proved to be correct in the falling markets.
There were a number of stocks which showed a positive return during the year, notably pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca, non-life insurer Hiscox, and the UK nuclear generator British Energy, which was taken over by French electricity company EDF.
Elsewhere, the strong emphasis on defensive holdings with strong balance sheets and sustainable cashflows delivered resilient performance, despite the challenging equity market environment.
By contrast, telecommunications company BT was among the biggest negatives to performance as a result of contractual problems within its Global Services division.
In terms of portfolio activity, International Power and Provident Financial were two of the most prominent new positions introduced to the portfolio over the period.
The holding in Provident Financial was built up to take advantage of the increasingly strong position for the company in the domestic sub prime lending market.
The company is well funded and highly profitable and has the potential to perform well in a more difficult economic environment.
The holding in International Power was initiated to take advantage of its sharply falling share price, the result of concerns over its leveraged balance sheet and exposure to weakening electricity demand in its major markets of the 08 MANAGERS REPORT continued UK, US and Australia.
These factors forced the stock to fall to an attractive valuation from which a position was established in the portfolio.
Elsewhere, opportunities were taken to add to existing positions that became more attractive following the market falls and, as a result, the concentration of the portfolio increased.
Dividends One of the Companys objectives is real long-term growth in the dividend.
It is concerning therefore that declining profits and stretched balance sheets have necessitated dividend cuts for many companies within the market.
However, a reasonable number of companies within the portfolio have continued to grow their dividends and this is an area of ongoing importance to the Manager in stock selection for this portfolio.
It is also worth remembering that the Company has built up significant revenue reserves over the last few years in preparation for tougher times.
With corporate earnings likely to remain under pressure for some time, lower nominal dividend growth from the portfolio is likely.
However, with inflation also subdued, the Companys portfolio should be able to support dividend growth above inflation.
Outlook During the last three months, the market has staged a strong recovery with the FTSE All-Share Index registering a gain of 28% from its low point.
The recovery has been led by economically sensitive sectors at the expense of defensive holdings.
This rally has been based on the premise that the rate of decline in the global economy is slowing.
Whilst acknowledging that some economic indicators have illustrated tentative signs of recovery, these may simply prove to be the reversal of some of the extreme trends which were witnessed in reaction to the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy.
There are some substantial challenges that remain unresolved as the process of deleveraging continues and the Manager remains sceptical that developed economies can experience a strong recovery by the end of the current year.
When the recession does end, the recovery is unlikely to feel much more robust as unemployment will still be rising, the housing market will be subdued and, most importantly, the banks will still make borrowing money difficult.
Against this weak economic backdrop, corporate profitability will remain under pressure, particularly in cyclical areas of the market and sectors which are exposed to the consumer economy: areas which have been avoided in the recent past and which will continue to be avoided in the fund.
The focus is therefore on the more defensive parts of the market, on companies that have robust business models, strong balance sheets, visible cash generation and growing dividend streams.
The recent performance of the market has offered an extremely attractive opportunity to invest in these kinds of businesses, as a large valuation gap has opened up further undervaluing some of the strongest, most resilient and cheapest stocks in the market.
It is not clear when the mood of the market will shift away from its current preference for cyclical companies but what is certain is that the importance of valuation in constructing this portfolio and analysing the stockmarket over the long term will continue to be the best way to generate superior returns from equity investing.
Mark Barnett Investment Manager 8 June 2009
