14 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS incorporating the Business Review FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 Introduction and Content The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report together with the audited financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2009.
The Directors Report incorporates the Business Review and expands on the following main areas: page 14 Nature of the Company: page 14 Investment Objective and Policy: page 15 Share Capital Details: page 16 Revenue and Dividends: page 17 Key Performance Indicators: page 18 Current and Future Developments: page 18 Resources: page 18 Shareholder Communication: page 18 Advisers and Principal Service Providers: page 18 Principal Risks and Uncertainties: page 20 Financial Position: page 20 Environmental and Social Policies: page 21 Manager Details and Assessment: page 22 Report of the Audit Committee: page 22 Auditors Details: page 22 Substantial Shareholdings: and page 22 Directors Details.
Nature of the Company The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 2 February 1996 as a public limited company under the Companies Act 1985 as amended registered number 3156676.
The Company is an investment company as defined by section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an investment trust within section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 ICTA.
HM Revenue and Customs have approved the Companys status as an investment trust, subject to there being no subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment, in respect of the year ended 31 March 2008.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to maintain such approval.
Investment Policy The Companys investment objective, investment policy and risk and investment limits combine to form the Investment Policy of the Company.
Investment Objective The Companys investment objective is to generate capital growth with a higher than average income from investment mainly in the UK equity market.
It is intended that the Company will provide real dividend growth over the medium term.
Investment Policy and Risk The Company will invest mainly in above average yielding UK equities and equity-related securities of UK companies.
However, a portion of the portfolio may be invested in equities with a lower initial yield which are considered to have good potential for income growth.
At certain times, up to 10% of the gross assets may be invested in fixed interest securities, where the main criteria for inclusion will be capital certainty, good liquidity and high credit quality.
In addition, up to 10% of gross assets may be invested in non-UK equities.
The Manager will construct a portfolio which reflects his convictions and best ideas.
The Manager does not set out to manage the risk characteristics of the portfolio relative to the FTSE All-Share Index benchmark index and the investment process may result in potentially very significant over or underweight positions in individual sectors versus the benchmark index.
The size of weightings will PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15 reflect the Managers view of the attractiveness of a security and the degree of conviction.
If a security is not considered to be a good investment, then the Company will not own it, irrespective of its weight in the benchmark index.
The Manager controls the stock-specific risk of individual securities by ensuring that the portfolio is always appropriately diversified across all market sectors.
In-depth and continual analysis of the fundamentals of investee companies allows the Manager to assess the financial risks associated with any particular security.
The Directors believe that the use of borrowings gearing can enhance returns to shareholders and the Company will use borrowings in pursuing its investment objective.
Investment Limits The Board has prescribed limits on the Investment Policy, the most significant of which are the following: the Company will not invest more than 12% of its gross assets in any single investment: the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment companies: the Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in non-UK equities: the Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in fixed interest securities: the Company will not invest more than 5% of its gross assets in unquoted investments: and gearing may be used to raise equity exposure up to a maximum of 25% of net assets at the time of purchase where it is appropriate.
The Manager monitors the portfolio on a daily basis to ensure adherence to its investment objective, policy and limits.
Share Capital Ordinary Shares At the year end the Companys share capital included 208,404,620 ordinary shares.
During the year 46,099 ordinary shares were issued following an exercise of subscription shares and 1,128,540 ordinary shares were issued at an average price of 2.71.
Rights Attaching to the Ordinary Shares Under the Companys Articles of Association, any ordinary share in the Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence of any such determination, as the Directors may determine.
The profits of the Company available for distribution and resolved to be distributed, subject to the provisions of UK law, shall be distributed by way of dividends to the holders of the ordinary shares.
On a return of capital on liquidation, the assets of the Company shall be applied, pari passu with any payment to the holders of the subscription shares, in repaying to the holders of both classes of shares a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid up on the shares held by them respectively.
The remaining balance shall be distributed rateably among the holders of the ordinary shares according to the number of shares held by them.
At a general meeting of the Company every ordinary shareholder has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each ordinary share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
No ordinary shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being an ordinary shareholder if he or any person with an interest in ordinary shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and he or any interested person failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of 16 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever is the earlier.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between ordinary shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Subscription Shares At the year end the Companys share capital included 17,720,924 subscription shares.
During the year 46,099 subscription shares were converted into ordinary shares.
Rights Attaching to the Subscription Shares On 31 August the subscription date in each of the years 2006 to 2013, subscription shareholders have the right to convert all or any of their subscription shares into fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each on the basis of one ordinary share for every subscription share so converted at a price of 218.94p per share being 110% of the net asset value of an ordinary share as at close of business on 26 May 2005.
Not earlier than 56 days or later than 28 days before each subscription date, the Company will give notice in writing to subscription shareholders reminding them of their subscription rights and providing the appropriate information required for conversion.
The holders of the subscription shares are not entitled to any right of participation in the profits of the Company.
On a return of capital on liquidation or otherwise the assets of the Company shall be applied, pari passu with any payment to the holders of the ordinary shares, in repaying to the holders of the subscription shares a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid up on the subscription shares held by them respectively.
The holders of the subscription shares are not entitled to any further right of participation in the assets of the Company.
Subscription shareholders have the right to receive notices of general meetings and to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting only if a resolution is to be proposed abrogating, varying or modifying any of the rights or privileges of the subscription shares and then only on such resolution.
Wherever the holders of the subscription shares are entitled to vote at a general meeting, every subscription shareholder has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each subscription share held.
Restrictions on the Transfers of Ordinary or Subscription Shares The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any ordinary or subscription share which is not fully-paid, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way which prevents dealings in the ordinary or subscription classes of shares from taking place on an open or proper basis.
As at 31 March 2009, the Companys issued share capital did not include any ordinary or subscription shares that were not fully paid.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of an ordinary or subscription share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary or subscription shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
In certain circumstances, the Directors can require certain US holders of shares to transfer their shares compulsorily.
Share Valuations On 31 March 2009, the mid-market price and the diluted net asset value NAV per ordinary share were 171.0p 2008: 222.5p and 182.0p 2008: 240.3p respectively.
Revenue and Dividends The results for the year are shown in the Income Statement and Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds on pages 36 and 37.
The first interim dividend of 3.3p 2008: 3.10p per ordinary share was paid on 28 December 2008.
For the year ended 31 March 2009, the second interim declared for the year is 5.2p 2008: 4.7p and will be payable on 9 July 2009 to shareholders on the register on 19 June 2009 together with a special dividend of 0.84p.
This gives a total dividend for the year of 9.34p 2008: 7.8p, an increase of 19.7% 9% excluding the special dividend.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17 Key Performance Indicators The Board reviews performance by reference to a number of Key Performance Indicators which include the following: l Relative Asset Performance l Dividend Policy l Peer Group Performance l Premium Discount l Total Expense Ratio Relative Asset Performance In reviewing the performance of the assets of the Companys portfolio, the Board monitors the diluted NAV in relation to the FTSE All-Share Index.
However, the Managers aim is to achieve absolute return through a genuinely active fund management approach.
It is not the fund management teams philosophy to regard the FTSE All-Share Index as a benchmark for portfolio construction for the Company.
This approach can therefore result in a portfolio that is from time to time substantially different from the FTSE All-Share Index but has historically achieved significant outperformance of that index.
During the course of the year the diluted capital NAV of the Company fell by 25.3% compared with a fall of 32.2% by the FTSE All-Share Index capital.
Dividend Policy It remains the Directors intention to distribute by way of dividend substantially all of the Companys net income after expenses and taxation.
The Manager aims to maximise total return from the portfolio.
The Manager believes in strong earnings growth and in the importance of dividends to total return.
The portfolio will typically command a yield premium to the market.
However, the pursuit of income is not a prime objective and dividend yields are not permitted to constrain investment decisions.
The second interim dividend declared for the year is 5.2p per ordinary share which, together with the special dividend of 0.84p, brings the total for the year to 9.34p per ordinary share, an increase of 19.7% 9.0% excluding the special dividend.
This continues the Companys policy of real dividend growth.
Peer Group Performance There are currently over 300 investment trusts in the UK of which 21 form the UK Income and Growth sector.
This group is quite diverse in its investment objectives and structures.
The Board monitors the performance of the Company in relation to both the sector as a whole and to those companies within it which the Board consider to be the peer group that most closely match its investment objectives and structure.
As at 31 March 2009, out of the 21 investment trusts within the UK Income and Growth sector the Company was ranked number 3 over one year and numbers 1 and 1 over three and five years respectively by NAV performance source: Cazenove Premium Discount The Board monitors the premium discount at which the Companys ordinary shares trade in relation to the assets and how this compares to other investment trusts in the peer group.
During the year the Companys ordinary shares traded to diluted NAV in the range of a discount of 12.6% to a premium of 4.2% and at the year end the discount was 6.0% 2008: 7.4%.
As at 31 March 2009, the average discount of the 21 investment trusts in the UK Growth and Income Sector was 6.6% 2008: 7.2% source: Cazenove.
The Board and Manager closely monitor movements in the Companys ordinary share price and dealings in the Companys ordinary shares.
In order to avoid significant overhang or shortage of ordinary shares in the market the Board asks shareholders to approve resolutions every year which allow for the repurchase of ordinary shares for cancellation or to be held as treasury shares and also their issuance.
This may assist in the management of the diluted discount.
18 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Total Expense Ratio TER The expenses of managing the Company are reviewed by the Board at every meeting.
It is the intention of the Board to minimise the TER, which provides a guide to the effect on performance of all annual operating costs of the Company.
Expenses for the year excluding performance fees and recoverable VAT on management fees were 4,220,000 2008: 5,953,000, resulting in a slight fall in the TER from 1.1% for the year to 1.0%.
Current and Future Development As part of the Companys overall strategy, the Company will seek to manage its affairs so as to maximise returns for shareholders.
One of the Boards longer-term objectives is to increase the size of the assets of the Company in a manner consistent with seeking to maximise returns for shareholders.
Resources The Company is an investment trust which outsources its management and administrative functions.
As a result the Company has no employees.
Through the contractual arrangements in place, a full range of services are available to it.
The most significant contract is with the Manager, Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML, to whom responsibility for the investment management of the portfolio is delegated.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager formally at every Board Meeting and when market conditions dictate.
The day-to-day responsibility for the investment management of the portfolio rests with the Manager.
The Board has adopted guidelines within which the Manager is permitted wide discretion: decisions made outside these parameters are referred to the Board.
The Board has the power to replace the Manager and reviews the contract formally every year.
The outcome of this review is commented upon on page 21.
Other contractual arrangements govern relationships with the Company Secretary and Administrator, Corporate Broker, Registrar and Custodian.
These contracts are also reviewed by the Board in relation to agreed service standards on a regular basis and more formally on an annual basis.
Shareholder Communication Through the annual and half-yearly financial reports, interim management statements, monthly fact sheets, the Companys website, the AGM and the publication of a daily NAV and other methods, the Board endeavours to ensure that shareholders understand the Companys investment objective and policy and that the Board, both independently and through the Manager, reviews its investment objective and policy in the light of feedback from shareholders.
The Board monitors and reviews shareholder communications on a regular basis.
Advisers and Principal Service Providers The Companys main supplier of services is the Manager who provides both investment management services and company secretarial and administrative support.
The Company has the following advisers: l Capita Registrars as Registrar: l Citibank as Custodian: l Deloitte LLP as Auditors: and l Winterflood Investment Trusts as Corporate Broker.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The principal risk factors relating to the Company can be divided into various areas: Investment Objective and Policy There is no guarantee that the investment policy adopted by the Company will provide the returns sought by the Company.
There can be no guarantee, therefore, that the Company will achieve its investment objective.
The Board has established guidelines to ensure that the investment policy that is approved is pursued by the Manager.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 Investment Process Risk management is an integral part of the investment management process.
The Manager effectively controls risk by ensuring that the Companys portfolio is always appropriately diversified.
In-depth and continual analysis of the fundamentals of all holdings gives the Manager a full understanding of all the financial risks associated with any particular security.
Market Movements and Portfolio Performance The majority of the Companys investments are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal risk for investors in the Company is of a significant fall in the markets and or prolonged period of decline in the markets relative to other forms of investment as well as bad performance of individual portfolio investments.
The prices of these securities are influenced by many factors including the general health of the economy in the UK: interest rates: inflation: government policies: industry conditions: political and diplomatic events: tax laws: environmental laws: and by the demand from investors for income.
The Manager strives to maximise the total return from the securities in which it invests, but these securities are influenced by market conditions and the Board acknowledges the external influences on portfolio performance.
While the Board obviously cannot influence market movements, it is vigilant in monitoring and taking steps to mitigate the effects of falls in markets should they occur.
The performance of the Manager is carefully monitored by the Board, and the continuation of the Managers mandate is formally reviewed each year.
The Board and the Manager maintain an active dialogue with the aim of ensuring that the market rating of the Companys shares reflects the underlying NAV and that share repurchase and issuance facilities help the management of this process.
Past performance of the Company, and all of the securities managed by the Manager, are not necessarily indicative of future performance.
For a fuller discussion of the economic and market conditions facing the Company and the current and future performance of the portfolio of the Company, please see both the Chairmans Statement and Managers Report on pages 5 to 8.
Ordinary Shares The market value of an ordinary share, as well as being affected by its NAV, also takes into account its dividend yield and prevailing interest rates.
As such, the market value of an ordinary share can fluctuate and may not always reflect its underlying NAV.
The market price of an ordinary share may therefore trade at a discount to its NAV.
As at 31 March 2009, an ordinary share of the Company traded at a discount of 6.0%.
During the year, the Companys shares traded at an average discount of 3.8%.
There can be no guarantee that any appreciation in the value of the Companys investments will occur and investors may not get back the full value of their investment.
Due to the potential difference between the mid-market price of the ordinary shares and the prices at which they are sold, there is no guarantee that their realisable value will reflect their market price.
While it is the intention of the Directors to pay dividends to ordinary shareholders twice a year, the ability to do so will depend upon the level of income received from securities and the timing of receipt of such income by the Company.
Accordingly, the amount of the twice yearly dividends paid to ordinary shareholders may fluctuate.
Any change in the tax or accounting treatment of dividends or other investment income received by the Company may also affect the level of dividend paid on the ordinary shares in future years.
Gearing Whilst the use of borrowings by the Company should enhance the total return on the ordinary shares where the return on the Companys underlying securities is rising and exceeds the cost of borrowing, it will have the opposite effect where the underlying return is falling.
As at 31 March 2009, gearing was provided by a bank overdraft of up to 100 million and the 30 million debenture.
Regulatory The Company is subject to various laws and regulations by virtue of its status as a Company registered under the Companies Act 1985 as updated by The Companies Act 2006, as an investment trust, and its listing on the London Stock Exchange.
20 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued A breach of section 842 ICTA could lead to the Companys being subject to capital gains tax on the sale of its investments.
A serious breach of other regulatory rules may lead to suspension from the London Stock Exchange, a fine or a qualified Audit Report.
Other control failures, either by the Manager or any other of the Companys service providers, may result in operational or reputational problems, erroneous disclosures or loss of assets through fraud, as well as breaches of regulations.
The Manager reviews the level of compliance with section 842 ICTA and other financial regulatory requirements on a daily basis.
All transactions, income and expenditure are reported to the Board.
The Board regularly considers all risks, the measures in place to control them and the possibility of any other risks that could arise.
The Board ensures that satisfactory assurances are received from service providers.
The Managers Compliance and Internal Audit Officers produce regular reports for review by the Companys Audit Committee.
Further details of risks and risk management policies as they relate to the financial assets and liabilities of the Company are detailed in note 19 to the financial statements.
Financial Position Assets and Liabilities At 31 March 2009 the Companys net assets were 379 million 2008: 502 million.
These comprised a portfolio of equity investments, non-equity investments, cash and other net current liabilities.
The Company has a 100 million overdraft facility of which 36.3 million 2008: 53.9 million was drawn down at the year end.
The Company has additional long-term gearing provided by a 30 million 6.125% Debenture with amortised cost at the year end of 29.7 million 2008: 29.7 million.
Due to the readily realisable nature of the Companys assets, cash flow does not have the same significance as for an industrial or commercial company.
The Companys principal cash flows arise from the purchase and sale of investments and the income from investments against which must be set off the costs of borrowing and management expenses.
During the year the Company received 101,000 from the issue of 46,099 ordinary shares following the exercise of the same number of subscription shares.
The Company also received 2,250,000 from the issue of 1,128,540 new ordinary shares.
Financial Instruments The Companys use of financial instruments is disclosed in note 1 and note 19 to the financial statements.
Gearing Policy Gearing policy is under the control of the Board.
The maximum limit for gearing is 25% of total net assets measured at the time new borrowings are incurred for investment in companies where there are stock-specific opportunities.
The gearing is not an expression of confidence in the performance of the overall UK stock market, but rather an endorsement of the potential for selected securities.
In this respect both the Board and the Manager are content that the flexibility which the overdraft facility provides offers the most appropriate means of gearing, supplementing the longer-term gearing of the debenture stock.
30,000,000 6.125% Debenture 2014 The debenture was issued in July 1999, is secured by a floating charge over all the Companys assets and has a fixed rate of 6.125%.
Interest is payable on 31 January and 31 July.
Environmental and Social Matters, Employees and Social and Community Issues As an investment trust company with no employees, property or activities outside investment management, the disclosure of information about environmental matters, the Companys employees and social and community issues is not given.
The Manager considers various factors when evaluating potential investments.
Some are financial ratios and measures, such as free cash flow, earnings per share and price to book value.
Others are more subjective indicators which rely on first hand research: for example, quality of management, innovation and product strength.
While a companys policy towards the environment and social responsibility is considered as part of the overall assessment of risk and the suitability of the company for the portfolio, the Manager does not necessarily preclude an investment being made on these grounds alone.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 At the AGM in 2007, the Directors received approval from shareholders to send or supply documents or information to shareholders in electronic form e. g. by e-mail or by means of a website.
This should deliver significant environmental benefits through reduced use of paper and of the energy required for its production and distribution.
Investment Management Agreement Details of Management Fees IAML is appointed Manager, Administrator and Company Secretary under an agreement dated 20 February 1996 and subsequently amended on 27 December 2001.
This agreement is terminable by either party giving not less than one years notice.
Under the agreement, the Manager receives a management fee of 0.1875% per quarter of the Companys funds under management.
A performance-related fee is payable to the Manager annually in arrears, if the Companys performance exceeds the FTSE All-Share Index.
The performance-related fee is equal to 10% of the value of any outperformance, but may not exceed 0.75% of the value of the Companys net assets at the relevant performance fee calculation date which is usually the Companys balance sheet date.
Any such performance-related fee is based on the outperformance over the benchmark index after taking into account any previous underperformance.
With effect from November 2007, no VAT has been paid on management fees following the ruling of the European Court of Justice that investment trust management fees are exempt.
Statement of Managers Responsibilities The Manager is generally responsible for the day-to-day investment management activities of the Company, seeking and evaluating investment opportunities and analysing the results of investee companies.
The Manager has full discretion to manage the assets of the Company in accordance with the Companys stated investment objective and policy as determined from time to time by the Board and approved by shareholders.
The Manager also advises on currency and borrowings.
The Manager also provides full company secretarial and administration services ensuring that the Company complies with all legal, regulatory and corporate governance requirements and attending on the Directors at Board meetings and shareholders meetings.
The Manager additionally maintains records of the Companys investment transactions and portfolio and all monetary transactions, from which the Manager prepares annual and half-yearly financial statements and interim management statements on behalf of the Company and various statistical reports and information throughout the year.
Assessment of the Investment Manager A regular annual review of the management contract is undertaken by the Management Engagement Committee: however, the performance of the Manager in its role of Investment Manager, Company Secretary and Administrator is subject to continual review by the Board.
The investment objective of the Company is to generate capital growth with a higher than average income from investment mainly in the UK equity market.
Overall, the investment process is aiming to achieve absolute return through a genuinely active fund management approach.
As the Managers philosophy does not seek to regard the FTSE All-Share Index as the benchmark for portfolio construction, the portfolio may look substantially different from this index.
This may lead to periods of underperformance as well as periods of outperformance.
The Board has reviewed the Managers performance and considers that the continuation of the management contract is in the best interests of shareholders.
VAT on Management Fees With effect from late 2007, no VAT is payable by investment trusts on management or performance fees.
After the year end IAML paid the Company a refund of 5,252,000 for VAT suffered for the period 1 January 2001 onwards and 772,000 of interest thereon.
The Board is in discussions with the Manager in relation to an additional refund of VAT and interest for various periods.
However, as the amounts involved are not material and the timing of receipt is uncertain, no provision has been made in the accounts.
22 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible to the Board for reviewing each aspect of the financial reporting process: the systems of internal control and management of financial risks: the audit process: relationships with the external auditors: the Companys processes for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations: its code of business conduct: and for making recommendations to the Board.
The Companys internal financial controls and risk management systems have been reviewed with the Manager against risk parameters approved by the Board.
The Audit Committee has also received a satisfactory report on the Managers internal operations from the Managers Compliance and Internal Audit Officers.
The audit programme and timetable are agreed with the Auditors in advance of the Companys financial year end.
At this stage, matters for audit focus are discussed and agreed.
These matters are given particular attention during the audit process and among other matters they are reported on by the Auditors in their audit review to the Audit Committee.
The audit review is considered by the Audit Committee and discussed with the Auditors and the Manager prior to approving and signing the financial statements.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2009 with the Manager and the Auditors at the conclusion of the audit process.
Disclosure to Auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Directors report confirm that: l so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and l each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
This information is given in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Auditors Deloitte LLP, the Companys Auditors, are willing to continue in office and a resolution in accordance with Section 489 a of the Companies Act 2006 to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
A separate resolution for the Directors to be authorised to set the Auditors remuneration will also be proposed at the AGM.
Substantial Holdings in the Company At 30 April 2009 the Company had been notified of the following holdings of 3% and over of the Companys ordinary share capital: HOLDINGS % Invesco Perpetual non-discretionary savings scheme and ISAs 64,787,231 31.1 Legal & General Investment Management 8,959,908 4.3 Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 8,713,977 4.2 Rathbones 8,447,670 4.1 J. P. Morgan Asset Management 6,904,197 3.3 Directors The present members of the Board are listed on page 11.
In accordance with the Boards tenure policy set out in the Statement of Compliance with the AIC Code of Corporate Governance on page 29, Sir Martyn Arbib and Antony Hardy will retire at this years AGM and offer themselves for re-election, having served on the Board for more than nine years.
Bill Alexander will retire by rotation at this years AGM and stand for re-election.
James DAlbiac will retire at this years AGM and will not seek re-election.
Bob Yerbury will stand for election, having been appointed to the Board on 4 December 2008.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 Directors Interests The interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company at 31 March 2009 are set out below.
2009 2008 ORDINARY SUBSCRIBER ORDINARY SUBSCRIBER ORDINARY SHARES SHARES SHARES SHARES SHARES Bill Alexander 10,000 10,000 Sir Martyn Arbib 12,000 1,000 12,000 1,000 Vivian Bazalgette 10,000 10,000 James DAlbiac 12,000 1,200 12,000 1,200 Antony Hardy 11,000 1,000 11,000 1,000 Bob Yerbury n a n a There were no changes in the above interests between 31 March 2009 and 8 June 2009.
Disclosable Interests No Director was a party to or had any interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company at any time during the year.
Conflicts of Interest The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the 2006 Act, from 1 October 2008, a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The 2006 Act also allows the articles of association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The Articles of Association of the Company, approved by shareholders at last years AGM on 9 July 2008, give the Directors authority to approve such situations and include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict of potential conflict.
First, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
Going forward, it is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have been followed.
The Directors have advised that there are currently no potential conflicts of interest with the Company.
This is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Directors will advise the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any potential conflicts of interest.
Directors who have potential conflicts of interest will not take part in any discussions which relate to any of their potential conflicts.
Deed of Indemnity Under the terms of a deed of indemnity between the Directors and the Company, a Director may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all costs, charges, expenses, losses and liabilities which he may sustain or incur in or about the discharge of his duties or the exercise of his powers or discretions as a Director of the Company.
This includes any liability incurred by the Director in disputing, defending, investigating or providing evidence in connection with any actual or threatened or alleged claims, demands, investigations or proceedings whether civil or criminal, and any settlement thereof.
A Director may also receive funding of any expenditure incurred in connection with any such liability.
Directors will continue to be indemnified under the terms of the indemnity notwithstanding that they may have ceased to be Directors of the Company.
24 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued However, a Director will not be entitled to be indemnified for any liability to the Company, for fines payable to regulatory authorities, for defending any criminal proceedings in which he is convicted or in defending any civil proceedings bought by the Company in which judgment is given against him.
The indemnity does not apply to the extent that a liability is recoverable from any insurers, if it is prohibited by the Companies Act 2006 or otherwise prohibited by law, if it relates to tax payable on remuneration or other benefits received, or if a liability arises from an act or omission of the Director which is shown to have been in bad faith.
The deed of indemnity is available for inspection at the AGM and at the Registered Office at any time.
Individual Savings Account ISA Both the ordinary and subscription shares of the Company are qualifying investments under ISA regulations.
Creditor Payment Policy It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all business including purchases of investments, and to abide by those agreed terms.
There were no trade creditors at 31 March 2009 2008: nil.
Going Concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors consider this is the appropriate basis as they have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In considering this, the Directors took into account the diversified portfolio of readily realiseable securities and the 100 million overdraft facility, both of which can be used to meet funding commitments, and the ability of the Company to meet all of its liabilities, including the 30 million debenture, and ongoing expenses.
AGM Shareholders will find on pages 52 to 55 the notice of the forthcoming AGM of the Company to be held on 8 July 2009 at 12.00 noon, an explanation of which can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 6.
By order of the Board Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary 30 Finsbury Square London EC2A 1AG 8 June 2009
