Directors CHAIRMAN R K A Wakeling MA Cantab, Barrister, FCT aged 62 Appointed to the Board as Chairman in 1996.
Formerly chief executive of Johnson Matthey plc 1991-1994 and a non-executive director of Logica plc from 1995-2002.
Mr Wakeling is a nonexecutive director of The Brunner Investment Trust plc.
Mr Wakeling has served on the Board for over 9 years and stands for annual re-election.
DIRECTORS # B J D Ashford-Russell BA Oxon aged 50 R A S Montagu aged 43 Appointed to the Board in 1996.
Mr Ashford-Russell is a director Appointed to the Board in 2007.
Mr Montagu co-founded Montagu and founder of Polar Capital Partners.
He was previously head of Newhall Associates in 2000, a specialist investor in technology and the technology team at Henderson Global Investors.
He managed healthcare venture capital industries.
the Company from launch until 30 April 2006.
# M B Moule aged 63 Mr Ashford-Russell has served on the Board for over 9 years and is Appointed to the Board in 2007.
Mr Moule was a director of connected to the investment manager.
He stands for annual reinvestment trusts at Henderson Global Investors, where he had been election.
the investment manager for The Bankers Investment Trust plc and Law Debenture Corporation plc until his retirement in 2003.
He is a director # P F Dicks aged 66 of Lowland Investment Company plc, Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust Appointed to the Board in 1996 and elected Senior Independent plc and Montanaro UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
Mr Dicks is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is the Chairman of Private Equity Investor plc and Sportingbet plc as well a director of several other companies The Board considers that the majority of the Directors including including Standard Microsystems Corporation and Graphite Mr Wakeling and Mr Dicks, who have both served more than nine Enterprise Trust plc.
years and stand for annual reappointment, are independent in Mr Dicks has served on the Board for over 9 years and stands for character and there were no relationships or circumstances which annual re-election.
were likely to affect or could appear to affect their judgement.
In the case of Mr Ashford-Russell the Board has concluded that he D J Gamble aged 65 should not be considered as independent due to his relationship Appointed to the Board in 2002.
He is Chairman of Hermes with the investment manager.
Property Unit Trust and Montanaro UK Smaller Companies Member of Audit Committee Investment Trust plc.
Mr Gamble is a director of IBM Pension Member of Management Engagement Committee Trustees Ltd. Barrie & Hibbert plc, Vencap International plc and Member of Nomination Committee # Member of Remuneration Committee Dunedin Enterprise Investment Trust plc.
Mr Gamble was Chief Executive of British Airways Pension Investment Management Ltd. until his retirement in 2004.
20 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC
