investment Managers Report US WORLD OVERVIEW The past year has been a tumultuous one that witnessed one of the most devastating financial crises and economic declines in modern history.
Whilst global equities have rallied sharply from their recent lows, it was insufficient to redeem a year that still saw most equity markets lose more than one third of their value in local terms.
However, pronounced Sterling weakness which fell 25% and 30% against the Dollar and Yen respectively significantly ameliorated these losses.
Stocks began our financial year on a positive note, but in June the exponential rise of commodity prices oil reaching $145 presaged one of the sharpest monthly declines experienced since September 2002 as it essentially shifted the central banks focus from growth towards inflation containment.
However, it was the combination of AIGs collapse, the nationalisation of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers in September that set in motion a massive intensification of the crisis with credit markets essentially seizing up.
Equities collapsed under the weight of hedge fund redemptions and forced fide-leveraging.
Whilst far from obvious at the time, the post-Lehman intensification was probably a pre-requisite for any future recovery as it rendered so-called moral hazard irrelevant.
Faced with a potential systemic collapse, central banks attempted to counter the fide-leveraging by bailing-out the banks whilst reducing interest rates to record low levels.
At the same time, policy makers introduced legislation that extended sovereign guarantees to a plethora of instruments and markets that had become dysfunctional.
However, heightened mistrust required a more systematic approach: in late September Ireland got the ball rolling when the government moved to essentially guarantee the banking system, rather than elements thereof.
Similar guarantees soon followed around the world which helped reduce the tempo of fide-leveraging, whilst the introduction of the $700bn Troubled Asset Relief Programme TARP by the US administration in October was the first of several gargantuan efforts designed to help improve the liquidity of mispriced assets.
By the end of October stocks had become comprehensively oversold and cheap for instance, Japanese stocks traded below book value for the first time since records began.
At this point, sentiment was at such a low ebb that it had become fashionable to suggest that capitalism itself was on the ropes.
Although equities staged a very respectable calendar year end rally, early in 2009 the real economy began to feel the full force of the financial crisis, leading to one of the worst ever starts to a calendar year for equity markets.
A slew of negative macroeconomic data in January confirmed that the current downturn had become the most precipitous experienced in the post-war period.
A lukewarm reception to US Treasury Secretary Geithners Financial Stability Plan provided the catalyst for an equity slump that saw most markets breach their November lows.
Creeping nationalisation of the UK and US banking systems together with some spectacularly weak data added further fuel to the fire.
At their mid-march lows, global equities had fallen an incredible 59% in US Dollar terms i. e. without the mollifying impact of Sterlings pronounced weakness from the October 2007 highs whilst investor sentiment had plunged to levels not seen since the dark days of October 1990.
Thus the stage was set for a rally that began as a short-squeeze, but subsequently broadened and extended following Geithners follow-up proposals that better detailed a way to rid banks of bad assets.
Amid rebounding sentiment, a clear change of focus meant the discovery of green shoots everywhere investors cared to look.
Rare positive data points were lauded whilst poor ones US unemployment at 8.1%, advanced reading of US Q1 GDP of -6.1% were dismissed as lagging indicators or symptomatic of a trough.
In short, stocks were no longer falling on bad news.
Supportive rhetoric at both the G20 summit in London and the April Federal Open Market Committee FOMC meeting added to the sense that the ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 5 investment Managers Report continued worst had already passed, reinforced by easing of mark-to-market accounting rules for banks and encouraging preliminary results of the Treasury stress tests.
A significant improvement in US consumer confidence and market resilience following the outbreak of swine flu towards month-end added weight to the view that bear market lows had already been made.
TECHNOLOGY OVERVIEW The technology sector delivered its best relative fiscal year performance since the heady days of 2000, the Dow Jones World Technology index falling just 5.5% in Sterling terms over the period.
Outperformance was initially driven by what the sector did not have namely exposure to financial leverage, emerging markets and commodity prices the same attributes that helped ensure its muted participation during the last cycle.
However, by the first quarter of 2009 the technology sector began to outperform based on what it had to offer, rather than on what it did not.
In the first instance, the severity of the Q4 Q1 downturn saw stocks with early-cycle characteristics such as semiconductor component companies outperform as investors began to discount the trough, looking instead at ways to gain exposure to the socalled second derivative trade without the balance sheet risk associated with financials.
A predictably tough Q4 technology earning season was not only better than that posted by the broader market, but the magnitude of cost-cutting efforts was a genuine surprise and served to reduce the scale of downward revisions to 2009 forecasts.
Most importantly, the sector had so significantly fide-rated that US technology stocks traded at just 0.9x the market multiple based on forward estimates one of the few times that the sector has traded at a discount.
The positive news that followed a better than feared Q1 earnings season, inventory replenishment, firming component prices and corporate M&A resulted in a re-rating from 0.9x to 1.1x at period end which drove material stock outperformance.
OUR PERFORMANCE The Trusts NAV fell 4.4% as compared to the 5.5% decline registered by the Dow Jones World Technology index in Sterling terms.
Once again, US technology stocks materially outperformed: our decision to increase our US exposure at the expense of Europe ameliorated the impact of this skew of returns.
Performance benefited from limited exposure to non-US small caps, the retention of a modest amount of cash during the second half of 2008 and the NAV uplift associated with our buyback efforts.
Negative contributions were generated by our alternative energy environmental exposure which although pared during the year still detracted from performance.
Similarly medical technology stocks did not prove as defensive as they have done previously during bear markets due to the perceived risk to industry margins represented by President Obamas renewed focus on containing the cost of health care whilst providing universal coverage.
Although we had intended to shift the portfolio away from large cap incumbents, we deferred this decision until the final third of the year due to the worsening macroeconomic backdrop.
This deferral did not impact performance as small cap technology stocks had modestly trailed their larger cap peers at market lows.
At the sector level, positive contributions were generated by increased exposure to the communications subsector, although this was partially offset by a higher semiconductor weighting.
At the stock level positive contributions were generated by defensive assets, particularly companies with a high percentage of recurring revenues Oracle, McAfee, Checkpoint Software, stocks with exposure to secular growth themes F5 Networks, Starent Networks, Qualcomm and a clutch of small cap purchases made 6 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC near market lows at distressed values Riverbed, Sonus Networks.
Negative contributions came primarily from poor individual performances by a number of smaller stocks Commscope, Cavium Networks.
ECONOMIC OUTLOOK We have consistently argued that this atypical recession is unlikely to prove as deleterious as either the Great Depression, or the Japanese deflationary experience.
Whilst acknowledging some alarming recent similarities with the 1930s systemic fear, unprecedented government intervention, the creation of TARP, TALF and others in a move reminiscent of the so-called alphabet agencies we continue to believe that collective economic wisdom is greater today that it was eighty years ago.
Policy makers are not shackled by a neo-classical theory of savings, nor beholden to a fixed currency system.
They are also acutely aware of the risk posed by protectionism.
However, the principal difference today is that the magnitude of government spending and real money supply growth already exceeds the experience of the 1930s.
Nor do we believe that Japans Lost Decade is a particularly useful guide for our present predicament.
Once again, recognising that deflation remains the most significant risk to equity markets, the unprecedented scale of intervention post Lehman should make plain that policy makers share our concern.
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke has long argued that deflation can always be avoided simply by issuing more money.
Aside from those dark days in Q3 08 when concerns about systemic failure overwhelmed the ordinarily unemotional bond market, longer-term inflation cross-overs suggest that few expect present deflationary readings to persist.
In terms of policy too, it is already clear that the US have already adopted a far more aggressive response that the Japanese did.
As a result of our belief that neither the 1930s nor Japan would be a useful guide for the current downturn, we have been able to maintain a relatively sanguine prognosis of the world ever since systemic risk reached its zenith in November 2008.
Central to this view has been that core inflation, at least for the moment remains firmly under control a function of sharply lower commodity prices and excess capacity.
As a result we expect monetary policy to remain extremely accommodative: record low global interest rates are likely to be maintained whilst focus will remain on growing the monetary base and continuing to narrow credit spreads that in turn should help support asset values.
Meanwhile massive stimulus packages have yet to really have an impact.
However, perhaps as a result of the magnitude of the Q1 09 inventory correction, a number of leading and concurrent indicators including stock prices, credit spreads, non-farm payrolls, consumer confidence to cite a few are beginning to indicate that the recession could end earlier than forecast, perhaps during the third-quarter.
History suggests that it takes around four years for growth to return to trend following a credit crisis, whilst many of the severe imbalances that exist between savers and consumers both at the macro and micro level will take years to resolve.
Savings rates in consuming nations such as the UK and US that have spiked higher during the current downturn are unlikely to return to their pre-recession levels until consumer balance sheets have been meaningfully repaired.
As such we suspect that the recovery trajectory may prove disappointing to some.
Furthermore we expect the recovery of the global banking system to adopt a two-steps-forward, one-step-back pattern as non-US property values remain subject to further downward pressure, commercial property loans may be problematic to roll and there remain plenty of toxic assets that still need to be cleaned up.
As such our base case anticipates sub-trend global growth for the next two-to-three years.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 7 investment Managers Report continued MARKET OUTLOOK Despite the expectation of sub-trend growth ahead, we are relatively sanguine about the prospects for further gains over the coming year.
Whilst we recognise that markets have already rallied sharply, they have done so from very depressed levels.
Credit markets have significantly normalised since September with a number of financial spreads such as LIBOR and mortgage rates at, or near their lows for the year.
This is significant because it is very difficult to buy equities whilst credit markets are dysfunctional.
Fortunately, the fact that systemic risk has peaked and that normality is returning to critical elements of the financial system makes it extremely unlikely that markets will revisit lows.
A number of different factors would appear to support this assertion.
In terms of the magnitude of the correction, US stocks at recent lows had fallen 57% from their highs.
This surpassed the declines experienced during the two most brutal post-war corrections, 1973 4 when stocks fell by 48% and 2000 2 fell by 49%.
We also believe that many of the empirical prerequisites for a market recovery have also been observed.
These include the ECB targeting growth, the launch of financial lifeboats for lowest quality assets, a waterfall decline selling climax and an improvement in breadth.
Furthermore, investor pessimism recently plumbed depths often associated with significant previous lows.
Most recently the resilience of markets in the face of a potential flu pandemic reflects under-ownership of stocks, evidenced by large cash positions held by institutional investors.
A NEW TECHNOLOGY CYCLE Our expectation of a period of multi-year outperformance begins with the fact that the sector enjoyed limited participation during the last cycle as it continued to work off the excesses of the bubble years.
Relative valuations continued to compress, IT spending was muted and tech companies hoarded cash, reducing returns on capital.
In addition, the sector suffered from its limited exposure to emerging markets commodity price inflation which captured the imagination of investors during the last bull market.
As a result of booming emerging markets particularly in China, the technology sector proved a poor proxy for global growth.
In a sense technology stocks fared poorly during the last cycle because the growth they had to offer was lost in a sea of alternative and often cheaper asset classes.
Now we believe that the market is beginning to understand that in a sub-trend growth world, sectors and stocks that can deliver genuine growth become intrinsically more attractive due to their relative scarcity.
Our sector has always been about doing more for less.
This had limited resonance during the last up cycle because companies were focused on growth understandably so, given the opportunities presented by global emerging markets and the profligate use of leverage.
Now focus has clearly shifted towards managing downside risk and that invariably means worrying about costs, getting leaner and trying to maintain profitability.
As such, productivity a concept that took a backseat during the coordinated upcycle that just ended is far more pertinent today which is very much music to our ears, because delivering productivity has always been our sectors raison detre.
Whilst this was well understood in the late 1990s when our sector traded with a massive egregiously so valuation premium, todays level of 1.1x the market multiple is still below its long-term average premium excluding the bubble years.
Moreover, if one considers that technology company balance sheets are in far better shape than the average company, then at recent lows the sector may have traded at its lowest ever relative valuation point on a cash-adjusted P E basis.
This is the starting point against which the recent 8 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC sector outperformance needs to be considered: just as we do not expect to revisit recent lows, we also think there is limited risk of a significant fide-rating.
As such we are hopeful that superior earnings growth will continue to translate into stock price outperformance.
We believe that the recent sector re-rating reflects the fact that investors have embraced technology stocks as an each way bet on future market progress: should the global economy begin to improve, the sector has empirically been a strong performer from market lows due to the close correlation between IT spending and corporate profitability together with the early cycle characteristics of semiconductor stocks.
However, should things deteriorate further, technology companies are extremely well-capitalised and many boast attractive cash flow dynamics which should help mitigate some of the downside.
However, whilst investors may have embraced our sectors cyclicality, the reason we are so upbeat is entirely secular, based on a belief that a new technology cycle is unfolding, this cycle is based on leveraging internet infrastructure allowing IT assets to be better utilised whilst reducing complexity and cost.
As in previous technology cycles mainframe, client-server this one is all about reducing the cost of computing and the barriers to adoption, thus expanding the industrys addressable market.
Since the zenith of mainframe computing, each and every cycle that followed has been about taking cheaper forms of computing nearer to the user.
This process has driven the multi-decade growth of the technology industry and has revolutionised the way in which we live, work and play.
The basic notion behind what we dub the distributed computing cycle is that it is no longer necessary to compute locally now that bandwidth is plentiful and cheap, thanks to the advent of Internet protocol IP and telecom deregulation.
The idea of re-centralising computing moving computing away from the user and into the cloud reflects the fact that as prices of hardware have plunged so the cost of supporting and powering it has become disproportionately large.
Today there is a very real alternative way of delivering computing as anyone who has used Google search or bought a book on Amazon will understand.
In both those cases and in almost every transaction that occurs online very little computing occurs locally: instead a remote server does the computational work and the results are delivered instantaneously across the Internet.
The battle between local and distributed forms of computing has already been played out in the world of electricity generation at the end of the 19th century.
Once it became possible to economically distribute power over long distances due to the advent of power transformers that stepped up the voltage the incumbent technology direct current or DC was swept aside by the new, alternating current AC technology because it was cheaper and had more utility.
The war of words between Edison DC and Westinghouse Tesla AC may have continued but the battle was over.
Today the same dynamic is playing out in our industry: incumbent suppliers companies and people with much to lose and little to gain from a cheaper form of computing do all they can to slow its progress.
Unfortunately for them history is not on their side, nor is the present economic environment as we expect IT buyers to be more amenable to the idea of newer if less proven technologies with budgets pressured.
From our perspective it is clear who our Edisons are Microsoft, Intel, IBM and so on which is why we remain structurally underweight the hardware sector.
We would own less of each and in some instances, none of these companies if the investing backdrop was less choppy.
If hardware vendors and IT support companies are the big losers over the course of this new cycle, so we expect companies that carry IP traffic to be significant winners because as computing re-centralises so masses of data that was once only ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 9 investment Managers Report continued carried across the LAN local area network will now need to be carried over the WAN wide-area network.
We therefore have significant positions in companies such as Cisco Systems and Juniper Networks, whose products carry or direct data traffic and those who help ensure the resilience of IP networks and distributed computing in general, companies such as F5 Networks and Riverbed Technologies.
The ability to compute in the cloud is also having a profound impact on application development in the same way AC power facilitated new uses for electricity.
As highlighted in last years report, we believe that the software industry is likely to continue to migrate to a subscription or software as a service SAAS model.
Essentially by delivering enterprise-class software with little or no upfront costs because they are shared by all users across the network, companies such as Salesforce.
com, Concur Technologies and Ariba are using the Internet delivery mechanism to collapse the adoption barriers that the traditional software licence fee represents to small and mid-sized companies.
Despite the challenging backdrop for IT spending this year, we expect all of our SAAS companies to grow in 2009 which points to their basic productivity propositions and compelling payback periods.
With less than 10% of software currently delivered on a per user, per month basis we expect the SAAS industry to continue to deliver strong growth over the next few years.
The delivery of applications across the Internet has meaningfully advanced the cause of mobile broadband: as computing and applications are designed to be delivered across the cloud so it has become possible to access them on devices other than PCs.
This, together with 3G infrastructure deployments and compelling devices such as the iPhone, has resulted in explosive growth of both smart phones and mobile data traffic.
According to data from Gartner, smart phone penetration reached 13.5% in Q1 09.
Our belief that consumer technologies tend to inflect positively once penetration rates reach 10% suggests that the best growth is still ahead of us which should benefit our holdings in smartphone providers such as Apple, Research in Motion, HTC and their suppliers Qualcomm, Texas Instruments.
As smart phone penetration rises so mobile data usage should grow exponentially.
In just nine months post the launch of its App Store, Apples iPhone and iTouch customers downloaded more than one billion applications.
Together with the introduction of affordable laptop cards and data-only tariffs we anticipate significant growth in traffic.
We are particularly excited about this opportunity and have increased our exposure to this theme over the past year, via companies that help mobile operators carry the traffic Ericsson, monitor network efficiency Netscout and deliver quality of service Starent Networks.
In addition to these three key themes Internet infrastructure, broadband applications and mobile data there are additional areas within the technology universe that we believe will grow nicely over the coming years: these include alternative and environmental technologies driven by resource shortages, medical devices demographics, games consoles demographics, security online activity and emerging market infrastructure demographics.
However, we have chosen to reduce our exposure to a number of these segments in order to reposition the portfolio towards the new cycle thesis that we have already articulated.
KEY RISKS As ever, there are myriad risks to our prognosis.
Many of these are macroeconomic related and include the potential for further economic deterioration, failure of the credit market to normalise fully, and disorderly US Dollar weakness that could lessen the ability to fund the intervention upon which the recovery is based.
We are also mindful that favourable exchange rate moves over the past year have 10 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC benefited our performance: these trends may not continue and could reverse over the coming year.
In addition we are conscious of political risk Iran and North Korea for example and legislation that could create upward pressure on effective US corporate tax rates.
However, the most significant threat to risk assets is posed by the potential for higher inflation expectations should the velocity of money increase.
We have long been of the view that the attractiveness of financial assets waxes and wanes according to prevailing inflation expectations.
As such, should the unprecedented magnitude of intervention and resultant money supply growth force policymakers to refocus on inflation containment, we would expect risk appetite to deteriorate materially, with the potential for recent interest rate cuts to be reversed and for P E ratios to contract.
ASIA Just as elsewhere, the Asian region set a swathe of new records for the year of which few, if any, can be filed under a positive heading.
This is despite the fact that as last year the true cause and epicentre of the crisis over-leverage in Anglo-Saxon economies remained elsewhere.
However, the regions dependence on global trade ensured that virtually no businesses remained untouched by the economic hurricane circumnavigating the globe.
Nowhere was this more pronounced than in Japan where the manufacturing sector remains the life-blood of the entire economy.
The problem here being that this manufacturing is in turn dominated by goods of a consumer cyclical nature such as cars and electronics, which were predictably among the first areas to be severely reigned in by belt-tightening consumers.
Compounding this further was the fact that the normal stabilizing factor for a struggling export economy a weakening currency was actually working strongly in the opposite direction by virtue of the Yens role in the fide-leveraging of global capital flows.
The end result was a devastating collapse in exports and industrial production of a magnitude unprecedented in both scale and alacrity in the modern history of Japan.
This resulted in GDP falling at an annualized rate of over 15% during the first quarter of 2009.
To put this into some context, it may be worth recalling that even during Japans lost decade in the 1990s, GDP rarely contracted by even as much as several percentage points.
Ironically, the country for which most commentators would have ex-ante offered the above prognosis China continued to defy expectations of a meltdown.
Consensus opinion seemed of the view that if western consumers were in retrenchment mode, surely nowhere would be worse hit than the modern-day workshop of the world.
Throw in the perception of a domestic property bubble and you can see why the doomsters were so vociferous on this issue.
The reality, however, has been very different, Chinese growth has been driven primarily by domestic consumption and investment and not by net exports.
The robustness of these domestic drivers in recent months has been due in large part to the substantial and very timely stimulus package enacted by the central government.
Indeed, of all the emergency fiscal monetary policy programmes announced around the world during the last year Chinas has had the most effective and immediate impact.
This should not come as a surprise given that the structural problems of over-leverage and worsening demographics hanging over much of the developed world simply do not exist in China and much of Asia outside Japan.
For this reason there are genuine grounds for optimism that Asian growth need not be overly constrained by the threat of potentially sub-par growth elsewhere in the medium term.
As one might expect, the actual performance of markets over the period reflected the grim reality of the economic environment.
Stock and sector contributions had limited impact as the variance of returns at ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 11 investment Managers Report continued these levels was extremely low: market timing being the much more important determinant.
This can be seen from the very narrow spread of returns achieved by the technology sector versus the relevant broader markets.
The timeline of returns clearly resembles that of other equity markets and falls into two fairly distinct periods.
From May until October markets were almost universally in a downward tailspin, culminating in a free-fall following the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
As has been adequately reported already, unprecedented government central bank intervention thereafter gradually served to stabilize the system and allowed markets to map out an extended bottoming process.
When the world stopped spinning for many businesses in the final quarter of 2008 tech companies were, in aggregate, very quick to hit the brakes in the hope of preventing another repeat of the 2001 inventory fiasco.
In the event, production cuts appear to have been more severe than that required by falling end demand, and as a result, from the beginning of 2009 we have started to see this process reverse, creating at least temporarily a classic V-shaped trough.
Thus far the most cyclical sub-sectors of tech have performed to script by vastly outpacing their more defensive peers in the rebound from lows.
Indeed, given the inherent cyclicality of Asia as a region, the Asian tech sector as a whole has been in the vanguard of the nascent global rally.
Whilst we expect this to endure for as long as the inventory restocking cycle is in full swing, we are less excited by the prospects for medium term regional out-performance as we are mindful of the considerable regional exposure to PCs and consumer facing technologies that are unlikely to benefit from the new cycle thesis articulated earlier.
As such, we believe it will become even more important to seek out those companies benefitting from genuinely secular growth characteristics.
Fortunately in Asia, with the twin engines of China and India to the fore, such trends do still exist and it is in areas such as the internet, telecom services, and possibly renewable energy where we will fashion our core portfolio for the year ahead.
EUROPE Over the last year, European equity performance mirrored the extreme macroeconomic weakness already amply described.
European stocks performed particularly poorly, the Bloomberg European 500 index returning -36.1% and -27.2% in Euro and Sterling terms respectively.
The fiscal year began quietly despite some ominous portents before markets plunged amid spiking energy prices, an erroneous ECB rate rise and the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers.
A calendar year-end rally gave way to pronounced weakness in early 2009 as macroeconomic data began to reveal the havoc the credit crisis was wreaking on the Eurozone economy.
The sharp rally following the March lows 27% in Euro terms helped the fiscal year end on a more upbeat note but proved insufficient to prevent 2009 being the worst fiscal year experienced by European stocks for at least twenty years.
As in other regions, European technology stocks outpaced the broader market, this outperformance being most pronounced in the UK.
Unlike the rest of the developed world, Europe was slow to cut interest rates due to inflationary data that appeared to constrain monetary policy.
This may have helped the progress of the Euro but did little to allay fears that the ECB would once again prove behind the curve.
Such fears proved relatively short-lived once the extent of the crisis became clearer following the implosion of the Icelandic banking system and the pressures building at the periphery of the Eurozone, particularly in Spain and Ireland.
In the UK, the introduction of quantitative easing QE and interest rates cut to record lows helped alleviate the prospect 12 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC of systemic failure.
However, they could not prevent the Eurozone economy shrinking by 0.3% in 2Q 08 before it worsened considerably through the period end.
As a result of our less sanguine market prognosis, we materially reduced our European exposure during the year, principally via the sale of a number of our smaller-cap holdings.
This decision proved to be a fortuitous one, particularly prior to the recent rally as the region exhibited its empirical beta characteristics.
The most cyclical sectors were amongst the hardest hit with particular weakness reserved for the alternative energy sub-sector due to the combination of lower energy prices, leveraged balance sheets and a deteriorating backdrop for project financing.
At the stock level, we enjoyed solid performances from a number of holdings that proved relatively defensive, including Inmarsat, Fresenius Medical and Synthes together with a strong positive contribution from our position in Fidessa and in Autonomy, beneficiaries of the trend towards greater regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry.
Our relative performance benefited from limited exposure to those companies most challenged by a recession such as ST Micro, Alcatel, Infineon and Qimonda.
Unfortunately our alternative energy exposure Q-Cells, Gamesa weighed on performance.
Historically, Europes attraction for technology investors has lain in the existence of some high quality niche companies together with the availability of material pricing anomalies.
The last decade has not proved fertile in the development of the former while excess analytical coverage has limited the latter.
As such we have adopted a barbell-like approach within our European portfolio favouring on the one hand global leaders that should emerge from the current downturn in an improved market position companies like Ericsson, SAP and ASM Lithography and on the other, a selection of genuine growth stocks with thematic exposure difficult to source elsewhere.
Companies that we currently hold in this vein include Aixtron solid state lighting, Autonomy regulatory compliance and Inmarsat in-flight broadband.
Whilst we see good value in European small caps today, we find it more difficult to identify genuine next-generation winners which will likely mean that our recent European disallocation proves a permanent one unless we get significantly more positive about the renewables sub-sector.
Whilst we expect the market and our sectors progress to remain choppy, we are more convinced than ever that our new cycle thesis is beginning to gain traction.
Over the coming year assuming that the macroeconomic backdrop does not meaningfully deteriorate from here we intend to reorient the portfolio more significantly.
This will involve materially reducing our exposure to legacy incumbents that have little to gain from the new cycle.
Whilst these stocks appear cheap and many have proved relatively defensive in a difficult market environment, with a new cycle commencing they may prove expensive in terms of opportunity cost.
Instead we intend to continue the transition towards small and mid-sized nextgeneration companies that do not have legacy positions and mature operating models to defend.
We expect that many of these upstarts will be acquired for big premiums over the coming years by the legacy companies whose markets they seek to disrupt.
Ben Rogoff ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 13 PORTFOLIO review MARKET CAPITALISATION OF UNDERLYING INVESTMENTS at 30 April 2009 $2bn-$10bn 16.5% Over $10bn 62.5% 2008: 16.2% 2008: 61.1% Less than $2bn 21.0% 2008: 22.7% CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS at 30 April 2009 North Total 30 April Total 30 April America Europe Asia 2009 2008 %%% % % Computing 24.8 0.2 3.2 28.2 23.3 Components 10.0 1.5 7.0 18.5 16.0 Software 17.3 1.8 1.4 20.5 19.6 Services 1.6 1.1 0.4 3.1 3.3 Communications 8.4 3.1 1.9 13.4 11.3 Life Sciences 1.6 0.3 0.2 2.1 5.5 Consumer, Media & Internet 6.9 0.7 7.6 5.9 Other Technology 1.0 1.3 1.7 4.0 9.3 Unquoted Investments 0.3 0.3 0.8 Total investments 71.6 9.6 16.5 97.7 95.0 Other net assets excluding loans 2.4 1.9 8.0 12.3 13.1 Loans 10.0 10.0 8.1 Grand total net assets of 274,179,000 74.0 11.5 14.5 100.0 At 30 April 2008 net assets of 300,425,000 67.0 20.0 13.0 100.0 14 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC EQUITY INVESTMENTS OVER 0.75% AND DETAILS OF INVESTMENTS OVER 1% of net assets at 30 April 2009 NORTH AMERICA Value of holding % of net assets 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 2009 2008 2009 2008 000 000 % % 14,397 9,115 Apple 5.2 3.0 Apple is a leading supplier of personal computers and digital media products that feature the companys proprietary OS X operating system.
The company has become somewhat synonymous with the explosion in digital media as evidenced by market share gains in its core business and the spectacular success of its iPod and iTunes offerings.
Its most recent product introduction the iPhone has already begun to redefine the smart phone category and today represents the companys most important growth driver.
12,356 11,719 Google 4.5 3.9 Google is the dominant provider of Internet search and online advertising, provider of web applications and tools, as well as a developer of software and mobile applications.
The company operates a leading index of web sites and media content and offers an auction based advertising platform.
By helping content owners to efficiently find customers online, Google remains a critical element in the growth of Internet advertising and e-commerce.
11,713 8,251 Cisco 4.3 2.7 Cisco Systems is the pre eminent provider of Internet protocol IPbased equipment that is used to carry data, voice and video traffic.
In addition to its core router and switch offerings, the company also produces IP telephony products, set-top boxes and videoconferencing systems.
The company is thus well positioned to benefit from the continued growth of both wireline and wireless broadband traffic.
11,113 6,900 Microsoft 4.0 2.3 Microsoft is the largest software company in the world.
Founded in 1975, the company has built a dominant franchise in desktop software through its ubiquitous Windows operating system and Office productivity software.
In addition the company has expanded into other markets such as games consoles, server and storage software and the Internet via its MSN offering.
10,378 8,047 Qualcomm 3.8 2.7 QUALCOMM is the world leader in wireless code division multiple access CDMA technologies for mobile communications.
The company has more than 3,000 patents for CDMA and licenses its IP to the worlds leading handset and infrastructure providers.
The company also sells chipsets via its QCT division.
Recent settlements with Broadcom 2009 and Nokia 2008 resulted in the removal of Qualcomms legal overhang.
8,821 6,488 Intel 3.2 2.2 Intel is the worlds largest supplier of semiconductor chips.
The company designs and manufacturers microprocessors, boards and semiconductor components that are used in computers, servers, and networking and communication products.
As the worlds largest supplier of microprocessors, Intel enjoys a worldwide market share of more than 75%.
New products include Atom for netbooks, ultra-low voltage CPUs for thin notebooks and the new Xeon 5500, a server chip optimized for virtualized environments.
8,169 9,178 Oracle 3.0 3.1 Oracle is the leading vendor of relational database management systems RDBMS and is the worlds second largest software company.
With more than $20bn in annual revenues, Oracles offerings span database systems, middleware and a broad range of applications such as ERP, CRM and SCM.
The company also intends to enter the enterprise hardware and storage markets following its surprise bid for Sun Microsystems.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 15 PORTFOLIO review continued NORTH AMERICA Continued Value of holding % of net assets 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 2009 2008 2009 2008 000 000 % % 8,108 6,074 Hewlett Packard 3.0 2.0 One of the worlds largest providers of IT solutions, HP has used the cash flows generated by its print supplies business to acquire companies such as Compaq and EDS.
This has resulted in one of the most comprehensive portfolios of hardware, software and services.
Current CEO Mark Hurd is highly regarded having orchestrated the restructuring of NCR prior to his arrival at HP.
6,096 4,716 IBM 2.2 1.6 International Business Machines IBM is one of the worlds leading providers of enterprise solutions, offering a broad portfolio of hardware, IT services and software solutions.
Whilst the companys revenue growth rate has moderated over recent years, it has been able to deliver fairly consistent earnings per share growth as a result of acquisitions, cost-saving initiatives and share repurchases.
5,918 Texas Instruments 2.2 An early pioneer in the field of semiconductors, TI is today a leading provider of both digital signal processors and analogue mixed signal chips.
The company has adopted a fab-light manufacturing model which allows it to better manage utilization rates during downturns allowing it to continue to generate strong free cash flows.
The company has divested some non-core assets over recent years, returning the proceeds in the form of stock repurchases.
4,700 8,404 Research in Motion 1.7 2.8 Research in Motion is a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of wireless solutions for the mobile communications market.
Its popular line of BlackBerry handsets handle voice, email and text message communications, as well as Internet access.
In addition to dominating the enterprise market, the company is currently benefiting from the strong growth of smart phones in the consumer segment, driven by social networking, and aided by shifting carrier subsidies.
com 1.3 1.6 Founded in 1999 and based in San Francisco, salesforce.
com is the leading provider of hosted, outsourced customer relationship management CRM software.
The company delivers its software via a web browser on a subscription basis and is widely considered a pioneer of the  SAAS alternative to the perpetual licence model adhered to by most software vendors.
com platforms have expanded the companys addressable market well beyond just CRM.
3,414 F5 Networks 1.2 F5 Networks is a leading provider of application delivery networking products that manage, control and optimize Internet traffic within a network.
These products are used for network load balancing, file virtualization, and WAN optimization all of which improve the reliability and user experience of applications being run remotely.
The companys recent acquisition of Acopia expanded its addressable market into storage virtualisation.
3,392 Xilinx 1.2 Xilinx is a leading supplier of programmable logic devices PLDs semiconductor chips that can be programmed to perform specific functions thereby reducing design costs and time to market.
This flexibility has resulted in PLDs gaining share at the expense of traditional application specific integrated circuits ASICs.
The PLD industry has oligopolistic characteristics that allow Xilinx and its principal competitor, Altera to generate strong gross margins and cash flows over the duration of a semiconductor cycle.
16 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC NORTH AMERICA Continued Value of holding % of net assets 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 2009 2008 2009 2008 000 000 % % 2,960 4,059 EMC 1.1 1.4 EMC is a leading provider of enterprise storage systems that allows its customers to store, manage and retrieve massive amounts of information.
In addition to its position in storage area networks SANs, EMC also offers network-attached file servers and a wide array of software designed to manage, protect and share data.
The company is the majority owner of VMware a leading virtualization software supplier and enjoys a close relationship with Dell which resells its systems.
2,783 3,684 First Solar 1.0 1.2 First Solar is one of the worlds leading producers of solar modules used to power both commercial and residential installations.
The company uses a thin-film semiconductor technology to manufacture its modules, and is currently the worlds lowest cost producer of such modules on a mass production basis.
2,681 2,650 Juniper Networks 1.0 0.9 Juniper Networks is a global supplier of core and edge routers to service providers and large enterprises.
Its products help carry data across IP networks and the company is therefore a beneficiary of Internet traffic growth.
Through acquisitions the company has also entered the market for other next-generation IP technologies such as network security and WAN optimisation.
The company recently developed its own Ethernet switch which it hopes will allow it to wrest market share from Cisco in the enterprise market.
2,601 5,127 Corning LCD components 0.9 1.7 2,552 Yahoo Internet 0.9 2,444 2,914 Verisign Internet infrastructure 0.9 1.0 2,406 4,162 Adobe Systems Enterprise software 0.9 1.4 2,349 Concur Technologies Enterprise software 0.9 2,336 Dell Computer Computing 0.9 2,314 2,450 Network Appliance Storage hardware 0.8 0.8 2,235 3,956 Altera Semiconductors 0.8 1.3 2,202 3,503 Cognizant IT services 0.8 1.2 2,116 3,724 American Tower Telecom infrastructure 0.8 1.2 2,072 Starent Networks Telecom infrastructure 0.8 146,082 Total Investments over 0.75% of net assets 53.3 50,180 Other investments 18.3 196,262 Total North American investments 71.6 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 17 PORTFOLIO review continued EUROPE Value of holding % of net assets 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 2009 2008 2009 2008 000 000 % % 5,664 6,204 Nokia 2.1 2.1 Nokia is the pre-eminent provider of mobile handsets and a leading vendor of wireless equipment via its Nokia Siemens Networks joint venture.
Whilst the company has ceded market share in high end handsets, Nokia should benefit from ongoing penetration of 3G and smart phones, particularly post its legal settlement with Qualcomm.
The company also possesses leading GPS intellectual property following its acquisition of NAVTEQ and boasts dominant market share in a number of emerging markets.
3,115 3,432 SAP 1.1 1.1 SAP is the dominant provider of enterprise resource planning ERP software that is used to integrate back-office functions such as distribution, accounting, human resources and manufacturing.
The company has leveraged this prominent position to expand into related fields such as business intelligence via its Business Objects acquisition and customer relationship management.
SAP intends to grow its subscription licence business over time which should augment the companys existing recurring revenues.
2,831 Ericsson 1.0 Ericsson is the worlds leading maker of mobile broadband infrastructure products that telecom service providers use to carry voice, data and video traffic.
In addition, the company also provides equipment for use in wireline networks, mobile handsets via its partnership with Sony and recently formed a joint venture with ST Micro to produce semiconductors for wireless phones.
2,237 Fidessa Enterprise software 0.8 2,142 2,876 ASML Holdings Semiconductor capital equipment 0.8 1.0 15,989 Total Investments over 0.75 of net assets 5.8 10,370 Other investments 3.8 26,359 Total European investments 9.6 18 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC ASIA Value of holding % of net assets 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 2009 2008 2009 2008 000 000 % % 7,834 7,151 Samsung Electronics 2.8 2.4 Samsung manufactures a very wide array of products ranging from components to finished products for both consumer electronics and industrial end markets.
The company is particularly renowned for its high global market share in the fields of memory semiconductors, LCD displays, and mobile handsets.
4,302 4,203 Taiwan Semiconductor 1.6 1.4 TSMC is the worlds largest semiconductor foundry, providing a full range of services from design to product delivery.
The company is becoming increasingly dominant at the leadingedge of the technology road-map, where smaller rivals are struggling to adequately resource their product offerings.
3,369 4,102 High Tech Computer Corporation 1.2 1.4 HTC is one of the worlds leading providers of smart phones.
The companys primary strengths are the ability to combine appealing hardware design with functional software integration, with a cheaper cost structure and faster time to market than rivals.
3,238 6,029 Canon 1.2 2.0 Canon is one of the worlds largest companies in the field of imaging and optical technology, manufacturing a wide range of products for both consumer and professional use.
Examples include printers, copiers, cameras, semiconductor manufacturing equipment, and medical equipment.
2,136 Educomp Solutions Educational software services 0.8 20,879 Total Investments over 0.75% of net assets 7.6 24,345 Other investments 8.9 45,224 Total Asian investments 16.5 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 19
