Directors report: Business review 20 Consumer Credit Division Chris Gillespie Managing Director, Consumer Credit Division Divisional strategy Home credit is Provident Financials longest running Broaden the product mix Grow customer numbers business stretching back to the companys foundation Continually improve credit in 1880.
It is the largest home credit business in the management Continue to modernise the business UK and Ireland.
Every week, 11,600 local agents visit 1.8 million customers around one in 20 UK households to issue loans and collect repayments.
Even after 130 years, the business continues to flourish and fill an important space in the UK non-standard credit market.
Home credit succeeds by offering simple, Another advantage of home credit is the Divisional brands transparent financial products to part played by the agent.
Agents are paid Provident Personal Credit customers on average or below-average commission on what they collect, not what Greenwood Personal Credit incomes, some of whom may find it they lend, so they have every reason not to difficult to obtain or manage other forms lend more than their customers can afford of credit.
The service is popular for very to repay.
Thats good for the customer and clear reasons: its personal, friendly and a valuable check on impairment for the flexible, and is well suited to the needs business.
The agents weekly visit is not of our customers.
only convenient for the customer but also acts as a useful reminder to put the money How home credit works aside for the repayment.
If customers get 1 4 Provident is the UK and Irelands leading into difficulty, they know theyll get a 3 home credit lender operating through sympathetic response from their agent.
the Provident Personal Credit and The home credit product is one that Greenwood Personal Credit brands which customers trust and positively want to use share a national network of over 400 which helps to explain why our customer 2 branches.
Provident and Greenwood satisfaction rates are consistently high.
provide small, unsecured cash loans, 94% of customers say they are satisfied typically for sums of between 300 and with the Provident home credit service, 500.
These are delivered to the and the vast majority say they would customers home by self-employed agents recommend Provident to family or friends.
who then call every week to collect Customer acquisition channels repayments.
Unlike other forms of lending, The market and economic environment 1 Agent 69% home credit includes all the costs upfront.
There are over 10 million non-standard 2 Internet 18% There are no extra charges whatsoever, credit consumers in the UK, of which the even if a customer misses a payment.
home credit industry serves around three 3 Direct mail 8% For those managing on a tight budget, million.
Provident Financial has 1.8 million 4 Other 5% its important to know that the amount home credit customers.
to be repaid is fixed at the start and will never go up.
86% of our customers consider our products to offer them good value for money.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review Consumer Credit Division 21 continued The business demonstrated a good collections performance throughout 2009.
The picture is changing, however.
The Cautious approach to underwriting tightening of lending criteria in response In anticipation of the marked deterioration 128.9m to the global scarcity of credit and in the economy, the home credit increasing impairment has meant that management team has maintained a Home credit profit before tax mainstream lenders are not advancing cautious approach to lending for over two credit to those at the margins of their years now whilst continuing to maintain lending models many of whom would the flow of credit to our customers.
To have been more suited to high service ensure the correct focus to manage bad level, small-sum, home credit lending in debt risk, new customer growth was 1.
This presents an opportunity for slowed in the first half of 2009 and greater us to win back some of the customers we selectivity through tougher scoring has Home credit customers have lost to more mainstream lenders over been applied to the issue of further credit recent years.
As a result, combined with to existing customers.
This has been the changes we have made to the business, supported by the continued development after several years of gradual decline, and deployment of analytical tools for home credit customer numbers have assessing credit decisions together with 866.0m started to grow: up 2.1% in 2006, 5.3% in the increased use of external data.
Home credit year-end receivables Tailored products This continuing tightening of lending Only by applying a sufficient margin to our criteria by mainstream credit providers is products can we remain profitable and so leading to a growing non-standard market continue to supply our customers with the in the UK and presents a growing small amounts of credit they need.
In opportunity for home credit.
deciding how much to charge for our products we take many factors into Home credit strategy account including customer behaviour, The strategy of the home credit business is market conditions, the competitive to be the leading community-based lender environment, and the current and forecast in the UK and Ireland and to deliver state of the economy.
In 2009, we profitable growth by lending responsibly launched a new 50-week core product to and meeting customer needs.
The new product has a higher rate than the old Key activities in 2009 product but provides a better fit with our The main focus of our home credit business customers needs for a loan of around a during 2009 has been to maintain the year in length and better reflects customer balance between growth, credit quality behaviour and the current, turbulent state and collections performance.
This is of the market and the economy.
We also particularly important in the current decided to restrict new customers from difficult economic environment.
taking out some of our lower margin home credit products until they have established Increase in front-line management a good payment history with us.
In order to maintain an appropriate focus on collections activities during 2009, we We are not alone in adjusting prices in the created approximately 120 new field-based non-standard and indeed whole credit management roles and 30 new branches.
Our customers continue to tell us This reinforces the spans of control over that we offer good value for money and all collections and arrears activities.
The of our home credit products remain highly investment was made possible through competitive in the marketplace.
Our stringent control over non field-based costs customers can find a comparison of the which has restricted the overall increase in price of home credit loans and other small the cost base to just 1.7% in 2009. cash loans available in their local area at www.
uk, an independent price comparison website.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review 22 Consumer Credit Division continued Home-collected credit Smoothing annual household expenditure Easter Holidays Christmas back-to-school Typical use of home-collected credit Seasonal expenditure One-off purchases eg.
major appliances or unexpected car repairs Back-to-school expenditure Stability of the agency force direct debit.
This model responds to The agency force has become more stable customers preferences for personal in terms of length of tenure and agent contact, and the home visit also means turnover.
This is partly as a result of spans that each customers circumstances can be of control reducing from 12 agents per individually assessed.
Development Manager at its peak to nine agents per Development Manager, and In 2009, we continued to test this market partly due to an improved agent sector using the Real Personal Finance commission system which has proved brand, offering larger loans than traditional popular with agents.
Agent turnover weekly-collected home credit from 750 improved markedly in 2009 and agencies to 6,000 with typical APRs of between currently without an agent, and so being 80% and 120%.
We ran the business within handled by a Development Manager, fell the Consumer Credit Division so it could from 4.5% of all agencies to 3%.
share the resources of the home credit business, in particular its 400-strong Agents Park Group Love2Shop vouchers branch network, thereby keeping Agents visit each of their customers We have replaced our own brand shopping overheads to a minimum.
This uniquely voucher which we had offered for a personal approach to lending means number of years, with the popular, market The ongoing depressed state of the that agents are well placed to lend leading Park Group Love2Shop voucher.
economy in 2009, together with the each of their customers the amount Sales of the Provident-branded shopping virtual collapse of the direct repayment, thats right for them.
voucher had been falling slowly over the non-standard loans market, following the demise or withdrawal of a number of years because it did not have the appeal of competitors, has led to the collapse of the market leader and was not accepted in most of the credit brokers which had as many stores.
This change has led to supplied a large proportion of our non increased sales and shopping vouchers are group-introduced leads.
There are no signs now again an important element in our 71% that credit brokers or other alternative product portfolio.
intermediaries will return to the market in Percentage of female agents the short to medium term to allow a flow Direct repayment loans of good quality, new customer prospects.
Direct repayment loans are a logical In January 2010, we decided therefore to extension of the home credit model into a restrict our offer of direct repayment loans much larger market sector, adjacent to the to customers with whom we already had a weekly-collected home credit sector.
We will market these approach capitalises on the strengths of loans under the Provident Direct and our home credit business, not least of Greenwood Direct brands.
which is conducting the initial assessment interview in the customers home, with payments collected through monthly Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review Consumer Credit Division 23 continued Results The Consumer Credit Division generated a profit of 121.2m in 2009 2008: 126.1m which can be analysed as follows: Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 Change m m % Home credit 128.9 128.8 0.1 Real Personal Finance 7.7 2.7 185.2 Consumer Credit Division 121.2 126.1 3.9 Home credit Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 Change m m % Customer numbers 000 1,842 1,753 5.1 Average customer receivables 759.2 704.8 7.7 Revenue 673.7 645.9 4.3 Impairment 216.7 197.3 9.8 Revenue less impairment 457.0 448.6 1.9 Impairment % revenue 32.2% 30.5% Costs 288.4 283.6 1.7 Interest 39.7 36.2 9.7 The main focus of our Profit before tax 128.9 128.8 0.1 home credit business Impairment as a percentage of revenue for the 12 months ended 31 December.
has been to maintain the balance between growth, credit quality and collections capacity.
of the year and was exacerbated by the The rate of customer growth slowed from adverse nationwide weather conditions 6.2% in 2008 to 3.3% in the first half of which affected sales in the peak trading 2009 as tighter credit criteria were applied to the acquisition of new customers and weeks in mid December.
marketing activity was curtailed in order to manage credit risk and focus the agent Revenue growth of 4.3% was lower than force on collections.
Promotional activity the growth in receivables and reflected was stepped up during the autumn and, the impact arising from the Competition against continued tough scoring of Commission remedy requiring higher early applications, the customer growth rate settlement rebates on loans issued after moved up to 5.1% by the year end.
13 December 2007, which had a limited effect until the second half of 2008.
The The year on year growth in average remedy reduced revenue by 10m in 2008 receivables slowed to 7.7% in 2009 from and by a further 10m in 2009.
This remained ahead of customer growth due to sound credit The impairment charge reflects a good quality and the ability to re-serve good collections performance throughout 2009, quality new customers on short-term loans with the exception of the interruption to with the core one-year product.
During agents rounds caused by the weather 2009, the rate of average receivables conditions in December which is not growth slowed from 9.8% in the first half expected to have a material lasting effect.
Much of this This was reinforced by tight credit resulted from the planned reduction in standards and investment in collections new customer growth and the tighter capacity, including adding some 120 new criteria applied to the issue of further field-based management roles at the start credit to existing customers, particularly of the year.
The underlying credit quality the issue of longer larger loans.
However, of the home credit receivables portfolio it is also evident that existing customers remains good.
Impairment expressed as became more cautious, concerned about a percentage of revenue increased to their future prospects against the 32.2% at the end of 2009 2008: 30.5%, backdrop of rising unemployment, and partly due to the impact of higher early pressure on household incomes from settlement rebates on revenue.
This cautious Impairment expressed as a percentage of behaviour had a greater impact on sales to average receivables increased to 28.5% in existing customers during the second half 2009 from 28.0% in 2008, underlining Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review 24 Consumer Credit Division continued Spreading the cost of Christmas Christmas is an expensive time of year, especially for those on modest incomes.
37% of our customers take out a home credit loan to cover the cost of Christmas and birthdays.
Customers can also choose to take their loan in the form of shopping vouchers.
We have replaced our own brand shopping voucher with the popular, market leading Park Group Love2Shop voucher.
the effectiveness of maintaining an Real Personal Finance appropriate balance between growth, The market test of direct repayment loans 2 4% credit quality and collections capacity under the Real Personal Finance brand through a difficult trading period.
operated out of 50 locations during 2009, Percentage of customers who use using dedicated field managers to their loan for household items Very tight controls over costs were underwrite loans on a face-to-face basis in maintained during 2009, resulting in the customers home.
year on year growth of just 1.7%, notwithstanding higher top line growth In 2009, Real Personal Finance generated and the investment in field capacity.
Cost revenues of 7.9m and incurred a start-up control will remain a major priority in 2010 loss of 7.7m, up from 2.7m in 2008 and 3 7% set in the context of planning assumptions higher than expected because volumes that reflect no improvement in the labour were insufficient.
Percentage of customers who market conditions, continued pressure on use their loan for Christmas and birthdays household incomes and relatively weak Direct referrals from home credit branches demand for credit.
Accordingly, headcount or sourced from the home credit customer in the head office support functions has database have provided a good flow of recently been reduced by around 90 leads to Real Personal Finance and people.
The field collections and arrears contributed approximately half of revenues management capacity is unaffected.
The market test also assumed that around half of new business would be Overall, the home credit business sourced from the wider non-standard produced a satisfactory performance in market served by credit brokers.
However, 2009, reporting a pre-tax profit of 2009 has seen the withdrawal or 128.9m 2008: 128.8m, after taking restructuring of the major participants in account of the increased investment in the broker channel as a result of the severe field collections capacity, the full-year decline in the volume of business being impact of early settlement rebates and written in the non-standard direct the one-off impact of adverse weather repayment market.
This reflects the conditions during the peak trading weeks strategic withdrawal or collapse of lenders in December.
to this segment of the market.
In addition, far too many of the broker introduced loan Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review Consumer Credit Division 25 continued applications received by Real Personal Looking ahead Finance during 2009 have been from There continue to be opportunities to consumers carrying unacceptably high grow the home credit business in 2010 as levels of external indebtedness or not mainstream lenders continue to restrict exhibiting the repayment discipline with the flow of credit.
However, there are other lenders to support further lending.
also risks associated with continuing high Accordingly, only 1% of these leads were unemployment and under-employment, converted in 2009.
This combination of and the unknown effects of UK factors means there has not been a macroeconomic policy as the Government sufficient flow of applicants of an raises taxes and cuts expenditure.
The issue acceptable quality to support the wider is one of striking the right balance between market proposition at this time.
growth, credit quality and collections Furthermore, this is unlikely to change capacity.
We will continue to monitor our during 2010. financial information carefully to make sure we get this balance right.
We benefit from Consequently, the decision has been made getting excellent data back very quickly to focus solely on known prospects from our staff and home credit agents.
By generated through the home credit branch the middle of each week we have a detailed network or sourced from the home credit picture of the previous weeks performance customer database.
The direct repayment which means we can identify trends early product, to be known as Provident Direct and change our lending and collections or Greenwoods Direct, will therefore revert strategies if necessary.
to being a product extension consistent with home credits low and grow We will continue to test the direct approach to lending.
There is no longer a repayment loans concept and when requirement for the separate Real Personal market conditions improve we will decide Finance field sales force and associated how to take forward our approach to central overhead.
Accordingly, some 95 this potentially rewarding market sector.
people have recently left the business and In the meantime, we are rolling out direct start-up losses, which amounted to 7.7m repayment loans as a product extension in 2009, will not continue through 2010. of our core home credit business consistent with our low and grow In the medium term, the opportunity to approach to lending.
add direct distribution channels into the broader non-standard market remains but 2010 will also see our headquarters move will only be pursued when more stable to new, purpose-built offices in the centre market conditions return.
The new building will support the next phase in the companys development and underlines our commitment to the regeneration of the Bradford area.
Smoothing the family budget Donna has three children Devon, Georgia and baby Alfie so she finds home credit loans especially useful for smoothing out the family budget.
Donna most recently used a home credit loan to buy Devon a new school uniform in September.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009
