Directors remuneration report 66 Remuneration report continued Executive remuneration Remuneration explained excluding pension 4 Introduction remuneration policy.
The committee has, in This directors remuneration report complies addition, been advised by Eversheds LLP who Peter Crook Andrew Fisher Chris Gillespie with the Companies Act 2006 the Companies have advised the company on various Act, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized employment and commercial matters on the Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports operation of the companys share schemes.
In all 82% Regulations 2008 and the Listing Rules of th80% e cases the advisers were instructed by the 78% Financial Services Authority.
The company also secretary on behalf of the committee.
The followed the requirements of the Combined Chairman and Chief Executive of the company Code on Corporate Governance June 2008 normally attend and speak at meetings of the the Combined Code.
This report will be committee other than when their own subject to an advisory vote at the AGM of the remuneration or any matter relating to them is company to be held on 5 May 2010. being considered.
Ken Mullen, General Counsel 22% 20% 18% and Company Secretary, is secretary to the 5 The remuneration committee committee and attended all the meetings of the 5.1 The remuneration committee consists committee in 2009.
He also provided legal and of three non-executive directors, each of whom technical support to the committee.
Salary Benets and Salary Benets and Salary Benets and is, in the opinion of the board, independent PSP dividends PSP dividends PSP dividends when assessed against the criteria set out in the 6 Remuneration policy Combined Code.
The attendance of each 6.1 The committee considers it very important member at meetings of the remuneration that there should be an appropriate proportion Peter Crook Andrew Fisher Chris Gillespie committee is shown below and the terms of of fixed and variable pay.
The remuneration reference of the remuneration committee are policy operated by the committee during the available on the companys website at year and, subject to ongoing review by the 82% www.
remuneration committee, to be applied for the 80% 78% following financial year and for future financial Remuneration committee meetings years, is based on the need to attract, reward, motivate and retain executive directors in Total number of meetings in 2009 7 1 a manner consistent with the long-term Robert Hough Chair 7 7 accumulation of value for shareholders and 2 Rob Anderson 5 5 achievement of the companys strategic 3 John Maxwell 1 2 22% 20% objectives.
The committee is also conscious 18% Manjit Wolstenholme 7 7 of the need to avoid paying more than is 1 reasonable for this purpose and therefore the Appointed chairman with effect from 6 May 2009.
2 Appointed as a director on 2 March 2009. policy of the committee is to pay remuneration 3 Salary Benets and Salary Benets and Salary Benets and Resigned as a director and chairman of the which is competitive, with a significant PSP dividends PSP dividends PSP dividends remuneration committee on 6 May 2009. proportion subject to performance.
5.2 Pursuant to its terms of reference, the 6.2 The executive directors remuneration committee considers the framework of consists of a basic salary, an annual cash bonus Peter Crook Andrew Fisher Chris Gillespie executive remuneration and makes subject to performance conditions and other recommendations to the board.
It determines benefits including participation in the the specific remuneration packages and companys pension scheme.
Additionally, they 82% 80% conditions of service of the Chairman, the 78% may participate in a performance share plan executive directors and the Company Secretary, which necessitates the waiver of a minimum of including their service agreements.
It also 25% of the annual cash bonus award, a longmonitors the level and structure of the term incentive scheme, both of which are remuneration of the most senior management subject to performance conditions, and an below board level within the company.
No employee savings-related share option scheme director is involved in determining his her own which is not subject to performance conditions 22% 20% 18% remuneration.
executive directors participate on the same terms as other eligible employees of the group.
5.3 The committee keeps itself fully informed of In 2009, they also received a one-off developments and best practice in the field of exceptional bonus which was deferred and paid Salary Benets and Salary Benets and Salary Benets and remuneration and it seeks advice from external in the form of shares in recognition of the PSP dividends PSP dividends PSP dividends advisers when it considers it appropriate.
With companys exceptional performance in 2008. effect from 1 June 2009, the committee The remuneration policy is designed to ensure appointed Hewitt New Bridge Street as its that a significant proportion of the executive remuneration consultant in place of Towers directors remuneration is linked to Perrin to advise on aspects of executive director performance, through the operation of the and senior management pay, including advice in annual cash bonus and the share incentive relation to the 2009 remuneration policy and schemes.
For 2009, variable remuneration advice in relation to the 2010 remuneration accounted for over half of the fair value of policy which incorporated benchmark pay executive remuneration excluding pension reports.
Hewitt Associates Limited provide based on the policy that was operated and in investment advice in respect of the companys 2010 the revised remuneration policy is UK pension scheme and actuarial services in expected to ensure that approximately two respect of its Irish pension schemes.
Towers thirds of the incentive opportunity is variable as Perrin has also provided advice to the it is based on the long-term performance of the committee in 2009 in respect of the 2009 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors remuneration report Remuneration report 67 continued company which the committee considers and governance ESG issues when setting the appropriate.
The committee also considers the performance conditions for cash bonuses and pay and conditions elsewhere in the group when will use its discretion to ensure that where setting pay by reviewing the remuneration appropriate, the management of ESG risks are proposals and budgets of the divisions at its reflected in the rewards granted to directors meeting in January of each year.
and senior management and that they do not inadvertently promote irresponsible behaviour.
6.3 The committee normally reviews the executive directors remuneration annually.
6.7 Executive directors are eligible for annual This review takes into account individual cash bonuses by reference to the companys performance, experience and market audited earnings per share as defined in the competitiveness.
Following the AGM in May bonus scheme and divisional profits where 2009, the committee reviewed the salaries and appropriate which cannot exceed 80% of the annual cash bonus entitlements of the executive maximum bonus opportunity, and achievement directors and the committee agreed not to of specific personal objectives, which cannot implement the proposed increase in the annual exceed 20% of the maximum bonus opportunity.
cash bonus which was set out in the Annual In exceptional circumstances, the committee Report and Financial Statements 2008. may make such adjustments to the calculation of Accordingly, the maximum bonus opportunity in earnings per share as it considers fair and respect of 2009 and 2010 is restricted to 120% reasonable.
The committee carries out a detailed of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of review of the computations involved and ensures salary for the other executive directors.
that the rules are applied consistently.
The Following a benchmarking exercise carried out companys auditors are asked to perform by Hewitt New Bridge Street in November 2009, agreed-upon procedures on behalf of the the committee also agreed that the executive committee on the calculations.
The committee directors salaries for 2010 would remain at the recognises that the group has achieved a good same level as in 2009: profit performance in an extremely challenging environment in which many lenders have Directors name struggled.
Nonetheless, profits are slightly short Peter Crook 610,000 of the stretching targets set under the 2009 Andrew Fisher 435,000 annual cash bonus scheme and as a consequence Chris Gillespie 420,000 no bonus has been awarded to the executive directors in respect of 2009.
6.4 The fees for the non-executive directors, other than the Chairman, are fixed by the board 6.8 The performance targets to apply for 2010 and are designed both to recognise the will be as follows: responsibilities of non-executive directors and Maximum to attract individuals with the necessary skills bonus and experience to contribute to the future Measure opportunity growth of the company.
In January 2010 the 1 Group EPS 80% board requested Hewitt New Bridge Street to Personal objectives 20% carry out a benchmarking exercise and as a 1 40% of the maximum bonus opportunity for Chris consequence decided to defer any increase in Gillespie relates to the profit before tax of the consumer the fees for the non-executive directors for a credit division and 40% to Group EPS.
Full details of fees for non-executive directors in 2009 and details of their business 6.9 EPS is the key internal measure of financial expenses, which are reimbursed by the performance as it is the broadest measure of the company, with 2008 comparative figures where companys financial performance and is aligned relevant, are set out in the table of directors to the shareholder base which is weighted remuneration in paragraph 7 on page 71. towards longer-term income investors.
6.5 The fees for the Chairman are fixed by the 6.10 For 2010, the personal objectives remuneration committee, and in January 2010 percentage of the annual cash bonus the committee requested Hewitt New Bridge entitlement will only become payable if 95% of Street to carry out a benchmarking exercise and the 2010 budgeted EPS is achieved.
Personal as a consequence decided to defer any increase objectives are set to reflect the roles and in the Chairmans fees and benefits for a year.
responsibility of each executive director.
Full details of the Chairmans fees in 2009, with 6.11 The 2010 EPS targets are set as a 2008 comparative figures, are set out in the table challenging sliding scale.
The actual proportion of directors remuneration in paragraph 7 on of 2010 budgeted EPS that needs to be page 71. delivered for any bonus to be earned is 95% of Cash bonuses budgeted EPS with the full group EPS bonus 6.6 An annual cash bonus is payable, subject to becoming payable at 105% of budgeted EPS.
the satisfaction of performance conditions.
The Bonus is earned on a straight line basis from 0% bonus is calculated as a percentage of salary.
being payable for delivery of 95% of budgeted The purpose of the bonus scheme is to provide EPS to 60% of the group EPS element of the a meaningful cash incentive for executive annual cash bonus at budgeted EPS with a directors which is clearly focused on improving straight line also operating between budgeted the companys performance and aligns, so far as EPS and the maximum at 105% of budgeted EPS.
is practicable, shareholder and executive A similar principle applies to the divisional director interests.
The committee considers financial target set for Chris Gillespie.
corporate performance on environmental, social Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors remuneration report 68 Remuneration report continued 6.12 Bonuses do not form part of pensionable Consistent with the recent shareholder earnings.
consultation exercise, in 2010, the performance targets for the LTIS will remain unchanged with Share incentive schemes 50% vesting based on challenging EPS targets 6.13 The grant of awards under share incentive and 50% dependent on absolute TSR targets.
schemes to executive directors and senior The actual range of the EPS targets is as follows: management is normally considered once in each year after the announcement of the Percentage companys results in accordance with a formula vesting Annualised of EPS part determined by reference to salary.
The company growth in EPS of award has three schemes: the Provident Financial Below RPI 3% 0% Executive Share Option Scheme 2006 the RPI 3% 25% ESOS, the Provident Financial Long Term Incentive Scheme 2006 the LTIS and the RPI 8% 100% Provident Financial Performance Share Plan the PSP.
No further options can be granted under The actual range of TSR targets is as follows: the Provident Financial plc Senior Executive Percentage Share Option Scheme 1995 or the Provident vesting Financial plc Unapproved Senior Executive Share Annualised of TSR part Option Scheme 1996.
The committee reviewed TSR of award the long-term incentives for the executive Below 10% 0% directors and senior management in 2007, and 10% 25% as a consequence, decided to simplify the share 15% 100% incentive schemes by ceasing to grant options and instead making conditional share awards to EPS and TSR are felt to provide an appropriate executive directors and senior management balance between internal and external under the LTIS and PSP, in line with prevailing performance measures.
market practice and in recognition that EPS is the key internal long-term financial conditional share awards linked to a deferral of measure used by the company and, with regard annual bonus in the case of the PSP, provide to TSR, delivering returns to shareholders greater alignment with shareholders interests.
remains the companys key, over arching, LTIS long-term objective.
6.14 For conditional share awards made in 2009, While some investors have a preference for the committee set a performance target based relative TSR, absolute TSR was only adopted by on absolute TSR and real earnings per share the company in 2009 and the committee did not growth, whereby 50% of the award vests if the therefore believe it was appropriate to change companys annualised growth in earnings per the performance measures this year.
Additionally, share is equal to or greater than annualised the committee continues to believe that there growth in RPI plus 8% over a period of three are doubts as to the suitability of the consecutive financial years 12.5% of the award constituents of the FTSE 250 as an appropriate will vest if the companys annualised growth in benchmark at the current phase of the cycle this earnings per share over a period of three being the reason for the change to absolute TSR consecutive financial years is equal to annualised made in 2009 and the general financial sector is growth in RPI plus 3% with vesting on a straighta myriad of companies, none of whom are line basis in between these levels and the considered to be directly comparable to the remaining 50% of the award vests if the company and many of whom continue to companys annualised TSR is at least 15% over a experience above average historic levels of period of three consecutive financial years 12.5% volatility.
However, the committee will continue of the award will vest if the companys annualised to keep this measure under review.
TSR is at least 10% over a period of three consecutive financial years, with vesting on a In terms of the degree of stretch in the target straight-line basis in between these two levels.
ranges, the committee believes that the current EPS range remains demanding, particularly in Participation is currently limited to executive light of general economic conditions.
directors, certain members of senior management and other employees by invitation.
In relation to the absolute TSR targets for 2009 Following approval at the 2009 AGM, the and 2010, three year annualised median TSR committee removed the discretion of the performance delivered from FTSE 250 committee to grant conditional share awards companies since 1 January 1997 has been 9.8%.
pursuant to the LTIS in exceptional circumstances Given the current economic uncertainty, setting up to a maximum of 200% of a participants basic a target range of 10% to 15% is considered by salary and increased the normal limit from a the committee to be a challenging target.
maximum of 150% to a maximum of 200% of a participants basic salary irrespective of whether there are exceptional circumstances.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors remuneration report Remuneration report 69 continued 200 Total shareholder return: Provident Financial vs. FTSE 250 Provident Financial FTSE 250 160 120 80 40 0 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 Source: DataStream as at 31 December 2009 The graph above shows the total shareholder PSP return for Provident Financial plc against the 6.17 Participation in the PSP includes executive companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index for directors who may elect to defer up to 50% the last five years.
This index was chosen for with a minimum of 25% of their annual cash comparison because the company has been a bonus, and other eligible employees who waive member of this index for the five-year period.
up to 50% or 30%, depending on their level of seniority, of their annual cash bonus for a period Offshore employee benefit trust of three years.
In return, participants receive a 6.15 The rules of the LTIS, approved by basic award of shares equal to the value of their shareholders previously, allows the LTIS to be waived bonus, together with an equivalent operated in conjunction with any employee trust matching award on the basis of one share for established by the company.
Accordingly, the each share acquired by a participant pursuant to company established the Provident Financial plc their basic award which is subject to a 2007 Employee Benefit Trust EBT in Jersey on performance condition.
Historically, matching 11September 2007 with Kleinwort Benson awards vested if the companys average annual Jersey Trustees Limited acting as the first trustee percentage growth in earnings per share was of the trust.
Paragraph 9.7 on page 72 gives equal to or greater than the average annual details of share subscriptions made by the trust for increase in RPI plus 3% measured over a period the purposes of satisfying awards made under the of three consecutive financial years, the first of LTIS during the course of the year.
which was the financial year starting ESOS immediately before the grant date of the 6.16 The ESOS contains both an HMRC approved matching award.
The performance conditions and unapproved section.
All options are subject were selected by the committee after to a performance target.
For options granted in consideration of other possible types of 2006 the target required the companys annual condition.
The committee took the view that growth in earnings per share to be equal to or the use of this earnings per share target aligned, greater than RPI plus 3% measured over a period so far as is practicable, the interests of the of three consecutive financial years, the first of directors and senior management with those of which was the financial year starting the shareholders.
Following shareholder immediately before the grant date.
At that level approval at the AGM on 6 May 2009, the 25% of the shares under option became committee amended the rules of the PSP to exercisable with the option becoming fully allow the grant of matching awards on the basis exercisable if the companys annual growth in of up to two shares for each share acquired by a earnings per share was equal to or greater than participant pursuant to their basic award.
As a RPI plus 6% measured over the three-year period.
result, the 2009 awards to executive directors A sliding scale for vesting applied between these on the basis of up to two shares for each share levels.
Although basic earnings per share is acquired pursuant to that basic award were generally used for the performance calculation, subject to more stretching performance targets for 2006 awards earnings per share before Yes and will only vest in full if the companys Car Credit closure costs was used as the starting average annual percentage growth in earnings point to avoid participants benefiting from a low per share is equal to or greater than the average annual percentage growth in RPI plus 7% start point due to the impact of the closure of measured over a period of three consecutive the Yes Car Credit business.
Earnings per share financial years.
If the companys average annual was considered to be an appropriate measure of percentage growth in earnings per share is the companys financial performance, aligned equal to RPI plus 3% measured over a period of the interests of the participants with three consecutive financial years, then a shareholders and complemented the use of TSR matching award granted on a two-for-one basis in the LTIS.
Maximum awards were normally as described above will only vest as to 50% of limited to 100% of salary.
No executive options the shares subject to the award which will be have been granted at a discount and no options the equivalent of receiving a matching award on were granted in 2009. a one-for-one basis as described above.
A sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line basis will apply between these lower and upper targets.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors remuneration report 70 Remuneration report continued In 2010, EPS will be retained as the sole measure purchase shares after three, five or seven years.
but the range of targets will be stretched to The exercise price is fixed at up to 20% below the provide consistency with the EPS targets under market value of the shares at the date directors the LTIS.
Coupled with the greater stretch and employees are invited to participate in the required to achieve the full annual cash bonus scheme.
Up to 250 can be saved each month.
as described in paragraph 6.10 on page 67, the This scheme does not contain performance PSP is now subject to more challenging conditions as it is an HMRC approved scheme performance conditions.
designed for employees at all levels.
The actual range of targets is as follows: Other benefits 6.21 The executive directors are provided with Average annual Matching percentage growth shares company-owned cars and fuel or a cash in EPS vesting alternative, long-term disability cover under the Below RPI 3% No vesting companys permanent health insurance policy and medical cover for them and their immediate RPI 3% One matching share families.
Benefits in kind are not pensionable.
RPI 8% Two matching shares Share ownership policy Deferred bonus 6.22 The company has a share ownership policy 6.18 Separate to the annual cash bonus referred for executive directors which requires them to to in paragraph 6.6, Peter Crook, Andrew Fisher retain half of vested shares, net of tax and and Chris Gillespie received an additional bonus exercise costs, until a beneficial shareholding in respect of the companys performance during equivalent to one times annual salary has been 2008 with a value of 200,000, 150,000 and met.
The committee reviews the shareholdings 140,000 respectively.
These bonuses are of the executive directors in the light of this deferred until March 2012 and have taken the policy once a year.
All three executive directors form of an award of ordinary shares in the comply with this policy.
company which have been acquired by the Service agreements trustee of the EBT, who will hold the legal title 6.23 The current policy is for executive to the shares until they vest.
These shares will directors service agreements to provide for only vest in the event that the director is still both the company and the director to give one employed by the group in March 2012 although years notice.
No director has a service the committee will have the discretion to allow agreement containing a liquidated damages a departing director to retain some or all of clause on termination.
In the event of the these shares.
The dividends payable on the termination of an agreement, it is the current shares subject to this deferred bonus award policy to seek mitigation of loss by the director have been waived, but an amount equal to the concerned and to aim to ensure that any dividends that would have been paid on these payment made is the minimum which is shares had the right to receive them not been commensurate with the companys legal waived will also be payable in cash or in the obligations.
form of additional ordinary shares in March 2012.
The committee believed that a deferred Other directorships bonus satisfied with shares in the company in 6.24 The company will normally permit an the manner set out aligned the interests of the executive director to hold one non-executive management with those of shareholders, directorship and to retain the fee from that recognised the companys exceptional appointment.
However, any proposed performance in 2008 and reflected the need for appointment will require the approval of the such performance to be sustained in the board.
In accordance with the Combined Code, medium-term.
During the meetings with major the board would not permit an executive institutional shareholders following the AGM in director to take on the chairmanship of a 2009, the inappropriateness of the deferred FTSE 100 company.
bonus award to the executive directors was Senior management remuneration raised.
In light of these comments, the 6.25 The committee considers the structure committee has agreed that this type of payment and level of pay for the most senior level will not be made at any time in the future of management within the group and at its without prior consultation with, and agreement meeting in January 2010 reviewed the company of, our major shareholders.
wide remuneration and incentive policy.
Achievement of performance targets Detailed information 6.19 Assessment of the achievement of the 6.26 Full details of salaries, bonus earnings and performance targets under the companys share other benefits for 2009 with 2008 comparative incentive schemes is calculated by the company, figures for the executive directors and full confirmed by  details of the fees and benefits paid to nonas required and approved by the executive directors are set out in the table of remuneration committee.
directors remuneration in paragraph 7.1 on Savings-Related Share Option Scheme page 71.
Full details of share options are set out 6.20 The executive directors together with in the tables in paragraphs 8.1 and 9.1 on pages other eligible group employees may participate 71 and 72.
Full details of conditional share in the Provident Financial plc Employee Savingsawards under the LTIS are set out in the table in Related Share Option Scheme 2003. paragraph 9.2 on page 72.
Full details of awards Participants save a fixed sum each month for under the PSP are set out in the table in three or five years and may use these funds to paragraph 10.1 on page 73.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009
