Directors report: Business review 26 Vanquis Bank Michael Lenora Managing Director, Vanquis Bank Divisional strategy Financial exclusion is rightly a major focus of Achieve full operational scale Government and organisations promoting consumer Reach medium-term targets Retain tight control on impairment welfare.
Not having access to a credit card makes it increasingly difficult to operate in the modern world.
Credit cards allow people to shop conveniently in the high street, by telephone or on the Internet, to manage emergencies, and are useful when travelling abroad.
However, many people including those with little or no credit history, those who have had credit problems in the past but are now over them, and those on lower incomes can find themselves excluded from this valuable facility.
Vanquis Bank is bringing the benefits of comfortable with this market because 1 credit cards, in a responsible way, to of our long experience of home credit, 3 people who can find themselves excluded and the experience and skills of Vanquis by mainstream card issuers.
Credit card Banks management team, a significant limits start at 250 and are significantly proportion of whom have a background lower than those of mainstream lenders.
in serving non-standard credit customers.
A high level of contact with our customers helps them stay in control.
Vanquis Bank is willing to lend in this 2 market sector but does so with the Vanquis Bank started trading in 2003. risks in mind.
After a period of market testing, full product launch in the UK commenced We operate a low and grow strategy.
Customer acquisition channels in January 2005.
We are willing to take a sensible risk with people but we want to limit our exposure 1 Internet 61% Vanquis Bank operates in the non-standard at the beginning of the relationship, so 2 Direct mail 23% sector of the UK credit card market.
we set a much lower credit limit than Our customers are on average to below mainstream card issuers.
Around half of 3 Referrals from third parties 16% average incomes: typically earning our accounts start with a credit limit of between 12,000 and 25,000 per year.
250 and 1,000 is the maximum initial They use our card for the same kinds of credit limit.
Credit lines for mainstream things that mainstream card users use their card issuers would be much higher cards for such as shopping at the major than this.
We then look at the payment supermarkets and on Internet sites.
performance on the account and recheck external credit bureau data every month We are different from other issuers in that with a view to giving controlled increases, our products are designed for people that or indeed decreases, in credit limits when most other credit card providers see as it is appropriate to do so.
being too much of a credit risk.
We are more Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review Vanquis Bank 27 continued Two-thirds of our customers are taken Vanquis Banks strategy on at our typical APR of 39.9%.
Given the Vanquis Banks strategy is to bring the 4 26,000 nature of our customers and products, business up to an operational scale that we have higher default rates than the will produce significant profitability.
The Number of Vanquis Bank customers norm in the UK credit card market.
Our businesss new, medium-term target is to interest rates reflect that risk and so our grow receivables to 450m by the end of revenue yield is higher.
Our default charges 2012 whilst maintaining a post-tax return are in line with those of the mainstream on equity of 30%.
14.1m Key activities in 2009 Vanquis Bank is also different from other Vanquis Bank continues to perform well Vanquis Bank profit before tax lenders in that it maintains a high level of and made significant strides towards its customer contact throughout the life of growth and profitability targets in 2009. the account.
For instance, during the application process, any customer taken Maintaining credit quality on with an interest rate higher than 39.9% In the current economic environment, 255.5m APR will have a telephone interview with with rising unemployment and one of our customer support staff before under-employment, the Vanquis Bank Vanquis Bank year-end receivables their card is authorised.
If we cannot speak management team has focused heavily on to the customer we will turn down the maintaining the quality of the receivables application.
Our thinking is that if we book.
Throughout 2009, we have cannot contact the customer at this stage, consistently tightened the criteria applied we will probably have trouble contacting to underwriting applications and therefore them later if they experience problems.
whilst demand for a Vanquis Bank credit This basic, common sense approach is by card remains high, we have turned down no means typical with other card issuers.
83% of new card applications during 2009.
We also contact customers at any time Our primary focus in 2009 has been on they appear to be struggling to make lending to good quality existing customers payments.
Our customers also choose to who have already demonstrated a sound contact us much more frequently than payment record and who we know well.
As would be typical with other card issuers.
a result, receivables growth in 2009 has been much higher than customer growth.
The market We have supported this approach by There are over 10 million people in the UK cancelling 21,000 inactive accounts to in the non-standard credit market.
Within further reduce the exposure to future that market we think somewhere between impairment risk.
four and five million people are suited to our credit card product.
Some of those Maintaining the revenue yield customers are already with our direct We placed particular emphasis in 2009 competitors and some are with mainstream on ensuring that both new and existing credit card providers.
With 426,000 customers cards were priced at a level customers at present, we have well below that made an appropriate return for the 10% of the non-standard market.
This allows us to keep serving customers who now present a Approaching half of the new customers we higher risk but at a rate that reflects take on have no other credit cards.
These actions mean we are nature of the credit market at present well positioned for the challenging means that mainstream credit card trading environment in the months providers may not feel able to continue ahead and ensures that we can maintain serving some of their customers many of a risk-adjusted margin of 30% which is whom may have been better suited to our consistent with achieving a post-tax type of credit card in any case.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review 28 Vanquis Bank continued Internet shopping Having a Vanquis Bank credit card means Adam can choose from a wider range of products on the Internet than are available on his local high street, and he can take advantage of online discounts.
Customer welcome call Customer recruitment Vanquis Bank is also The Chatham call centre takes 450,000 Customer recruitment channels continued calls a month and the aim is to talk to to evolve in 2009 with 61% of customers different from other every customer as part of the application coming from the Internet where we further lenders in that it process: we are the only credit card increased our use of display advertising.
These initial calls do Direct mail activity, which is still a major maintains a high level two things.
Firstly, they allow us to speak source of business for us, accounted for to the customer as part of the 23% of new customers.
underwriting process which includes checking security details to reduce fraud.
We have card-issuing partnerships with Secondly, it gives us the opportunity to see other organisations to generate new if the customer would like to buy any of our customers.
We also have a number of ancillary products or services on the day arrangements to consider applicants who their account is activated.
During 2009, have been declined by other credit card we have continued to evolve our product issuers which is another important source of offering and have introduced Identity business for us.
Together these sources Theft Insurance.
This covers customers represented 16% of new customers in 2009. against the considerable costs and inconvenience of sorting out their affairs Card development if someone steals their identity.
At present, For the first time, in 2009 we offered around 20% of new customers take up customers a choice of pictorial design this option.
This has proved very popular and resulted in a 15% uplift in response to our marketing offers.
Also, to ensure that we do not lose customers whose financial circumstances now mean they require, and can manage, larger credit limits, we introduced a Gold Card for the small number of customers to whom we have granted a credit limit of 1,500 or more.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review Vanquis Bank 29 continued Results Year ended 31 December 5.
4% 2009 2008 Change m m % Increase in Vanquis Bank Customer numbers 000 426 404 5.4 customer numbers Average customer receivables 231.1 177.5 30.2 Revenue 131.3 94.6 38.8 Impairment 61.7 38.2 61.5 Revenue less impairment 69.6 56.4 23.4 Risk-adjusted margin 30.1% 31.8% 3 8.8% Impairment % revenue 47.0% 40.4% Increase in Vanquis Bank revenue Costs 43.3 39.4 9.9 Interest 12.2 9.0 35.6 Profit before tax 14.1 8.0 76.3 Revenue less impairment as a percentage of average receivables for the 12 months ended 31 December.
Impairment as a percentage of revenue for the 12 months ended 31 December.
Demand for non-standard credit cards has The levels of customer delinquency and remained strong, with approximately one credit losses were stable during the second million applications being received in half of 2009, providing evidence that 2009.
The acceptance criteria applied to credit standards are set at appropriate underwriting for new customer levels in the current economic applications was tightened further in the environment.
Very importantly, the first half of 2009 and then maintained business maintained its risk-adjusted through the second half, resulting in an margin at its target of 30% in a tough overall decline rate of 83%.
The overall rate environment through careful management of growth in customer numbers was also of the relationship between the revenue constrained through the cancellation of yield and credit losses for each cohort of some 21,000 inactive accounts to mitigate customers.
The performance of the credit the contingent risk associated with line increase programme to existing undrawn credit lines.
As a result, customer customers and new account origination numbers stood at 426,000 at the year end, is very satisfactory and the increased up by 5.4% on 2008. rate of impairment in 2009 resulted from accounts written earlier in Vanquis As planned, the main source of growth Banks development.
during the year was the credit line increase programme applied to eligible customers that have established a sound payment history.
The returns from this low and grow approach to extending credit remain good and resulted in the growth in average customer receivables of 30.2%, significantly ahead of customer number growth.
Vanquis Bank is extremely active in Holiday spending managing the level of credit line utilisation and revenue yield to reflect underlying Kevin used his Vanquis Bank credit credit risk.
During 2009, the average card to book his summer holiday over utilisation of the credit lines granted by the telephone.
Taking his credit card Vanquis Bank was approaching 80% which on holiday with him also gives him the ensures that there is a strong stream of reassurance of knowing hell be able interest income and a relatively low level to cover any unexpected expenses of contingent undrawn exposure.
contrasts with a typical prime card which operates with lower levels of utilisation and much higher card limits, generating greater credit loss volatility in a downturn.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review 30 Vanquis Bank continued Music downloads Emma used her Vanquis Bank credit card to treat herself to a new MP3 player.
She also uses her credit card online to pay to download new albums to add to her music library.
I can use my credit card for much more than if I just had the cash in my purse Internet shopping, for example.
Costs remained tightly controlled, with other card issuers.
Our partnerships have the business benefiting from improved helped us to deliver continued growth in scale and savings achieved through the 2009 and we expect this channel to renegotiation of key supplier contracts continue to grow in importance in 2010. towards the end of 2008.
Profit before We will also continue to place a high level tax increased by 76.3% to 14.1m of importance on maintaining the flow of 2008: 8.0m, leaving the business well credit to good quality existing customers positioned to achieve its target to deliver through the credit line increase a 30% post-tax return on equity before programme which has been so successful the end of 2010. in 2009.
The competitive landscape for Vanquis We will seek to develop new products in Bank remains favourable and its business order to meet our customers needs and model has performed well during the therefore add yet more new income economic downturn.
We expect it to grow streams.
And we will examine the its receivables book from its current level acquisition of suitable credit card books in of 255m to approximately 450m by the order to take advantage of our operational end of 2012, whilst maintaining a post-tax capacity headroom.
This would result in return on equity of 30%.
the business achieving its full-scale operation sooner.
Looking ahead Our main task in 2010 is to continue to The systems we have in place provide us grow the business whilst maintaining a with good quality, timely management cautious approach to lending.
information which allows us to make any necessary changes to our loan book to To grow the business we aim to establish keep the level of impairment at an new card-issuing partnerships and enter acceptable level.
We will continue to into new agreements to consider analyse the risk that each customer applicants who have been declined by presents, at least every month, and actively amend pricing to respond to that risk.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review 31 The company is regulated by the Office of Fair Trading Regulatory OFT and the provision of credit is regulated by the framework rules set out in the Consumer Credit Act 1974 as amended the CCA.
The main provisions of this legislation ensure that the UK consumer credit market operates in the interests of consumers in a fair, clear and competitive way.
Current regulatory framework Other regulatory initiatives The CCA and its supporting regulations OFT High Cost Credit Review cover: The group is contributing to the OFTs advertising, canvassing and the provision review of the 35bn high-cost consumer of pre-contract information to credit market which it announced in July customers: 2009.
The review, which covers a broad the form and content of credit range of lending activities of which agreements: home credit is a relatively small cancellation rights and early settlement element, published its emerging rebates: evidence in December 2009 and is debt collection procedures: and expected to conclude in spring 2010. the granting of consumer credit licences.
The implementation of any policy recommendations would be for the Equivalent legislation applies to the incoming administration to consider after companys operations in the Republic of the General Election.
The OFT has a good Ireland.
understanding of home credit and the sub-prime financial services sector.
Vanquis Bank is also subject to CCA regulation.
However, as it holds a banking Irresponsible Lending Guidance licence, it is also regulated by the Financial In July 2009 the OFT launched a Services Authority the FSA.
The FSAs consultation on draft guidance setting out regulation takes two main forms: the practices which appear to the OFT to regulatory capital requirements for both involve irresponsible lending.
The Vanquis Bank and the wider Provident consultation period ran until October Financial group: and 2009.
It was expected that the guidance liquidity requirements for Vanquis Bank.
would be issued by the end of January 2010.
However, the OFT has recently Future regulatory landscape announced that publication will be delayed Consumer Credit Directive implementation until March 2010.
The 2008 EU Directive on Consumer Credit has to be implemented in the UK by June Credit and Store Card Regulation 2010, with a transitional period for BIS is currently consulting on the future businesses to comply with the new rules regulation of credit and store cards.
Areas where there will Governments response will be published be changes from the current law include by 20 April 2010 and any proposals for pre-contract information, requirements legislative change could only be carried to provide adequate explanations and out after the General Election and would to assess creditworthiness, right of then be subject to further consultation.
withdrawal, and rebates on partial early The measures being debated centre on repayment.
The Department for Business, transparency and putting the customer Industry and Skills BIS has consulted on in control.
The discussions include a ban draft texts of the regulations, but these or restrictions on unsolicited credit card have still to be finalised.
BIS is expected line increases.
Vanquis Bank is working to publish final form regulations in closely with the UK Cards Association March 2010. formerly APACS which continues to have a constructive dialogue with BIS officials with the aim of finding a workable solution to address BIS concerns.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009
