Directors report: Overview Tailored products: tried and tested Directors report: Overview Tailored products: 07 tried and tested With 2.3 million customers, Provident Financial already has more non-standard customers in the UK than any other lender.
Our products are specifically designed to meet closely the needs of non-standard customers, with high levels of flexibility and personal service delivered at prices that offer good value for money.
We have been doing this since 1880 and have high levels of customer satisfaction.
Personal contact No other lender takes the personal approach to lending as seriously as Provident Financial.
In these days of impersonal, remote contact often Internet-based both the group and our customers benefit from more personal, face-to-face or telephone interaction.
Home credit customers see their agent every week and Vanquis Bank maintains an ongoing dialogue with its customers by telephone from the outset so that any 9 4% difficulties or queries can be identified early, discussed with the Home credit customer customer and actions agreed.
satisfaction rating Small loans over a short term Each of the groups businesses grants small-sum credit to customers over relatively short periods.
We do this because this is what our 8 6% customers want and it helps them stay in control.
Our home credit business grants loans typically between 300 and 500 over about Vanquis Bank customer satisfaction rating a year and Vanquis Banks average credit card balance is around 600, with average credit limits of less than 900.
Tailored to customers needs One of the key features of our products is that they are tailored to the needs of customers in the non-standard market.
Our home credit loans allow customers who are experiencing financial difficulties to miss the occasional repayment or temporarily make reduced repayments at no additional cost to themselves.
Vanquis Bank customers who sign up for our Repayment Option Plan can miss one repayment every six months.
Allowing customers to miss occasional repayments without imposing penalties helps them stay in control and remain as satisfied customers in the longer term.
What it means to our customers Donna opposite page chose home credit because she wanted a small loan without having to borrow more than she needed.
She also likes the reassurance of never having to worry about extra charges, and the weekly visit from her agent, Tracie, means she always knows where she is with her repayments.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009
