Directors report: Overview Secure funding: robust and diverse Directors report: Overview Secure funding: 09 robust and diverse Our funding model has been designed to meet the needs of our businesses and to provide us with secure, diversely sourced funding without undue fluctuation in supply or price.
This prudent approach to treasury management means that we have been able to continue to supply our customers with credit despite the crisis in global capital markets.
Strength and diversity in funding We have relationships with a range of international banks who participate in syndicated arrangements which have recently been extended by way of forward-starting facilities, including 380m which is now committed until May 2013.
In October, we issued our first 10-year senior public bonds which, after repurchasing most of our subordinated loan notes, provided us with 156m of new funding and a more diversified funding mix.
Vanquis Bank has a banking licence which gives us the potential to 331m take retail deposits.
Headroom on committed Borrow long, lend short funding facilities We borrow money over periods of around four years on average, and our products typically have a loan term of around a year.
This means we can adapt our lending to customers in good time to meet any 1 year changed circumstances in the external funding environment.
Typical length of home credit loan Arrange headroom to cover opportunity or risk At any time, we have committed borrowing facilities comfortably in excess of those we require to meet our planned growth.
This means we are more likely to be able to continue growing if funds become 50m restricted for any reason or when market conditions improve.
At the end of 2009, we had 331m of committed facilities arranged in excess Amount of surplus equity capital of our borrowings.
Carry appropriate levels of capital We continue to carry surplus equity capital of approximately 50m and have a comfortable level of surplus regulatory capital.
We also have a modest level of gearing compared with the maximum permitted level under our banking covenants.
This represents an appropriate mix of debt and equity capital to accommodate our growth plans.
What it means to our customers Being securely funded means that we are able to offer our customers credit when they require it most.
This is especially important to Tanya left and her partner, Lee, who are expecting their third child.
Theyre using their home credit loan to decorate the nursery ready for the arrival of their new baby.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Overview Active management: staying ahead of the curve Directors report: Overview Active management: 11 staying ahead of the curve We continue to modernise our business and take the opportunities presented by the current environment to serve more customers in our target market.
Key actions taken in 2009 include: Increase in front-line management In order to give the home credit field force adequate resources to manage the business on the ground and keep arrears and defaults at acceptable levels as the recession has deepened, we have reduced the spans of control in our field offices.
During 2009, we invested in some 120 new field-based roles to support our field activity and maintain operational capacity.
Customer recruitment At Vanquis Bank, customer recruitment channels continue to evolve.
An increase in online display advertising contributed to 61% of new customers coming via the internet, and new card-issuing partnerships with other organisations brought additional new customers.
We have also developed arrangements to consider customers who have been 390 turned down by other credit card issuers.
Average home credit loan amount Park Group Love2Shop vouchers In our home credit business, we have replaced our own brand shopping voucher which we had offered for many years with the popular Park Group Love2Shop voucher.
This has led to increased sales.
640 Tailored products Average Vanquis Bank credit card balance Only by applying a sufficient margin to our products can we remain profitable and so continue to supply our customers with the small amounts of credit they need.
In deciding how much to charge for our products we take many factors into account including customer 250 behaviour, market conditions, the competitive environment, and the current and forecast state of the economy.
In 2009, we launched Typical initial Vanquis Bank credit a new 50-week core product to replace the old 57-week product.
card limit The new product has a higher rate than the old product but provides a better fit with our customers needs for a loan of around a year in length.
We are not alone in adjusting pricing and our customers tell us that we continue to be competitive and offer good value for money.
What it means to our customers Gemma opposite page used Love2Shop vouchers to buy presents for her daughter Tabithas third birthday.
Gemma budgets on a weekly basis, so the repayment structure is ideal for her, and having vouchers meant that she didnt spend more than she had planned to.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009
