GOVERNANCE Governance Additional disclosures Additional disclosures The following additional disclosures are made in compliance with Post-balance sheet events the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Important events affecting the Company after the end of the and the Combined Code.
financial year are detailed in Note I11 on page 291.
Financial reporting Significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate The directors have a duty to report to shareholders on the upon a change of control of the Company following a performance and financial position of the Group and are takeover bid responsible for preparing the financial statements on pages 119 to Under the agreements governing Prudential Corporation Holdings 301 and the supplementary information on pages 304 to 340.
It is Limiteds life insurance and fund management joint ventures with the responsibility of the auditor to form independent opinions, China International Trust & Investment Corporation CITIC, if based on its audit of the financial statements and its review of the there is a change of control of the Company, CITIC may terminate EEV basis supplementary information: and to report its opinions to the agreements and either i purchase the Companys entire the Companys shareholders and to the Company.
Its opinions are interest in the joint venture or require the Company to sell its given on pages 303 and 342. interest to a third party designated by CITIC, or ii require the Company to purchase all of CITICs interest in the joint venture.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial The price of such purchase or sale is to be the fair value of the statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of shares to be transferred, as determined by the auditor of the the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group.
applied in the preparation of the financial statements are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 302.
Essential contracts or arrangements The directors are further required to confirm that the directors There are a number of significant relationships with third parties, report includes a fair review of the development and performance which have value to the business.
No single relationship, however, of the business, with a description of the principal risks and is considered to be essential to the Group as a whole.
Such confirmation is included in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 302.
Compensation for loss of office None of the terms of employment of the Companys directors The Chief Financial Officers Review includes, on pages 40 to 45, include provisions for payment of compensation for loss of office a description of the Groups risk and capital management, which or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Terms includes a description of the Groups liquidity position.
These risks applying on a termination of their office are set out in the Directors are also discussed in Note C to the financial statements on pages Remuneration Report.
In the US senior executives participate on a 162 to 165.
The Group has considerable internal and external discretionary basis in a plan which entitles them to compensation, financial resources and the directors believe that the Group is in the event that their employment is terminated or adversely well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
affected as a result of a takeover.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue their operations for the foreseeable future.
In support of this expectation, the Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, successful performance and position in the current economic climate are set out in the Business Review on pages 24 to 74.
The risks facing the Groups capital and liquidity positions and their sensitivities are referred to above in the Chief Financial Officers Review.
Specifically, the Groups borrowings are detailed in Note H13, the market risk and liquidity analysis associated with the Groups assets and liabilities can be found in Note G2, the policyholder liability maturity profile by business units is set out in Notes D2, D3 and D4 on pages 188, 205 and 213 respectively, cash flow details are given in the consolidated statement of cash flows, and provisions and contingencies in note H14.
The directors therefore have continued to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
