Governance Board of directors Chairman Executive directors Harvey McGrath Tidjane Thiam Nic Nicandrou Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Executive directors Rob Devey Clark Manning Michael McLintock Barry Stowe Executive director Executive director Executive director Executive director Non-executive directors Keki Dadiseth Michael Garrett Ann Godbehere Bridget Macaskill Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Kathleen ODonovan James Ross Lord Turnbull Non-executive director Senior Independent Non-executive director Director 76 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 GOVERNANCE Rob Devey Chairman Executive director from 16 November 2009 Harvey McGrath Rob Devey has been an executive director of Prudential and Chief Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee Executive, Prudential UK and Europe since 16 November 2009.
Rob joined Prudential from Lloyds Banking Group where he worked from Harvey McGrath was appointed as an independent non-executive director 2002 in a number of senior leadership roles across insurance and retail of Prudential on 1September 2008, and became Chairman and Chairman banking including Managing Director, Direct Channels UK Retail Banking, of the Nomination Committee on 1January 2009.
Harvey has a long and Managing Director of HBOS Financial Services and Managing Director of distinguished career in the international financial services industry.
Prior to joining HBOS, Rob was a consultant with started his career at Chase Manhattan Bank in London and New York.
From the Boston Consulting Group BCG in the UK, US and Europe, working 1980 to 2007 he worked for the Man Group, first as Treasurer, then Finance in financial services.
Director, then President of Man Inc. in New York, before being appointed as Chief Executive of Man Group plc in London in 1990, and then Clark Manning FSA MAAA Chairman in 2000.
Executive director Harvey is also Chairman of the London Development Agency, which works for the Mayor of London, coordinating economic development and Clark Manning has been an executive director of Prudential since January regeneration across London, and Vice Chairman of the London Skills and 2002.
He is also President and Chief Executive Officer of Jackson National Employment Board, which is tasked with developing a strategy for adult Life Insurance Company.
Clark was previously Chief Operating Officer, skills in London.
He is the former Chairman of both London First and the Senior Vice President and Chief Actuary of Jackson National Life Insurance East London Business Alliance, and a Member of the International Advisory Company, which he joined in 1995.
Prior to that, he was Senior Vice Board of the School of Oriental and African Studies.
President and Chief Actuary for SunAmerica Inc, and prior to that, Consulting Actuary at Milliman & Robertson Inc. Clark has more than Harvey is a trustee of a number of charities including New Philanthropy 25 years experience in the life insurance industry, and holds both a Capital, a research based charity which gives advice and guidance to bachelors degree in actuarial science and an MBA from the University donors and charities: the Royal Anniversary Trust which operates the of Texas.
He also holds professional designations of Fellow of the Queens Anniversary Prizes for Higher and Further Education: Children Society of Actuaries FSA and Member of the American Academy and Families Across Borders CFAB, which protects the rights and welfare of Actuaries MAAA.
of children and vulnerable adults across borders: icould, an online careers resource: and the Princes Teaching Institute, which promotes subjectMichael McLintock based professional development for teachers.
Executive director Executive directors Michael McLintock has been an executive director of Prudential since September 2000.
He is also Chief Executive of M&G, a position he held at the time of M&Gs acquisition by Prudential in 1999.
Michael joined M&G Tidjane Thiam in 1992.
He previously also served on the board of Close Brothers Group Group Chief Executive from 1 October 2009 plc as a non-executive director 2001-2008.
Since October 2008, he has Chief Financial Officer to 30 September 2009 been a Trustee of the Grosvenor Estate.
Tidjane Thiam has been an executive director of Prudential since 25 March 2008.
He was the Chief Financial Officer until 30 September 2009, and Barry Stowe became Group Chief Executive with effect from 1 October 2009.
Tidjane Executive director was previously Chief Executive Officer, Europe at Aviva, where he also held successively the positions of Group Strategy and Development Director Barry Stowe has been an executive director of Prudential since November and Managing Director, Aviva International.
Tidjane spent the first part of 2006, and Chief Executive, Prudential Corporation Asia since October his professional career with McKinsey & Company in Paris, London and 2006.
He has also been a director of the Life Insurance Marketing Research New York, serving insurance companies and banks.
He then spent a Association LIMRA and the Life Office Management Association LOMA number of years in Africa where he was Chief Executive and then Chairman since October 2008, and a member of the Board of Visitors of Lipscomb of the National Bureau for Technical Studies and Development in Cte University since May 2009.
Previously, Barry was President, Accident & dIvoire and a cabinet member as Secretary of Planning and Development.
Health Worldwide for AIG Life Companies.
He joined AIG in 1995, and Tidjane returned to France to become a partner with McKinsey & Company prior to that was President and CEO of Nisus, a subsidiary of Pan-American as one of the leaders of their Financial Institutions practice before joining Life, from 1992-1995.
Before joining Nisus, Barry spent 12 years at Willis Aviva in 2002.
Tidjane was a non-executive director of Arkema in France until November 2009, when he resigned from the Arkema board.
He is a member of the Council of the Overseas Development Institute ODI in London, a sponsor of Opportunity International, and a member of the Africa Progress Panel chaired by Kofi Annan.
Nic Nicandrou ACA Chief Financial Officer from 28 October 2009 Nic Nicandrou has been an executive director of Prudential and Chief Financial Officer since 28October 2009.
Before joining Prudential, he worked at Aviva, where he held a number of senior finance roles, including Norwich Union Life Finance Director and Board Member, Aviva Group Financial Control Director, Aviva Group Financial Management and Reporting Director and CGNU Group Financial Reporting Director.
Nic started his career at PriceWaterhouse Coopers, where he worked in both London and Paris.
77 Governance Board of directors continued Bridget Macaskill Non-executive directors Independent non-executive director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Keki Dadiseth FCA and member of the Nomination Committee Independent non-executive director and member of the Remuneration Committee Bridget Macaskill has been an independent non-executive director of Prudential since September 2003.
Bridget rejoined the Board of Prudential Keki Dadiseth has been an independent non-executive director of having previously resigned due to a potential conflict of interest in 2001.
During 2006, he was appointed as a nonShe has been a member of the Remuneration Committee since 2003 and executive director of ICICI Prudential Life Assurance Company Limited and became its Chairman in May 2006.
Keki is also a director of Britannia Industries Limited, Piramal Healthcare Limited, Siemens Limited, The Indian Hotels Bridget joined First Eagle Investment Management, LLC, formerly Company Limited and Godrej Properties Limited, all of which are quoted Arnhold and S. Bleichroeder Advisers, LLC, a US based investment on the Bombay Stock Exchange.
In addition, he acts as advisor to Goldman management firm, as President and Chief Operating Officer in February Sachs, Fleishman-Hillard Inc and Oliver Wyman Limited, and as a trustee 2009.
She is a trustee of the TIAA-CREF funds and was previously also a for a number of Indian charities.
Keki is the non-executive Chairman of non-executive director of the Federal National Mortgage Association Omnicom India Marketing Advisory Services Private Limited, an unquoted Fannie Mae 2005-2008, Scottish & Newcastle PLC 2004-2008 Indian company, and is also a board member of various other unquoted and J Sainsbury Plc 2002-2006.
Prior to that, she spent 18 years at Indian companies, including his recent appointment as Chairman of Sony OppenheimerFunds Inc, a major New York based investment management India Pvt Ltd and Senior Advisor to Sony Group in India.
company, the final 10 years of which she was Chief Executive Officer.
Before he retired from Unilever in 2005, Keki was Director, Home and Kathleen ODonovan ACA Personal Care, responsible for the HPC business of Unilever worldwide, a Board member of Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. and a member of Independent non-executive director and Unilevers Executive Committee.
He joined Hindustan Lever Ltd in India member of the Audit Committee in 1973 and in 1987, he joined the Board of Hindustan Lever and became Kathleen ODonovan has been an independent non-executive director Chairman in 1996. of Prudential since May 2003.
She has been a member of the Audit Committee since 2003, and was its chairman from May 2006 until Michael Garrett 30 September 2009.
Kathleen is also a director and Chairman of the Independent non-executive director and Audit Committee of Trinity Mirror plc, a non-executive director of member of the Remuneration Committee ARM Holdings plc, and Chairman of the Invensys Pension Scheme.
Michael Garrett has been an independent non-executive director of Previously, Kathleen was a non-executive director and Chairman of the Prudential since September 2004.
He worked for Nestl from 1961, Audit Committees of Great Portland Estates PLC, EMI Group plc and the becoming Head of Japan 1990-1993, and then Zone Director and Court of the Bank of England, and a non-executive director of O plc.
2 Member of the Executive Board, responsible for Asia and Oceania, and in From 1991 to 2002, Kathleen was Chief Financial Officer of BTR and 1996 his responsibilities were expanded to include Africa and the Middle Invensys, and prior to that she was a partner at Ernst & Young.
Michael retired as Executive Vice President of Nestl in 2005.
He served the Government of Australia as Chairman of the Food Industry James Ross Council and as a Member of the Industry Council of Australia, and was also Senior Independent Director and member of the a member of the Advisory Committee for an APEC Asia-Pacific Economic Remuneration and Nomination Committees Cooperation Food System, a Member of The Turkish Prime Ministers Advisory Group and the WTO World Trade Organization Business James Ross has been an independent non-executive director of Prudential Advisory Council in Switzerland.
since May 2004 and the Senior Independent Director since May 2006.
He is also a non-executive director of Schneider Electric in France, and Michael remains a director of Nestl in India, and was appointed Chairman of the Leadership Foundation for Higher Education and of the Chairman of the Evian Group in 2001, a think tank and forum for dialogue Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine.
James was previously a nonpromoting free trade.
He also serves as a non-executive director on the executive director of McGraw-Hill and Datacard Inc in the United States, Boards of the Bobst Group in Switzerland, Hasbro Inc. in the USA, and and prior to that, Chairman of National Grid plc and Littlewoods plc.
He Gottex Fund Management Holdings Limited in Guernsey.
In addition, was also Chief Executive of Cable and Wireless plc and Chairman and he is a member of the Development Committee of the International Chief Executive of BP America Inc. and a Managing Director of the British Business Leaders Forum IBLF, as well as a Member of the Swaziland Petroleum Company plc.
International Business Advisory Panel under the auspices of the Global Leadership Foundation GLF London.
Lord Turnbull KCB CVO Independent non-executive director and Ann Godbehere FCGA member of the Audit Committee Independent non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Lord Turnbull has been an independent non-executive director of Prudential since May 2006, and a member of the Audit Committee since Ann Godbehere has been an independent non-executive director January 2007.
He entered the House of Lords as a Life Peer in 2005.
In of Prudential since August 2007.
She has been a member of the Audit 2002, he became Secretary of the Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Committee since October 2007 and became its Chairman on 1 October Service until he retired in 2005.
Prior to that, he held a number of positions 2009.
Ann began her career in 1976 with Sun Life of Canada, joining in the Civil Service, including Permanent Secretary at HM Treasury: Mercantile & General Reinsurance Group in 1981, where she held a Permanent Secretary at the Department of the Environment later number of management roles rising to Senior Vice President and Environment, Transport and the Regions : Private Secretary Economics Controller for life and health and property casualty businesses in North to the Prime Minister: and Principal Private Secretary to MargaretThatcher America in 1995.
In 1996, Swiss Re acquired Mercantile & General and then John Major.
Reinsurance Group, and Ann became Chief Financial Officer of Swiss Re Life & Health, North America.
In 1997, she was made Chief Executive Lord Turnbull is Chairman of BH Global Limited and a non-executive Officer of Swiss Re Life & Health, Canada.
She moved to London as Chief director of Frontier Economics Limited and The British Land Company PLC, Financial Officer of Swiss Re Life & Health Division in 1998 and joined the and was formerly a non-executive director of the Arup Group 2006-2007.
Property & Casualty Business Group, based out of Zurich, as Chief He also works part-time as a Senior Adviser to the London partners of Financial Officer on its establishment in 2001.
From 2003 until February Booz and Co UK.
2007, Ann was Chief Financial Officer of the Swiss Re Group.
Ann is also a non-executive director of Rio Tinto plc, Rio Tinto Limited, UBS AG, Ariel Holdings Limited, Atrium Underwriting Group Limited and Atrium Underwriters Limited.
In 2008 and until January 2009, Ann was Chief Financial Officer and an executive director of Northern Rock.
