BUSINESS REVIEW Business review Other corporate information Other corporate information Products and drivers of insurance operations profits Unit-linked products tend to have higher profits on the EEV basis Overview of the Groups principal activities of reporting than traditional non-linked products, as expenses and Prudential plc is the holding company of the Prudential Group.
charges are better matched and solvency capital requirements are The principal activity of our subsidiary operations is the provision lower.
At the end of 2009, we were offering unit-linked products in of financial services to individuals and businesses in Asia, the 11 of the 12 countries in Asia in which we operate, with the only US and UK.
We offer a wide range of retail financial products exception being Thailand.
and services and asset management services throughout these In Malaysia and Indonesia, Prudential also offers life territories.
The retail financial products and services principally insurance policies that are constructed to comply with Islamic include life insurance, pensions and annuities as well as collective principles otherwise known as Takaful.
The main principles are investment schemes.
policyholders co-operate amongst themselves for the common good, uncertainty is eliminated in respect of subscription and Asia compensation and there is no investment in prohibited areas The life insurance products offered by Prudential Corporation such as gambling or alcohol.
Asia include with-profits participating and non-participating term, whole life and endowment and unit-linked policies.
In addition to the life products described above, we offer mutual To supplement our core life products we also offer health, fund investment products in India, Taiwan, Japan, Singapore, disablement, critical illness and accident cover.
Malaysia, Hong Kong, Korea, Vietnam and China, thus enabling customers to participate in debt, equity and money market The primary focus in Asia is regular premium products that investments.
We are also licensed in the United Arab Emirates.
provide both savings and protection benefits.
Prudential Corporation Asia earns a fee based on assets under In 2009, the new business profit mix in our Asian insurance management.
business was derived 56 per cent 2008: 49 per cent from health and protection products, 31 per cent 2008: 41 per cent from United States unit-linked products and 13 per cent 2008: 10 per cent from Jacksons product offerings include variable, fixed and fixed index non-linked products.
annuities, as well as life insurance, and institutional products.
Unit-linked products combine savings with protection, with the Annuities cash value of the policy depending on the value of the underlying Annuity products are long-term individual retirement products, unitised funds.
Participating products provide savings with which offer tax-deferred accumulation on the funds invested protection where the basic sum assured can be enhanced by a until proceeds are withdrawn from the policy.
profit share or bonus from the underlying fund as determined at the discretion of the insurer.
Non-participating products offer Interest-sensitive fixed annuities are used for asset accumulation in retirement planning and for providing income in retirement savings with protection where the benefits are guaranteed or determined by a set of defined market-related parameters.
and offer flexible payout options.
The contract holder pays us a premium, which is credited to the contract holders account.
Accident and health products provide mortality or morbidity benefits and include health, disablement, critical illness and Periodically, interest is credited to the contract holders account and administrative charges are deducted.
The interest rate may accident cover.
These products are commonly offered as supplements to main life policies, but can also be sold separately.
be reset on each contract anniversary, subject to a guaranteed minimum, in line with state regulations.
When the annuity Policyholder and insurer share the profits from participating matures, the contract holder is paid either the amount in the policies typically in a 90:10 ratio in the same way as with-profits contract holder account, or staggered payments in the form of an business in the UK.
With unit-linked products, shareholders immediate annuity product similar to a UK annuity in payment.
receive the profits arising from managing the policy, its investments and the insurance risk.
Policyholders within the underlying unitised fund receive investment gains.
The profits from accident and health and non-participating products come from any surplus remaining after paying policy benefits.
63 Business review Other corporate information continued Fixed annuity policies are subject to early surrender charges for Variable annuities are tax-advantaged, deferred annuities the first six to nine years of the contract.
In addition, the contract where the rate of return depends upon the performance of may be subject to a market value adjustment at the time of the underlying portfolio, similar in principle to UK unit-linked surrender.
During the surrender charge period, the contract products.
They are also used for asset accumulation in retirement holder may cancel the contract for the surrender value.
Our profits planning and to provide income in retirement.
The contract holder on fixed annuities come primarily from the spread between the can allocate the premiums between a variety of variable subreturn earned on investments and the interest credited to the accounts with a choice of fund managers and or guaranteed contract holders account net of any surrender charges or market fixed-rate options.
As with a unit-linked fund, the contract holders value adjustment less expenses.
Fixed annuities continue to be premiums allocated to the variable accounts are held separately a profitable book of business, benefiting from favourable spread from Jacksons general account assets.
The value of the portion of income in recent years.
However, the continued low interest rate the separate account allocated to variable sub-accounts fluctuates environment could have an impact on the fixed annuity portfolio with the underlying investments.
Variable annuity policies are as lower crediting rates could result in increased surrenders subject to early surrender charges for the first four to seven years and lower sales as customers seek alternative investment of the contract.
During the surrender charge period, the contract opportunities.
Alternatively, it is also the case that recent equity holder may cancel the contract for the surrender value.
Jackson market volatility may have the effect of making customers more offers one variable annuity that has no surrender charges and also risk averse, and so they may view fixed annuities as an attractive offers a choice of guaranteed benefit options within their variable alternative to variable annuities.
annuity product portfolio, which customers can elect and pay for.
These options include the guaranteed minimum death benefit Fixed index annuities formerly referred to as equity-indexed GMDB, which guarantees that, upon death of the annuitant, annuities are similar to fixed annuities, in that the contract holder the contract holder or beneficiary receives a minimum value pays a premium that is credited to the contract holders account, regardless of past market performance.
These guaranteed death and also in that interest is periodically credited to the contract benefits might be expressed as the return of original premium, holders account and administrative charges deducted, as the highest past anniversary value of the contract, or as the appropriate.
An annual minimum interest rate is guaranteed, original premium accumulated at a fixed rate of interest.
In although actual interest credited may be higher and is linked addition, there are three other types of guarantee: guaranteed to an equity index over its indexed option period.
Profit comes minimum withdrawal benefits GMWB, guaranteed minimum from the investment income earned and the fees charged on the accumulation benefits GMAB and guaranteed minimum income contract, less the expenses incurred, which include the costs of benefits GMIB.
Due to the lack of availability to economically the guarantees, and the interest credited to the contract.
Fixed reinsure or hedge new issues of GMIB, Jackson discontinued index annuities are subject to early surrender charges for the first offering it in 2009. five to twelve years of the contract.
During the surrender charge period, the contract holder may cancel the contract for the GMWBs provide a guaranteed return of the principal invested by surrender value.
Fixed index annuities continue to be a profitable allowing for periodic withdrawals that are limited to a maximum product, benefiting from favourable spread and the effective percentage of the initial premium.
One version of the GMWBs management of equity risk.
The fixed index book provides natural provides for a minimum annual withdrawal amount that is offsetting equity exposure to the guarantees issued in connection guaranteed for the contract holders life without annuitisation.
with our variable annuity products, which allows for efficient GMABs generally provide a guarantee for a return of a certain hedging of the net equity exposure.
amount of principal after a specified period.
GMIBs provide for a minimum level of benefits upon annuitisation regardless of the value of the investments underlying the contract at the time of annuitisation.
64 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW As the investment return on the separate account assets is Mutual funds attributed directly to the contract holders, Jacksons profit During 2007, Jackson launched a line of retail mutual funds as a arises from the fees charged on the contracts, less the expenses complement to the broad product offering.
Due to the significant incurred, which include the costs of guarantees.
In addition to disruption in the mutual fund market in the fourth quarter of being a profitable book of business in its own right, the variable 2008 and first quarter of 2009, Jackson determined that its line annuity book also provides an opportunity to utilise the offsetting of retail mutual funds were subscale and, accordingly, exited this equity risk among various lines of business cost effectively to market and allocated the capital to the more profitable variable manage our equity exposure.
It is believed that the internal annuity market.
management of equity risk, coupled with the use of external derivative instruments where necessary, continues to provide United Kingdom a cost-effective method of managing equity exposure.
Profits in In common with other UK long-term insurance companies, the variable annuity book of business will continue to be subject Prudential UKs products are structured as either with-profits to the impact of market movements both on sales and allocations or participating products, or non-participating products including to the variable accounts and the effects of the economic hedging annuities in payment and unit-linked products.
While risk is hedged on an economic basis, the nature structure, the level of shareholders interest in the value of policies and duration of the hedging instruments, which are recorded and the related profit or loss varies.
at fair value through the income statement, will fluctuate and With-profits policies are supported by a with-profits sub-fund and produce some accounting volatility.
Management continue to can be single premium for example, Prudence Bond or regular believe that, on a long-term economic basis, the equity exposure premium for example, certain corporate pension products.
The primary with-profits sub-fund is part of The Prudential Life insurance Assurance Company Limited PAC s long-term fund.
The Jackson also sells several types of life insurance including term return to shareholders on virtually all with-profits products is in life, universal life and variable universal life.
Term life provides the form of a statutory transfer to PAC shareholders funds.
This protection for a defined period of time and a benefit that is payable is analogous to a dividend from PACs long-term fund, and is to a designated beneficiary upon the insureds death.
Universal dependent upon the bonuses credited or declared on policies in life provides permanent individual life insurance for the life of the that year.
In this context, there are two types of bonuses regular insured and includes a savings element.
Variable universal life is and final.
Regular bonuses are declared regularly, usually once a a life insurance policy that combines death benefit protection and year, and are determined as a prudent proportion of the long-term the important tax advantages of life insurance with the long-term expected future investment return on the underlying assets.
Once growth potential of professionally managed investments.
credited, regular bonuses are guaranteed in accordance with the The Jackson life insurance book has also delivered consistent terms of the particular product.
In contrast, final bonuses are only profitability, driven primarily by positive mortality and guaranteed until the next bonus declaration, and are primarily persistency experience.
determined on the actual smoothed investment return achieved over the life of the policy.
Prudentials with-profits policyholders Institutional products currently receive 90 per cent of the distribution from the main Jacksons institutional products division markets institutional with-profits sub-fund as bonus additions to their policies, while products such as traditional Guaranteed Investment Contracts shareholders receive 10 per cent as a statutory transfer.
GICs, Funding Agreements and Medium Term Note MTN The Defined Charge Participating Sub-Fund DCPSF forms part funding agreements.
The institutional product offerings also of the PAC long-term fund.
It is comprised of the accumulated include Jacksons funding agreements issued to the Federal investment content of premiums paid in respect of the defined Home Loan Bank.
Institutional products are distributed directly charge participating with-profits business issued in France, the to investors, through investment banks, or through funding defined charge participating with-profits business reassured into agreement brokers.
PAC from Prudential International Assurance plc and Canada Life Europe Assurance Ltd and includes the portfolio of with-profit annuity policies acquired from Equitable Life in 2007.
All profits in this fund accrue to policyholders in the DCPSF.
65 Business review Other corporate information continued The profits from almost all of the new non-participating business iii Net expense margin represents expenses charged to the accrue solely to shareholders.
Such business is written in the profit and loss account excluding those borne by the withnon-profit sub-fund within PACs long-term fund, or in various profits fund and those products where earnings are purely shareholder-owned direct or indirect subsidiaries.
The most protection driven including amounts relating to movements significant of these is Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL, in deferred acquisition costs, net of any fees or premium which also writes all new immediate annuities arising from vesting loadings related to expenses.
Jackson DAC amortisation deferred annuity policies in the with-profits sub-fund of PAC.
net of hedging effects, which is intended to be part of the expense margin, has been separately highlighted in the There is a substantial volume of in-force non-participating table below.
business in PACs with-profits sub-fund and that funds wholly owned subsidiary Prudential Annuities Limited PAL, which is iv Insurance margin represents profits derived from the closed to new business.
Profits from this business accrue to the insurance risks of mortality, morbidity and persistency with-profits sub-fund.
including fees earned on variable annuity guarantees.
v With-profits business represents shareholders' transfer Analysis of long-term insurance pre-tax IFRS operating from the with-profits fund in the period.
profit by driver This schedule classifies the Group's pre-tax operating earnings vi Other represents a mixture of other income and expenses from long-term insurance operations into the underlying drivers that are not directly allocated to the underlying drivers, of those profits, using the following categories: including non-recurring items.
i Investment spread represents the difference between net An analysis of Group pre-tax IFRS operating profit has also been investment income or premium income in the case of the provided and is based on the long-term insurance operation tables UK annuities new business and amounts credited to below with the following additions: policyholder accounts.
The results of Group asset management operations have been ii Asset management fees represents profits driven by included within asset management fees.
investment performance, being asset management fees that UK general insurance commission of 51 million 2008: vary with the size of the underlying policyholder funds net of 44 million has been included within the other income line.
Group Head Office GHO expenses consist of other operating income and expenditure and UK restructuring costs.
IFRS operating profit 2009 2008 Long-term Non long-term Group business business total m m m m Investment spread 1,001 1,001 748 Asset management fees 458 297 755 751 Net expense margin 388 388 389 DAC amortisation Jackson only 223 223 450 Net insurance margin 472 472 308 With-profits business 310 310 425 Non-recurrent release of reserves for Malaysia Life operation 63 63 Other 218 51 167 178 GHO expenses 418 418 288 Total 1,475 70 1,405 1,283 66 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW Analysis of pre-tax IFRS profit by driver by long-term business unit 2009 m Asia US UK Total notes ii and iii Investment spread 56 622 323 1,001 Asset management fees 80 324 54 458 Net expense margin 65 227 96 388 DAC amortisation Jackson only 223 223 Net insurance margin 253 178 41 472 With-profits business 29 281 310 Non-recurrent release of reserves for Malaysia Life operations 63 63 note iii Other 6 215 3 218 Total 410 459 606 1,475 2008 m Asia US UK Total notes ii and iii Investment spread 54 550 143 747 Asset management fees 54 292 57 403 Net expense margin 79 192 114 385 DAC amortisation Jackson only 450 450 Net insurance margin 198 122 12 308 With-profits business 30 395 425 note i Other 26 84 76 134 Total 231 406 545 1,182 Notes i US other comprises principally of hedging costs profits before the allowance for VA guarantee fees included within net insurance margin, together with other one-off items.
Asia other includes development expenses of 6 million 2008: 26 million.
UK other in 2008 represents the benefits of a number of one off items.
ii Asian operations analysis of operating profit by territory Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns for Asian operations are analysed as follows: 2009 2008 m m China 4 3 Hong Kong 48 33 India 12 6 Indonesia 102 55 Japan 18 3 Korea 6 12 Malaysia underlying results 65 46 exceptional credit for Malaysia operations 63 Philippines 2 5 Singapore 112 83 note iii Taiwan bancassurance business 7 4 Thailand 1 2 Vietnam 30 37 Prudential Services Asia 2 2 Total insurance operations 416 257 Development expenses 6 26 Total long-term business operating profit 410 231 The result for insurance operations comprises amounts in respect of new business and business in-force as follows: 2009 2008 m m New business strain 78 97 Business in force 494 354 Total 416 257 The strain represents the aggregate of the pre-tax regulatory basis strain to net worth and IFRS adjustments for deferral of acquisition costs and deferred income where appropriate.
iii Sale of Taiwan agency business In order to facilitate comparisons of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns that reflect the Groups retained operations, the results attributable to the Taiwan agency business for which the sale process was completed in June 2009 are included separately within the analysis of operating profit.
67 Business review Other corporate information continued Description of EEV basis reporting The change in value is typically analysed into the following components: Prudentials results are prepared on two accounting bases the supplementary EEV basis, and the IFRS basis for the financial the value added from new business sold during the year: statements.
Over the life of any given product, the total profit the change in value from existing business already in place recognised will be the same under either the IFRS or the EEV basis.
at the start of the year: However, the two methods recognise the emergence of that profit short-term fluctuations in investment returns: in different ways, with profits emerging earlier under the EEV basis change in economic assumptions: than under IFRS.
This section explains how EEV differs from IFRS change in the time value of cost of options and guarantees and why it is used.
and economic assumption changes: In broad terms, IFRS profits for long-term business reflect the other items for example, profit from other Group operations, aggregate of statutory transfers from UK-style with-profits funds tax, foreign exchange, exceptional items : and and profit on a traditional accounting basis for other long-term dividends.
By their nature, the products sold by the life insurance The value added from new business defined as the present value industry are long-term, as insurance companies commit to service of the future profits arising from new business written in the year these products for many years into the future.
The profit on these is a key metric used in the management of our business.
The change insurance sales is generated over this long-term period.
In our in value of business in force at the start of the year demonstrates view, the result under IFRS does not properly reflect the inherent how the existing book is being managed.
Together, these metrics value of these future profits, as it focuses instead on the amounts provide management and shareholders with valuable information accruing to shareholders in the current year.
about the underlying development of the Groups business and In May 2004 the CFO Forum, representing the Chief Financial the success or otherwise of management actions.
Officers of 19 European insurers, published the European EEV basis results are prepared by first of all setting best estimate Embedded Value Principles expanded by the Additional assumptions, by product, for all relevant factors including Guidance of EEV Disclosures published in October 2005, that expenses, surrender levels and mortality.
Economic assumptions provide consistent definitions, a framework for setting actuarial as to future investment returns and inflation are generally based on assumptions, and a more explicit approach to the underlying a combination of market data and long-term assumptions.
So for example: assumptions are used to project future cash flows.
The present The allowance for risk is explicit for EEV through: i an value of the future cash flows is then calculated using a discount allowance for the cost of capital at the higher of economic rate which reflects both the time value of money and the risks capital and the local statutory minimum ii stochastic or other associated with the cash flows.
The risk discount rate is appropriate modelling of financial options and guarantees to determined by adding a risk margin to the appropriate risk free ensure that an allowance for their cost is irrespective of their rate of return.
The actual outcome may differ from that projected, value at the balance sheet date, and iii an explicit allowance in which case the effect will be reflected in the experience in the risk discount rate for financial and non-financial risks: variances for that year.
EEV specifically allows for the look-through into profits arising The assumptions used for the EEV basis of accounting are set in shareholder service companies, most notably the profit out in the notes that accompany the supplementary EEV basis arising in investment management companies from managing information.
An indication of the sensitivity of the results to the insurance companies funds for covered business: changes in key assumptions is also provided within that information.
There are extensive disclosures required for EEV on all aspects of the calculations, including the methodology adopted and the The publication of the EEV Principles represented a significant analysis of return.
step towards the harmonisation of embedded value reporting in Europe.
However, even with these principles and the It is thought that the EEV basis not only provides a good indication accompanying guidance, a divergence of approaches between of the value being added by management in a given accounting companies has emerged in practice.
In June 2008, in an effort period, but also helps demonstrate whether shareholder capital to improve still further the consistency and transparency of is being deployed to best effect.
Indeed insurance companies in embedded value reporting, the CFO Forum published the Market many countries use comparable bases of accounting for Consistent Embedded Value MCEV Principles.
MCEV Principles were designed during a period of relatively The EEV basis is a value-based method of reporting in that it stable market conditions and their application could, in the current reflects the change in value of the business over the accounting turbulent markets, lead to misleading results.
This value is called the shareholders funds on the EEV the CFO Forum announced that it intended to conduct a review of basis which, at a given point in time, is the value of future profits the impact of turbulent market conditions on the MCEV Principles, expected to arise from the current book of long-term insurance the result of which may lead to changes in the published Principles business plus the net worth of the company.
In determining these or the issue of additional guidance.
In May 2009, the CFO Forum expected profits, full allowance is made for the risks attached to announced that it had decided to perform further work to seek their emergence and the associated cost of capital, and takes into to improve the consistency in the adjustments made for liquidity account recent experience in assessing likely future persistency, premium and volatilities.
In light of these developments, mortality and expenses.
mandatory MCEV reporting was deferred for member firms until 2011.
In October 2009, the CFO Forum announced changes to the MCEV Principles to allow the inclusion of a liquidity premium.
The changes to the Principles were high level, with little detail included on how the liquidity premium should be determined or which products it should be applied to.
The CFO Forum is currently conducting further work in these areas.
