70 The Capita Group Plc Board members The Board of Directors Martin Bolland Gordon Hurst The Board of Directors has continued to Non-Executive Chairman and Senior Group Finance Director, Age 48 review the Board composition during 2009 Independent Director, Age 53 Joined Capita in 1988 and was first appointed to and has made some changes for 2010.
Joined the Board in March 2008 and became the Board as Commercial Director in February After 9 years with Capita, Eric Walters decided Senior Independent Director on 30 September 1995 and then as Group Finance Director in to step down as Chairman with effect from 2008.
A Chartered Accountant, he is also the beginning of 2010 and Martin Bolland took following the retirement of Eric Walters from Company Secretary.
He has Board responsibility over this role from 1 January 2010.
A Chartered Accountant, Martin for our overall corporate responsibility policy announced last year that Paddy Doyle would be previously held a number of senior positions and specic responsibility for our environment, moving to a part-time Executive Director role.
within the Lonrho Group and was also a founder health and safety approach and supplier He has now decided to reduce his business and partner of Alchemy Partners and continues relationships.
interests further and will continue on the Board to be a member of Alchemys Investment as a Non-Executive Director from 1 March 2010.
Committee and the Monitoring Board.
He is Simon Pilling The Board has also considered the number of currently Chairman of QHotels.
Chief Operating officer, Age 47 Independent Non-Executive Directors, Joined Capita in 1999 and was appointed to the Committee memberships: specifically with relevant financial experience, Board in August 2006 serving as Joint Chief Nomination Committee and will be recruiting to add further NonOperating officer alongside Paddy Doyle.
Chairman from 1 January 2010 In August 2008 he became Chief Operating Executives to the Board.
Whilst this process is Audit Committee Chairman taking place, Martin will continue as Chairman officer and has overall responsibility for the Remuneration Committee of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent management of the Companys operations.
Director until an appropriate replacement is He also has Board responsibility for client Paul Pindar service quality and for our employee and human appointed.
Chief Executive, Age 50 resources policies.
Joined Capita in 1987 from 3i, after advising Capita on its management buy-out, and became Chief Executive in 1999.
A Chartered Accountant, Paul is responsible for managing and developing Capitas operations to achieve the Companys strategic objectives, and has overall responsibility for our charitable approach.
Paul is also Chair of the Great Ormond Street Hospitals Corporate Partnerships Board and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Debenhams Plc.
Governance The Capita Group Plc 71 Maggi Bell Martina King Eric Walters Business Development Director, Age 54 Non-Executive Director, Age 48 Joined the Board in 2001 and became Chairman Joined Capita in January 1999 and was Joined the Board in January 2005.
He has held senior positions with appointed to the Board in August 2008. previously held a number of senior positions in Alchemy Partners LLP, Engleeld Capital, Maggi has held various positions across Capita, marketing and online media, including her Schroder Ventures, Grand Metropolitan plc and including running our recruitment businesses position as Yahoo!
Managing Director for Europe Lex Service plc.
After 9 years service, he stepped and leading the Business Services and Corporate and Managing Director of Capital Radio.
Martina down from the Board on 1 January 2010 and we Services Divisions, and has been head of the is also a Non-Executive Director of Johnston wish him well as he pursues other interests.
Group Sales & Marketing Division since January Press plc, IMD PLC and Debenhams Plc.
She is responsible for driving forward Committee memberships: Nomination Committee business development across the Company, Remuneration Committee Chairperson Chairman until 31 December 2009 including managing our Major Sales Team, and Audit Committee has Board responsibility for community Nomination Committee engagement.
Bill Grimsey Paddy Doyle Non-Executive Director, Age 58 Non-Executive Director, Age 59 Joined the Board in October 2006.
Bill has held Joined Capita in 1992 and was appointed to the a number of senior positions across the retail Board in 1994.
As Group Operations Director he sector over the past 20 years, including Chief was responsible for the ongoing operational Executive of The Big Food Group and Wickes Plc.
management of the Groups business units.
Bill is currently Chief Executive of Focus DIY From August 2006 to the end of August 2008 Limited.
He does not hold any other Nonhe was Joint Chief Operating officer alongside Executive positions.
In 2009 he moved to a part-time Executive position on the Board, continuing Committee memberships: client facing activities.
He has decided to reduce Audit Committee his business interests further and will continue Remuneration Committee on the Board as a Non-Executive Director from Nomination Committee 1 March 2010.
Committee memberships: Nomination Committee from 1 March 2010
