46 The Capita Group Plc Achieving our goal through a clear business strategy 4.
Targeting growth markets Public sector 1 Market position Drivers for outsourcing Local government Local government currently accounts Pressure to deliver value for money for 22% of Group revenues.
services against a backdrop of increased service demand and Capita has worked with local reduced revenues government for over 25 years and is a leader in helping local authorities to Local revenues reduced by falling Excellent joint working on deliver efficient, exible public services incomes from local tax collections the Business Transformation for citizens and communities.
Our and fewer planning applications and breadth of expertise helps them parking fees Projects The Council is respond to increased demand for particularly pleased with Constraints on funding from central quality, individually tailored services government how Capita has responded while ensuring that these are delivered to its requirements: taken cost effectively.
Pressure for personalisation and regard for individual needs as service ownership and given Size of opportunity delivery becomes more sophisticated, commitment to deliver Of the 468 UK local authorities, without reducing efficiency only 30 have entered into major the required outcomes: outsourcing partnerships.
Capita Changing roles local authorities resourced the work speedily delivers services and support to the have mainly been deliverers of and exibly: aligned itself majority of local authorities: we have services: now they are increasingly behind the delivery of our created wide-ranging strategic commissioners of services to meet partnerships with 10 of them and current and future demands.
Any risks or issues there is a steady ow of opportunities have been resolved with a to create more.
pragmatic approach across Encouraged by central government both parties.
initiatives, there are also growing opportunities to establish shared Barry Mellor service infrastructures capable of Transformation Manager, bringing together public services Shefeld City Council in a more co-ordinated approach to match each communitys needs.
The trend for outsourcing looks set to continue as local authorities have been under scal pressure for some time and will remain so, regardless of which party is in power after the 2010 UK General Election.
Local Government IT Excellence Awards 2009 Service Transformation Award for Cheshire West and Chester Council for its Revenues and Benets systems convergence project delivered in partnership with Capita Business review The Capita Group Plc 47 2 Market position Drivers for outsourcing Central government Central government currently accounts Regardless of the outcome of the for 10% of Group revenues.
2010 UK General Election, there will be increased pressure on central Capita is the leading service provider in government departments to deliver central government, with contracts frontline services at similar or spanning recruitment and employment reduced levels of funding over the In 2008, service delivery checking, accreditation and records next spending review period which of our learner support management as well as administration takes effect from April 2011 of public sector pensions and public programme became grant programmes.
Further use of benchmarking of unacceptable and this led routine front and back ofce services Size of opportunity to the LSC terminating its will add pressure on departments to Against a background of the arrangement with the drive out efficiencies and achieve Government facing increased pressure value for money previous contractor.
Capita to reduce the public finance deficit was brought in at very short and manage down debt, and with an Evidence from other sectors, estimated annual spend of 6bn and including local authorities, that BPO notice and responded quickly over 250,000 staff in administrative and new models of public service and professionally in operations, central government delivery can achieve more for less retrieving the situation presents a significant opportunity Access to skills and technology through short term xes.
There is scope to investment that can guarantee help increase the efficiency of the Capita had been the reserve savings up front administrative operations supporting in the original procurement frontline government services, Continuing requirement to make so we appointed them for particularly in areas such as welfare, public infrastructure t for current the remainder of the 6-year revenue collection, defence, justice and future needs e. g. transport and and transport.
Building Schools for the Future.
Already they have introduced new systems that Beyond outsourcing IT and facilities management, few central government have worked very effectively departments have outsourced wider in their first year of operation services such as customer handling, and we continue to work HR or financial administration services.
constructively and We expect this to change as scal pressure and public demand prompt collaboratively together them to explore outsourcing as a on further enhancements sustainable and effective solution to the programme.
to delivering more for less.
Outsourcing key administration Trevor Fellowes and customer services will enable Director of Learner Support, Government to adopt new ways Learning & Skills Council LSC of working and access expertise and resources for transforming public services to meet citizens individual needs.
48 The Capita Group Plc Achieving our goal through a clear business strategy 4.
Targeting growth markets Public sector 3 Market position Drivers for outsourcing Education Education currently accounts for Considerable pressure on many 12% of Group revenues.
local authorities and education establishments to improve their We have built a strong presence across business processes and introduce the market, delivering a wide range of efficiencies services.
Capita has over 20 years Capita Childrens Services experience of helping schools and local Continual requirement to respond was the only company to authorities increase efficiency and quickly and adequately to changing improve performance through expert legislation and Government offer us a system that resources and support, ICT, specialist initiatives reected the standards we software and information Need to deliver effectively against wanted to achieve in terms management systems and property the wider Childrens Services agenda of caring for the 130,000 consultancy.
Need to track and support shared children in our area.
Our aim is to help raise efficiency and learning across multiple education reduce the administration burden so establishments educationalists can concentrate on Roger Green Head of Service, Information improving the quality of education.
The Building Schools for the Future Sharing and OneVision, programme, designed to create an Size of opportunity Cambridgeshire County Council improved, inspiring and more exible The market continues to evolve rapidly, learning environment driven by constant technological, economic and political change.
Need to exploit technology for Across central government, local effective administration and learning authorities, schools and further Need to reduce bureaucracy, enhance education establishments, we aim to The information we hold assessment, improve financial maintain our position as a reliable, management and improve outcomes in SIMS helps us not only knowledgeable and innovative partner.
to monitor and provide Most establishments use one or more of our services and we deliver core appropriate support for administration services to the the children, but also to Department for Children, Schools engage with parents and Families DCSF.
in a more detailed and There is considerable opportunity meaningful way.
to continue strengthening and broadening our relationships.
Harry Weightman Following the end of the National Headteacher, Easington Colliery Strategies programme in 2011, the Primary School Government intends to develop an assured suppliers market for improvement support to schools.
Under this scheme, selected suppliers will be quality assured and accredited by the DCSF.
Capita is in a good position to develop a strong presence in this market.
The eGovernment National Awards 2009 National Strategies web area awarded Highly Commended in Learning & Skills category Business review The Capita Group Plc 49 4 Market position Drivers for outsourcing Health Health currently accounts for 3% of Pressure on NHS funding: after Group revenues.
March 2011 it is expected that the continually growing demand for NHS After building experience in the sector services and resources will have to be for some time we have accelerated our managed within existing budgets growth over the past 2 years.
We are Capita put in a very good now a leading provider of information Pressure to improve service quality, proposal.
They gave us a services to both patients and health in particular the patient experience professionals, and are at the forefront project that was very A requirement to streamline clinical of helping the NHS to improve patient good value for money and, administration while meeting experience while achieving efficiencies.
demand for greater patient choice crucially, they were We provide outsourced IT and back committed to keeping on Need for innovative ways of ofce services to the NHS, as well as educating patients and end users to good people so there was governance, survey and research be more self sufficient, relieving the strong continuity.
But at services for NHS organisations and burden on health providers pharmaceutical companies.
Two thirds the same time they of some 455 organisations in the NHS Continued pressure to improve work brought something fresh are now Capita clients receiving at environment and patient care by to the equation.
least one of our services.
engaging technology better, rationalising and modernising Outsourcing core administration and Bob Gann existing properties and investing customer patient management Strategy and Engagement Lead, in new property.
services is still at an early stage so NHS Choices there remains plenty of scope to develop our relationships across this market.
Size of opportunity There are approximately 430 Health Service organisations in England and a further 25 in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Health expenditure in England alone was 113bn in 2009, rising to 118bn in 2010 11.
Of this, addressable spend on the type of outsourced services that we deliver is estimated to exceed 13bn.
The NHS has not yet embarked widely on outsourcing non-core activities but, as a result of the dual pressures to both achieve significant savings and improve patient experience, we are confident that there is considerable scope to help both the Department of Health and health organisations achieve this.
50 The Capita Group Plc Achieving our goal through a clear business strategy 4.
Targeting growth markets Public sector 5 Market position Drivers for outsourcing Transport Transport currently accounts for Increased scal pressure and reduced 3% of Group revenues.
revenues, driving local authorities to explore outsourcing to help meet Our property and infrastructure local transport requirements consultancy, Capita Symonds, is one of the UKs leading transport and Continued requirement to reduce Over the past year infrastructure specialists, providing urban congestion and improve Capita Symonds has been expertise and innovative solutions to transports environmental impacts, both the public and private sectors.
particularly on climate change assisting us on a range of It has an established track record of projects and throughout Heightened focus on national successfully delivering a wide variety infrastructure by agencies delivering they have provided us with of projects in the sector, ranging from national security and resilience the necessary expertise, the heavy civil engineering of immersed tube tunnels to rail Re-evaluation of business models in knowledge and engineering, transport planning and the private sector, where the current professionalism to ensure Intelligent Transport Systems ITS.
economic climate has tightened success in delivery.
infrastructure budgets, resulting in Size of opportunity changed relationships across the The Highways Agencys business plan Paul Helsop industry.
for 2009 10 highlights a range of Project Manager, attractive projects in its Managed Infrastructure, Goodman Motorways programme.
These include 185m of resources for major improvements to the network, 85m assigned for technology improvements, 101m for smaller local schemes and R&D, and 829m for maintenance.
While the business plan and budget I enjoyed a good working for 2010 11 have not yet been set, relationship with Capita we expect a further healthy ow of who were very supportive opportunities that t well with our throughout and provided core competencies.
The move towards integrating ITS across both the strategic and local authority networks should present David Cowell additional opportunities for growth.
ITS Research Group Manager, Highways Agency In the rail sector we have already tendered successfully for work on Londons Crossrail project and will continue to look for other opportunities within this major infrastructure project.
