Business review The Capita Group Plc 51 Private sector 6 Market position Drivers for outsourcing Life and pensions Life and pensions currently accounts Wide recognition of the benets for 18% of Group revenues.
of outsourcing in the industry, encouraging providers to readdress Capita is the leading provider of their business models outsourced life and pensions administration in the UK and, Declining new business in policies I was delighted with the according to industry analysts Ovum in the current economic climate, transition to Capita in both June 2009, globally.
The 25 million increasing the pressure on providers policies that we administer represent to increase effectiveness and cut the UK and India.
In particular, around 22% of the total UK market.
operating costs there was no disruption to Our scale, focus on customer service, Regulatory changes such as service for AXAs customers.
continued investment in specialist those associated with the Retail Since the transfer the service technology and our ability to offer a Distribution Review, driving demand mixed onshore offshore delivery improvement delivered for administrative systems that can model, make us a compelling choice by Capita has been more rapid respond swiftly and cost effectively as an outsourcing partner.
More challenging market conditions, Size of opportunity which put a premium on the ability While outsourcing in the life and Robin Smith to introduce and distribute new pensions market has grown rapidly Managing Director, products faster in the last few years, there are still Traditional Business, AXA Life plenty of opportunities for growth.
A renewed phase of consolidation We estimate that there are some in the industry, creating further 113 million life and pensions policies in outsourcing opportunities.
force in the UK, of which 69-74 million have not yet been outsourced.
In addition, first generation outsourcing contracts struck in the early 2000s are now coming up for re-tender.
Life and pensions companies remain under competitive pressure and opportunities are expected to emerge as financial organisations continue to restructure to focus on core activities and consolidators resume their activity in the market.
Customer Contact Association CCA of UK Capita India voice operations receives accreditation 52 The Capita Group Plc Achieving our goal through a clear business strategy 4.
Targeting growth markets Private sector 7 Market position Drivers for outsourcing Insurance Insurance currently accounts for Need to provide claims processing 8% of Group revenues.
and comprehensive, quality customer service at lower operational cost Having grown our presence in the insurance market since 1999, through Importance of bringing new products acquisitions and organic growth, we to market faster We are very pleased to have are now acknowledged as the leading Regulatory demands, such as the established this partnership provider of outsourced services in the strengthened EU-wide requirements UK.
In the general insurance market we with Capita and are confident on capital adequacy and risk provide outsourced back ofce it will be beneficial to both management by 2012, prompting processing through to frontline insurers to address cost bases and our clients and our staff.
In customer services across commercial, back ofce efficiency particular, it will transform reinsurance and personal lines insurance.
The scale of our support A marked consumer shift towards the way in which we do ranges from complete end to end virtual insurance companies driven business, supporting our solutions for large insurers and brokers by afnity groups targeting specic commitment to providing a to bespoke services focused on specic customer segments.
These virtual customer experience thats needs.
organisations are often supported by outsourced back ofce infrastructure truly world class.
It will also Many major insurers have been slow to as well as online sales give our staff increased embrace the cost and exibility benets that outsourcing can offer.
Need to improve management of opportunities for career Todays competitive and regulatory claims costs, particularly by development.
pressures are expected to change this, preventing fraud and leakage.
and Capita is well placed to benefit.
Martin South Size of opportunity CEO, Marsh UK The UK insurance industry is the largest in Europe and the third largest globally, accounting for some 11% of worldwide premium income.
Over 75% of UK households buy motor and home insurance, and there has been a steady increase in claim payouts over the past decade.
This presents significant opportunities for Capita to provide administrative services, deliver cost savings and improve customer services to help insurers respond to demand.
We have renewed our focus on this sector and are confident of further growth.
Business review The Capita Group Plc 53 8 Market position Drivers for outsourcing Financial services Financial services currently accounts Need to adapt operating models for 4% of Group revenues.
to focus on core services Financial services companies continue Need to drive down costs whilst to face uncertainty, increasing ensuring a quality and compliant regulation and some restructuring.
service Capita Financial Group has Capita has built a strong position in Need to meet the challenge of provided high quality fund a number of market segments, ensuring full compliance and particularly trust services, loan administration services to managing the associated costs in administration and fund administration 7IM for the past 6 years, a stricter, regulatory environment, for both open and closed end where compliance is monitored during which 7IM has structures.
Our scale enables us to ever more stringently expanded signicantly with deliver cost effective administration solutions across different tax Need to ensure the capability to the support of Capita.
jurisdictions onshore, nearshore and meet constant changes in legislation During this time we have offshore and help to bring products which may act as a catalyst for new been pleased to extend the to market swiftly.
products, requiring speed of scope of the services provided introduction to the market Size of opportunity by Capita to encompass our The financial markets are gradually Need for leading edge systems to Irish and UK fund ranges.
recovering from the economic cope with increased competition and downturn and looking at ways to legislative and regulatory change.
I am also pleased to confirm address their cost bases and adapt that we have recently their operating models to compete extended our working effectively.
Financial institutions have relationship with Capita generally been slow to embrace outsourcing but there is a growing for a further 5 years.
interest in exploring how it can provide a more cost effective, quality Charles Sparrow, service offering by providing shared Chief Financial officer, 7IM technology, administration processing, customer service and compliance support.
ECCS European Steel Design Award Wimbledon Centre Court, London Capita Symonds Structural engineer 54 The Capita Group Plc Achieving our goal through a clear business strategy 4.
Targeting growth markets Private sector 9 Market position Drivers for outsourcing Other corporates Excluding financial services institutions, Need to balance the costs of product life and pensions companies and and service design with those of insurance organisations, other customer attraction and retention corporate clients currently account Increasing pressure to reduce for 20% of Group revenues.
headcount while maintaining Capita provides a exible, Corporates benefit from our full range productivity and improving efficient and cost effective of back ofce administration and service levels frontline customer services, focused managed service to assist Need for more exible cost on enhancing customer services and eircom in the delivery of a infrastructure and resources in reducing costs through higher more turbulent market conditions top-class sales and service productivity, streamlined processes experience for its customers.
and best use of technology.
Pressure on investment and research budgets, despite undiminished The relationship with Applying customer insight and requirement for development to Capita has grown over the intelligence, we align and optimise remain competitive service design and resources to meet past 5 years and delivery the needs of both clients and their Drive to optimise organisations and execution continues customers.
own corporate services to improve.
Size of opportunity Desire to improve productivity This market opportunity is difficult through better management of Gerry Culligan to size as we offer multiple specialist employee sickness and absenteeism Director of Consumer services from across the Group to a Markets, eircom Increased regulatory and legislative wide range of organisations with requirements.
different outsourcing needs and appetites.
Our strengths lie in providing advisory and outsourced services to support the entire spectrum of an organisations business model: financial, registrar and corporate services, HR, administration processes, ICT, marketing and customer services.
Our focus is on delivering efficiencies and service enhancements that help to keep our clients at the forefront of their marketplaces.
The Capita Group Plc 55 Case study 1 Case study 4 Southampton wanted to cut costs and improve service 56 The Capita Group Plc Costs are already down 16.5m, service and satisfaction show marked improvement In October 2007 Capita began Southampton City Councils decision to outsource its back ofce and a 10-year contract with frontline customer services to Capita in 2007 was a bold one.
It had a Southampton City Council to clear vision for designing its customer services more effectively around deliver its customer services, IT, the customer, but wanted an experienced transformation partner to property, revenues and benets, help turn this into reality.
The Council had little previous outsourcing HR, payroll and procurement experience, and employees and unions were apprehensive.
The contract required citizen pressure to cut costs without reducing services.
But was this reductions in overall costs and the way to achieve it?
investment in infrastructure 2 years on, the answer is clear.
We took on 650 posts from the across the Council while Council: their satisfaction is evident in exceptionally low attrition meeting greatly enhanced and sickness rates of under 3% and 1.7% respectively.
has actually increased as new services were introduced into the scope of our contract.
And positive union relationships reect our open So what have we done?
management style and approach to people development.
Transferred 650 posts Through transforming its back ofce, including the procurement Transformed IT, with new systems and technology function, we are delivering the promised cost savings, which have Realised 16.5m of savings already already reached 16.5m measured over the 10-year period with a Reorganised HR, introducing CRM similar amount likely by next year.
and employee and management Most importantly, Southamptons citizens are noticing the difference self-service in improved services.
The Council set a demanding range of KPIs Transformed procurement including well above the standards previously achieved and already Capita is e-tendering and e-solutions meeting over 98% of them.
Consumer satisfaction with the Councils Begun developing a new building principal contact points has improved.
The proportion of one-stop to replace 3 existing sites shop customers seen within 10 minutes has more than doubled to Won ROSPA Gold Award for 84%, and the proportion of callers waiting over 30 seconds for a reply health and safety.
has dropped from nearly half to under a fifth.
The Capita Group Plc 57 Athar Jaffry... pay their council tax is one of 1.6m callers... renew their library books a year who just need... nd out about local schools and arrange a phone to learning support for their child... apply for planning permission
