2 The Capita Group Plc Our business We are at the leading edge of redening and transforming services NHS case study HSE case study Nottingham BSF case study NHS Choices, helping the NHS Gas Safe Register, helping the Improving pupils learning to improve the nations health.
Health and Safety Executive environments to help them Go to page 19 3 promote and improve gas safety.
Go to page 29 3 Go to page 41 3 Business review The Capita Group Plc 3 We create and reshape services that both answer the needs of our clients and deliver quality, responsive services to the public.
Our clients benefit from Capitas expertise, innovation and extensive resources and infrastructure.
When they transfer their administration and customer services to us we sign up to delivering an improved service, at a dened cost, over a long term contract.
We use customer insight and our ability to improve the management of people, processes and IT to achieve a more efficient alignment of resources and a better customer experience.
Our innovative service solutions and record of consistent operational delivery have helped to fuel our growth and position Capita as the leading provider of outsourced and professional support services in the UK and Ireland.
Southampton CC case study Prudential case study Transforming services to Delivering services to support improve customers experience Prudentials aim to be the leader while delivering savings across in retirement.
Go to page 65 3 Go to page 55 3 4 The Capita Group Plc Our business We operate in growth markets Capita focuses on and leads the We work with clients across the Business Process Outsourcing BPO public and private sectors in 9 market in the UK where there are chosen markets.
And we constantly explore new We have an active bid pipeline markets where we can add value.
of new business opportunities Go to page 44 3 driven by public and private sector organisations increasingly seeking Capita market split % of turnover to gain efficiencies, exibility and improved service delivery.
Transport 3% Private 50% Outsourced and potential UK 6.
Life and pensions 18% BPO market 7.
Other corporates 20% Potential 94.2bn 1 9 8 today 2 7 potential 3 4 6 5 Where we have been shortlisted to the last 4 or fewer.
Ovum 2008 and 2009 Business review The Capita Group Plc 5 Our scale A consistent We create and breadth business model value for all our of expertise drives our growth stakeholders positions us Our straightforward business model We seek to build long term, focuses on generating growth, both mutually beneficial relationships uniquely organically and through acquisitions.
capable of creating value for all our stakeholders our shareholders, Organic growth is generated by Capita has grown steadily over the clients, employees, suppliers and a centralised major sales team past 25 years, both organically and the communities in which we work.
alongside sales teams in each of our through acquisition, and we now businesses.
We seek to secure long With strong financial controls, have 36,800 people at over 250 term business relationships, adding careful risk management and business sites across the UK, Europe value to our clients operations while effective governance, we work to and India.
generating high quality recurring a clear set of KPI targets to grow We use our expertise, infrastructure revenues and delivering a fair return the Group at a rate at which we and scale to drive down costs and for Capita.
can consistently deliver what we add value to our clients operations.
promise and create a sustainable 15 major contracts and extensions business.
Our extensive network of business worth a total of 1bn were secured centres onshore, nearshore and in 2009 2008: 17 contracts, total Our performance in 2009 illustrates offshore in India allows us to of 1.24bn.
the continued success of our offer our clients exible service consistent business model.
Acquiring small to medium sized solutions that meet their customers Go to page 6 3 companies allows us to add further expectations and help them stay expertise or scale to our operations at the forefront of their markets.
or helps us to enter new markets.
Our business centre network: We smoothly integrate the acquired business into our operation, generating 52 Onshore: UK synergies and additional value for 5 Nearshore: Ireland, the Group.
Channel Islands, Europe Total spent on 12 acquisitions 5 Offshore: India in 2009: 177.5m 2008: 147.4m spent on 12 acquisitions.
Our clients are served by our 5 divisions: Go to page 12 3 Life & Pensions Services Integrated Services Insurance & Investor Services Professional Services ICT, Health & Business Services Go to page 34 3
