Global Transaction Services Global Transaction Services ranks among the top five global transaction services providers, offering global payments, cash and liquidity management, and trade finance and commercial card products and services.
It includes the Groups corporate money transmission activities in the UK and the US as Brian Stevenson, well as Global Merchant Services, the Groups Chief Executive, Global Transaction Services United Kingdom and international merchant acquiring business.
2009 2008 m m At Global Transaction Services GTS we help Net interest income 912 937 customers to manage their cash and liquidity, and to make and receive payments.
Globally we Non-interest income 1,575 1,494 are a Top Five player.
Our businesses trade Total income 2,487 2,431 finance, merchant acquiring, corporate card services and cash management are closely Expenses 1,475 1,375 linked to other parts of RBS, notably Corporate Operating profit before impairment losses 1,012 1,056 Banking, Citizens, Ulster Bank and Global Banking & Markets GBM.
Impairment losses 39 54 We process over one billion payments and collections each year.
Our Operating profit 973 1,002 domestic cash management business handles over three billion BACS transactions in the UK annually.
In trade finance we process one million Risk-weighted assets bn 19.1 17.4 collections, guarantees and letters of credit each year.
Our cards business processes 6.4 billion transactions per annum worth 236 billion.
Net interest margin 9.22% 8.25% Cost:income ratio 59.3% 56.6% During the year we developed and began to implement our strategic plan.
We formed Global Network Banking GNB with GBM to ensure Loan:deposit ratio 21% 25% that together we deliver network services effectively to the international subsidiaries of the Groups customers.
We will build on GNB in the future.
In Global Trade Finance, were working to bring the benefits of the MaxTrad global trading platform to the UK market.
2009 also saw us take steps towards launching GTS SalesLine in the UK.
It is a telephone sales service for Business & Commercial Banking clients that delivers cash management 38 and trade solutions through a team of experienced specialists.
countries in the GTS network Our strategic plan looks forward to 2013.
During that time we aim to strengthen our penetration of the UK and Citizens markets and to gain even more benefits from our links to the rest of the Group by crossselling to existing RBS clients who could benefit from using our services.
3 billion We will also sell our Global Merchant Services business as part of the agreement we reached with the European Commission.
BACS transactions processed in the UK annually In 2009, we began to market our new e-invoicing product to UK clients.
e-invoicing can significantly reduce our customers costs and increase efficiencies in both trade receivables and procurement activities.
It improves the user-experience for all participants in the Target Cost:income % Loan:deposit % supply chain.
2011 60 25 2013 50 20 30 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Divisional review Global Transaction Services Did you know?
236 billion Our cards businesses process 6.4 billion transactions annually worth 236 billion We took a leading role in developing and implementing the UKs FasterBest Bank for Liquidity Management Western Europe: and Payments arrangements.
We were quick to recognise the benefits it offered customers and made sure that our own implementation allowedBest Continuous Linked Settlement Bank in Europe.
the maximum number of customers to benefit from it immediately from its launch.
We swiftly switched our standing orders to use Faster Payments Our UK domestic cash management business product was recognised in: instead of the old BACS system.
The service is available to our retail customers through online and telephone banking, as well as in ourThe Banker 2009 Best Innovation in Cash & Technology: branches.
Our small and medium-sized enterprise customers can use it online or by telephone.
For GTS customers, we have made FasterBest Transaction Banking Achievement at the Banking Technology Payments available 24 hours a day and 365 days a year as a standard Awards: and element of our Bankline online banking service.
This has been very popular, as it allows customers to maximise the value of both BanklineBest Payments Initiative and Most Effective Channel awards and Faster Payments while it can be a convenient alternative or fallback at the Financial Innovation Awards.
option for occasional or unplanned use.
Our Top Five ranking in global trade finance was confirmed by a We built on our successful 2008 trial of contactless payments in number of awards: London with a further trial on Stagecoach buses in Liverpool in 2009 working with Mastercard.
This Tap and Go trial brought contactlessThird in Western Europe trade services and second bank globally debit or credit card payments to UK bus users for the first time and it for Documentary Processing from the Global Trade Review: reinforced our position as a leading innovator in a market which we believe has high potential.
Best Supply Chain Finance Provider, Western Europe and Best Trade Finance Bank, Netherlands from Global Finance: One of the major tasks we faced during the year was to integrate ABN AMROs wholesale business with RBS.
This was a challenge, not leastThird Best Online Trade Provider and Third Best Bank for Export because we were determined to maintain the best possible service for Finance from Trade & Forfaiting Review: our customers and to avoid any disruption for them.
We achieved that by implementing a first class client readiness programme.
Six thousandBest Deal 2009 for J Sainsbury from Global Trade Review: clients have been notified of BIC IBAN changes, which as a result will enable GTS to migrate more than 40,000 corporate accounts.
We also2009 Transaction Banking Deal of the Year for J Sainsbury concluded a Partner Bank Agreement between RBS NV and ABN AMRO UK Global from Trade Finance: and II.
This means that for the next three years RBS NV will continue to service the subsidiaries of ABN AMRO II parent companies that bank2009 Deal of the Year for J Sainsbury from Trade and Forfaiting.
with the RBS network outside of the Netherlands.
Its great to win these awards and to receive the recognition of our We received a number of awards in 2009 which reflected both the peers, but the real test of our service is how our customers react.
quality and the diversity of our businesses in GTS.
We were named the fifth most used international cash manager by companies in the 2009 Euromoney survey.
Our international cash management offering also won other awards, including these from Global Finance Magazine: RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31
