Essential reading Our markets Q&As on progress Q&As on progress migration for corporates is slowing.
Nonetheless, the financial circumstances of many consumers and businesses remain fragile, and rising refinancing costs, whether as a result of monetary tightening or of increased regulatory capital requirements, could expose some customers to further difficulty.
x What has been happening to margins, and why?
Our net interest margin has now shown two quarters of improvement, despite the continued squeeze on liability margins and higher liquidity costs.
In 2009 overall, net interest income declined by 14%, as the Group net interest margin narrowed by 32 basis points to 1.76%.
Deposit margins remain under pressure, with strong competition particularly for longer term deposits and rates on many products already at floors in the current low interest rate environment.
However, asset margins were gradually rebuilt over the course of the year, leading to a recovery beginning in overall net interest margins in the When we speak to our investors, some Core retail and commercial banking Divisions in the second half.
questions are asked more often than others.
Below we provide a selection of those x How much of a problem has UK political interference been?
frequently asked questions and answers.
The benefits to RBS of political involvement, in the widest possible sense, are significantly larger than the costs.
Put simply, if RBS hadnt x What is your dividend policy going forward?
received government support, it wouldnt be here today.
It is in every In the light of our 2009 results, it would not be appropriate to pay shareholders interest that RBS is run commercially and, on every item any dividend on ordinary shares this year, nor, under the terms of the of strategic and operational substance, that has been the case.
European Commissions approval of the state aid we have received, will we be able to do so for a further two years.
The Board is mindful x To what extent has the loss of high-performing that dividends form an extremely important part of shareholder return employees affected performance?
It is our intention over time to resume the payment of a The loss of high-performing employees has been damaging but, to dividend as soon as it is prudent to do so, taking account of the Groups date, not destructive.
Each year, we rate our employees on a scale of capital position, retained earnings and prospects, as well as of the one to five, where four and five are the highest ratings.
The bad news is enhanced dividend rights attached to the B Shares held by the UK that the percentage of people ranked four or five that left us in the Government.
There will be dividend payments on some preference second half of 2009 was roughly double the prevailing rate over the shares this year but, thereafter, they will be subject to the same twoperiod 2005-07.
The better news is that this number is rising from a year hiatus required by the EC.
We have also been able to hire talented people to help in the restructuring challenges ahead for the company.
x What is the timetable for the EU-required divestments?
We have four years to make all our disposals and will determine the The ability to motivate and retain our best employees is critical to the timing of each with reference to the following criteria: getting the best future success of RBS so, first and foremost, we need to make sure the value for shareholders: minimising the disruption to our customers and percentage of highly-rated people leaving us doesnt rise any further.
employees: market conditions: and execution risk.
Ideally, we need to reverse that trend, though this will partly depend on our ability to convince staff and recruits that RBS is being run We will look to conclude some of the disposals quickly.
RBS Sempra Commodities agreed to sell its Metals, Oil and European Energy business lines to J. P. Morgan for $1.7 billion, as announced on x How would a UK sovereign credit downgrade affect the Group?
We are making good We carry out contingency exercises on a range of possible outcomes.
progress on the divestment of RBS branches in England and Wales, It is true that the RBS Groups credit rating is, to a degree, supported and NatWest branches in Scotland: we have a target to agree a buyer in by the UK sovereign rating, so a downgrade may have repercussions 2010, though the complex separation issues mean we dont expect to for the rating of RBS.
We diligently employ liquidity oversight and complete until 2011.
We are considering our options on the RBS contingency planning designed to mitigate the impact on the Group Insurance divestment, including an IPO in the second half of 2012. from a number of liquidity stresses, including credit rating downgrades, irrespective of the sovereign rating of the UK.
x Where are you in the impairment cycle?
We believe impairment losses are likely to have peaked in 2009, having increased to 13,899 million from 7,432 million in 2008.
There are complementary indications that the pace of downwards credit rating RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7
