Corporate Sustainability Did you know?
60% The share of UK secondary schools where our MoneySense for Schools programme had a presence in 2009.
We launched the UKs first mobile phone banking application for Supporting enterprise the iPhone for NatWest, RBS and Ulster Bank Northern Ireland.
This covers how we help businesses get started, how we support Thousands of customers already use mobile phone banking to check those who get into difficulty, our investment in social enterprise and our their balance directly from their mobile handset and this is the next Microfinance programme.
step to develop this service.
In November 2009, we launched a Customer Charter for small and Financial education medium-sized enterprises, which focused on four key areas: helping Understanding how financial products and services work is an important businesses to start and grow: providing access to finance: fairness life skill for anybody we want everyone to have the confidence to make and transparency on pricing: and transparency when making the right financial decisions.
Our award-winning MoneySense programme was extended to ensure Through Coutts Wealth Management, we have one of the largest that everyone has access to sound and impartial money guidance.
networks of successful entrepreneurs in the UK and, in 2009, Coutts In 2009, MoneySense for Schools had a presence in nearly 60% of launched a programme to support clients who would like to get more UK secondary schools.
involved and make a significant impact in the social enterprise sector.
We launched YouthBank MoneySense in Ireland through Ulster Bank, In 2009, 46 RBS group employees provided direct support to young with a 150,000 financial learning fund provided as part of the initiative.
entrepreneurs across Scotland either as volunteer Panel Members or Aftercare Advisers with the Princes Scottish Youth Business Trust.
The Citizens Charitable Foundation provided approximately $1 million to support more than 300 financial literacy initiatives throughout our Our Microfinance lending programme in India continues to go from footprint in America.
Widening financial access for more than two million households in rural areas relying on robust and creditworthy Financial inclusion Microfinance Institutions MFIs as a distribution network.
Ensuring that everyone has access to financial services has long been a priority of The RBS Group.
Employee engagement The engagement of our employees depends on giving our people an In 2009, numerous communities were impacted by unprecedented environment at work that encourages them to go the extra mile for our flooding and we took immediate action to send mobile banks so that customers.
It is influenced by how we recruit, motivate and support our customers had continued access to banking services.
people, focusing on issues such as diversity, training and reward.
We announced a 5 million loan fund, ring-fenced to support third Remuneration is one of the most challenging issues that RBS sector providers of affordable credit to help individuals.
currently faces, and one which has a significant impact on employee engagement.
In response to this, we have revised our reward We are working with the Government to deliver the Saving Gateway framework.
For more information on this, please see the letter from the scheme in 2010, aimed at helping people on low incomes and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
In Ireland, we extended our offering to first-time home buyers by teaming up with Habitat for Humanity.
This programme offers customers with a housing need the opportunity to step on the property ladder in an affordable manner.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 45
