GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:29 Page 226 Directors remuneration report continued Compliance and governance Selected senior individuals in Global Banking & Markets will receive part Reward design and delivery should comply with appropriate policy, of their awards for performance in 2009 in shares which require to be standards, be aligned to industry best practice, meet relevant held by recipients until January 2015.
Participants will be able to sell regulators criteria and be consistent with effective risk management sufficient shares to cover their tax liabilities which are incurred on vesting, and the long term interests of shareholders.
but conditions remain on any further sales before 2015.
In order for any further sales to occur prior to 2015, participants would need to hold The remuneration policy as regards individual elements of employees shares under Group Schemes to at least the gross value of their awards.
remuneration packages are as follows: Deferred award Base salary The purpose of deferred awards is to support a performance culture Base salaries are generally set around market median competitiveness, where employees recognise the importance of sustainable Group, in the context of competitive annual compensation and total business and individual performance.
Base salaries are appropriate in the specific market for compared with the fixed component of selected individual awards will the business in which an individual works and for the talents, skills and be deferred over a three year period.
competencies that the individual brings to the Group.
The level of fixed pay should be sufficient so that inappropriate risk-taking is not A new deferral plan was approved by shareholders on 15 December encouraged.
Under the new plan, short-term incentives will be deferred into bonus awards vesting over a three year period in the form of RBS Short-term incentives shares for the outer years.
Deferral into shares helps to align the reward The policy in respect of short-term incentives is to reward good financial of participants with the long-term interests of shareholders.
The terms and non-financial performance that supports the business strategy, of the deferral plan provides for clawback which allows the taking into account the Groups risk appetite and personal contribution Remuneration Committee retrospectively to limit any compensation at in a clear and reasonable way against targets that are specific, the time of vesting if it considers that the performance factors on which measurable, set at the beginning of the year and communicated to the reward decisions were based have later turned out not to reflect the employees.
corresponding performance in the longer term.
The intention is to allow the Group to adjust historic compensation for unforeseen issues arising Specific design principles for short-term incentives are in place, with during the deferral period, particularly those that do not easily lend strict governance procedures that ensure that all existing and future themselves to quantitative measurement.
incentive schemes support the Groups business strategy and risk appetite.
All short-term incentives are subject to appropriate Long-term incentive plans governance, including review by the risk management, finance and The Group provides employees in senior roles executive level and human resources functions.
senior managers by nomination the opportunity to receive annual awards of long-term incentives.
The objective is to encourage the The way in which expenditure on short term incentives is linked to creation of value over the long term and to align the rewards of the business performance has been significantly amended to take account participants with the returns to shareholders.
of FSA principles in both design and delivery to individual employees.
Expenditure will be reviewed by the Remuneration Committee, against Shareholder approval will be sought at the Annual General Meeting on the context of a range of performance metrics.
The key metric that will 28 April 2010 for a new long term incentive plan, which will replace the be considered is risk-adjusted profit in excess of the cost of capital, existing Medium Term Performance Plan and Executive Share Option with the cost of liquidity and all of the risks associated with the Plan.
The key design features of the new long term incentive plan are: underlying business performance also taken into account.
Where risk factors do not readily lend themselves to quantitative analysis then these awards will be structured as performance-vesting deferred shares: may be factored in as adjustments, on the recommendation of Group Risk Management.
The Board Risk Committee will also provide at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee recipients will be assurance, on an arms-length basis, as to the appropriateness of the able to elect whether they receive their award in the form of shares, proposed adjustments for these additional risk factors.
Allocation of the or convert a portion of their award into market-value share options expenditure will depend on individual performance and on each with the same performance conditions.
The conversion rate between employees performance rating.
Ratings are based on an assessment of shares and options will be set so as to be broadly cost neutral.
It is performance during a single year, against a full range of measures not the intention of the Remuneration Committee to offer this choice including both financial and non-financial measures which take risk into to participants for the initial award: account.
The Group discourages the use of guaranteed bonuses and will not agree to any that span longer than a single financial year.
Performance awards for 2009 to those earning over 39,000 will be deferred and paid in three tranches over the period to June 2012.
226 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
