Corporate Sustainability continued Did you know?
2.5 million The number of customers who downloaded Rapport, a fraud prevention software package we introduced in 2009, free of charge.
We continue to achieve a strong response rate for our annual Ensuring the safety, health and wellbeing of employees is core to our Employee Opinion Survey 87% in September 2009, and use the business.
In 2009, we updated the Groups Safety and Health policy results to identify where we need to invest more time and energy to standard to reflect our commitment to the safety and health of our create a positive employment experience.
Although our 2009 results people in every country in which we operate.
demonstrated our employees resilience in areas like customer focus and efficiency, responses around security and engagement Global citizenship decreased.
We responded to this by launching a number of initiatives Global citizenship means taking responsibility for how we manage our to engage and develop our staff across the Group.
wider economic, social and environmental impact on society.
Environmental sustainability and responsible lending are key elements of this.
To improve opportunities for all groups of employees, a Group diversity and inclusion programme was launched in 2009 to deliver Environmental sustainability industry-leading performance.
The programme is supported and The transition to a low carbon society has already begun and we take enabled by our internal networks, Focussed Women Network, and seriously our role in supporting this transition.
We set our environmental Rainbow, both of which aim to inspire, lead, coach, motivate and strategy through the Executive-led Environment Working Group, which create opportunities to fulfil employees potential.
has representation from all relevant Divisions and reports to the Group Sustainability Committee.
To equip the senior employees of the Group to understand, execute and sustain the strategic business plan, a new Leadership We have developed a strong focus on providing financial services Development Programme has been launched.
In addition, we to clients and projects operating in the renewable power and energy launched the Harvard Business Publishing Online product across efficiency sectors.
In late 2009, we were confirmed as one of the three the Group, tailored for the use of all employees.
UK banks to take part in the European Investment Bank scheme to lend to onshore wind projects.
Safety and security We are committed to making banking safer and our ongoing investment In late 2009, we signed the Copenhagen Communiqu, a collective in new security and technology continuously works towards this goal.
We statement from businesses that called for an agreement between also ensure that a safe and secure environment is provided for our staff.
countries that would give them the confidence to invest in solutions to climate change.
To enhance online security for our customers, we launched a fraud prevention software package free of charge for anyone who banks We continue our work to reduce the impacts of our own operations, online with RBS or NatWest.
Since January 2009, Rapport has been covering energy consumption, CO2 emissions, travel, water and downloaded by over 2.5 million customers.
In the UK and Ireland, we procure 92% of our contracted electricity from renewable sources and our default office paper has In 2009, we rolled out a Safer Banking brochure in branches 80% recycled content.
throughout the UK, outlining the possible risks of financial crime as well as fraud prevention tactics.
We maintained strong performance in external indices that measure sustainability performance and in 2009 we scored 77% in the Carbon Customers can also subscribe for real time SMS alerts regarding Disclosure Project and were included in the Dow Jones Sustainability customer deposits and credit card accounts, enabling customers to Index with a score of 76%.
keep track of their debit and credit card transactions.
We increased controls that protect customer information by completing a global assurance review of more than 800 of our highrisk third parties in 2009, agreeing actions to manage identified risks.
46 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
