Wealth Wealth provides private banking and investment services in the UK through Coutts & Co and Adam & Company, offshore banking through RBS International, NatWest Offshore and Isle of Man Bank, Brian Hartzer Chief Executive, and international private banking through UK Retail, RBS Coutts.
Wealth and Ulster Bank For biographies M see pages 8-11 2009 2008 m m Net interest income 663 578 Non-interest income 446 481 Some of our most famous brands Coutts, RBS Total income 1,109 1,059 Coutts, Adam & Company and RBS International make up our Wealth Management business.
Expenses 656 695 They have an international presence and offer a Operating profit before impairment losses 453 364 proven suite of products.
Most importantly, in each of our businesses, clients come first.
Impairment losses 33 16 Coutts is a prime example of that philosophy.
We listen to clients Operating profit 420 348 and deliver what they want, from direct wealth management services to advice about how to manage their philanthropic activities.
Risk-weighted assets bn 11.2 10.8 We operate a telephone service for clients, Coutts24, that handles calls Net interest margin 4.38% 4.51% 24 hours per day, seven days a week, in every week of the year.
In 2009, Cost:income ratio 59.2% 65.6% we handled more than one million client calls.
Loan:deposit ratio 38% 36% While clients sometimes want to speak to us, at times they prefer to do their business online.
An average of 2,000 clients each day logged onto our online banking service.
They completed 350,000 payments and transfers during 2009, over 50 per cent of all such transactions across the business.
21% Our website has also become a very effective tool for attracting new clients.
We converted 41% of enquiries that came to us via the increase in operating profit Coutts.
com website into new clients for Coutts.
We are conscious of our wider responsibilities and know that our clients often want to channel their money where it will make the greatest 1million difference.
Our Wealth Institute works with clients who may run a family firm or have expressed a desire to increase calls handled in the year by Coutts24 their philanthropic giving.
The Wealth Institute is building a portfolio of services that we believe will build trust in us among these clients.
In 2009, Coutts launched a microfinance pilot fund, which provides small-scale financial support for people who have the means to earn their way out of poverty.
We invited our clients to contribute to the fund, which supports projects in Cambodia, Malawi, South Africa, Nicaragua and Haiti.
Initiatives like this have proved successful at Coutts, and we are now starting to roll them out across the RBS Coutts business.
Target Cost:income % Loan:deposit % 2011 60 35 2013 50 30 26 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Divisional review Wealth Did you know?
45% Visits to our websites increased by 45% during the year During the year, we launched the Coutts Charitable Giving Account Delivery of excellent customer service was at the forefront of RBS in response to client feedback.
It helps clients to keep track of their Internationals activities.
All of our staff supported National Customer donations to charities through our online and telephone banking Service Week in October.
Among other things, that involved senior services.
We do not charge any administration fees for this account.
managers swapping places with their customers for a day.
The UK National Customer Service Awards for Financial Services named our Isle Our centuries-old heritage has seen Coutts progress as a sustainable of Man Peel branch the Customer Service Team of the Year.
To win the and responsible business.
We continued to promote this philosophy in accolade they successfully fended off competition from 52 other 2009, when we launched a social enterprise initiative to inform clients entrants.
Our customers rated the service we provide at Peel at more about this rapidly growing and vibrant sector.
Coutts CEO Michael than 96%, a score that places the branch on a par with the very best Morley also job swapped with The Big Issues Nigel Kershaw.
Nigel service firms in the world.
spent time at Coutts, learning what we do and how we do it, before Michael visited the Vauxhall offices of the Big Issue.
There he reviewed Adam & Company has been a keen supporter of the arts and we their Social Enterprise Investment Fund portfolio, followed by emphasised this by sponsoring the Scottish Ballets 40th anniversary tour.
a live pitch to a potential investor.
After discovering high net worth women were turning away from financial At Coutts, we work with many of the UKs leading entrepreneurs and we institutions for advice, RBS Coutts launched a new private banking are committed to growing our share of that market.
One of the ways we proposition with them specifically in mind.
As part of the RBS Coutts did this in 2009 was by publishing new research about an issue that is Woman initiative, we sponsored the Women in Asia awards, which aim hugely important to our entrepreneurial clients: how they exit from their to promote, inspire and recognise the growing ranks of successful business.
The Long Goodbye myths, realities and insights into the women in business.
business exits process drew on the experiences of some of the UKs successful entrepreneurs as well as experts from academia and Coutts.
We also took some hard financial decisions to support clients by The reports key message was simple: plan ahead.
More than that, investing in the business.
One of The RBS Groups biggest investments The Long Goodbye included concrete guidance about the practical in 2009 was in Wealth Management, with multimillion pound funding to steps you need to take if you are looking to leave a business that you roll out a new technology platform across the business.
It is part of the have built-up.
Wealth Management Platform Programme and will revolutionise how our private bankers support their clients.
This will also be the first time Adam Coutts continued to invest in groundbreaking research to enhance its & Company, Coutts and RBS Coutts will be on a single global platform.
In November, we published the Coutts Million Pound Our private bankers will have a single view of each client and the number Donors report, in association with the Centre of Philanthropy at the of administrative tasks they have to undertake will diminish.
This will make University of Kent.
It showed the resilience of philanthropy despite them more productive, reduce our costs and, we hope, enhance the economic difficulties.
It will also give us much better management information and will support all of our major brands.
Coutts has a tradition of supporting the performing arts that goes back 300 years.
We continued this in 2009 as we became the principal sponsor of the Almeida Theatre for the seventh year running.
Also in 2009, we sponsored the National Theatres sold-out performance of Phedre, which starred Dame Helen Mirren.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27
