GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 50 Presentation of information In the Report and Accounts, and unless specified otherwise, the term International Financial Reporting Standards company means The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, RBS or the As required by the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the European Group means the company and its subsidiaries, the Royal Bank Union IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial statements of the means The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and NatWest means National Group are prepared in accordance with International Financial Westminster Bank Plc.
Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the International Financial The company publishes its financial statements in pounds sterling or Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB together IFRS as sterling.
The abbreviations m and bn represent millions and adopted by the European Union.
They also comply with IFRS as issued thousands of millions of pounds sterling, respectively, and references to by the IASB.
pence represent pence in the United Kingdom UK.
Reference to dollars or $ are to United States of America US dollars.
The Acquisition of ABN AMRO abbreviations $m and $bn represent millions and thousands of On 17 October 2007, RFS Holdings B. V. RFS Holdings, a company millions of dollars, respectively, and references to cents represent jointly owned by RBS, Fortis Bank Nederland Holding N. V. Fortis cents in the US.
The abbreviation represents the euro, the European and Banco Santander S. A. Santander together the Consortium single currency, and the abbreviations m and bn represent millions Members and controlled by RBS, completed the acquisition of ABN and thousands of millions of euros, respectively.
Certain information in this report is presented separately for domestic On 3 October 2008, the State of the Netherlands acquired Fortis Bank and foreign activities.
Domestic activities primarily consist of the UK Nederland Holding N. V. including the Fortis participation in RFS domestic transactions of the Group.
Foreign activities comprise the Holdings that represents the acquired activities of ABN AMRO and their Groups transactions conducted through those offices in the UK participation in Dutch insurance activities.
specifically organised to service international banking transactions and transactions conducted through offices outside the UK.
RFS Holdings is implementing an orderly separation of the business units of ABN AMRO with RBS retaining the following ABN AMRO The geographic analysis in the average balance sheet and interest business units: rates, changes in net interest income and average interest rates, yields, spreads and margins in this report have been compiled on the basis of Continuing businesses of Business Unit North America: location of office UK and overseas.
Management believes that this presentation provides more useful information on the Groups yields, Business Unit Global Clients and wholesale clients in the spreads and margins of the Groups activities than would be provided Netherlands including former Dutch wholesale clients and Latin by presentation on the basis of the domestic and foreign activities America excluding Brazil : analysis used elsewhere in this report as it more closely reflects the basis on which the Group is managed.
UK in this context includes Business Unit Asia excluding Saudi Hollandi : and domestic transactions and transactions conducted through the offices in the UK which service international banking transactions.
Business Unit Europe excluding Antonveneta.
The results, assets and liabilities of individual business units are Certain other assets will continue to be shared by the Consortium classified as trading or non-trading based on their predominant activity.
Although this method may result in some non-trading activity being classified as trading, and vice versa, the Group believes that any In preparation for the divestment of the ABN AMRO businesses to be resulting misclassification is not material.
acquired by the Dutch State, on 6 February 2010, these businesses were legally demerged from the RBS acquired businesses.
As a result, there are now two separate banks within ABN AMRO Holding N. V. : The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. and a new entity named ABN AMRO Bank N. V. each licensed separately by the Dutch Central Bank.
Both banks continue to be governed by the current managing and supervisory boards of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. until the legal separation of the new ABN AMRO Bank N. V. from ABN AMRO Holding N. V.. 50 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
