GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:29 Page 230 Directors remuneration report continued Service contracts companys normal disciplinary procedure, and terms for dismissal in the The companys policy in relation to the duration of contracts with event of failure to perform or in situations involving actions in breach of directors is that executive directors contracts generally continue until the Groups policies and standards.
termination by either party, subject to the required notice, or until retirement.
The notice period under the service contracts of executive Any compensation payment made in connection with the departure of directors will not normally exceed 12 months.
In relation to newly an executive director will be subject to approval by the Remuneration recruited executive directors, subject to the prior approval of the Committee, having regard to the terms of the service contract and the Remuneration Committee, the notice period may be extended beyond reasons for termination.
Any Board members who leave the company in 12 months if there is a clear case for this.
Where a longer period of the future will receive a severance package which is reasonable and notice is initially approved on appointment, it will normally be structured perceived as fair.
such that it will automatically reduce to 12 months in due course.
No compensation payment was made to Guy Whittaker in respect of his All new service contracts for executive directors are subject to approval ceasing to be a director.
Those contracts normally include standard clauses covering the performance review process, the Information regarding directors service contracts is shown below: Date of Notice period Notice period current contract from company from executive Executive directors Stephen Hester 4 November 2008 12 months 12 months Gordon Pell 20 February 2006 12 months 6 months Bruce Van Saun 1 8 September 2009 12 months 12 months Former executive directors Guy Whittaker 2 19 December 2005 12 months 12 months Notes: 1 Appointed as a director on 1 October 2009.
2 Ceased to be a director on 30 September 2009.
Except as noted below, in the event of severance where any contractual Gordon Pell notice period is not worked, the employing company may pay a sum to Gordon Pell will retire from employment of the Group on 31 March 2010. the executive in lieu of the notice period.
In the event of situations In the event that Gordon Pells employment has been terminated by involving breach of the employing companys policies resulting in notice, any payment in lieu of notice would have been based on salary dismissal, reduced or no payments may be made to the executive.
only i. e. not bonus or benefits.
Gordon Pell is a member of The Royal Depending on the circumstances of the termination of employment, the Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund the RBS Fund and is executive may be entitled, or the Remuneration Committee may exercise contractually entitled to receive all pension benefits in accordance with its discretion to allow, the executive to exercise outstanding awards its terms which apply to all members.
The RBS Fund rules allow all under long-term incentive arrangements subject to the rules of the members, including executive directors, who retire early at the request relevant plan.
of their employer to receive a pension based on accrued service with no discount applied for early retirement.
Gordon Pell attained his normal Stephen Hester pension age of 60, according to the rules of the Group Pension Fund, In the event that Stephen Hesters employment is terminated by the on 23 February 2010 and from that date, no discount applies on company other than by reason of his personal underperformance, the payment of his pension.
First, he will be entitled to receive a payment in lieu of notice to the value of base salary, bonus and benefits including Bruce Van Saun pension contributions.
Secondly, any share awards granted to him to In the event Bruce Van Sauns employment is terminated by reason of replace bonus and share awards he forfeited on leaving The British his personal underperformance, the company is entitled to terminate by Land Company PLC will vest immediately on such termination.
giving written notice with immediate effect and without making any payment in lieu of notice.
Any payment in lieu of notice that may be If Stephen Hesters employment is terminated by reason of his personal made to Bruce Van Saun would be based on salary only i. e. not bonus underperformance, the company is entitled to terminate by giving or benefits.
written notice with immediate effect and without making any payment in lieu thereof and Stephen Hester will forfeit any unvested stock awards.
If The company has agreed that, provided certain conditions are met, on he resigns voluntarily and the company does not require him to work out leaving employment, Bruce Van Saun will not forfeit awards under the his notice period, Stephen Hester may receive a payment in lieu of rules of the Deferral Plan, the MPP and the ESOP.
notice based on salary only i. e. no bonus or benefits and he will also forfeit any unvested stock awards.
230 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
