GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:29 Page 227 Governance the primary requirement for awards to vest is that the Remuneration Some employees continue to participate in defined benefit Committee should be satisfied that risk management during the arrangements.
The following two changes have been made to the main performance period has been effective at a Group and division defined benefit pension plans: functional level.
The Remuneration Committees determination will be informed by input from the Groups Board Risk Committee and the a yearly limit on the amount of any salary increase that will count for Chief Risk Officer.
Specifically, prior to vesting, the Remuneration pension purposes: and Committee will have regard to risk and compliance across the Group and divisions and make an assessment of future risks as a reduction in the severance lump sum for those who take an appropriate.
It will also review whether there are any individual or immediate undiscounted pension for redundancy.
more general cases where clawback should be operated: Executive remuneration policy for participants below Board level, vesting of share and option Components of executive directors remuneration 2010 awards will be based on delivery of the strategic plan.
Performance Salary will be considered against metrics that reflect the five strategic tests Base salaries of executive directors are reviewed annually.
It has been in the strategic plan including: agreed that no increases in base salaries will be made as part of the 2010 review.
risk measures returns Benefits efficiency Executive directors are eligible to receive various employee benefits or a growth cash equivalent from a flexible benefits account, on a similar basis to customer franchise measure other employees.
For the most senior roles, vesting will be based partly on divisional or Details of pension arrangements of directors are shown on page 236. functional performance and partly on performance across RBS Executive directors also receive death-in-service cover.
From a behavioural perspective, the Remuneration Committee must also be satisfied that financial results have been achieved For all executive directors joining on or after 1 October 2006, pension without excessive risk.
The Remuneration Committee will consider provision is in the form of a pension allowance which may be used to both the financial performance and risk information and assess participate in The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Retirement Savings Plan whether it considers that the outcome driven by the metrics on which which is open to all employees, or to invest in alternative pension the vesting of share awards depends is appropriate against this arrangements, or to take all or some of the allowance in cash.
In addition, context: as employees, executive directors are eligible to participate in Sharesave and Buy As You Earn Plans.
These plans are not subject to performance for awards granted in 2010, performance will be measured over a conditions since they are operated on an all-employee basis.
three year period, and the Remuneration Committee will review this approach for future years awards: and The 2008 Report and Accounts reported on the pension paid to the former Group Chief Executive, Sir Fred Goodwin, on his retirement from clawback will apply to all awards.
This allows the Remuneration the Group on 31 January 2009.
Following discussions between Sir Fred Committee to retrospectively limit any compensation at the time of and the Group, he volunteered to make a substantial reduction to his vesting if it considers that the performance factors on which reward pension to the level of 342,500 a year.
decisions were based have later turned out not to reflect the corresponding performance in the long-term.
Gordon Pell will retire from the Group and the Board on 31 March 2010, shortly after his normal pension age of 60.
Details of his pension are Pension arrangements shown in this report.
As agreed by the Board in 2005 his pension is The Group provides competitive retirement benefits in a manner that based on his 39 years of service with Lloyds TSB and the Group, part does not create an unacceptable level of risk for the Group.
New of which has been funded by a transfer payment from a Lloyds TSB employees are eligible for a cash allowance in lieu of pension provision pension plan.
and the facility to choose to have part of their remuneration in the form of contributions to The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Retirement Following Gordon Pells retirement, no current director will be a member Savings Plan.
of one of the Groups final salary pension plans.
The RBS Group Pension Fund is closed to employees, including executive directors, joining the Group after 30 September 2006.
Any new executive director would only be a member if he or she is already a current employee who is a member of the plan.
The provision for an undiscounted pension on early retirement at employer request would not apply to any executive director appointed in the future.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 227
