Corporate Sustainability What is Corporate Sustainability and why does it matter?
We have always aimed to ensure that our business has a positive impact on society and that we support the communities in which we operate.
Our difficulties in recent years now mean that it is more important than ever for us to demonstrate this.
Given the public investment in RBS, there is considerable scrutiny understandably of how we manage issues such as treating customers fairly, support for enterprise, job losses, and our impact on the environment.
Whilst we are able to build on many years of good work in areas such as financial education, we recognise that there is always more we can do, and that we need to work hard to rebuild trust in our business.
Sustainability in practice: day-to-day examples Our approach across the five key themes To increase the profile of sustainability across our business and Fair banking enhance the governance of our strategy, we have established a new We are committed to developing customer relationships that last.
Group Corporate Sustainability Committee, which is chaired by Sandy There are four key strands to doing this: responsible lending practices: Crombie, and has representation from our key business areas.
It meets customer service: financial education: and financial inclusion.
at least twice a year and oversees our approach to sustainability throughout the Group.
Responsible lending practices Responsible lending continued to be a top priority for all stakeholders We are focusing our work on five key themes, which we know from during 2009 and key issues were the availability and affordability of ongoing consultation to be of particular importance to our many credit and support for customers in financial difficulty.
In July 2009, we voluntarily extended the credit card 30 Day Breathing Space commitment to all NatWest and RBS unsecured Fair banking personal loans and overdrafts, which provides time for customers struggling to make their regular repayments to receive money advice Supporting enterprise and consider their options.
Employee engagement We launched a unique on-line tool which is designed to encourage customers to save.
Launched in December 2009, the tool allows Safety and security customers to work out a savings plan for their specific goal and shows customers the progress made and if they are saving enough.
Global citizenship We made a series of reductions to charges and fees for unarranged borrowing.
The fee for returning a cheque, direct debit or standing First and foremost, we drive action on these themes through the order was reduced to 5.
The fee for paying an item when overdrawn day-to-day work of our business units, to ensure that we are operating was cut by half to 15 per day.
Over the next few pages, we outline what that means in practice, with a selection of examples for each of Customer service our five themes of sustainability.
We have listened to our customers views and we are making significant changes to ensure that customers are always put first.
In some areas, however, we believe we should go beyond what we achieve in our business units.
Alongside our day-to-day activities, we We will launch a Customer Charter in 2010 that makes clear commitmentshave established a number of dedicated programmes that we back up to our customers about how we will deal with them to deliver helpful with additional resources see page 47 for more details on our banking and how we will support the communities we serve.
In August 2009 we commenced a programme to replace all Maestro, Solo and Laser debit cards with Visa Debit cards.
Customers are benefiting from a higher level of purchase protection.
44 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
