GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 151-173. qxp:GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 15 3 10 09:23 Page 161 Business review Risk, capital and liquidity management Market risk Historical simulation VaR may not provide the best estimate of future All the disclosures in this section pages 161 to 166 are audited unless market movements.
It can only provide a prediction of the future indicated otherwise with an asterisk.
based on events that occurred in the time series horizon.
Therefore, events that are more severe than those in the historical data series Market risk arises from changes in interest rates, foreign currency, credit cannot be predicted: spread, equity prices and risk related factors such as market volatilities.
The Group manages market risk centrally within its trading and nonVaR that uses a 99% confidence level does not reflect the extent of trading portfolios through a comprehensive market risk management potential losses beyond that percentile: framework.
This framework includes limits based on, but not limited to VaR, scenario analysis, position and sensitivity analyses.
VaR that uses a one-day time horizon will not fully capture the profit and loss implications of positions that cannot be liquidated or Measurement hedged within one day: and At the Group level, the risk appetite is expressed in the form of a combination of VaR, sensitivity and scenario limits.
VaR is a technique The Group computes the VaR of trading portfolios at the close of that produces estimates of the potential change in the market value of a business.
Positions may change substantially during the course of portfolio over a specified time horizon at given confidence levels.
For the trading day and intra-day profit and losses will be incurred.
internal risk management purposes, the Groups VaR assumes a time horizon of one trading day and in June 2009 the Group changed its VaR A Risks not in VaR framework has been developed to address those confidence level from 95% to 99% as it considers this provides greater market risks not adequately captured by the market standard VaR clarity in respect of more severe potential economic outcomes.
Where risks are not included in the model, various nonGroups VAR model is based on a historical simulation model utilising VaR controls for example, position monitoring, sensitivity limits, triggers data from the previous two years trading results.
or stress limits are in place.
The Group continued to update and enhance its market risk These limitations mean that the Group cannot guarantee that losses will management framework during 2009.
In addition to the move to a VaR not exceed the VaR.
based on a 99% confidence level, the Group has improved and strengthened its market risk limit framework increasing the transparency Traded portfolios of market risk taken across the Groups businesses in both the trading The primary focus of the Groups trading activities is client facilitation.
The Group also undertakes activities within the Core division of the wholesale bank, built around clients in chosen markets, including: The Groups market risk appetite is defined within this limit framework which is cascaded down through legal entity, division, business and Market making quoting firm bid buy and offer sell prices with the ultimately trader level market risk limits.
intention of profiting from the spread between the quotes.
The VaR disclosure is broken down into trading and non-trading, where Arbitrage entering into offsetting positions in different, but closely trading VaR relates to the main trading activities of the Group and nonrelated markets in order to profit from market imperfections.
trading reflects the VaR associated with reclassified assets, money market business and the management of internal funds flow within the Proprietary activity taking positions in financial instruments as Groups businesses.
principal in order to take advantage of anticipated market conditions.
As part of the strategic review, the designation of assets between Core Financial instruments held in the Groups trading portfolios include, but and Non-Core divisions was completed during 2009.
As the Non-Core are not limited to: debt securities, loans, deposits, equities, securities division was not established until conclusion of the strategic review in sale and repurchase agreements and derivative financial instruments the first quarter of 2009, constitution of the average, maximum and futures, forwards, swaps and options.
minimum VaR for Core and Non-Core has been prepared on a best efforts basis as these measures require daily data.
The Group participates in exchange traded and over-the-counter OTC derivatives markets.
The Group buys and sells financial instruments that The Group calculates VaR using historical simulation models but does are traded or cleared on an exchange, including interest rate swaps, not make any assumption about the nature or type of underlying loss futures and options.
Holders of exchange traded instruments provide distribution other than implied by history.
The methodology uses the daily margins with cash or other security at the exchange, to which the previous 500 trading days of market data and calculates both general holders look for ultimate settlement.
market risk the risk due to movement in general market benchmarks and idiosyncratic market risk the risk due to movements in the value of The Group also buys and sells financial instruments that are traded securities by reference to specific issuers.
The Group VaR should be OTC, rather than on a recognised exchange.
These instruments range interpreted in light of the limitations of the methodology used as follows: from commoditised transactions in derivative markets, to trades where the specific terms are tailored to the requirements of the Groups customers.
In many cases, industry standard documentation is used, most commonly in the form of a master agreement, with individual transaction confirmations.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 161 GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 151-173. qxp:GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 15 3 10 09:23 Page 162 Business review continued Market risk continued market risk function.
Group Risk provides an independent evaluation of Assets and liabilities in the trading book are measured at their fair value.
the model for transactions deemed by the Group Model Product Review Fair value is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in Committee GMPRC to be large, complex and or innovative.
Any profits a current transaction between willing parties.
The fair values are or losses on the revaluation of positions are recognised in the daily determined following IAS 39 guidance, which requires banks to use profit and loss.
quoted market prices or valuation techniques models that make the maximum use of observable inputs.
When marking to market using a The VaR for the Groups 2009 trading portfolios segregated by type of model, the valuation methodologies are reviewed and approved by the market risk exposure is shown below.
Daily VaR graph Note: 1 The traded market risk VaR excludes super senior tranches of asset backed CDOs and credit derivative product company exposures.
Key points The credit spread VaR increased significantly during May 2009 due The average total VaR utilisation increased in 2009 compared with to the purchasing of additional protection against the risk of 2008 largely as a result of increased market volatility experienced counterparty failure on CDPCs exposures.
As this counterparty risk since the credit crisis began in August 2007 being more fully is itself not in VaR these hedges have the effect of increasing the incorporated into the two year time series used by the VaR model.
This volatility had a marked impact on the credit spread VaR.
This increase is partially off-set by a reduction in trading book exposure The credit spread VaR decreased significantly at the end of August throughout the period, due to a reduction in the size of the inventory 2009 due to the positions relating to CDPCs being capitalised under held on the balance sheet as a result of sales, reclassification of the Pillar II approach and hence excluded from the VaR measure assets to the non-trading book and write-downs.
unaudited 162 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 151-173. qxp:GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 15 3 10 09:23 Page 163 Business review Risk, capital and liquidity management The Counterparty Exposure Management CEM trading book The average total non-trading VaR utilisation was higher in 2009 at exposure and the exposure of Core without CEM have been 207 million, compared with 15 million in 2008.
This is primarily due disclosed separately.
CEM manages the OTC derivative counterparty to assets from the Group's now dissolved securitisation arbitrage credit risk in GBM, by actively controlling risk concentrations and conduit, which transferred from ABN AMRO to RBS, being included reducing unwanted risk exposures.
The hedging transactions CEM in the Groups VaR measure from January 2009 and the increased enters into are recorded in the trading book, and therefore contribute market volatility being incorporated into the two year time series as to the market risk VaR exposure of the Group.
If both of these factors are excluded, the nontrading VaR would decrease to reflect actions taken through the The counterparty exposures themselves are not captured in VaR for course of the year to dynamically reduce the underlying risk regulatory capital.
In the interest of transparency CEM trading book sensitivity.
Where page excludes exposures to super-senior tranches of asset backed pricing models are used as the basis of books and records valuations, CDOs, as VaR does not produce an appropriate measure of risk for they are all subject to independent review and sign-off.
Models are these exposures due to the illiquidity and opaqueness of the pricing of assessed by GMPRC as having either immaterial or material model risk these instruments over an extended period.
For these exposures, the valuation uncertainty arising from choice of modelling assumptions, maximum potential loss is equal to the aggregate net exposure, which the assessment being made on the basis of expert judgement.
was 910 million as at 31 December 2009.
Those models assessed by the GMPRC as having material model risk The 2009 data in the tables on the previous page also excludes the are prioritised for independent quantitative review.
Independent exposures relating to CDPCs from the end of August 2009 when they quantitative review aims to quantify model risk i. e. the impact of missing were excluded from VaR and were capitalised under a Pillar II risk factors in the front office model or the possibility that we may be approach.
mismarking these products relative to other market participants who may be using an alternative model by comparing model outputs against RBS Sempra Commodities LLP Sempra, the  alternative independently developed models.
The results of independent joint venture between RBS and Sempra Energy, was formed on 1 April quantitative reviews are used by market risk to inform risk limits and by 2008, and its trading risks were included in the disclosed VaR from that finance to inform reserves.
Governance over this process is provided by date.
Sempra is designated as Non-Core in the 2009 data.
GMPRC, a forum which brings together front office quantative analysts, market risk, finance and QuaRC Quantitative Research Centre, Group The trading and non-trading VaR for 2007 is shown on the basis it was Risks independent quantitative model review function.
Risk market risk, previously disclosed at a 95% confidence level and using a normalised incremental default risk, counterparty credit risk models are developed scaling factor to convert to 99% confidence level.
both within business units and by Group functions.
Risk models are also subject to independent review and sign-off.
Meetings are held with the Non trading VaR in the tables on the previous page does not include FSA every quarter to discuss the traded market risk, including changes structural interest rate risk which is covered on page 165. in models, management, back testing results, other risks not included in the VaR framework and other model performance statistics.
Back-testing, stress testing and sensitivity analysis The Group undertakes a programme of daily back-testing, which compares Risk control the actual profit or loss realised in trading activity to the VaR estimation.
The All divisions that are exposed to market risk in the course of their results of the back-testing process are one of the methods by which the business are required to comply with the Groups Market Risk Policy Group monitors the ongoing suitability of its VaR model.
The main risk management tools are delegated authorities, hard limits and discussion triggers, independent model The Group undertakes daily stress testing to identify the potential losses valuation, a robust and efficient risk system and timely and accurate in excess of VaR.
Stress testing is used to calculate a range of trading management information.
book exposures which result from exceptional, but plausible market events.
Stress testing measures the impact of abnormal changes in Limits form part of the dealing authorities and constitute one of the market rates and prices on the fair value of the Groups trading portfolios.
cornerstones of the market risk management framework.
Upon The Group calculates historical stress tests and hypothetical stress tests.
notification of a limit breach, the appropriate body must take one of the following actions: Historical stress tests calculate the loss that would be generated if the market movements that occurred during historical market events were Instructions can be given to reduce positions so as to bring the repeated.
Hypothetical stress tests calculate the loss that would be Group within the agreed limits: generated if a specific set of adverse market movements were to occur.
A temporary increase in the limit can be granted to pursue an Stress testing is also undertaken at key trading strategy level, for those agreed short-term strategy: and strategies where the associated market risks are not adequately captured by VaR.
Stress test exposures are discussed with senior A permanent increase in the limit can be granted if consistent with management and are reported to GRC, ERF and the Board.
Breaches in the strategy and supported by the business and Risk Management.
the Groups market risk stress testing limits are monitored and reported.
Non-traded portfolios In addition to VaR and stress testing, the Group calculates a wide range Risks in non-traded portfolios mainly arise in retail and commercial of sensitivity and position risk measures, for example interest rate banking assets and liabilities and financial investments designated as ladders or option revaluation matrices.
These measures provide valuable available-for-sale and held-to-maturity.
additional controls, often at individual desk or strategy level.
Group Treasury is responsible for setting and monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of management, using a framework that identifies, measures, monitors and controls the underlying risk.
GALCO approves the Groups non-traded market risk appetite, expressed as statistical and non-statistical risk limits, which are delegated to the businesses responsible.
164 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 151-173. qxp:GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 15 3 10 09:23 Page 165 Business review Risk, capital and liquidity management Various banking regulators review non-trading market risks as part of Risk is managed within VaR limits approved by GALCO, through the their regulatory oversight.
As home country regulator, the FSA has execution of cash and derivative instruments see Note 13 on the responsibility for reviewing non-trading market risk at a Group accounts, on page 294.
Execution of the hedging is carried out by the consolidated level.
relevant division through the Groups treasury functions.
The residual risk position is reported to divisional asset and liability committees, The Group is exposed to the following non-traded risks: GALCO and the Board.
Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book IRRBB represents exposures to Foreign Exchange Risk in the Banking Book FXRBB represents instruments whose values vary with the level or volatility of interest rates.
exposures to changes in the values of current holdings and future cash These instruments include, but are not limited to, loans, debt securities, flows denominated in other currencies.
Hedging instruments used to equity shares, deposits, certificates of deposits, loan capital and mitigate these risks include foreign currency options, currency swaps, derivatives.
Hedging instruments used to mitigate these risks include futures, forwards and deposits.
Foreign exchange risk results from the related derivatives such as options, futures, forwards and swaps.
Groups investments in overseas subsidiaries, associates and branches Interest rate risk arises from the Groups non-trading activities in four in three principal forms: principal forms: Structural foreign currency exposures that arise from net investment Re-pricing risk arises from differences in the re-pricing terms of the in overseas subsidiaries, associates and branches: Groups assets and liabilities: Transactional commercial foreign currency exposures that arise from Optionality arises where a customer has an option to exit a deal early: mismatches in the currency balance sheet: and Basis risk arises, for example where liabilities, the interest on which Foreign currency profit streams.
is linked to LIBOR, is used to fund assets bearing interest linked to the base rate: and Equity Risk in the Banking Book ERBB is defined as the potential variation in the Groups non-trading income and reserves arising from Yield curve risk arises as a result of non-parallel changes in the changes in equity prices income.
This risk may crystallise during the yield curve.
course of normal business activities or in stressed market conditions.
Equity positions in the Groups banking book are retained to achieve It is the Groups policy to minimise the sensitivity to changes in interest strategic objectives, support venture capital transactions or in respect rates in its retail and commercial businesses and, where interest rate of customer restructuring arrangements.
risk is retained, to ensure that appropriate resources, measures and limits are applied.
The commercial decision to invest in equity holdings, including customer restructurings, is taken by authorised persons with delegated authority Non-trading interest rate risk is calculated in each business on the basis under the Group credit approval framework.
Investments or disposals of of establishing the re-pricing behaviour of each asset, liability and offa strategic nature are referred to the Group Acquisitions and Disposal balance sheet product.
For many retail and commercial products, the Committee ADCo, Group Executive Committee ExCo and where actual interest rate re-pricing characteristics differ from the contractual appropriate the Board for approval: those involving the purchase or sale re-pricing.
In most cases, the re-pricing maturity is determined by the by the Group of subsidiary companies also require Board approval, market interest rate that most closely fits the historical behaviour of the after consideration by ExCo and ADCo.
For non-interest bearing current accounts, the repricing maturity is determined by the stability of the portfolio.
The reStructural interest rate risk pricing maturities used are approved by Group Treasury and divisional Non-trading interest rate VaR for the Groups retail and commercial asset and liability committees at least annually.
Key conventions are banking activities at a 99% confidence level was 101.3 million at 31 reviewed annually by GALCO.
During 2009, the maximum VaR was 123.2 million 2008 197.4 million, the minimum was 53.3 Non-trading interest rate exposures are controlled by limiting repricing million 2008 76.7 million and the average was 85.5 million 2008 mismatches in the individual business balance sheets.
exposures to interest rate movements in the medium to longterm are measured and controlled using a version of the same VaR methodology A breakdown of the Groups non-trading VaR including RFS Holdings that is used for the Groups trading portfolios.
Net accrual income minority interests by currency is shown below.
exposures are measured and controlled in terms of sensitivity over time to movements in interest rates.
2009 2008 m m EUR 32.2 30.9 GBP 111.2 26.0 USD 42.1 57.9 Other 9.0 14.0 At year end the GBP VaR was increased by the impact of the B share issuance.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 165 GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 151-173. qxp:GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 15 3 10 09:23 Page 166 Business review continued Market risk continued mortgage prepayment and competitive deposit pricing behaviour than a Structural interest rate risk continued VaR-based methodology.
IRRBB is managed within approved limits on Citizens Economic Value of Equity EVE interest rate risk, liquidity and capitalisation, with a goal of optimising Generally, Citizens is the main contributor to overall non-trading interest yield.
Citizens aims, through its management of market risk in nontrading portfolios, to mitigate the effect of prospective interest In addition to net interest income sensitivity Citizens also measures the movements which could reduce future net interest income, whilst sensitivity of the value of the net interest margin to changes in interest balancing the cost of such hedging activities on the current net revenue rates on a monthly basis.
This measure is called EVE sensitivity.
To do so it uses a variety of income simulation and valuation risk table below details this sensitivity at the end of 2009 and the maximum measures that more effectively capture the risk to earnings due to and minimum month-end figures.
Percent increase decrease in CFG EVE 1 2% parallel 2% parallel upward downward movement movement in US in US interest rates interest rates 2 Period end 4.3 23.4 Maximum 4.3 24.6 Minimum 4.6 18.4 Average 0.8 22.2 Notes: 1 Economic value of equity is the net present value NPV of assets and liabilities calculated by discounting expected cash flows of each instrument over its expected life.
Risk to EVE is quantified by calculating the impact of interest rate changes on the net present value of equity and is expressed as a percentage of CFG regulatory capital.
Sensitivity of net interest income income, whilst balancing the cost of such hedging activities on the There have been no material changes to the Groups measurement of, current net revenue stream.
and management philosophy towards, sensitivity of net interest income to movement in interest rates.
The Group aims to be relatively neutral to The following table shows the sensitivity of net interest income over directional shifts in interest rates.
It seeks to mitigate the effect of the next twelve months to an immediate up and down 1% change to all prospective interest movements which could reduce future net interest interest rates.
2009 2008 m m 100bp shift in yield curves 510 139 100bp shift in yield curves 687 234 The base case projected net interest income is based on the Groups The Groups asset sensitive position has increased in 2009.
The primary current balance sheet, forwards rate paths implied by the yield curve as contributors to the change are enhanced modelling of embedded at 31 December 2009 and using contractual repricing dates.
Where deposit floors, active position management to benefit from the impact of contractual repricing dates are not held an estimate of the likely timing a tightening US monetary policy regime by Citizens Financial Group and and extent of any rate change is used.
The projection also includes the the impact of not fully hedging the interest rate exposure related to the expected effects of behavioural options such as the prepayment of APS capital proceeds which were received in late December.
The projections do not take into account the effect on net interest The above sensitivities show how this projected net interest income would income of anticipated differences in changes between interest rates change in response to an immediate parallel shift to all market rates.
and interest rates linked to other bases such as central bank rates or product rates for which the entity has discretion over the timing and The scenarios used are simplified in that they assume all interest rates extent of rate changes.
The projections make other simplifying for all currencies and maturities move at the same time and by the same assumptions, including that all positions run to maturity and that there amount and therefore do not reflect the potential effect on net interest are no negative interest rates.
income of some rates changing whilst others remain the same.
The scenarios also do not incorporate actions that would be taken by the business units to mitigate the effect of this interest rate risk.
unaudited 166 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 151-173. qxp:GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 15 3 10 09:23 Page 167 Business review Risk, capital and liquidity management Currency risk Foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign The Group does not maintain material non-trading open currency operations are recognised directly in equity, together with the effective positions other than the structural foreign currency translation exposures portion of foreign exchange differences arising on hedging instruments.
arising from its investments in foreign subsidiaries and associated undertakings and their related currency funding.
The Groups policy in Equity classification of foreign currency denominated preference share relation to structural positions is to match fund the structural foreign issuances means that these shares are recorded on the balance sheet currency exposure arising from net asset value, including goodwill in at historical cost.
Consequently, these share issuances have the effect foreign subsidiaries, equity accounted investments and branches, of increasing the Groups structural foreign currency position.
except where doing so would materially increase the sensitivity of either the Groups or the subsidiarys regulatory capital ratios to currency The tables below set out the Groups structural foreign currency movements.
The policy requires structural foreign exchange positions to exposures: be reviewed regularly by the Group Asset and Liability Committee.
investments are recognised directly in equity.
These movements in equity would off-set retranslation effects on the Changes in foreign currency exchange rates will affect equity in Group's foreign currency denominated RWAs, reducing the proportion to the structural foreign currency exposure.
A 5% sensitivity of the Group's Tier 1 capital ratio to movements in foreign strengthening in foreign currencies against sterling would result in a currency exchange rates.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 167 GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 151-173. qxp:GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 15 3 10 09:23 Page 168 Business review continued Market risk continued The types, nature and amounts of exchange-traded exposures, private Equity risk equity exposures, and other exposures vary significantly.
Such Equity positions are measured at fair value.
Fair value calculations are exposures may take the form of listed and unlisted equity shares, linked based on available market prices wherever possible.
In the event that equity fund investments, private equity and venture capital investments, market prices are not available, fair value is based on appropriate preference shares classified as equity and Federal Home Loan Stock.
valuation techniques or management estimates.
The table below sets out the Groups banking book equity exposures at 31 December 2009.
Listed Unlisted Total Equity exposures 1 m m m Group before RFS Holdings minority interest 401 2,388 2,789 RFS Holdings minority interest 60 211 271 Group 461 2,599 3,060 Note: 1 Excludes equity exposures held-for-trading purposes and by insurance assurance entities.
Risk control stipulated by Group Treasury.
For FXRBB, the Group policy states that The prime risk control mechanism for non-traded market risk exposures any foreign currency exposure is managed to fide-minimus limits.
Group is the completion of monthly or quarterly IRRBB and quarterly FXRBB Treasury monitors adherence to this policy by way of a quarterly return.
returns by the Groups business units, collated as part of month-end reporting by Group Treasury to GALCO.
For both IRRBB and FXRBB, information is included in regulatory and statutory returns.
Financial control functions are required to confirm to Group Treasury that returns materially capture all balance sheet items and thus Group Market Risk exercise independent oversight and governance of the reconcile to core source systems.
interest rate and foreign exchange exposures managed in Group Treasury by granting market risk limits in addition to authorising Group Treasury to Monthly or quarterly returns by the Groups business units, collated as deal in specific instruments for the purpose of managing the Group's part of regular reporting by Group Treasury to GALCO, are used to non-trading interest rate and foreign exchange exposures.
All market risk build a Group IRRBB VaR position and to ensure businesses comply methodologies that relate to limits specified under this delegated authority with materiality limits on a pre and post hedge basis for interest rates, as are applied under the direction of Group Market Risk.
unaudited 168 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
