GRA 3 Risk Part1A 09 117-150. qxp:GRA 3 Risk Part1A 09 15 3 10 09:22 Page 117 Business review Risk, capital and liquidity management Risk, capital and liquidity management Enhancements have been made to a number of the risk frameworks, On pages 117 to 206 of the Business review certain information has including: been audited and is part of the Groups financial statements as permitted by IFRS 7.
Other disclosures are unaudited and labelled with A new credit approval process has been introduced during the year, an asterisk.
Key points within this section generally relate to the based on a pairing of business and risk managers authorised to Group before RFS Holdings minority interest.
This replaced the former credit committee process: Overview Exposure to higher risk countries has been reduced and a new risk Conditions during the year continued to prove challenging as the limits framework has been implemented across the Group: ongoing deterioration in economic conditions and financial markets seen during 2008 continued into 2009.
Market stress peaked during the first Single name and sector wide credit concentrations continue to quarter of 2009 with broad improvement since then.
This reflects a receive a high level of attention and further enhancements to the global effort by many governments and central banks to ease monetary frameworks were agreed in the fourth quarter of the year: conditions, increase liquidity within the financial system and support banks with a combination of increased capital, guarantees and In addition to the move to value-at-risk VaR based on a 99% strengthened deposit insurance.
One resulting benefit for banks confidence level, from 95%, the Group has improved and generally has been a significant improvement in the liquidity of money strengthened its market risk limit framework increasing the and debt markets.
At the same time, regulatory oversight of the banking transparency of market risk taken across the Groups businesses in sector has increased globally and is expected to continue at a both the trading and non-trading portfolios: heightened level.
The Groups funding and liquidity profile is supported by explicit More recently, the major economies have started to demonstrate a targets and metrics to control the size and extent of both short-term gradually improving macroeconomic position, although conditions and long-term liquidity risk: and remain fragile.
Areas of particular uncertainty include possible effects from governments ending their financial stimulus initiatives and central An improved reporting programme has been implemented to banks moving to exit from positions of historically very low interest rates, increase transparency and improve the management of risk as well as reversing quantitative easing.
These look likely to occur exposures.
against a backdrop of heightened personal and corporate insolvency as well as rising unemployment.
Credit impairments in 2009 were materially higher than the previous year.
As the year progressed, the level of impairments moderated, with The Group has been developing and adapting to an evolving economic the highest quarterly charge incurred in the second quarter.
It is environment, against a background of the strategic review which expected that the results for 2010 and 2011 will continue to be affected includes a clearly stated ambition to achieve standalone strength.
The by a heightened level of credit impairments as exposures in the Noncore aims of the strategic plan are to improve the risk profile of the Core division are managed down and the economic environment Group and to reposition the balance sheet around the Groups core continues to impact the Core business.
The risk weightings applied to strengths.
The Group level risk appetite statements and limits have been assets are also expected to increase due to procyclicality and as a reviewed to ensure they are in line with the strategy.
Any potential areas result the amount of capital that banks generally are required to hold of misalignment between risk appetite and the Group strategy have will increase.
Future regulatory changes are also expected to increase been discussed by the Executive Risk Forum and remediation plans the capital requirements of the banking sector.
Against this background, have been put in place.
the Non-Core portfolio is reducing and the Group has materially strengthened its capital base through the B share issuance in December 2009. unaudited RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 117
