GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 54 Business review continued Business Services formerly Group Manufacturing supports the In the small business banking market, the Group competes with other customer-facing businesses and provides operational technology, UK clearing banks, specialist finance providers and building societies.
customer support in telephony, account management, lending and money transmission, global purchasing, property and other services.
In the personal banking segment the Group competes with UK banks Business Services drives efficiencies and supports income growth and building societies, major retailers and life assurance companies.
In across multiple brands and channels by using a single, scalable the mortgage market the Group competes with UK banks and building platform and common processes wherever possible.
A number of competitors have either left or scaled back their the Groups purchasing power and is the Groups centre of excellence lending in the mortgage and unsecured markets.
The Groups life for managing large-scale and complex change.
assurance businesses compete with Independent Financial Advisers and life assurance companies.
Central Functions comprises group and corporate functions, such as treasury, funding and finance, risk management, legal, communications In the UK credit card market large retailers and specialist card issuers, and human resources.
The Centre manages the Groups capital including major US operators, are active in addition to the UK banks.
In resources and Group-wide regulatory projects and provides services to addition to physical distribution channels, providers compete through the operating divisions.
direct marketing activity and the internet.
Non-Core Division manages separately assets that the Group intends to In Wealth Management, The Royal Bank of Scotland International run off or dispose.
The division contains a range of businesses and competes with other UK and international banks to offer offshore banking asset portfolios primarily from the GBM division including RBS Sempra services.
Coutts and Adam & Company compete as private banks with Commodities, linked to proprietary trading, higher risk profile asset UK clearing and private banks, and with international private banks.
portfolios including excess risk concentrations, and other illiquid Competition in wealth management remains strong as banks maintain portfolios.
It also includes a number of other portfolios and businesses their focus on competing for affluent and high net worth customers.
including regional markets businesses that the Group has concluded are no longer strategic.
RBS Insurance competes in personal lines insurance and, to a more limited extent, in commercial insurance.
There is strong competition from a Business divestments range of insurance companies which now operate telephone and internet To comply with EC state aid requirements the Group has agreed a direct sales businesses.
Competition in the UK motor market remains series of restructuring measures to be implemented over a four year particularly intense, and price comparison internet sites now play a major period.
This will supplement the measures in the strategic plan role in the marketplace.
RBS Insurance also competes with local insurance previously announced by the Group.
These include divesting fully RBS companies in the direct motor insurance markets in Italy and Germany.
Insurance, Global Merchant Services and RBS Sempra Commodities, as well as divesting the RBS branch-based business in England & Wales In Ireland, Ulster Bank competes in retail and commercial banking with and the NatWest branches in Scotland, along with the Direct SME the major Irish banks and building societies, and with other UK and customers across the UK.
international banks and building societies active in the market.
Competition In the United States, Citizens competes in the New England, MidThe Group faces strong competition in all the markets it serves.
Atlantic and Mid West retail and mid-corporate banking markets with However, the global banking crisis has reduced either the capacity or local and regional banks and other financial institutions.
The Group also appetite of many institutions to lend and has resulted in the withdrawal competes in the US in large corporate lending and specialised finance or disappearance of a number of market participants and significant markets, and in fixed-income trading and sales.
Competition is consolidation of competitors, particularly in the US and UK.
Competition principally with the large US commercial and investment banks and for retail deposits has intensified significantly as institutions have reinternational banks active in the US.
orientated their funding strategies following the difficulties experienced in the wholesale markets since late 2007.
Competition for corporate and institutional customers in the UK is from UK banks and from large foreign financial institutions who are also active and offer combined investment and commercial banking capabilities.
In asset finance, the Group competes with banks and specialised asset finance providers, both captive and non-captive.
In European and Asian corporate and institutional banking markets the Group competes with the large domestic banks active in these markets and with the major international banks.
54 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
