US Retail & Commercial US Retail & Commercial provides financial services primarily through the Citizens and Charter One brands.
US Retail & Commercial is engaged in retail and corporate banking activities through its branch network in Ellen Alemany Chief Executive, 12 states in the United States and through Citizens and Head of non-branch offices in other states.
It ranks Americas among the top five banks in New England.
For biographies M see pages 8-11 2009 2008 m m Net interest income 1,775 1,726 Our aim is to earn our customers loyalty Non-interest income 949 861 and serve as their primary banking partner, Total income 2,724 2,587 providing local, helpful service and global resources.
We will be a top-tier leader in our Expenses 2,135 1,622 markets, consistently perform for our Operating profit before impairment losses 589 965 shareholders and invest in our colleagues and the community.
If we achieve this, well become Impairment losses 702 437 a leading super-regional bank.
Operating loss profit 113 528 We started this job during 2009 and embarked on a plan that takes us Risk-weighted assets bn 59.7 63.9 to our goal by 2013.
But we also had to deal with weaknesses from our past, as well as the effects on us and our customers of the most acute Return on equity 1.8% 7.7% recession.
We took some very significant steps to bolster Citizens Financial Groups capital by converting $1.730 billion of subordinated Net interest margin 2.37% 2.68% debt and $1.585 billion of preferred equity into common equity, which when combined with lower risk-weighted assets, increased our Tier 1 Cost:income ratio 78.3% 62.7% risk-based capital to 11.62% from 9.15% at December 2008.
Loan:deposit ratio 80% 96% If were to become a top super-regional bank, we need to focus on our core businesses.
Thats why we exited all activities in Indiana, selling 65 branches to Old National Bank.
We also identified several business lines across the United States and designated them as non-core.
They include our Marine RV business, our Dealer Finance business and portions of our Auto Lending business.
By isolating non-core activities that dont fit with our long-term plans, we are able to focus our investments in 4% infrastructure, technology and marketing to achieve leading positions in increase in customer deposits in the year the markets in which we choose to compete.
During 2009, we achieved Top 20 status in retail mortgage lending and Top Five in auto finance among bank lenders to prime customers.
We also launched the TruFit Student Loan on 1 July.
We designed this new 3.7 million private student loan product to fill the gap after students exhaust their customers converted to upgraded online platform federal student loan eligibility.
Our Commercial Banking market penetration increased, with lead bank share of business increasing from 6% to 7% in the $5 million to $25 million business segment and from 6% to 8% in the Middle Market Target Return on equity % Cost:income % Loan:deposit % and Specialized Lending segment, for companies with $25 million to 2011 c. 10 70 90 $500 million in annual sales.
2013 15 55 90 34 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Divisional review US Retail & Commercial Did you know?
$6.5 million Our Green$ense programme rewarded retail customers with more than $6.5 million We took a number of steps to reward our customers loyalty and to Our Wealth Management division created a new programme for massgive them incentives to spend more with us, while they reach their own affluent clients and began piloting Premier Banking from Citizens Bank savings goals.
HomeBuyer Savings, College Saver and GoalTrack in Massachusetts.
This is an exclusive offering of products, services and Savings help customers to save for major events in their lives and their creative solutions for select clients who are looking for a more efficient families lives and to set their savings plans, and we give them bonuses and convenient way to manage their funds and who prefer more dedicated when they reach their goals.
Premier Banking is designed to help us take advantage of a market that is large but which we have not penetrated These initiatives were part of the reason for our success in boosting much in the past.
To help us make progress, weve assigned a dedicated customer deposits during the year by 4%.
team of relationship managers to target the mass-affluent market.
Our Green$ense programme rewarded retail customers with more We regularly used the expertise and global reach of the RBS Group than $6.5 million during 2009 for helping the environment by choosing to support our customers.
Other RBS Group entities, including RBS electronic transactions that cut down the amount of paper we use.
The Securities, collaborated with Citizens Bank, Charter One and RBS programme targets and rewards environmentally conscious customers Citizens in a number of high-profile bond issues and loan syndications who receive 10 cents for each electronic transaction they make, up to during the year.
Green$ense includes automatic enrolment in e-Statements and free Online Banking with Bill Pay.
It is important to us and to our employees that we at Citizens are good citizens in our communities.
In 2009, we launched Energy$ense.
It is a We try our best to serve our customers and it is rewarding when other multi-faceted initiative to help local non-profit organisations and Citizens people recognise our efforts.
Informa Research Services, an independent Bank and Charter One customers address heat, utility and other energy research firm, named our Green$ense and Everyday Points rewards costs.
As part of the programme, Citizens provided more than $500,000 programmes best in class in its 2009 Retail Relationship and Reward in energy assistance grants to homeless shelters and non-profit Programs Account Acquisition and Summary.
organisations that offer home weatherproofing and utility payment assistance to consumers.
We also provide below market-rate loans to We have invested in our online banking service and that has paid off.
eligible consumers who want to make their homes more energy efficient, More than 3.7 million Citizens and Charter One customers were converted with a limited-time option to defer their first payment for 90 days.
We also to our upgraded online platform.
It gives customers access to more provide consumers with information about how they can stay warm and accounts and provides them with more information, including mobile alerts.
Helpful tips include choosing electric heaters and Customers can open new accounts, view pending transactions, pay bills extension cords that are UL rated, insulating pipes and water heaters, and transfer money between their various Citizen Bank and Charter One and installing carbon monoxide detectors and smoke alarms.
accounts, as well as accounts with other financial institutions.
The Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption honoured Citizens for the Of course, while online banking is important for some customers, others third consecutive year as the Best Adoption-Friendly Workplace in the like to come to a branch and speak to us.
As a new twist in expanding financial services industry, as well as number two on the foundations top our network of Citizens and Charter One in-store branches, we opened 100 US employers in 2009.
Conceive is a national publication devoted to our first branch inside a Dunkin Donuts coffee and baked goods shop.
It ranks companies that continue to The new location in Bellingham, Massachusetts, is part of an extensive help employees build their families and it placed us as the top company in-store network with a variety of retail partners, mainly in supermarkets, in offering family-building benefits.
that includes more than 475 locations in 12 states.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 35
