Essential reading What we have achieved We are one year into our five year turnaround plan and have taken significant steps along the path to recovery.
What we have achieved 2009 business achievements Our 2013 vision Enduring customer franchises The problems we faced have been assessed, A universal bank, anchored by retail anddisclosed and mitigated.
commercial activities with strong, complementary investment banking capability The essential value of RBS is intact.
All our Core A top-tier competitor in our chosen markets businesses are functioning normally, and our customer franchises are proving resilient.
Safer and more focused We have set out the roadmap to recovery, with a clear Capital and liquidity strength meeting strategy that is supported inside and outside RBS.
the highest international standards Gross reduction in funded assets of We now have the tools we need to do the job: the right 500 billion achieved leadership, appropriate levels of new capital and contingency protection.
A valuable, private sector bank Consistently profitable, with sustainableWe are delivering our Strategic Plan ahead of schedule shareholder returns targeted at 15% on our on both value creation improvement of Core Bank and tangible equity capital risk reduction Non-Core run-off.
The Government will have sold or at least begun to sell its shares at a profit The greatest risks are behind us.
2009 key highlights Notes: Significantly lower loss attributable to ordinary and B shareholders 3.6 billion 1 Before tax, amortisation of purchased intangible assets, write-down of goodwill, integration and restructuring Strong Core Bank operating profit 1 8.3 billion costs, gain on redemption of own debt, strategic disposals, gains on pensions curtailment, bonus tax and RFS Strong Core Bank return on equity 2 13% Holdings minority interest.
Statutory operating loss before tax of 2.6 billion.
Total assets reduced by 3 696 billion 2 Indicative Core attributable profit, taxed at 28% on Funded balance sheet reduced by 3 143 billion attributable core spot tangible equity circa 70% of Group tangible equity based on risk-weighted assets.
Core Tier 1 ratio 3 11.0% 3 Pro forma excluding RFS Holdings minority interest.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 1
