Ulster Bank Ulster Bank is a leading retail and commercial bank in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
It provides a comprehensive range of financial services through both its Retail Markets division which has a network of branches and operates in the personal and bancassurance sectors, and its Corporate Cormac McCarthy, Markets division which provides services Chief Executive, to business customers, corporates and Ulster Bank institutional markets.
2009 2008 m m 2009 was a year of further significant Net interest income 780 773 challenges for the economies of Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, as well as Non-interest income 254 266 for the banking industry across the island.
Total income 1,034 1,039 In response to these difficult operating conditions, Expenses 753 715 Ulster Bank took decisive and timely action.
Operating profit before impairment losses 281 324 At the beginning of the year, we announced a programme of initiatives designed to position Impairment losses 649 106 the business to meet the challenges of our Operating loss profit 368 218 markets, enabling us to continue to serve the needs of our customers and to strengthen our Risk-weighted assets bn 29.9 24.5 business and its all-Ireland reach.
Return on equity 13.3% 10.1% An important element of that programme was the merging of the First Active and Ulster Bank businesses in the Republic of Ireland.
Net interest margin 1.87% 1.89% The programme, which was completed in February 2010, saw the integration of the First Active branch network and operations with that Cost:income ratio 72.8% 68.8% of Ulster Bank and the transfer of all First Active customers to Ulster Loan:deposit ratio 177% 179% Bank.
As a result of the merger programme, Ulster Banks presence throughout Ireland is now 238 branches 146 in the Republic of Ireland, 92 in Northern Ireland and we now serve our 1.9 million customers under one brand across the island.
54,000 In addition, we also improved efficiency across all areas of our businesses through the implementation of a number of cost management initiatives.
retail customers acquired during the year We announced a voluntary redundancy programme in January, which was oversubscribed and under which around 700 people left the organisation with a further 300 or so due to leave in early 2010.
From the beginning of 2009 we prioritised the introduction of a number 1.25 billion of initiatives designed to support our customers during these difficult in business deposits taken during the year times.
The Flex initiative is a financial review designed to help those who are having trouble in meeting their full monthly debt repayments because of a change in their financial circumstances.
We have provided specialist training to our staff which enables them to take our customers Target Return on equity % Cost:income % Loan:deposit % 2011 0 75 175 2013 15 c. 50 150 32 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Divisional review Ulster Bank Did you know?
1billion Our island of Ireland SME Support Fund for SME businesses was worth 1 billion through a step by step budgeting process.
Where a customers The  Business Banking Tracker Survey, income falls short of their outgoings, we seek to find a solution such published in November 2009, provides an indication of our commitment as extending the term of the loan or temporarily reducing payments.
It shows that, compared with other leading banks, we Since we introduced Flex in July 2009, we have assessed around received higher ratings from our customers across the island of Ireland 5,700 customer cases.
In 87% of these cases, we approved new in the areas of customer satisfaction, loyalty and advocacy.
All of this Flex arrangements, while for some customers no new arrangements was achieved against a tough trading background and gives us a strong were needed.
We also launched our MoneySense for Adults programme during the We focussed on increasing customer deposits and our share of new year, which offers free and balanced information to customers to help corporate deposits increased to 18% in Northern Ireland and 22% in them better understand and manage their money.
The MoneySense the Republic of Ireland.
In the retail market, we introduced a range of programme is delivered online, in print and face-to-face in all Ulster Bank initiatives including Bonus Saver, eSavings Plus, Pathway and a number branches across the island of Ireland.
Specially trained and dedicated of fixed term and fixed rate products which saw retail customer deposits MoneySense Officers are available in all of our branches to provide increase by almost 1 billion during the year.
practical one-to-one support to both customers and non-customers who want help with budgeting and money management.
The programme built While the global economy is showing some signs of recovery, conditions on our successful MoneySense for Schools programme, which we rolled in Ireland remain challenging.
However the early actions we have taken out to 19 schools during the year.
have positioned us well to operate through these difficult economic conditions and to take maximum advantage of the upturn as it emerges.
We have also extended dedicated support to our small and mediumThroughout, we will maintain our commitment to engage with our people sized enterprise SME customers with the launch of a 1 billion and serve the needs of our customers.
all-Ireland SME fund that provides businesses with access to working capital and development funding.
In Northern Ireland, under the Enterprise Finance Guarantee EFG scheme, the government guarantees 75% of the value of a small firms loan up to the value of 1 million.
Ulster Bank provided some 75% of the total value of EFG loans drawn down in Northern Ireland in 2009.
We understand that supporting businesses means more than just providing financial support.
That is why we facilitate Small Business Can.
com, our social network for small businesses.
Launched in May 2009, this is an interactive online resource designed to help the SME community across the island of Ireland successfully navigate through the economic downturn.
com was established by entrepreneurs for entrepreneurs and aims to help business people grow their enterprises by sharing knowledge, experience and contact networks.
Open to all businesses free of charge, the site attracted 66,000 hits during the year.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33
