How our businesses work together UK Retail Global We offer a range of Transaction banking and financial Services services to over 15 million personal We offer global payments, cash and customers.
We also serve small liquidity management, as well as trade business customers through our branches.
finance, and commercial card products and services.
Target 2013 Unlocking the value of our customer Target 2013 franchise as the most helpful retail Leading global player, serving bank in the UK.
Global Group clients and with a central Banking role in deposit gathering.
& Markets Ulster Bank We offer a broad range of We provide a services enabling major comprehensive corporations and institutions to range of financial achieve their financing objectives.
services across the island of Ireland.
Target 2013 Strong wholesale bank, built Target 2013 around clients in chosen markets, Restructuring to Our Core with much lower risk.
sustainable profitability as Irish economy recovers.
businesses UK Corporate Wealth & Commercial We offer banking and investment services to clients in the UK and We are a leading provider around the world.
of banking, finance and risk management services to Target 2013 the corporate and Leading UK franchise with global SME sectors.
reach, providing growth and substantial funding Target 2013 to Group.
Leading franchise focused on re-building sustainable value for customers and Citizens Bank RBS Insurance the bank.
Our financial services products and We own some of the most services are distributed through the well-known brands in the market.
Citizens and Charter One brands in And they help give our customers in 12 states in the North East and the UK and Europe peace of mind.
Target 2013 Target 2013 Becoming UKs leading and most A leading US superprofitable general insurance regional bank.
Product cross selling synergies Potential cross selling opportunities 16 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 s n o i t c n u F l a r t n e C Our strategic plan and progress How our businesses work together Non-Core Our Non-Core Division When we drew-up our strategic plan, one of manages assets that are no longer core to our strategy the tests we set was that each business is and the continuing operations of RBS, and which we plan to connected to the Group in ways that mean the sell or to run down.
whole is greater than the sum of the parts.
Target 2013 A safer, sustainably profitable bank.
Group connectivity, cross-sell and complementarity GTS Wealth provide a strong source of funding GTS GBM We have established Global to complement our retail banking franchises.
The Network Banking GNB to position RBS as businesses increased their deposit base in 2009 the network bank of choice for our corporate and contributed almost 1 in every 4 of deposits clients.
GNB offers product connectivity and held by customers, highlighting the strength and a seamless service to clients across our depth of the customer relationships that exist in international network.
It does this by providing the Divisions.
The low loan to deposit ratios 21% expert, local relationship management across a GTS and 38% Wealth in each business help number of countries in Europe, the Middle East, balance the funding profile of the Group.
Asia-Pacific and the Americas regions to our international clients.
In the UK, we have We offer Structured Retail Products to retail established an international network advisory clients across Europe and Asia through our GBM team to enhance the global capability of our business.
RBS listed products can be traded like UK corporate clients.
a share through a stockbroker or IFA.
GBM works with our internal sales network to distribute these GBM helps agricultural customers hedge products through RBS Private Banking, their Common Agricultural Policy payments NatWest Private Banking, Coutts, RBS Coutts from the EU.
The payments are set in euros and Ulster Bank.
and UK farmers can be exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates.
GBM offers services which GBM helps Corporate Banking Division clients to give farmers certainty over the payment they raise finance from debt and equity markets.
participated in over 80% of equity issues by UK corporates in 2009 and led more UK corporate Insurance In 2009, 500,000 insurance debt issues than any other bank.
policies were sold via the branch networks of RBS and NatWest.
Our Business Services Division is a centrally-run function that allows our customer-facing Divisions Our Retail Division hosts services for business to reduce costs by exploiting economies of scale.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17
