Board of directors and secretary Chairman Executive directors Philip Hampton age 56 Stephen Hester age 49 N Chairman Group Chief Executive Appointed to the Board on 19 January 2009 and as Chairman on 3 February 2009.
Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2008 and as Group Chief Executive on Philip Hampton was previously chairman of J Sainsbury plc and group finance 21 November 2008, Stephen Hester was chief executive of The British Land director of Lloyds TSB Group plc, BT Group plc, BG Group plc, British Gas and Company PLC.
He was previously chief operating officer of Abbey National plc British Steel plc, an executive director of Lazards and a non-executive director of and prior to that he held positions with Credit Suisse First Boston including Chief RMC Group plc.
He is also former chairman of UK Financial Investments Limited, Financial Officer, Head of Fixed Income and co-Head of European Investment the company established to manage the UK Government's shareholding in banks Banking.
Between February and October 2008, he was non-executive deputy subscribing to its recapitalisation fund, and is a non-executive director of chairman of Northern Rock plc.
He is also a trustee of The Foundation and Belgacom SA.
Philip joined the Board of Anglo American plc as a non-executive Friends of the Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew.
Gordon Pell age 60 not pictured FCIBS, FCIB Deputy Group Chief Executive Appointed to the Board in March 2000, Gordon Pell was formerly group director of Lloyds TSB UK Retail Banking before joining National Westminster Bank Plc as a director in February 2000 and then becoming Chief Executive, Retail 1 2 3 7 8 9 Banking.
He is also a director of Race for Opportunity and a member of the FSA Practitioner Panel.
He was appointed chairman of the Business Commission on 4 5 6 10 11 12 Racial Equality in the Workplace in July 2006 and deputy chairman of the Board of the British Bankers Association in September 2007.
He will retire from the Key to pictures Board on 31 March 2010.
Stephen Hester, Group Chief Executive Bruce Van Saun age 52 Group Finance Director 3.
Bruce Van Saun, Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2009, Bruce Van Saun has more than 25 4.
Colin Buchan years financial services experience.
From 1997 to 2008 he held a number of 5.
Sandy Crombie senior positions with Bank of New York and later Bank of New York Mellon, most 6.
Archie Hunter recently as vice chairman and chief financial officer and before that he was 7.
Joe MacHale responsible for the Asset Management and Market Related businesses.
Penny Hughes that, he held senior positions with Deutsche Bank, Wasserstein Perella Group and 9.
John McFarlane Kidder Peabody & Co.
He has served on several corporate boards as a non- 10.
Arthur Art Ryan executive director and has been active in numerous community organisations.
Miller McLean Group General Counsel and Group Secretary Abbreviations Miller McLean age 60 A member of the Group Audit Committee FCIBS, FIB N member of the Nominations Committee Miller McLean was appointed Group Secretary in August 1994.
He is a trustee R member of the Remuneration Committee of the Industry and Parliament Trust, non-executive chairman of The Whitehall Ri member of the Board Risk Committee and Industry Group, and immediate past president of the Chartered Institute of independent non-executive director Bankers in Scotland.
He will retire from the Group on 30 April 2010.
8 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
