Executive Committee The Executive Committee provides executive input to the Group Board, and monitors and reports to the Group Board on all operational and day to day activities in relation to the Groups businesses.
It is responsible for managing Group wide issues and those operational issues material to the broader Group.
Stephen Hester, Group Chief Executive 2.
Bruce Van Saun, Group Finance Director 3.
John Hourican, Chief Executive, Global Banking & Markets 4.
Brian Hartzer, Chief Executive, UK Retail, Wealth and Ulster Bank 5.
Chris Sullivan, Chief Executive, UK Corporate 6.
Ellen Alemany, Chief Executive, Citizens and Head of Americas 7.
Ron Teerlink, Chief Administrative Officer 8.
Nathan Bostock, Head of Restructuring & Risk 9.
Paul Geddes, Chief Executive, RBS Insurance 10.
Alan Dickinson, Chairman, UK Corporate 10 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Essential reading Executive Committee Executive Committee Stephen Hester, Group Chief Executive Ron Teerlink age 49 Chief Administrative Officer Gordon Pell, Deputy Group Chief Executive In April 2008, Ron Teerlink joined The RBS Group as Chief Executive of Business Bruce Van Saun, Group Finance Director Services, becoming the Group Chief Administrative Officer in February 2009.
At the same time he was re-appointed to the Managing Board of ABN AMRO to M For biographies see pages 8-9 oversee the integration programme.
Ron started his career with ABN Bank in 1986 as an IT Systems analyst and held various functional positions before becoming Chief Operating Officer of the Wholesale Clients Business in 2002.
He was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Group Shared Services in 2004 and joined ABN AMROs Managing Board in January 2006, where he was responsible for Services and Market Infrastructure.
Ron holds a Masters degree in Economics Brian Hartzer age 43 from Amsterdams Vrije Universiteit.
Chief Executive, UK Retail, Wealth and Ulster Bank Brian Hartzer joined The RBS Group in 2009.
A Princeton graduate, he is a joint Nathan Bostock age 49 US and Australian citizen.
Brian joined ANZ in 1999 and ran its Consumer Finance Head of Restructuring & Risk business credit cards, merchant services and personal loans until 2004.
He then Nathan Bostock joined The RBS Group in June 2009 as Head of Restructuring took over the full Retail bank portfolio including SME and Wealth, and in 2008 and Risk with responsibility for the newly formed Non-Core Division & APS, the added the role of Chief Executive Australia for all ANZ business lines, as well as Global Restructuring Group and the control functions of Group Legal & Secretariat Global Segment Lead for Retail.
Before joining ANZ, Brian was a financial services and Risk Management.
Before joining RBS, Nathan spent eight years with Abbey consultant in New York, San Francisco and Melbourne for 10 years.
National plc in several roles and was latterly the CFO and main Board Director responsible for Products & Marketing, HR, Insurance and Cards.
Before joining Chris Sullivan age 52 Abbey in 2001, Nathan spent ten years with RBS in a number of roles, including Chief Executive, UK Corporate Chief Operating Officer of Treasury and Capital Markets and Group Risk Director.
Chris Sullivan was appointed Chief Executive of the UK Corporate Banking A Chartered Accountant, Nathan worked with Coopers & Lybrand, before starting Division and the GTS Division in August 2009.
His previous role was Chief his career in banking.
He spent seven years in Chase Manhattan Bank in a variety Executive of RBS Insurance, the second largest general insurance provider in the of areas and functions.
He also holds a BSc Hons in Mathematics.
Prior to this, Chris was Chief Executive of Retail and Deputy Chief Executive of Retail Markets.
Chris is Vice Chairman of the Association of British Insurers, Alan Dickinson age 59 Chairman of the General Insurance Council and a member of the CBI Presidents Chairman, UK Corporate Committee.
He spent five years as Chief Executive of Lombard Asset Finance Alan Dickinson became Chairman, Corporate Banking on 1 August 2009 having where he developed the business to a leadership position in the UK and Europe.
been Chief Executive, Corporate Banking from March, following the Groups Chris Sullivan earned his Fellowship of Chartered Institute of Bankers Scotland for restructure.
The business looks after the Groups SME and Corporate businesses his services to Scottish Banking.
in the UK and its Global Transaction Services Division.
Alan is a member of the Banks Group Executive Committee.
He joined The Royal Bank of Scotland Group John Hourican age 39 in 1973.
His career has covered working in the front line of Retail, Corporate and Chief Executive, Global Banking & Markets SME banking as well as in 1992 being Director of Credit covering the Banks Prior to his recent appointment as Chief Executive, Global Banking & Markets, personal, business, commercial and corporate customers in the UK.
John Hourican was the Chief Financial Officer and Board Member responsible for Group Finance after his appointment to the ABN AMRO Managing Board in November 2007.
Before his Managing Board appointment, John was Head of Leveraged Finance, Global Banking & Markets.
In this role, John was responsible Management Committee for leading RBSs market leading Leveraged Finance and High Yield business in Europe and Asia Pacific.
John joined RBS in 1997 and held a variety of senior positions within RBSs wholesale banking Division, notably on the Divisions board The Management Committee, comprising our major business and as Finance Director and more recently as Chief Operating Officer where he was functional leaders, meets three to four times annually as a vehicle for responsible for managing 3,000 people globally.
strategy and business performance review.
Ellen Alemany age 54 It comprises members of the Executive Committee plus: Chief Executive, Citizens and Head of Americas Ellen Alemany joined The RBS Group in June 2007 from Citigroup, where she was CEO for Global Transaction Services.
She was also a member of the Citigroup Richard Hemsley, Chief Operating Officer, Business Services Operating Committee, Corporate and Investment Planning Group, and Global Jennifer Hill, Head of Strategy and Corporate Finance Banking Operating Committee.
Ellen began her banking career at Chase Marco Mazzucchelli, Deputy CEO of Global Banking & Markets Manhattan Bank in 1977, working in Operations, Structured Trade, and the Media Cormac McCarthy, Chief Executive, Ulster Bank and Electronics Department as a Senior Lender.
In October 2009, she was listed 17th on US Bankers list of the 25 Most Powerful Women in Banking.
John McCormick, CEO Asia Andrew McLaughlin, Head of Communications and Paul Geddes age 40 Group Chief Economist Chief Executive, RBS Insurance Miller McLean, Group General Counsel and Group Secretary Paul Geddes graduated from Oxford in 1990, where he read Politics, Philosophy Peter Neilsen, Global Head of Markets and Economics.
His career started at Procter & Gamble, in the UK and Europe.
Neil Roden, Head of Human Resources He entered retailing in 1997, holding senior roles in Kingfisher and GUS Groups before joining the RBS Group in 2004 as Managing Director, Products and Marketing, Brian Stevenson, Chief Executive, Global Transaction Services Retail Banking.
He was appointed CEO, Retail Banking in December 2006 and CEO, UK Retail in February 2009, before taking overall responsibility for some of the UKs best-known insurance brands, including Direct Line, Churchill, Privilege and Green Flag as CEO, RBS Insurance in August 2009.
Paul is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland and a Trustee of the Dewar Arts Awards.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11
