GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 151-173. qxp:GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 15 3 10 09:23 Page 169 Business review Risk, capital and liquidity management Insurance risk All the disclosures in this section are unaudited and indicated with an Property insurance contracts residential and commercial : the major asterisk.
The Group is exposed to insurance risk directly through its causes of claims for property insurance are weather flood, storm, general insurance and life insurance businesses.
theft, fire, subsidence and various types of accidental damage: and Insurance risk arises through fluctuations in the timing, frequency and or Other commercial insurance contracts: risk arises from business severity of insured events, relative to the expectations at the time of interruption and loss arising from the negligence of the insured underwriting.
Insurance risk is managed in four distinct ways: liability insurance.
Underwriting and pricing risk management: is managed through the Most general insurance contracts are written on an annual basis, which use of underwriting guidelines which detail the class, nature and means that the Groups liability extends for a twelve month period, after type of business that may be accepted, pricing policies by product which the Group is entitled to decline to renew the policy or can impose line and brand and centralised control of wordings and any renewal terms by amending the premium, terms and conditions.
subsequent changes: An analysis of gross and net insurance claims can be found in the Claims risk management: is handled using a range of automated financial statements see page 310. controls and manual processes: Life assurance business Reserving risk management: is applied to ensure that sufficient funds The Groups three regulated life companies, National Westminster Life have been retained to handle and pay claims as the amounts fall Assurance Limited, Royal Scottish Assurance plc and Direct Line Life due, both in relation to those claims which have already occurred or Insurance Company Limited underwrite life insurance products within will occur in future periods of insurance.
Reserving risk is managed the UK retail insurance market.
The key assurance risks are as follows: through detailed analysis of historical and industry claims data and robust control procedures around reserving models: and Term assurance contracts: mortality claims experience varies due to a range of factors, including age, gender and smoker status.
The key Reinsurance risk management: is used to protect against adverse factors that increase the level of claims are disease pandemics and claims experience on business which exceeds internal risk appetite.
adverse lifestyle changes: and The Group uses various types of reinsurance to transfer risk that is outside the Groups risk appetite, including individual risk excess of Critical illness insurance contracts: morbidity claims experience loss reinsurance, catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance and quota varies due to a range of factors, including age, gender and past share reinsurance.
The key factors that can increase the level of claims are adverse lifestyle changes and improvements in medical Overall, insurance risk is predictable over time, given the large volumes diagnosis methods.
However, uncertainty does exist, especially around predictions such as the variations in weather for example.
Risk is minimised through These are long-term contracts with long-term business provisions that the application of documented insurance risk policies, coupled with risk are calculated in accordance with the UK accounting standard FRS 27 governance frameworks and the purchase of reinsurance.
General insurance business Estimations assumptions including future mortality, morbidity, RBS Insurance underwrites retail and SME insurance with a focus on persistency and levels of expenses are made in calculating reserves.
high volume, relatively straightforward products.
The key insurance risks The Group uses standard mortality and morbidity tables appropriate to are as follows: the type of contract being written.
These are adjusted as appropriate to reflect historical experience and future expectations.
Sample mortality Motor insurance contracts private and commercial : claims rates, expressed as deaths per million per annum, for term assurance experience varies due to a range of factors, including age, gender products age 40 are: and driving experience together with the type of vehicle and location: 2009 2008 Mortality per million per annum per annum Male non-smoker 674 723 Male smoker 1,542 1,590 Female non-smoker 497 568 Female smoker 1,136 1,277 unaudited RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 169
