RBS Insurance RBS Insurance sells and underwrites retail and SME insurance over the telephone and internet, as well as through brokers and partnerships.
Its brands include Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, which sell general Paul Geddes insurance products direct to the customer, Chief Executive, as well as Green Flag and NIG.
Through its RBS Insurance international division, RBS Insurance sells M For biographies general insurance, mainly motor, in Germany see pages 8-11 and Italy.
The Intermediary and Broker division sells general insurance products through independent brokers.
This is the largest personal lines insurer in the 2009 2008 UK.
Brands like Direct Line, Churchill and Green m m Flag are household names.
They have helped us Insurance net premium income 4,354 4,306 become the UKs largest motor insurer and the number two household insurer.
Market leading Total income 4,460 4,430 positions like that dont happen by accident.
Expenses 759 772 Weve earned them because we focus on what our customers need.
Net claims 3,635 3,032 Operating profit before impairment losses 66 626 As part of the settlement we reached with the European Commission, we will sell RBS Impairment losses 8 42 Insurance during the next four years.
We hadnt Operating profit 58 584 wanted to do that.
It is an excellent business.
We saw it as an important part of the Groups future.
Return on equity 1.6% 18.3% While it remains part of RBS, we will manage Cost:income ratio 17.0% 17.4% RBS Insurance with the same care and attention Adjusted cost:income ratio 92.0% 55.2% as if we were keeping it.
Thats the right thing to do for our customers and if we serve them well we will maximise the price we get when we sell the business.
Despite the significant impact of bodily injury claims to RBS Insurances 2009 results, its underlying performance remained strong.
Own brand motor policies increased by 8% on 2008, while non-motor own brand policies were up 13% on 2008.
As the floods loomed in Cumbria, we sent text messages to 29,000 customers who live in areas that the Met Office had said were at high risk of severe weather, with tips and advice on how to protect their homes from flooding.
After the floods, we tried to give our customers support when they needed it most.
A dedicated team of advisers was on the ground helping customers to cope with their losses and assisting them to make claims.
Target Return on equity Cost: income less claims % 2011 15 70 2013 20 60 36 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Divisional review RBS Insurance Introduced in 2008, Telephony Virtualisation, a smart piece of technology Green Flag launched its Rescue Me iPhone application in December.
that allows 27 contact centres in the UK to act as one, was especially The app offers a range of motoring breakdown features, from free live useful during the floods.
If one of our call centres was operating at full streaming traffic updates to a click-to-call function, as well as providing capacity, the call could be picked up at another centre.
It enabled iPhone users with direct call connection to Green Flag.
customers calls to be answered more quickly and our people and premises to be utilised more efficiently.
NIG introduced a property-based insurance policy designed for SME businesses.
This product allows underwriters to reflect a customers The snows that saw out 2009 gave Green Flag its busiest month of the positive risk features, which means improved prices for buyers.
We received more than 237,000 calls from customers in December.
Our UK network of recovery vehicles meant that we were able to get to Our commitment to customers and to innovation shows through in our customers in need.
In December, The Leadership Factor, a research company, surveyed customers and found that we scored 86% If your car gets bumped, you need to know you can rely on your insurer on the Satisfaction Index for Sales & Service and 85% for Claims.
and you want to know that the repair job will be done as well as possible.
In June, RBS Insurance introduced PAS 125 Kite Mark to all 16 of our Our employees are also satisfied and motivated, despite the repair centres.
PAS 125 is a standard of quality for vehicle body repair uncertainties they have faced in the last two years.
Our annual survey and it carries the Kite Mark symbol awarded by BSI, the independent of employees, conducted independently by Towers Perrin ISR, showed British standards organisation.
The PAS 125 Kite Mark provides an that we had improved or maintained our scores in 15 out of the 16 auditable process which ensures that cars are safely repaired back to categories compared with 2008.
The results were especially strong for their original Euro New Car Assessment Programme - NCAP - safety Customer Focus, Cooperation and Working Relationships, and Respect ratings.
That means that all of our vehicle repairs should meet the and Diversity.
highest standards of workmanship and service.
Last year might have been a rocky one because of the uncertainties Direct Line was a pioneer of direct insurance in the UK more than two surrounding RBS Insurance.
But our people have delivered strongly once decades ago.
That spirit of innovation is still strong in RBS Insurance more, showing their commitment to serving customers.
We have to sell because it is so important in giving us an edge with our customers.
RBS Insurance, but until then it remains in our good hands.
With several airlines going into liquidation in 2009, Direct Line was one of the few travel companies to introduce airline failure cover to its travel insurance products.
The policy protects customers from financial loss if their airline goes out of business.
It also covers the cost of a return flight if an airline collapses while customers are on holiday.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37
