Non-Core Division & APS Non-Core Division manages separately assets that the Group intends to run off or dispose.
The Division contains a range of businesses and asset portfolios primarily from GBM, including RBS Sempra Commodities, linked to Nathan Bostock proprietary trading, higher risk profile asset Head of portfolios including excess risk concentrations, Restructuring & Risk and other illiquid portfolios.
It also includes a M For biographies number of portfolios and businesses, including see pages 8-11 regional markets businesses, that the Group has concluded are no longer strategic.
2009 2008 Our Non-Core Division is central to the strategy m m that will return RBS to self-sufficiency.
Net interest income from banking activities 1,534 2,156 On the one hand, it is managing assets that are no longer core to our Non-interest income 3,835 5,188 strategy and the continuing operations of RBS, and which we plan to sell or to run down.
On the other, partly because Non-Core will reduce the Total income 2,301 3,032 asset side of our balance sheet, it will improve our funding position and make RBS a safer bank.
Non-Core Division was created to facilitate the Expenses 2,447 2,683 re-shaping of RBS on its journey to self-sufficiency and is responsible for one of the largest bank restructurings being undertaken globally and Operating loss before other one of the largest in history.
operating charges & impairment losses 4,748 5,715 The Asset Protection Scheme APS is also vital to our plans.
It is a Insurance net claims 588 700 credit protection scheme.
It gives us protection, similar to an insurance policy, against future losses in the event that the economy enters a Impairment losses 9,221 4,936 further, severe and prolonged downturn.
Operating loss 14,557 11,351 We manage Non-Core & APS together, under the leadership of Nathan Bostock and Rory Cullinan, who joined us during the year.
Risk-weighted assets bn 171.3bn 170.9bn We have structured Non-Core Division & APS into three key business Net interest margin 0.69% 0.87% areas.
Cost:income ratio 106.3% 88.5% Portfolio & Banking is responsible for the wholesale banking assets transferred from GBM and accounts for the largest percentage of the Loan:deposit ratio 1,121% 683% assets in Non-Core.
International Businesses & Portfolios manages assets and includes the retail and commercial businesses identified as non-core, the countries we are exiting to reduce our geographic footprint, and 56.9 billion portfolios primarily transferred from our UK Corporate Banking Division, Ulster Bank and Citizens.
It is the largest employer in the decline in Third Party Assets, excluding derivatives division with almost 13,000 employees globally.
Non-Core Markets includes trading assets from GBM, principally our exotic credit derivatives, monoline and asset-backed securities positions and is responsible for the most volatile assets placed in 12.6 billion Non-Core Division.
of disposals during the year In addition, we have a small number of standalone businesses, such as Aviation Capital.
40 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Divisional review Non-Core Division & APS Did you know?
3,000 We delivered training to more than 3,000 employees around the globe about the APS The key measures of success for our Division are our ability to manage economic downturn.
The progress we have made against our strategic down Third Party Assets TPAs and Risk Weighted Assets RWAs, while plan, as well as improvements in financial markets and the economic reducing our trading and credit losses through robust risk management outlook, mean we do not anticipate claiming under the scheme.
However, and credit stewardship as well as managing asset disposals efficiently.
this insurance provides us with financial strength in the event of major economic and market stress and gives us the confidence we need to During 2009, we made an encouraging start in reducing TPAs.
RWAs navigate the years ahead.
remained broadly flat over the year.
The downgrade in monolines and credit derivative product companies CPDCs and the impact of proUnder the lighter touch terms agreed with the UK Government in cyclicality tougher economic conditions can increase the amount of November 2009, RBS would bear the first 60 billion of losses and the capital we have to assign to a loan partly offset our active management Treasury would bear 90% of losses thereafter.
The fee for this insurance and runoff of RWAs.
will be 700 million for the first three years and then 500 million annually.
The new terms allow RBS to exit the APS at any time subject to meeting Impairments increased relative to 2008 reflecting where we are in the capital adequacy requirements and repaying the Treasury for any economic cycle.
However, we saw the level of impairments steadily shortfall in fees due.
decrease in three successive quarters to the end of 2009.
Non-Core Division was also responsible for setting up APS.
The task of Our disposal programme developed momentum during 2009.
We setting up the governance and controls, training and equipping staff in successfully completed a number of asset sales in the year, including order to implement the scheme was an exceptional achievement.
We the RBS equity stakes in Bank of China and Linea Directa, the sale to delivered training to more than 3,000 employees across the globe.
ANZ of the Retail & Commercial and wholesale banking businesses in non-core businesses in six countries in Asia, as well as the sale to We continue to work closely with the Treasury and the newly formed Aberdeen Asset Management of our Asset Management business.
Asset Protection Agency in developing our approach to the day-to-day stewardship of the APS assets, and the appropriate governance to While our focus is on the successful run down of assets, close and ensure compliance.
responsible stewardship of these assets over the next four years will be key to maintaining their value, pending run-off or exit.
This requires We have devoted a million person hours to agreeing APS and its rules, a high level of focus on business-as-usual challenges in a difficult identifying and defining the four million assets covered, training and economic and market environment that and against the background of equipping our people, and setting up a robust infrastructure for the a rapidly evolving regulatory environment.
The nature of the assets placed in Non-Core Division & APS creates a Global Restructuring Group very high concentration of risk in one area of the group and managing Our Global Restructuring Group is responsible for supporting our the risk associated with this is a key priority.
Our key risk is the credit risk customers through business and financial restructuring when they are resulting from the higher probability of default of the assets we are facing difficulties during the current economic downturn.
We also have significant execution risk associated with the increased demand GRG has significantly increased its resourcing levels, scale of the restructuring we are undertaking and the disposal of assets more than doubling staffing levels across the year, especially its regional in the prevailing environment.
Finally, we have to manage the high level presence across the UK, and this trend is expected to continue in 2010. of operational risk which naturally arises when businesses are being Its primary aim is to return our customers to sound financial health and sold and staff face considerable uncertainty about their future.
to the core divisions within RBS they originated from.
During 2009 over 800 UK based small to medium sized businesses were restructured Participation in the UK Governments APS provided RBS with a capital safeguarding the future of several thousand jobs and GRG is currently injection of 25.5 billion and catastrophe insurance for the riskiest assets acting as either lead or coordinator in around 140 restructurings globally.
we currently hold on our balance sheet in the event of a prolonged RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41
