GRA 3 Risk Part2 09 174-206. qxp:GRA 3 Risk Part2 09 15 3 10 09:24 Page 174 Business review continued Asset Protection Scheme and limited recourse assets, and hence the contract does not meet the All the disclosures in this section pages 174 to 183 are unaudited and definition of an FGC.
The APS contract is therefore treated as a indicated with an asterisk.
References to Group in this section relate derivative and is recognised at fair value, with changes in fair value to Group before RFS Holdings minority interest.
recognised in profit or loss.
The APS derivative did not have any effect on the Groups 2009 income statement: however in future periods Key aspects of the Scheme changes in value of the APS derivative will have an effect on the On 22 December 2009, the Group acceded to the Asset Protection Groups profit or loss.
Scheme APS or the Scheme with HM Treasury HMT acting on behalf of the UK Government.
Under the Scheme, the Group purchased There is no change in the recognition and measurement of the covered credit protection over a portfolio of specified assets and exposures assets as a result of the APS.
Impairment provisions on covered assets covered assets from HMT.
The portfolio of covered assets had a par measured at amortised cost are assessed and charged in accordance value of approximately 282 billion as at 31 December 2008 and the with the Groups accounting policy: held-for-trading assets, assets protection is subject to a first loss of 60 billion and covers 90% of designated at fair value and available-for-sale assets within the APS subsequent losses.
Once through the first loss, when a covered asset portfolio continue to be measured at fair value with no adjustments to has experienced a trigger event 1 losses and recoveries in respect of reflect the protection provided by the APS.
There is no change in how that asset are included in the balance receivable under the APS.
gains and losses on the covered assets are recognised in the income Receipts from HMT will, over time, amount to 90% of cumulative losses statement or in other comprehensive income.
net of cumulative recoveries on the portfolio of covered assets less the first loss amount.
Trigger events subject to specific rules detailed in the terms of the APS comprise: The Group has the right to terminate the Scheme at any time provided that the Financial Services Authority has confirmed in writing to HMT failure to pay: the counterparty to the covered asset has subject to that it has no objection to the proposed termination.
On termination, the specified grace periods failed to pay an amount due under the Group is liable to pay HMT a termination fee.
The termination fee would terms of its agreement with the Group.
be the difference between 2.5 billion or, if higher, a sum related to the economic benefit of regulatory capital relief obtained as a result of bankruptcy: the counterparty is subject to a specified insolvency or having entered the APS and the aggregate fees paid.
In addition, the bankruptcy-related event.
Group would have to repay any amounts received from HMT under the terms of the APS or as otherwise agreed with HMT.
In consideration restructuring: a covered asset which is individually impaired and is for the protection provided by the APS, the Group paid an initial subject to a restructuring.
premium of 1.4 billion on 31 December 2009 for the years 2009 and 2010.
A further premium of 700 million is payable on 1 January 2011 The selection of assets was carried out primarily between February and and subsequently annual premiums of 500 million until the earlier of 31 April 2009 and was driven by three principal criteria: December 2099 or the termination of the agreement.
1 Risk and degree of impairment in base case and stressed The APS is a single contract providing credit protection in respect of a scenarios: portfolio of financial assets: the unit of account is the contract as a whole.
Under IFRS, credit protection is either treated as a financial 2 Liquidity of exposure: and guarantee contract FGC or a derivative depending on the terms of the agreement and the nature of the protected assets and exposures.
The portfolio contains more than an insignificant element of derivatives unaudited 174 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
