Essential reading Board of directors and secretary Non-executive directors Non-executive directors Archie Hunter age 66 Colin Buchan age 55 A Chairman, N, Ri A, N, R Chairman, Ri Appointed to the Board in September 2004, Archie Hunter is a chartered Appointed to the Board in June 2002, Colin Buchan was educated in South Africa accountant.
He was Scottish senior partner of KPMG between 1992 and 1999 and spent the early part of his career in South Africa and the Far East.
He has and president of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland in 1997 98. considerable international investment banking experience, as well as experience He has extensive professional experience in the UK and North and South America.
in very large risk management in the equities business.
He was formerly a member He is currently chairman of Macfarlane Group plc, a director of Edinburgh US of the group management board of UBS AG and head of equities of UBS Tracker Trust plc and a governor of the Beatson Institute for Cancer Research.
Warburg, and was the former chairman of UBS Securities Canada Inc.
He is chairman of Standard Life Investments Limited and a director of Standard Life plc Joe MacHale age 58 and Black Rock World Mining Trust Plc.
Colin is a fellow of the Chartered Institute A, N, Ri of Bankers of Scotland.
Appointed to the Board in September 2004, Joe MacHale is currently a non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee of Brit Insurance Holdings plc, Sandy Crombie age 61 and a trustee and treasurer of MacMillan Cancer Support.
He held a number of Senior Independent Director senior executive positions with J P Morgan between 1979 and 2001 and was latterly N, R, Ri chief executive of J P Morgan Europe, Middle East and Africa Region.
He is a fellow Appointed to the Board in June 2009, Sandy Crombie retired from his position as of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and the Chairman of Prytania Holdings LLP.
Group Chief Executive of Standard Life Plc on 31 December 2009.
He has previously served as a director of the Association of British Insurers and a member of the Chancellor of the Exchequers High Level Group.
In 2007, he was John McFarlane age 62 the Prince of Wales Ambassador for Corporate Social Responsibility in Scotland.
N, R He currently serves as Chairman of the Edinburgh UNESCO City of Literature Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2008, John McFarlane is former chief Trust, as Vice Chairman of the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama, and executive officer of Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited.
Previously President of The Cockburn Association.
he was a group executive director of Standard Chartered and was head of Citicorp Citibank in the UK and Ireland.
He is currently a non-executive director of Penny Hughes age 50 Westfield Holdings Limited and a director of Old Oak Holdings Limited.
He is a N, R former president of the International Monetary Conference and a former chairman Penny Hughes joined the Board on 1 January 2010 and is currently a nonof the Australian Bankers Association.
He has previously served as a director of executive director of Home Retail Group plc and Cable & Wireless plc.
Penny the London Stock Exchange and a member of the Auditing Practices Board.
joined the board of Wm Morrisons Supermarkets plc on 1 January 2010.
She is a former non-executive director of Gap Inc, Vodafone PLC and Reuters PLC.
Penny Arthur Art Ryan age 67 chairs the Remuneration Committee of Home Retail Group.
Penny was a director N and chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2008, Art Ryan is the former chairman, chief AB until she stepped down on 20 October 2009.
Penny spent the majority of her executive officer and president of Prudential Financial Inc.
Previously he held executive career at Coca-Cola where she held a number of leadership positions.
senior positions with Chase Manhattan Bank NA.
He is currently a non-executive In 1992, she was appointed as President, Coca-Cola Great Britain and Ireland.
director of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. and an active member of numerous She is also a Trustee of the British Museum and President of the Advertising community boards.
He was a founding member of the Financial Services Forum.
Philip Scott age 55 A, N, Ri Chairman Appointed to the Board on 1 November 2009, Philip Scott has wide-ranging experience of financial services and risk management, including previous responsibility for Aviva's continental European and international life and long-term savings businesses.
He has held a number of senior executive positions during his career at Aviva, including his role as Group Finance Director until January 2010.
Philip is also an experienced non-executive director and is currently on the board of Diageo plc.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 9
