Global Banking & Markets Global Banking & Markets GBM is a leading banking partner to major corporations and financial institutions around the world, providing an extensive range of debt and equity financing, risk John Hourican management and investment services to Chief Executive, its customers.
The division is organised Global Banking & Markets along six principal business lines: money For biographies M markets: rates flow trading: currencies and see pages 8-11 commodities: equities: credit markets and portfolio management & origination.
2009 2008 Our businesses performed well during 2009. m m We faced up to the major challenges from our Net interest income 2,243 2,440 past as well as those facing the investment banking industry.
And we set out the strategy Non-interest income 8,766 274 that we are confident will allow us to compete Total income 11,009 2,714 successfully in the future.
Expenses 4,660 3,988 We made sure that our clients are at the heart of that strategy.
Throughout the year we continued to support them in a number of ways Operating profit loss before impairment losses 6,349 1,274 including advisory services, market execution, risk management and the provision of capital.
Impairment losses 640 522 That brought a number of successes in 2009, including: Operating profit loss 5,709 1,796 acting as joint financial advisor to BAA on its sale of Gatwick Airport: Risk-weighted assets bn 123.7 151.8 providing Vattenfall with our full investment banking product suite inReturn on equity 30.7% 8.4% support of their acquisition of Nuon: and Net interest margin 1.38% 1.34% supporting China WindPowers HKD595 million share placement.
Cost:income ratio 42.3% 146.9% In 2009, we participated in the five largest equity issues worldwide and Loan:deposit ratio 194% 192% six out of 10 of the biggest Debt Capital Market DCM transactions globally.
Underlining the strength of our DCM offering, we participated in one in eight of all bonds issued by corporates and financial institutions in 2009.
Anticipating trends during a turbulent period in the markets, we reopened the US dollar, euro, sterling and swiss franc corporate bond 4th markets in early 2009. in foreign exchange, GBM improved its ranking from 5th Our Markets business had a strong year, capitalising on the volatile conditions that persisted during the first six months of 2009.
We consolidated our Top Five positions in the core fixed income 6,349 million securities business areas, bonds, rates and currencies, and made gains in important markets such as equities.
operating profit before impairment losses The key to our success was a relentless focus on clients.
We implemented a global priority client initiative, which aligned services Target Return on equity % Cost:income % across GBM and helped further build sustained competitive advantage 2011 c. 15 65 across our core product areas.
2013 15-20 c. 55 28 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Divisional review Global Banking & Markets Did you know?
5 and 6 RBS participated in the five largest equity issues worldwide and six of the ten largest debt capital market issues Throughout the year, our Sales teams built strong relationships with As part of the Groups Strategic Plan, our Support team focused on the global clients, providing views on the market and working in partnership implementation of the common, cross-divisional operating model for with researchers, strategists, structurers and traders to meet clients Support in Europe and the Middle East, as well as major property and investment and risk-management objectives.
staff moves with the Stamford office in the US and our Bankside building in London opening for business in 2009.
We have compelling strengths in the markets in which we choose to compete and it is rewarding when others recognise that, too.
IFR named As part of the agreement we reached with the European Commission we us Sterling Bond House, The Banker magazine gave us the award as are selling our stake in RBS Sempra Commodities RBSSC, a joint venture Most Innovative in Loans & Leveraged Finance 2009 and Euromoney with a US energy company.
In February 2010, we announced the sale of named us Best Structured Products House.
RBSSCs Metals, Oils and European Energy business lines to J. P. Morgan.
Discussions continue with our joint venture partner Sempra Energy on a As well as serving customers, we had to deal with the problems of the range of ownership alternatives for the remainder of the business.
past and make sure we are in the best shape to compete in future.
Our balance sheet needed to be reduced and we carried too many Risk We would not have been able to meet the challenges we have faced Weighted Assets.
We had to tackle those issues as a matter of urgency during 2009, without our people.
and we did, making good progress.
We improved our liquidity profile in the early part of the year, leaving us less susceptible to extreme The GBM People Programme developed in 2009, underpins our fluctuations in the wholesale money markets.
objective to be the partner of choice for our clients by having the right values and behaviours embedded in our organisation.
It aligns employee During the year, we launched a major, two-year global investment objectives with business priorities and focuses on attracting and retaining programme.
This will improve the quality and efficiency of the control the right people with the right skills, in the right places, motivated, environment, help us to meet revenue targets and optimise how we use engaged and performing.
We have clearly set out our vision and values our technology.
The programme will establish class-leading front-to-back for the future.
systems to improve the management of client transactions and process infrastructure that will support business growth in the coming years.
Following the acquisition of ABN AMROs wholesale banking It will also enhance GBMs capability to respond to increasingly businesses, good progress has been made in integrating performance sophisticated regulatory requirements worldwide.
We made progress in and development across the division.
We have enhanced the input into the initial phases and the programme is on track to deliver its objectives.
performance assessments from our Risk function and have further strengthened assessment practices for senior business leaders.
Risk and how we manage our exposures came under scrutiny after the events of 2008.
We responded with a more thoughtful approach to risk In 2009, we demonstrated that we can compete at the highest level in management, putting new systems and processes in place.
This our core franchises and provide value added services to our clients included the successful design and implementation of enhancements to around the world.
We have a clear, client-focused strategy in place and the businesss first line of defence, which incorporates The Risk and we intend to maintain this momentum, execute the plan and enable The Control Committees, the Front Office Supervisory Policy and RBS Group to return to self-sufficiency.
Becoming best in class in managing risk is an important feature of our investment programme.
Our Risk function was also instrumental in the creation of a culture for self-identification and the raising of risk issues throughout the division.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29
