GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:28 Page 208 Report of the directors The directors present their report together with the audited accounts for Following approval at the General Meeting held on 15 December 2009, the year ended 31 December 2009.
RBS joined the Asset Protection Scheme, set up by HM Treasury, which provides additional protection to the Groups capital ratio and financial Capital restructuring position.
In November 2008, HM Treasury announced the establishment of UK Financial Investments Limited UKFI, a company wholly owned by the Results and dividends UK Government which will manage, on an arms-length basis, the UK The loss attributable to the ordinary and B shareholders of the company Governments shareholding in the company and other banks that for the year ended 31 December 2009 amounted to 3,607 million subscribed to the governments recapitalisation fund.
compared with a loss of 24,306 million for the year ended 31 December 2008, as set out in the consolidated income statement on On 19 January 2009 the company announced, in conjunction with HM page 241.
Treasury and UKFI, that the 5 billion non-cumulative sterling preference shares held by HM Treasury would be replaced with new ordinary The company did not pay a dividend on ordinary shares in 2009. shares.
Eligible shareholders were able to apply to subscribe for approximately 5 billion of new ordinary shares pro rata to their existing The Group has undertaken that, unless otherwise agreed with the shareholdings at a fixed price of 31.75 pence per share by way of an European Commission, neither the company nor any of its direct or open offer.
Any shares not taken up by shareholders in the open offer indirect subsidiaries excluding companies in the ABN AMRO Group or otherwise placed on behalf of the company were subscribed for by will pay external investors any dividends or coupons on existing hybrid HM Treasury at a fixed price of 31.75 pence per share and the capital instruments including preference shares, B shares and upper aggregate proceeds of the open offer were used to fund the and lower tier 2 instruments from a date starting not later than 30 April redemption of the preference shares held by HM Treasury, together with 2010 and for a period of two years thereafter the deferral period, or the redemption premium on the preference shares, accrued dividend, exercise any call rights in relation to these capital instruments between and commissions payable to HM Treasury on the offer.
The preference 24 November 2009 and the end of the deferral period, unless there is a shares were redeemed on 14 April 2009 at 101% of their issue price.
legal obligation to do so.
Hybrid capital instruments issued after 24 This resulted in HM Treasurys shareholding increasing by November 2009 will generally not be subject to the restriction on 16,791,036,376 ordinary shares to 70.3% of the enlarged ordinary share dividend or coupon payments or call options.
Business review On 27 November 2009 the company announced, in conjunction with HM Activities Treasury and UKFI, that it would issue 25.5 billion of new capital to HM The company is a holding company owning the entire issued ordinary Treasury.
This new capital, issued on 22 December 2009, took the form share capital of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, the principal direct of B shares, which do not generally carry voting rights at meetings of operating subsidiary undertaking of the company.
The Group ordinary shareholders but which are convertible into ordinary shares comprises the company and all its subsidiary and associated and count as Core Tier 1 capital.
Whilst the B shares themselves are undertakings, including the Royal Bank and NatWest.
Details of the entitled to the same dividends as ordinary shares, a Dividend Access principal subsidiary undertakings of the company are shown in Note 16 Share was issued in conjunction with them.
The combined effect is that on the accounts.
HM Treasury will enjoy preferential but non-transferable dividend rights on the new capital it provides.
Although the capital issue of 25.5 billion The Group is engaged principally in providing a wide range of banking, is expected to be sufficient to provide RBS with robust capital ratios insurance and other financial services.
Further details of the according to the Groups current base case forecasts, the FSA also organisational structure and business overview of the Group, including requires banks to have enough capital to maintain a minimum Core the products and services provided by each of its divisions and the Tier 1 ratio of at least 4 per cent.
even in a severely stressed scenario in competitive markets in which they operate, is contained in the Business which economic conditions deteriorate well beyond consensus review on pages 53 and 54. forecasts.
To enable RBS to meet this test, HM Treasury has agreed to subscribe for up to an additional 8 billion of capital in the form of Following the conclusion of a strategic review, the Group has realigned additional B shares if RBSs Core Tier 1 ratio falls below 5 per cent.
the its Core divisions, in particular the separation of RBS UK into UK Retail Contingent Subscription.
This Contingent Subscription will enable and UK Corporate.
A Non-Core division has also been established to RBS to maintain its capital resilience even if such a severely stressed manage and run off or dispose of a number of assets and businesses scenario were to occur.
that do not meet the Groups target criteria.
208 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
