Business Services & Central Functions Business Services formerly Group Manufacturing supports the customerfacing businesses and provides operational technology, customer support in telephony, account management, lending and money transmission, global purchasing, property Ron Teerlink, Chief and other services.
Business Services drives Administrative Officer efficiencies and supports income growth For biographies M across multiple brands and channels by see pages 8-11 using a single, scalable platform and common processes wherever possible.
Business Services It also leverages the Groups purchasing Business Services is the shared services Division of the RBS Group.
power and is the Groups centre of We provide a range of high quality support services to the customerexcellence for managing large-scale facing businesses of the Group.
Technology Services designs, builds, implements and supports global technology solutions for our Divisions and Group functions.
Central Functions comprises group and Group Operations shapes and executes service delivery andcorporate functions, such as treasury, transaction processing for our customers, in the most efficient, funding and finance, risk management, secure and effective way possible.
legal, communications and human resources.
Property Services provides portfolio management and workplace The Centre manages the Groups capital design solutions as well as day-to-day facilities management services resources and Group-wide regulatory across our global footprint.
projects and provides services to the Group Sourcing & Vendor Management selects, manages and operating divisions.
develops the best and most suitable supplier relationships, making sure that the current and future purchasing needs of the Group are delivered across all locations and brands.
Security & Risk provides support and advice to protect our customers, our information and our people against key security and fraud threats.
Business Services creates value through economies of scale, the application of shared platforms, specialised knowledge and working in partnership with each of the customer-facing divisions.
Our close working relationships across the Group ensure an alignment of the core business priorities with a better understanding of the allocation of costs, service pricing and business driven investment prioritisation.
Our focus is to deliver high quality service for the customer and continually to make the things were good at, even better.
Business Services also plays a key role in restructuring and lowering the Groups cost base and manages a sizeable, and in some areas long overdue, investment programme.
During 2009, Business Services was able to fund new technology and property investments from increased efficiencies and synergies generated from across the Group.
Business 2 Services is reducing its headcount by 9,000 over the period 2009-2010, 40,000m intensively working with employees and various internal stakeholders, including unions and social partners.
By providing our people with of space saved by our Intelligent Working initiative active support throughout the process, we have been able to limit the number of compulsory redundancies.
38 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Divisional review Business Services & Central Functions Bruce Van Saun, Group Finance Director For biographies M see pages 8-11 In 2009, we embarked on a comprehensive Lean review of all of our Committee made up of non-executive directors is now in place.
We have processes in Business Services.
That is now driving one of the biggest agreed a revised structure for risk management which will strengthen customer focused efficiency programmes ever delivered in RBS.
Lean areas identified as weaknesses in recent years.
These include functional teams assess the nuts and bolts of our business, and identify and reporting for the risk function, the appointment of a Deputy Chief Risk implement opportunities to eliminate wasteful processes, continually Officer, a Head of Firm Wide Risk and a Global Head of Market Risk, as focusing on how we can improve our service to our customers.
We have well as a Chief Administrative Officer.
We have created a new post of embedded Lean thinking in how our people work.
Head of Operational Risk which recognises the additional execution risk associated with the delivery of one of the largest restructurings ever Intelligent Working was another key programme in Business Services undertaken by a bank globally.
in 2009, looking at how we employ people, technology and property in a way that makes best use of our assets and at the same time improves Finance the quality and efficiency of our services.
So far, globally, we have Greater transparency and openness are as essential to the Groups removed nearly 40,000 square metres of office space, equivalent to five journey towards self-sufficiency and regaining investor confidence.
During 2009, we began to deliver highly detailed, quarterly interim management statements.
Analysts and investors have welcomed our Business Services also operates well-established and high quality increased disclosure.
transaction processing and technology hubs in India and Poland.
The Indian operations hub is a shared service, which supports our Human Resources major businesses in the UK, USA, Asia and Europe.
Capabilities include To help align our executives contribution to delivering our strategic investment banking, trade and payments, retail, corporate and mortgage plans and meet new regulatory requirements, we developed and back office operations, and technology development functions.
implemented a new Executive Performance Assessment EPA Centralising these capabilities, creating centres of expertise and framework.
The framework is a balanced scorecard approach and deploying Lean techniques allows us to increase the efficiency of focused on the five key areas of Strategic Progress, Business Delivery the bank whilst at the same time improving the customer experience.
and Financial Performance, Customers Expectations, Risk, Efficiency and Control and People Management.
In Technology Services, state-of-the-art but proven technologies such as desktop virtualisation, IP networking and data centre consolidation are The EPA framework is designed substantially to improve the quality used to restructure the cost base whilst developing improved levels of our Executives objectives and Personal Development Plans.
During the year, we consolidated the Chicago based data centre functions trade and international payment systems Group Strategy into the core data centres in Edinburgh.
More than 17 million payments Our Group Strategy team supports the Chief Executive and the a day and 4.3 billion payments annually now pass through Edinburgh.
Executive Committee in the development of the Groups strategy.
By relocating this work, we increased utilisation of our existing data Its objective is to ensure that the Group has the right portfolio of centre capability and generated economies of up to businesses, active in the right markets, supported by the appropriate 100 million a year of cost savings.
allocation of capital and other resources.
2009 was an intensive year of delivering real change globally in Group Communications Business Services, creating new ways of working to improve the service Our Group Communications team manages our relationships with to our customers.
The focus on customers, delivery, collaboration, external stakeholders and makes sure we keep our employees informed investment and empowering our people, gives us strong foundation about developments in the business.
RBS wants to be more open to stones on which to build.
stakeholders than we were in the past and during the year Group Communications helped elected officials, commentators and others to Central Functions gain a better understanding of our business and how we plan to return Risk to self-sufficiency.
We have made significant progress to meet the post Walker Review requirements for an independent risk function within banks.
A Board Risk RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 39
