UK Retail UK Retail offers a comprehensive range of banking products and related financial services to the personal market.
It serves customers through the RBS and NatWest networks of branches and ATMs, and also Brian Hartzer through telephone and internet channels.
Chief Executive, UK Retail, Wealth and Ulster Bank 2009 2008 For biographies M m m see pages 8-11 Net interest income 3,452 3,187 Non-interest income 1,495 1,751 Total income 4,947 4,938 Our NatWest and RBS brands serve more than 15 million retail customers, making us the Expenses 3,039 3,196 number two player in the UK banking market.
Operating profit before impairment losses 1,908 1,742 We offer a full range of products, including current accounts, mortgages, credit charge Impairment losses 1,679 1,019 cards and deposit accounts.
We also help our Operating profit 229 723 customers with their financial planning.
Risk-weighted assets bn 51.3 45.7 The recession made 2009 a very difficult year for our customers and for UK Retail.
Although the bottom-line figures are disappointing, we Return on equity 4.2% 13.1% continued to make the kind of progress that we need to return to good health.
In Branch Banking, customer deposits grew 11% on 2008, Net interest margin 3.59% 3.58% reflecting the strength of our franchises.
Customers opened an extra 2.2 million savings accounts a 20% rise and savings balances were up Cost:income ratio 59.8% 62.4% by 11%.
The number of current accounts increased by 3%.
In Private Banking & Advice, we also saw resilient returns, with performance for Loan:deposit ratio excluding repos 115% 116% mortgages and savings particularly good.
Overall investment sales increased by 3% on the previous year and our Independent Financial Services business experienced a similar trend.
Our Financial Planning business also performed robustly, with a market share of 14%.
11% We appreciate the support that the UK taxpayer continued to give RBS Group.
In return, the Group agreed with the Government to support the increase in customer deposits in the year mortgage market by lending, subject to demand, 9 billion net in the 12 months to the end of February 2010.
The Group is on track to exceed this target on net lending by 3 billion.
One result of our commitment to keep the mortgage market moving is that our share of gross mortgage lending nearly doubled, from 7% in 2008 to 12% in 2009.
10% increase in mortgage customers in the year As compensation for the state aid we received, we also reached an agreement with the European Commission to divest some businesses, including the RBS branches in England and Wales, and the NatWest branches in Scotland.
A distinct management team is in place to manage the transition carefully.
Their job is to look after the day-to-day needs of these branches and the support functions that back them up so that customers continue to receive the right standard of service.
Target Return on equity % Cost:income % Loan:deposit % We have worked hard to address the challenges we face.
In July 2009, Brian Hartzer became Chief Executive of the UK Retail, Wealth and 2011 1 60 120 Ulster Bank Division.
Brian joined from Australia and New Zealand 2013 15 c. 50 105 Banking Group Ltd ANZ where he was Chief Executive Australia for all ANZ business lines.
22 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Divisional review UK Retail Did you know?
10.2 billion Our net mortgage lending in the UK was 10.2 billion We recognise that theres strong competition on the high street and we To become more efficient we have invested in online banking and the need to help restore the reputation of The RBS Group.
We intend to do number of active online banking customers increased by almost one this by becoming the UKs most Helpful and Sustainable bank with a quarter during the year.
Our online customers have benefited from improved strategic programme to: help facilities and we launched our online retirement planning tool for Private Banking customers, which will help them plan for the future.
re-engage our customers Over 5.5 million accounts have chosen to convert to paperless banking.
restore the pride of our people Receiving their statements online rather than through the post is better for the environment and has saved postage and printing costs.
radically simplify the business To increase the service options available to our customers we introduced grow quality revenue.
almost 450 Cash Deposit Machines to more than 250 branches.
This enables customers to make deposits without queuing and, so far, more Were already putting Helpful and Sustainable banking into practice.
In than 2 billion has been deposited in this way, which has freed up a September, we cut the price of un-arranged borrowing and reduced the significant amount of our employees time to serve customers even better.
fee we charge for unpaid items from 38 to 5 and the maximum monthly charge was halved.
We also decreased referral fees, maintenance We continued to take advantage of developments in technology to charges and interest rates for un-arranged borrowing on most accounts.
improve the service we provide our customers.
During the year, we were the first UK bank to launch a mobile banking application for the iPhone.
We continued to provide advice to customers and other people who are We were delighted by its popularity as we received 300% more customer concerned about their personal finances through our flagship MoneySense registrations than we had originally targeted.
Through MoneySense for Adults, 1,000 trained advisers helped nearly 26,000 people through a MoneySense interview.
Our More changes are in the pipeline through our Retail Transformation MoneySense for Schools Programme, which weve been running for 16 Programme as we apply Lean thinking and techniques across the years, teaches children how to manage their money.
Already, our first pilots have delivered efficiency savings 28,000 lessons were delivered in over 1,500 schools.
Scottish Financial amongst our customer facing teams, and we expect these benefits to Enterprise recognised the success of MoneySense and gave us their continue as we apply the lessons learned across the country.
Innovation for Investment in the Community Award in 2009.
For customers who find themselves in financial difficulty, we have invested in We are committed to improving what we do to become the UKs most more people to help them, and also developed an income and expenditure Helpful and Sustainable bank and its encouraging that both RBS and toolkit which is already being used to help 40,000 customers a month NatWest retain a strong position for service in our customers eyes.
We better understand how they can manage their money.
know we still have a long way to go and that 2010 will be a demanding year.
However, were confident that with the changes were making well Its also important that we provide a service that fits in with our customers build a successful business that will play a huge part in returning the lifestyles.
Many of our customers want to visit a branch but cant do so Group to self-sufficiency.
Its important for them that they can come and talk to us on a Saturday and during the year we changed the opening hours of more than 600 branches so that we could better meet their needs.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23
