GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 151-173. qxp:GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 15 3 10 09:23 Page 172 Business review continued Operational risk continued Operational risk events by category % of total by value The charts below show a similar distribution of losses by value across the risk categories, captured at the date the event occurred and updated as losses crystallise.
Fraud prevention Business continuity Fraud remains a big challenge to the Group, and the rest of the financial The need to ensure the continuity of business across the Group and the services industry.
The Group continues to respond to this threat, management of crisis situations is a key activity within the risk function.
continually investing in people and processes for both detective and preventative measures, especially in relation to the impact of organised Key risks and threats that the Group is consistently monitoring from a crime against the Group.
Key initiatives are focused on solutions for business continuity perspective include pandemics, terrorism, payment fraud, ATM security, identification of counterfeit documentation environmental impacts and technology disruptions.
Business continuity and online banking protection for our customers.
This has resulted in plans are in place to ensure that the Group can continue key products, multi-million pound savings and, through close working ties with law services, and operations.
enforcement agencies, handing down of significant custodial sentences.
A consistent crisis management framework has been developed that Physical security includes a six step methodology and allows incidents to be managed The Group has implemented strong measures to protect our customers, and resolved through skilled divisional, country, regional and global our staff and our assets from physical harm.
These measures are kept teams.
under constant review in response to changing threats.
In particular, in 2009 there has been a significant rise in demonstrations against the Other risks Group in relation to the increased media attention the Group has All the disclosures in this section pages 172 to 173 are unaudited and received.
Robust processes are in place to ensure the safety of indicated with an asterisk.
customers and staff during these demonstrations.
Regulatory risk Information security Regulatory risk is managed by designing, maintaining and implementing The Group is committed to protecting customer and Group information policies and systems in order to ensure effective compliance with all with regard to loss of confidentiality, integrity and availability.
All regulatory and legal requirements in all the jurisdictions in which the employees and agents of the Group are responsible for the protection Group operates.
of Group assets, systems and information.
All customer information is treated as confidential and appropriate security is applied to protect the The Groups approach to regulatory risk has three distinct elements: information.
The review of potential changes in regulation to ensure that the Additionally, the Groups Information Security Policy is reviewed regularly Group addresses the risks arising from such changes and responds and includes processes for managing and monitoring compliance with appropriately: the policy.
The same standards apply to information controlled by the Group or managed by authorised third parties.
The Group continues to The monitoring of compliance with existing rules and regulations and invest in programmes to enhance and maintain information security the mitigation of the consequences of any inadvertent noncontrols and systems.
For example, during 2009, we completed security compliance: and reviews on all of our high risk third parties as well as externally facing and hosted websites.
The management of effective relationships with regulators to ensure constructive engagement.
unaudited 172 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 151-173. qxp:GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 15 3 10 09:23 Page 173 Business review Risk, capital and liquidity management Under a Group-wide framework of high-level policies, the Group and its The Board has ultimate responsibility for managing any impact on the subsidiaries engage co-operatively with all regulatory authorities in all reputation of the Group arising from its operations.
The Group the relevant jurisdictions, whether in response to regulatory change, Corporate Sustainability Committee was established in January 2010, ongoing supervisory requirements or regulatory investigations.
chaired by one of our Non-Executive Directors to enhance governance in this area.
However, all parts of the Group take responsibility for The scale and pace of regulatory change continues, focused across a reputation management.
range of topics, including Systemically Important Firms, Prudential Basel Capital & Liquidity requirements and Conduct issues.
Of Pension risk particular interest is the cumulative impact of proposals across the The Group is exposed to risk to its defined benefit pension schemes as financial services industry.
Globally, regulators have expanded their assets comprise investment portfolios which are held to meet projected focus across a range of issues, notably strategic, governance, capital, liabilities to scheme members.
Risk arises because returns from these liquidity, systems, people issues, remuneration, Anti Money investments may be less than expected or there may be greater than Laundering sanctions and terrorist financing and Treating Customers expected increases in the estimated value of the schemes liabilities.
This is particularly the case in the UK, where the FSA as the such circumstances, the Group could be obliged, or may choose, to Groups lead regulator has implemented an enhanced supervisory make additional contributions to the schemes.
The largest of the schemes, and the main source of pension obligation The Group has a well developed regulatory developments framework, risk, is the RBS Group Pension Fund.
In October 2006, this scheme was which assigns Senior Executive responsibility for all material risks facing closed to new employees.
In November 2009, the Group confirmed that the Group on a global basis.
The Group engages with standard setters, it was making changes, proposed in August 2009, to the RBS Group rule makers, regulators and trade bodies to deliver effective and Pension Fund and a number of other defined benefit schemes, with a proportionate rule making.
view to controlling the cost and the risk of operating these pension plans.
The main change was the introduction of a yearly limit of 2% or Reputation risk inflation if lower to the amount of any salary increase that will count for Reputation is the body of perceptions and opinions held by the pension purposes.
stakeholders of an organisation: customers, suppliers, employees, investors, interest groups, regulators and government.
Reputation Risk appetite and investment policy are agreed by the Board of Trustees determines how stakeholders are likely to behave towards an with quantitative and qualitative input from the scheme actuaries and organisation.
Reputation risk arises from any activity that could have an investment advisers.
The Board of Trustees also consults with the Group adverse impact on the reputation of the Group.
to obtain its view on the appropriate level of risk within the pension fund.
There are several important drivers of the reputation of a company and The Group maintains an independent review of risk within the pension reputation risk including: financial performance: corporate governance funds.
and quality of management: ethical, social and environmental performance: marketing, innovation and customer relationships: and GALCO monitors pension obligation risk which is assessed by regulatory compliance and litigation.
estimating the funding position of the scheme with a twelve month risk horizon, and with a number of different confidence levels.
Monte Carlo The Group protects its reputation by understanding and managing simulations are used, based on assumptions of statistical distribution of reputation risks, including failure to meet the expectations of future equity returns, future real and nominal interest rates, sensitivity of stakeholders.
The Group will only enter into a commercial transaction or asset and liability values to changes in equity returns and real and customer relationship which is legal and complies with regulatory nominal interest rates, the impact of an adverse change in longevity requirements, has economic substance or business purpose and is not assumptions and mitigation available to the Group.
designed or used for inappropriate accounting or tax purposes.
The Group takes care to understand the issues that matter most to Every three years the Group and Trustees meet to formally agree the stakeholders, balance the views of all stakeholders and address them appropriate basis for calculating the funding valuation.
Risks to the reputation of the Group are identified, assessed, funding valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2007.
This showed the managed, monitored and reported.
The Group pays particular attention fund to be in surplus, and therefore there was no need in 2008 or 2009 to the reputation risks associated with the introduction of new products for additional payments over and above the regular contributions.
The next valuation is due as at 31 March 2010 and the Group expects It is the responsibility of the management of all Group companies, this valuation to show that liabilities exceed the value of the assets.
acting through individual business units, to ensure that appropriate Following this valuation the Group and the Trustees will agree the level controls and procedures are in place to identify and manage the risks to of contributions to be paid to the scheme.
This could result in the the reputation of the Group arising from their activity.
amount of contributions payable in 2010 and subsequent years being materially different from the current estimate for 2010.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 173
