Group Chief Executives review continued Our markets level of systemic and specific support called upon in 2008 09 in any Keep up-to-date with our latest economic research and M analysis at www.
To enable banks to fail without a seizing-up of our financial system or a disastrous domino effect is a complex re-engineering challenge, especially when the scenario in question is not individual The economic backdrop was difficult, despite bank failure but systemic threat to many banks.
I believe the answer lies a gradual improvement as the year wore on.
in devising a Chapter 11 regime for banks, a clearer and swifter loss attribution mechanism beyond equity and a reduction in counterparty At the beginning of 2009, the global economy was in the grip of a risk.
Size and shape of themselves are a red herring, as surely all the recession described by the International Monetary Fund as facts of the crisis bear out.
In any event, change in the area of crisis unprecedented in the post-World War II era.
This prompted a resolution is a must.
But the consequences may be far-reaching and coordinated policy response by central banks and governments around may have unforeseen side effects.
We need thoughtful, purposeful the world.
Interest rates were cut sharply and some countries took the dialogue leading to reform that works and we need to avoid rushed extra step of introducing quantitative easing including the UK.
These policies quickly had a calming effect on asset prices.
Global Finally, the financial services industry must do more on the issue of equities stabilised in March 2009 and have since risen by c. 65% FTSE cultural change: reconnection with customers and communities: 45%, S&P 500 55%.
Similarly, house prices started to rise in the restoration of management excellence: reform of pay structures that spring, and are presently about 5% and 10% above their troughs in the have become hard to defend.
The financial services industry is integral US and UK, respectively.
As such its weakening comes at considerable peril to societys broader wealth creation and stability.
But our more Commercial property valuations took longer to recover.
Having fallen intangible licence to operate from society is at present rather battered.
by 44% over the previous two years, UK valuations started to rise again Our integral role requires that we restore it.
in August 2009, and have since rebounded by 9%, according to International Property Databank IPD.
However, valuations were still Shareholders falling in Ireland and the US as at Q4.
RBS is being restructured and run to serve customers well, to be safe and stable and to restore sustainable shareholder value for all.
It is our Policy loosening also led to an improvement in economic performance, legal duty.
It is our intention and desire.
It is also the only way by which with the rate of decline in gross domestic product GDP easing, then taxpayers will recover the support they have entrusted us with.
reversing in our core economies as 2009 progressed.
The US emerged from technical recession in Q3 2009, and the UK in Q4 2009.
Even so, As we go through implementation of RBSs Strategic Plan, RBSs value the whole year growth outturns confirm that 2009 was, on balance, a will be determined by the improved sustainable earnings power of our challenging year for our core markets: Core business.
The losses from the Non-Core wind-down will continue for a time, but should increasingly be seen as catered for in our financial UK GDP shrank by 4.8% the largest decline on record, and a much structure.
As confidence grows, we will be able to resolve the worse outturn than economists were expecting when we reported complexities in our capital structure and the Government will have our 2008 Results -2.6%, according to Consensus Economics.
opportunities to sell down its stake, thereby adding clarity and reducing The recession hurt many of our customers, with unemployment rising the risk discount that is perceived today.
In Ireland, the recession was even more pronounced.
GDP fell by At the beginning of 2010 RBS is still a complex story.
It will become an estimated 7.3%, according to Consensus Economics.
Thats simpler, clearer and more valuable as our strategy and actions show mainly because property and construction are more prominent in more results.
We believe we can do this, to the benefit of all.
the Irish economy, and suffered even sharper corrections.
Stephen Hester The decline in US GDP was mild by comparison -2.4%, but that is Group Chief Executive still a deep recession by US historic standards.
The unemployment rate more than doubled, giving rise to the weakest labour market conditions for almost 30 years.
The economic outlook The nascent recovery has more to do with policy stimulus than a reduction in the global imbalances that helped cause the recession.
Savings rates have risen in the US and UK, but households, government and to a lesser extent companies still have a way to go to get debt down to more comfortable levels.
As a result, most economists expect that the recovery in our core markets will be sluggish by historic standards.
This suggests that inflation will remain low and that interest rates will be raised only gradually.
Emerging markets, especially Asia, will likely outperform as they are less encumbered by balance sheet strains.
All data are from Thomson Datastream, unless otherwise indicated.
6 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
