governance Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | rsa | 43 Directors report The Directors of RSA Insurance Group plc RSA present their report business review.
The employee, customer and the environment and and the audited financial statements of the Company for the year ended community KPIs are detailed in the regional business reviews on pages 31 December 2009.
14 to 25, the corporate responsibility report on pages 33 to 37 and in this report.
principal activity The Company is the holding company of the RSA group of companies Dividends the Group whose principal activity is the transaction of personal The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.33p per ordinary share and commercial general insurance business.
The Group operates in in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009 to be paid on 4 June 34 countries and provides general insurance products and services 2010 to holders of ordinary shares on the register at the close of in over 130 countries.
business on 5 March 2010, subject to ordinary shareholder approval.
This, together with the interim dividend of 2.92p per ordinary share, Business review will make a total dividend for the year of 8.25p per ordinary share.
The Companies Act 2006, section 417 requires the Directors to present a business review in this report.
The information that fulfils The preferential dividend at the rate of 3.6875% for the period from 1 this requirement can be found in the sections below, which are October 2009 to 31 March 2010 will be paid on 1 April 2010 to holders of incorporated by reference into this report: preference shares on the register at the close of business on 5 March 2010.
The Group CEOs review on pages 6 to 10 employment policy The Group strategy on pages 11 to 13 The Groups employment policy reflects our belief that motivated and The regional business reviews on pages 14 to 25 skilled employees are critical to our success.
The financial review on pages 26 to 29 The key performance indicators throughout the introduction and We encourage equal opportunities and diversity across the Group.
business review This involves recruiting, engaging, retaining, rewarding and developing The discussion of future developments of the business in the Group people solely on the grounds of ability to do the job, and establishing CEOs review on pages 6 to 10 and in the regional business reviews and promoting a working environment which is free from discrimination.
on pages 14 to 25 The discussion of principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group The Group is committed to the promotion of equal opportunities for all set out in the estimation techniques, risks, uncertainties and employees including those with a disability.
In order to do this, we shall contingencies on pages 82 to 84, and in the risk management section ensure that any reasonable adjustment is made, where it is appropriate on pages 30 to 32 and to do so, to provide equal opportunities to all in respect of recruitment, The corporate responsibility report on pages 33 to 37. terms and conditions of employment, promotions, transfers, grievances, redundancies and vocational training.
The Group is committed wherever The business review has been prepared to the best of the Directors possible, to supporting the rehabilitation and return to work of knowledge in order to provide the Companys shareholders with a fair employees who become disabled during their career with us.
review of the development and performance of the Company and the Group as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and The Group is committed to fostering a constructive dialogue with uncertainties which may affect the Group.
It may not be relied upon for recognised independent trade unions, ensuring a regular and open any other purpose.
dialogue on business issues and early consultation on changes affecting the workforce.
In the UK, Unite is formally recognised through a The Group uses Key Performance Indicators KPIs to provide a well partnership agreement which covers collective consultation and balanced and comprehensive review of the Groups overall performance.
bargaining on behalf of non management employees.
The Management KPIs are monitored in a number of areas including financial, employee, Association TMA represents managerial employees under a separate customer, strategic priorities and the environment and community.
The European Consultative Forum ECF Financial KPIs include the Groups combined operating ratio, expense is a cross European body created to enable information sharing and ratio, operating result and net written premium growth.
Employee KPIs consultation on transnational issues with the European workforce.
include the percentage of staff that have performance related pay, the percentage of staff taking part in the employee survey and the increase The Group continues to focus on the development of employees in in overall employee engagement levels as measured by the survey.
order to ensure they can deliver high levels of performance.
We believe Customer KPIs include the levels of customer retention and the Groups we can create real competitive advantage by building and maintaining position in the annual benchmarking survey on complaints handling by a high performance culture across the Group.
the Association of British Insurers.
Environment and community KPIs include targets on energy, travel, waste and levels of CO2 emissions and In 2009 we have continued to deliver our leadership development the amount of the Groups charitable donations.
We have continued to accelerate the development of highlighted on page 1 and are detailed throughout the introduction and our in house executive talent through the Executive Development 44 | rsa | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report continueD Programme which enters its sixth year in 2010.
During 2009 we set supplier payment policy up a Marketing Academy to train and develop our marketing staff and It is the Companys policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions support our ambition of building a best in class marketing function.
in advance with its suppliers and to make payment in accordance with those terms and conditions, provided the supplier has complied with Now into its third year, the Global Technical Graduate Programme them.
In most cases, agreements for the supply of goods or services are covers business and technical essentials, continuing our commitment made under standard terms of contract that lay down payment terms.
to growing the next generation of underwriters, claims handlers In the UK these are available on request from UK Strategic Sourcing, and actuaries.
Leadenhall Court, 1 Leadenhall Street, London EC3V 1PP.
Our accelerated career programme, FastTrack, has continued in all The Companys outstanding indebtedness to trade creditors on regions.
There have been a total of 114 participants since the programme 31 December 2009 amounted to 2.7m corresponding to 14 days began in 2006 with 27 individuals from 13 different countries joining the payment when averaged over the year.
programme in 2009. annual general meeting We have seen improvements in a number of key result areas in our The AGM will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, global employee survey.
In 2009 our focus was again on employee Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Monday, engagement and was the second year that Gallup supported us in 17 May 2010 at 11.00 am.
measuring employee engagement using the Gallup Q12 questions.
With an overall response rate of 92%, an increase of 6% on 2008, Enclosed with this report is a letter from the Chairman to shareholders.
we achieved a fundamental shift in engagement across all regions with Attached to the letter is the Notice convening the AGM which will a third of our teams being judged by Gallup as world class.
We are the include items of ordinary and special business as detailed in the Notice.
only sizeable European client of Gallup to achieve a fundamental shift in engagement this year.
In line with other companies, we are asking shareholders to approve the adoption of new articles of association primarily to reflect the Our policy is to encourage employee share ownership.
Employees from implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive in the UK in August 17 of the 34 countries in which RSA operates are invited to participate 2009 and the remaining provisions of the Companies Act 2006 in in our Sharesave scheme and the overall takeup by eligible employees is October 2009.
We have also taken the opportunity to revise the 47%.
This year we also launched an HM Revenue & Customs approved current articles of association in order to update language, style and share incentive plan, Sharebuild, in the UK with 24% of eligible employees approach in line with best practice.
An explanation of the main changes choosing to participate.
Further details on the Groups share schemes between the current articles of association and the new articles of can be found in the remuneration report on pages 53 to 66. association is set out in the Appendix to the AGM Notice sent to shareholders and is available at www.
We also encourage employees to participate in our discount schemes for employees and their families.
Our Staff Saver Scheme in the UK share capital currently has approximately 7,800 Staff Saver policies in force On 18 May 2009 the authorised share capital of the Company was 2008: approximately 6,000 policies in force.
increased by ordinary resolution from 1,468,750,000 to 1,881,250,000 by the creation of 1,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 27.5p each ranking Employees are kept well informed of the overall performance and pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of 27.5p each objectives of the Group.
Communications are regularly provided by in the capital of the Company.
email, intranet articles and staff publications.
Key messages from our biannual Group Leaders Conferences are disseminated to teams by During the year 28,969,400 ordinary shares of 27.5p each were issued local management.
in satisfaction of the exercise of employee share options for a total consideration of 11,460,043 and 61,767,996 ordinary shares of 27.5p The Group actively encourages employees to become involved in each were issued under the Companys scrip dividend scheme for a total supporting their local communities.
Further details are provided in the consideration of 76,540,441. corporate responsibility report on pages 33 to 37.
The Company can increase its share capital and authorise the Directors environmental programme to allot further securities by ordinary resolution.
As at 31 December Details of our environmental programme can be found in the 2009, the Directors had authority to allot securities up to a nominal corporate responsibilty report on pages 33 to 37 and on our website amount of 305,350,938. at www.
governance Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | rsa | 45 The Company may purchase any of its own shares including any Directors redeemable shares.
An authority from ordinary shareholders for the The names of the Directors, together with biographical details are set out Company to purchase up to 333,110,115 of its own ordinary shares on pages 40 and 41 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
representing 10% of its issued share capital as at 16 March 2009 remained in force at 31 December 2009.
Details of the Directors service contracts and terms of appointment, together with their interests in the Companys shares are shown in the The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a company remuneration report on pages 53 to 66 and are incorporated into this to have an authorised share capital and the new articles of association report by reference.
proposed for adoption at the 2010 AGM reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot save in Details of Directors powers are set out in the corporate governance respect of employee share schemes and, as in previous years, authority report on page 47 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
to allot will be sought at the 2010 AGM.
Directors indemnity Article 144 of the Articles provides that, among other things and insofar Further details on the share capital of the Company are incorporated as permitted by law, every Director shall be indemnified by the into this report and are set out in note 18 on pages 110 to 112.
Company against all costs, charges, expenses, losses or liabilities incurred in the execution and discharge of the Directors duties, power or office.
rights and obligations attaching to shares The rights attaching to the ordinary shares and preference shares are set Since 12 July 2006, the Company has granted an indemnity to each out in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles.
Details of of the Directors pursuant to the power conferred by Article 144.
The the rights and obligations attaching to shares as at 31 December 2009 indemnities granted constitute qualifying third party indemnity provisions are incorporated into this report by reference and are set out in note 18 as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board on pages 110 to 112. of Directors the Board believes that it promotes the success of the Company to provide this indemnity to its Directors in order to ensure employee Benefit trusts that the Group attracts and retains high calibre Directors through The Company operates three employee benefit trusts to hold ordinary competitive terms of employment in line with market standards.
shares in RSA which are used to satisfy exercises under the Groups share incentive schemes.
These trusts are the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries also have Trust, the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust No.
2 and the Royal & the benefit of insurance which provides suitable cover in respect of legal SunAlliance ESOP Trust No.
In each case, the Trustee is actions brought against them.
Lloyds TSB Offshore Trust Company Limited.
In respect of any shares held in the Trusts, the Trustee may vote in respect of those shares, but None of the Directors had any interest in any other contract with the has no obligation to do so.
In respect of the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Company or any of its subsidiaries during 2009 save that a number of Trust No.
3, the Trustee may have regard to the financial interests of the Directors have taken out personal lines insurance with the Group.
beneficiaries in exercising its voting rights over the Companys shares.
related party transactions substantial share interests Related party transactions are set out in note 32 on page 131.
At the date of this report the Company had been notified by the following companies of their and their clients voting interests in the essential contracts ordinary share capital of the Company in accordance with Disclosure The Company does not consider that it, or any of its subsidiaries, has any and Transparency Rule 5 the number of shares and percentage interests key dependency or essential contract that is fundamental to the success are shown as at the relevant notification dates : of the Company that is required to be disclosed pursuant to section 417 Interest in issued of the Companies Act 2006.
Number of shares share capital Blackrock, Inc 189,102,514 5.53% charitable and political contributions Schroders plc 168,680,398 5.00% The Company and its subsidiaries worldwide made charitable donations of 2,789,725 during the year, of which 1,454,012 related to donations AXA S. A.
In 2009, the largest charitable donation was Standard Life Investments 158,206,814 4.69% to WWF-UK at a total of 840,000, being the first payment in respect Legal & General Group plc 136,295,990 3.99% of a 3 year global partnership.
The partnership focuses on conservation and research projects in the UK, Canada, Scandinavia and China concentrating on environmental change and links to insurance.
46 | rsa | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The figure includes a donation of 100,000 to the Thames Rivers Restoration Trust for a flood management project in London.
There is a formal Group policy currently in place which prohibits any donations to political parties.
auditor Deloitte LLP Deloitte was appointed as auditor of the Company in 2007 and reappointed at each subsequent AGM.
So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of, and to establish that the auditor is aware of, any relevant audit information.
Deloitte have confirmed their willingness to continue in office as auditor of the Company for the year ending 31 December 2010.
A resolution for their reappointment will be proposed at the 2010 AGM.
going concern In considering the appropriateness of the going concern basis, the Board has reviewed the Groups ongoing financial commitments for the next 12 months and beyond.
The Boards review included consideration of the Groups underwriting plans, strong regulatory capital surplus, diverse insurance risk profile, considerable undrawn financing facilities and highly liquid investment portfolio.
As a result of this review the Directors have satisfied themselves that it is appropriate to prepare these financial statements on a going concern basis.
By order of the Board mark r chambers General Counsel and Group Company Secretary 24 February 2010
