40 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 BoARd oF diRectoRS FRoM leFt to Right: 2.
Andy hASte 4. noel hARweRth Age 48.
Andy joined the Board as Group Age 62.
John nAPieR Chief Executive in April 2003 and is a member Director in March 2004, Noel joined the Age 67.
John joined as a Non-Executive of the Group Executive Team, Investment Board Risk Committee as Chairman in June Director in January 2003 and became Committee and Board Risk Committee.
2009 and is a member of the Audit and Chairman of the Board and Nomination Andy has been a member of the Board of Investment Committees.
Noel is also a Committee in March 2003.
He is a member the Association of British Insurers since 2003.
Director of Logica plc IT and outsourcing, of the Investment Committee and joined the Andys previous roles include Chief Executive Impellam Group plc support services, Harry Remuneration Committee in January 2009. of AxA Sun Life plc and Director of AxA Winston Diamond Corporation mining and He was appointed Non-Executive Chairman UK plc life and pensions.
He is the former retail and Deputy Chairman of Sumitomo of Aegis Group plc media in June 2008 and President and Chief Executive Officer of Mitsui Banking Corporation Europe Limited interim Chief Executive of Aegis Group plc in Global Consumer Finance Europe at GE finance.
Noel was formerly Chief Operating December 2008.
From 1999 to 2008 John Capital UK, Western Europe and Eastern Officer of Citibank International plc finance.
was Chairman of Kelda Group plc water Europe financial services and is the former utility, stepping down after its sale and President of National Westminster Banks US 5. edwARd leA subsequent fide-listing from the London Stock Consumer Credit Business retail banking.
He has previously been Chairman He was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2003, Edward is Chairman of of Booker plc cash and carry and Managing Director of ITV plc media in August 2008. the Group Audit Committee and a member of Director of Hays plc business services and the Remuneration and Investment Committees.
AGB Research plc international market 3. geoRge culMeR Edward is currently a Director of Redbourn research and information services.
George joined the Board as Chief Group Limited property management and Financial Officer in May 2004 and is a member investment, Powertraveller Limited and of the Investment Committee, the Group MacIntyre Care charity.
He was previously Executive Team and the Board Risk Committee, a Director of BUPA.
which he chaired until June 2009.
He was previously Head of Capital Management at Zurich Financial Services insurance and Chief Financial Officer of its UK operation.
Before that George spent ten years with Prudential.
1 2 4 3 5 BuSineSS Review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | RSA | 41 6.
Simon was appointed as an Executive Age 65.
Johanna joined the Group as a Director in January 2007 having been Chief Director in July 2003, John is Chairman of Non-Executive Director in May 2008 and is Executive of International since April 2003 and the Remuneration Committee and a member a member of the Group Audit and Investment is a member of the Group Executive Team.
of the Audit, Nomination and Investment Committees.
She is also a Director of the He is Chairman of the Codan Group and of Committees.
John is a Director of London RBG Kew Foundation, Enterprises Limited, Trygg-Hansa and is a Director of RSA Canada.
Finance and Investment Group plc and the English National Opera and is Chairman of Previously he spent 17 years with the National Motor Sports Association.
Johns previous roles Britt Lintner Limited.
Johanna has previously Westminster Group, in the UK and US, including include Executive Director of Prudential Group been Chairman of Tate Enterprises and spent time as Chief Executive, Natwest Offshore and plc, Chairman of Dx Services plc mail, over 20 years with McKinsey & Company, Head of US Retail Banking.
Director of Provident Financial plc financial with roles including Co-leader, Global services and Homeserve plc support services Marketing and Sales Practice and Leader 7.
MAlcoM le MAy and Director General of The Automobile of their UK Consumer Practice and the Age 52.
Malcolm joined the Group as a Association Limited.
Non-Executive Director in March 2004 and is Chairman of the Investment Committee, joined the Board Risk Committee in June 2009 and is a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Pendragon plc general retailers and Chief Executive of Matrix Corporate Capital LLP.
Malcolms previous roles include Deputy Chief Executive of Morley Fund Management Investment Fund Manager and Deputy CEO of INGBarings finance.
6 8 9 7 governance 43 Directors report 47 Corporate governance 53 Remuneration report Financial statements 67 Responsibility statement 68 Independent auditors report to the members of RSA Insurance Group plc 69 Consolidated income statement 70 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 70 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 71 Consolidated statement of financial position 72 Consolidated statement of cashflows 73 Significant accounting policies 82 Estimation techniques, risks, uncertainties and contingencies 85 Risk management 96 Notes to the financial statements 134 Independent auditors report to the members of RSA Insurance Group plc 135 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income 135 Parent Company statement of changes in equity 136 Parent Company statement of financial position 137 Parent Company statement of cashflows 138 Notes to the separate financial statements other inFormation 142 Shareholder information 144 Financial calendar
