38 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 executive teAM FRoM leFt to Right: 2. clARe SheiKh 4.
AdRiAn BRown gRouP StRAtegy, MARKeting chieF executive, uK 1.
Andy hASte And cuStoMeR diRectoR Adrian Brown was appointed Chief Executive of gRouP chieF executive Clare joined as Group Strategy, Marketing and the UK in September 2008.
Adrian is a qualified Andy joined the Board as Group Chief Customer Director in June 2007.
Previously she management accountant and has been with the Executive in April 2003 and is on the was Director of Marketing and Commercial RSA Group since 1989.
He was previously the Investment Committee and Board Risk Strategy at ITV plc and a member of the Executive UK Chief Operating Officer with responsibility Committee.
Andy has been a member of the Management Board, Managing Director of AA for Claims, Sales and Service, IT and Change Board of the Association of British Insurers Financial Services and has held senior commercial across Personal and Commercial lines, and prior since 2003.
Andys previous roles include Chief roles at Prudential and British Gas.
She is a to that was UK Director of Personal lines and led Executive of AxA Sun Life plc, Director of Non-Executive Director of Alliance Trust plc.
the launch of MORE TH N. AxA UK plc life and pensions, President and.
Chief Executive Officer of Global Consumer 3.
MARK chAMBeRS 5. dAvid weyMouth Finance Europe at GE Capital UK, Western geneRAl counSel And gRouP oPeRAtionS And Europe and Eastern Europe financial services gRouP coMPAny SecRetARy RiSK diRectoR and President of National Westminster Banks Mark Chambers joined as General Counsel David joined as Group Operations and IT US Consumer Credit Business retail banking.
and Group Company Secretary in October Director in June 2007.
David spent 27 years He was appointed a Non-Executive Director 2004.
Previously, Mark led the legal team at with the Barclays Group, where senior roles of ITV plc media in August 2008.
American Express for Europe, Middle East included Chief Operating Officer for Corporate and Africa.
Prior to that he held senior Banking and Group Chief Information Officer.
positions in the consumer finance and He was also on the Group Executive insurance businesses at GE and worked for Committee.
He recently spent two years Slaughter and May, a leading international law consulting to blue chip and government firm.
Mark is a trustee of WWF-UK and organisations and acting as an independent Chairman of their Audit Committee.
board member at the DTI and Chordiant Inc, the US Nasdaq quoted software business.
1. BuSineSS Review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | RSA | 39 6.
SiMon lee chieF executive, chieF FinAnciAl oFFiceR chieF executive, inteRnAtionAl eMeRging MARKetS George joined the Board as Chief Financial Simon was appointed as an Executive Director Paul was appointed Chief Executive of Officer in May 2004 and is a member of the in January 2007 having been Chief Executive of Emerging Markets in 2006, having been Group Investment Committee and the Board Risk International since April 2003.
He is Chairman Human Resources Director since April 2003.
Committee, which he chaired until June 2009. of the Codan Group and Trygg-Hansa and is a He has over 20 years senior management He was previously Head of Capital Director of RSA Canada.
He spent 17 years experience in the financial services sector Management at Zurich Financial Services with the National Westminster Group as Chief including three years at AxA and ten years insurance and Chief Financial Officer of its Executive, Natwest Offshore and Head of US at GE Capital, including work in Asia and UK operation.
Before that George spent ten Retail Banking.
Eastern Europe on acquisition integration years with Prudential.
11. oRlAgh hunt 9. tiMothy Mitchell gRouP huMAn ReSouRceS 7.
Anne JgeR gRouP undeRwRiting diRectoR gRouP chieF AuditoR And clAiMS diRectoR Orlagh joined the Group as Human Resources Anne has been with the RSA Group since Tim was appointed Group Underwriting and Director for International in September 2003 2001.
She was appointed Group Chief Auditor Claims Director in November 2007 when he and was appointed Group Human Resources in September 2008, having been Regional joined the Group.
He has over 30 years Director in October 2006.
She was previously Chief Auditor for International, based in experience in the insurance industry.
He joined Head of Human Resources for AxA Sun Life Denmark.
She was part of the Codan Group RSA from Zurich Financial Services, where and has worked at Walkers and Tesco in a Executive Leadership Team and the senior underwriting roles included Global Chief variety of Human Resources management roles.
Anne Underwriting Officer for General Insurance.
was previously CFO at Maersk Data for two Tim has also held senior management roles at years and spent 13 years with KPMG as a State AIG and Continental Insurance.
Tim is on the Authorised Public Accountant, where she was Cheltenham Ladies College Council.
involved in work with public listed companies and M&A and restructuring.
