38043 pp009-030 File0306 03 201001:00Page14 14 Market review 2009: financial markets We anticipate that this will lead to changes in the asset 2009 was a remarkable year for financial markets.
management industry, in terms of sales channels, products and markets.
We are well placed to take The outlook at the start of the year was very weak.
Markets continued to fall in the first quarter as investors predicted another Great Depression.
Bond The majority of new savings flows are expected to markets were priced for ten years or more of deflation arise from emerging economies, particularly Asia.
and the long-run implied rate of dividend growth in This has been driven by the growth of China and equity markets approached zero.
rapidly increasing wealth accumulation in the region.
The movement in key This includes sovereign wealth funds and central banks financial markets in the last A rally began at the end of March as investor which are becoming an increasingly important two years is outlined in the confidence increased on the back of improved table opposite.
economic news and strength in corporate earnings.
The global economy returned to growth during the Changes to sales channels third quarter of 2009, driven by extraordinary public The growing longevity of an ageing population is policy measures, including near zero interest rates, forcing the closure of defined benefit plans, which quantitative easing and significant fiscal programmes.
historically fuelled the growth of institutional asset The extent of the rebound in equity markets was such management.
This has driven the move to defined that 2009 was one of only six years since 1871 where contribution schemes and the growing importance a calendar year gain of 20 per cent.
or more has of individual and instividual savings.
For the asset followed a loss of more than 20 per cent.
management industry, accessing the individual retail Emerging markets have recovered ahead of investor, either directly or via intermediaries, will developed economies due to the expectation of remain an important part of a large, global asset superior growth rates, which has attracted more managers strategy.
capital, supporting emerging market currencies The retirement of the baby boomer generation, that and asset prices.
of global wealth, is Markets increased significantly in the second half of also creating a major opportunity as this generation the year.
In total, movements in financial markets, looks to use its assets to finance retirement.
This is foreign exchange and our investment performance known as decumulation and accounts for nearly increased funds under management by 23.2 billion 40 per cent.
of gross flows into the financial sector of during the year 2008: 20.6 billion decrease and in mature economies.
Currently, banks and insurance addition we won 15.0 billion of net new business companies see the majority of these flows and as a 2008: net outflows 9.6 billion.
result they are becoming an increasingly important channel to reach a growing customer base.
Since the second quarter of 2009, the asset management industry, particularly in Europe, has Product changes seen an increase in investors risk appetite as market In product terms, these changes create demand for sentiment improved.
Retail investors in particular, asset-liability management and investment solutions.
have switched from money market funds and bank Defined benefit pension funds are increasingly looking deposits offering low returns, to fixed income mutual to match assets and liabilities through the use of funds and then equity funds.
Institutional investors outcome orientated products.
To address who frequently deferred investment commitments in decumulation needs, we expect to see increased the turmoil of 2008, have also returned.
demand for capital protected and income generating products as clients seek to minimise risks.
We also Longer-term market trends expect demand for outcome orientated products to Longer-term, key global and demographic trends continue to grow.
are changing the outlook for savings.
Average life expectancy increased by over 10 per cent.
in the Investors continue to look to separate sources of period 1960 to 2005, with further increases likely, at a alpha excess return relative to market benchmark time when birth rates are expected to continue to fall.
Passive products have attracted increasing inflows but the demand for The ratio of non-working to working age individuals alpha has also led to growth in alternative products in the major western economies will dramatically as savers look to diversify their investment portfolios increase in the next 30 to 40 years.
This is expected in pursuit of higher returns.
As a result of the financial to have a major impact on the cost of state-provided crisis, we expect traditional fixed income and equity pensions.
Individuals will be less able to rely solely on strategies to be more in demand.
government-provided pension schemes to fund their retirement and will need to save more during their working lives.
