38043 pp009-030 File0306 03 201001:01Page25 25 Strategic priorities Looking ahead Leveraging our international franchise Schroders has all the attributes for success, beginning The majority of our funds under management and with a strategy that is focused on asset management.
revenues are now generated outside the UK.
With We are a global business, with considerable scale and representation on the ground in 25 different countries 148.4 billion of funds under management, but also and with a particularly strong presence in rapidly the ability to react quickly to opportunities as they growing, developing markets, we are well placed to arise.
Our highly diversified business, by geography, continue to benefit from high rates of economic sales channel and product, combines defensive growth and high savings rates in many regions in characteristics relative to a difficult market which we operate.
We have also forged important, environment in addition to growth characteristics long term relationships with international distribution when investor demand is strong.
The underlying partners which will contribute to the further growth of strength of our business is evident in the results for our business internationally.
We will build on this success in 2010 to drive Our Private Banking business will look to expand its further organic growth.
Asian presence with a full banking licence for our Our main areas of focus to achieve this will be: Singapore private client advisory business that was acquired in 2008.
Maintaining competitive investment performance: Generating net new business: Maintaining discipline on costs We will continue to seek operational efficiencies Leveraging our international franchise: and and increased productivity, particularly across our Maintaining discipline on costs.
distribution and infrastructure functions, to deliver cost-effectiveness in our core operations.
This will Maintaining competitive investment performance support continued investment in those areas that Sustainability of investment performance is key for are of strategic importance in delivering our long an active asset manager.
We believe that we can term objectives.
maintain our performance through our talented people, the depth of our resources and the disciplined We are well placed for further growth investment processes that we use across a broad Record net inflows and strong investment range of asset classes.
performance in 2009 position us well for 2010, provided the more confident tone in financial Generating net new business markets is maintained.
Strong investment performance, a broad product Our strong financial position, together with our highly range, a proven distribution capability and a broadly diversified business model across products channels diversified business geographically, position us well for and regions, leaves us well placed for further growth.
further net new business gains.
Provided we do not see any significant setback in equity and fixed income markets we believe that the positive start we have made in 2010 will continue through the year.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009
