Directors Report the levels of effective and potential gearing are monitored Business Review closely by the board and manager.
The company applies a Investment policy ceiling on effective gearing of 120%.
While effective gearing The company carries on business as a global growth will be employed in a typical range of 100% to 120%, the investment trust.
Its objective is to provide investors, company retains the ability to lower equity exposure below over the longer term, with above-average returns through 100% if deemed appropriate: a diversified portfolio of international equities and to achieve the company has a policy not to invest more than 15% dividend growth ahead of UK inflation.
of gross assets in other UK listed investment companies: and In order to achieve this objective, the company invests the company may not make investments in respect of in an integrated global portfolio constructed through an which there is unlimited liability.
investment process whereby assets are primarily allocated on the basis of the investment merits of individual stocks rather Investment policy implementation than that of regions, sectors or themes.
During the year under review, the assets of the company were invested in accordance with the companys investment The companys portfolio is actively managed and typically policy.
For details of how the companys absolute will contain 70 to 120 listed international equity investments.
performance and relative performance compared to its The portfolio is widely diversified both by industrial sector comparator indices, please refer to the Management and geographic location of investments in order to spread Review on pages 8 to 14. investment risk.
A full list of holdings is disclosed on page 17 and detailed Whilst performance is compared against major global and analyses of the spread of investments by industry sector UK indices, the composition of indices has no influence on and geographic region are shown on pages 8 and 16.
Further investment decisions or the construction of the portfolio.
As a analysis of changes in asset distribution by industry sector result, it is expected that the companys investment portfolio over the year and the sources of gain and loss is shown on and performance may deviate from the comparator indices.
An attribution of NAV relative performance against a global equity index is also shown on page 12.
Since the companys assets are invested globally and without regard to the composition of any index, there are At the year end the number of listed holdings was 91, no restrictions on maximum or minimum exposures to including one holding which was held within the companys specific geographic regions, industry sectors or unlisted unlisted portfolio.
The top ten holdings comprised 20.5% investments.
However, such exposures are reported of total assets 2008: 20.5%.
in detail to, and monitored by, the board at each board meeting in order to ensure that adequate diversification Details of the extent to which the companys objective is maintained.
has been achieved and how the investment policy was implemented are provided in the Chairmans Statement Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed with the on pages 4 and 5 and the Management Review on aim of improving returns to stockholders.
In pursuing its pages 8 to 14. investment objective, from time to time the company will hold certain financial instruments comprising equity and Additional limitations on borrowings non-equity shares, fixed income securities, interests in limited partnerships, structured products and cash and Under the companys articles of association, the directors liquid resources.
The company may use derivatives for control the borrowings of the company and its subsidiaries hedging or tactical investment purposes with the prior to secure that the aggregate amount of borrowings does, authorisation of the board and subject always to the unless approved by an ordinary resolution of holders of investment restriction which prohibits the company from ordinary stock units, exceed the aggregate of the reserves making any investment in which there is unlimited liability.
excluding unrealised capital profit of the company and its The company has the ability to enter into contracts to subsidiaries, as published in the latest accounts.
In addition, hedge against currency risks on both capital and income.
the directors are entitled to incur temporary borrowings in the ordinary course of business of up to 10% of the companys The companys investment activities are subject to the issued share capital.
Such temporary borrowings are to be following limitations and restrictions: for no longer than six months.
under the companys articles of association, up to 40% of the companys total assets on the last audited balance sheet may be used to make investments of up to a maximum of 8% of the value of total assets in any one company, at the time the investment is made.
Thereafter, individual investments may not exceed 3% of the value of total assets, at the time the investment is made: 18 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Directors Report continued Principal risks and uncertainties Ordinary Stock The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business General are as follows: The company had 126,229,718 ordinary stock units in issue investment and market price risk: on 31 October 2009.
There are no other shares in issue.
interest rate risk: The rights attaching to ordinary stock units in the company liquidity risk: are set out in the companys articles of association.
The foreign currency risk: and companys articles of association may be amended by the credit risk.
passing of a special resolution of holders of ordinary stock, that is, by the approval of a majority of not less than 75%.
These and other risks facing the company are reviewed regularly by the audit committee and the board.
Further Rights to the capital of the company on winding up information is given in note 18 to the accounts on pages The holders of ordinary stock units would be entitled to the 40 to 43. assets of the company in the event of a winding up after the companys other liabilities have been satisfied.
Performance The management provides the board with detailed Voting information on the companys performance at every On a show of hands, every holder of ordinary stock units board meeting.
Performance is measured in comparison present in person or by proxy has one vote and on a poll with the companys peer group and comparator indices.
every member present in person or by proxy has one vote for each complete 1 nominal of stock held.
Key Performance Indicators are: NAV total return: Deadlines for exercising voting rights NAV total return against comparators: If a holder of ordinary stock wishes to appoint a proxy NAV and stock price total return against peers: to attend, speak and vote at a meeting on his behalf, discount with debt at market value: a valid appointment is made when the form of proxy dividend growth against RPI: and together, where relevant, with a notarially certified copy total expense ratio.
of the power of attorney or other authority under which the form of proxy is signed is received by the companys Dividends registrar not less than 48 hours before the start of the The board may declare dividends, including interim meeting or the adjourned meeting for which the proxy is dividends, but no dividend is payable except out of the appointed to vote or, in the case of a poll taken more than companys revenue returns or in excess of the amount 48 hours after it is demanded, no later than 24 hours before recommended by the directors.
Neither unrealised the time appointed for taking the poll.
In calculating these appreciation of capital assets nor realised profits arising time periods, no account is taken of any day or part from the sale of capital assets are available for dividend.
thereof that is not a working day.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 5.15p per Stock Buybacks ordinary stock unit payable on 11 February 2010.
With the Under the companys stock buyback policy, the company interim dividend of 4.45p already paid in July 2009, this will buy back stock or, going forward shares with the aim, makes a total of 9.60p for the year.
The total dividend of maintaining a discount to ex income NAV at 9% or below.
In calculating NAV for the purposes of the buyback policy, the companys borrowings are taken at their market value Status so as to ensure that future repurchases of stock or, going The company is a self-managed investment trust and is an forward shares will take into account changes in the value investment company within the meaning of the Companies of the borrowings brought about by movements in long-term Act 2006. interest rates.
During the year ended 31 October 2009, the company bought back for cancellation a total HM Revenue and Customs has approved the company as of 3,396,500 ordinary stock units representing 2.6% of an investment trust for the purposes of S842 of the Income ordinary stock units in issue at 31 October 2008, at a and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 up to the accounting cost of 13,776,000, utilising 2.05 percentage points of period ended 31 October 2008.
This approval is subject the 14.99% authority renewed at the January 2009 AGM.
to any subsequent enquiry by HM Revenue and Customs.
The company continues to satisfy the conditions for such approval.
Report & Accounts 2009 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 19 Directors Report continued the nomination committee.
No external agency was Substantial Stockholdings involved in the selection process.
Mr Napier will stand for At 4 December 2009 the company had been notified of the election at the AGM in accordance with the companys following holdings in excess of 3% of its ordinary stock.
The chairman recommends his % of election.
issue Ordinary at date of The appointments of Douglas McDougall and Francis Finlay stock units notification as directors run for one year at a time.
Hamish Buchan was AXA Group 15,112,914 12.0 appointed in November 2003 and James MacLeod was appointed in September 2005 both for initial terms of three Lloyds Banking Group 6,346,502 5.1 years.
Hamish Buchans appointment was renewed in D C Thomson 5,400,000 4.2 November 2006 and November 2009 and James MacLeods Legal & General 5,100,886 4.0 appointment was renewed in September 2008.
Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection at the AGM.
Directors The companys policy on the appointment of directors is The company maintains insurance in respect of directors shown on the companys website.
and officers liabilities in relation to their acts on behalf of the company.
The companys articles of association provide The directors of the company on 31 October 2009 and that any director or other officer of the company may be their biographical details are shown on page 6.
All are indemnified out of the assets of the company against any non-executive.
liability incurred by him as a director or other officer of the company to the extent permitted by law.
The following table shows the attendance of directors at board and committee meetings during the year to Directors Interests 31 October 2009.
The interests of the directors and their families in the companys capital are as follows: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Ordinary stock units of 25p Number of meetings 8 3 3 2 31 October 1 November Beneficial interests 2009 2008 Douglas McDougall 8 3 3 2 Francis Finlay 8 n a n a 2 Douglas McDougall 60,000 60,000 Hamish Buchan 7 3 3 2 Francis Finlay 60,000 60,000 James MacLeod 8 3 3 2 Hamish Buchan 22,325 22,325 Russell Napier 3 n a n a 1 James MacLeod 22,553 21,216 Sir George Mathewson n a n a Russell Napier 14,000 Sir George Mathewson 73,983 The performance of each director was appraised by the nomination committee during the year.
The chairmans Non-beneficial interests performance was appraised in his absence by the other Sir George Mathewson 26,500 directors and the results were communicated to him.
The board believes that each director is independent of In aggregate the directors received dividend payments the management in character and judgement and there of 20,700 2008: 28,700. are no relationships with the company or its employees which might compromise his independence.
There have been no changes in the directors interests between 31 October 2009 and 4 December 2009.
Three directors are standing for re-election at the AGM.
Douglas McDougall and Francis Finlay have served as directors for more than nine years and therefore retire on an annual basis.
Hamish Buchan is standing for re-election because it is three years since he was last re-elected as a director.
After formal performance evaluation, the chairman confirms that the directors continue to perform effectively and with great commitment and he recommends their re-election.
Sir George Mathewson retired from the board on 30 January 2009.
Russell Napier was appointed to the board on 24 July 2009 on the recommendation of 20 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Directors Report continued Unless nominated by the board, a person nominated as Corporate Governance a director is not eligible for election at a general meeting unless Compliance a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting gives the The board has reviewed the principles set out in the company secretary at least six clear days written notice of his Combined Code on Corporate Governance and believes intention to propose the relevant nominee for election, along that the way the company is governed is consistent with with a notice in writing signed by the nominee confirming his these principles.
Throughout the year the company complied willingness to be elected.
with the provisions of the Combined Code including section 1 of the Combined Code except that there is no senior Remuneration committee independent director.
The directors consider that, as all The board has appointed a remuneration committee directors are independent and non-executive, there is no to recommend pay and conditions for the board and compelling case for having a senior independent director.
It has written terms of reference which are The Combined Code is available from the Financial Reporting shown on the companys website.
uk Directors fees are set with a view to attracting individuals The board of appropriate calibre and experience, taking into account the The board normally meets eight times throughout the year time commitment required and the level of fees paid by similar while the audit and remuneration committees meet three investment trusts.
No other benefits are provided to directors.
The nomination committee meets at least Fees recommended by the remuneration committee are annually.
subject to approval by the board.
The companys articles of association provide for a maximum level of total remuneration There is a schedule of matters reserved for the board which payable to directors in any financial year.
This total level is set includes investment strategy, accounting and financial at 250,000. controls, dividends and announcements, capital structure, gearing and major contracts.
The company aims to provide levels of employee remuneration in line with similar organisations and Day to day management, including the selection of to reward responsibility and achievement.
Basic salaries investments, is delegated to the companys executive are compared annually with those of equivalent employees management which reports directly to the board.
in a group of comparable fund management organisations operating in Scotland.
Remuneration for all staff consists Prior to each board meeting, directors are provided with of a basic salary, a discretionary performance-related bonus a comprehensive set of papers giving detailed information and benefits including a contributory pension scheme.
on the companys transactions, financial position and For investment staff bonus components include, inter alia, performance.
There is a procedure for directors to seek the companys NAV total return performance, NAV total independent professional advice at the expense of the return performance relative to the peer group and an company and training is available to directors as required.
For non-investment staff bonus components include an individual performance The Companies Act 2006 requires that a director of the assessment and an element linked to the companys share company must avoid a situation in which he has, or might price total return.
have, an interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests of the company.
Each director submits a list of Relations with stockholders potential conflicts prior to each meeting.
The other board The company recognises the value of good communication members consider these and recommend whether or not with its stockholders.
The management meets regularly each potential conflict should be authorised.
No situation with private client stockbrokers and the companys major arose during the year whereby an interest of a director institutional stockholders.
The board receives regular conflicted with the interests of the company.
briefings from the companys brokers.
Newsletters are sent to stockholders during the year and are posted on the Nomination committee companys website.
Stockholders are encouraged to attend There is a nomination committee comprising the whole the AGM and ask questions of the board and management.
The committee meets at least annually to review the structure, size and composition of the board and is Any stockholder wishing to raise questions at other times responsible for identifying and nominating candidates should write to the chairman.
Proxy voting figures for to fill board vacancies as and when they arise.
It has each resolution are given to the meeting after voting on a written terms of reference which are shown on the show of hands.
Separate items of business are proposed companys website.
as separate resolutions including the receipt of the annual report and accounts and the approval of the directors remuneration report.
The annual report is sent to stockholders at least 21 clear days before the AGM.
Report & Accounts 2009 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 21 Directors Report continued There are procedures in place to ensure that: Accountability and audit all transactions are accounted for accurately and The respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors reported fully to the board: in respect of the financial statements are given below and the management observes the authorisation limits set on page 44. by the board: there is clear segregation of duties so that no investment The audit committee has written terms of reference which transaction can be completed by one person: are shown on the companys website.
Its duties include risk control activities are regularly checked: and assessment, reviewing internal controls, the companys legal and regulatory obligations are met.
accounting policies, financial statements prior to their release and the companys procedures on whistleblowing.
The board recognises that such systems can only provide The committee is also responsible for all aspects of the reasonable, not guaranteed, assurance against material companys relationship with its external auditors including: misstatement or loss.
reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the annual audit: the auditors remuneration: the terms of engagement and Directors responsibilities the level of non-audit work, if any, carried out by the auditors.
The committee will also ensure that the level of non-audit United Kingdom company law requires the directors to work does not compromise the auditors independence.
prepare annual financial statements which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the The accounts of the company have been prepared returns and cash flows for that year.
In preparing those on a going concern basis.
It is the opinion of the financial statements, the directors are required to: directors that, as most of the companys assets select suitable accounting policies and then apply them are readily realisable and exceed its liabilities, consistently: it is an expectation that the company will continue make judgements and estimates that are reasonable in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have The company does not have an internal audit function been followed subject to any material departures as the audit committee believes that the companys disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and straightforward structure and small number of employees prepare the financial statements on a going concern do not warrant such a function.
This is reviewed by the basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the committee annually.
company will continue in business.
The board is responsible for ensuring that the company has The directors are responsible for keeping adequate in place an effective system of internal controls designed to accounting records which disclose with reasonable maintain the integrity of accounting records and to safeguard accuracy at any time the financial position of the company the companys assets.
The board has applied the Combined and enable them to ensure that the financial statements Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general evaluating and managing the significant risks the company responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open faces.
This process, which has been in place throughout to them to safeguard the assets of the company and to the year, is in accordance with Internal Control: Revised prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in October 2005 The Turnbull Guidance.
In compliance The audit committee has reviewed the matters within its with the Combined Code, the board reviews the terms of reference and reports as follows: effectiveness of the companys system of internal it has approved the financial statements for the year control at six-monthly intervals.
to 31 October 2009: it has reviewed the effectiveness of the companys The boards monitoring covers all controls, including internal controls and risk management: financial, operational, and compliance controls and it has reviewed the need for a separate internal audit risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing function: reports from management and considering whether it has recommended to the board that a resolution significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment of the controlled, and whether any significant weaknesses are external auditors and it has considered the proposed promptly remedied or require more extensive monitoring.
terms of their engagement: During the course of its review of the system of internal it has satisfied itself as to the independence of the control, the board has not identified nor been advised of external auditors: and any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be it has satisfied itself that the terms of the business review significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary are consistent with the financial statements.
actions has not been considered appropriate.
The audit committee assists the board in discharging its review responsibilities.
22 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Directors Report continued Annual General Meeting Socially Responsible Investing The directors consider that the resolutions are all in the best When investments are made, the primary objective is interests of the company and of stockholders as a whole, to achieve the best investment return while allowing for an and recommend that stockholders vote in favour of them.
In pursuing this objective, various factors that may impact on the performance are considered Resolution 9 set out in the notice of the annual general and these may include socially responsible investment meeting on page 48 seeks to renew the authority to issues.
If it is considered that a companys social, repurchase ordinary stock units or subject to resolutions environmental or ethical record will adversely affect financial 10 and 11, shares until 30 April 2011.
The principal reasons performance and result in poor returns, then an investment for such repurchases are to enhance the net asset value will not be made in the company.
of the ordinary stock by repurchasing ordinary stock units for cancellation at prices which, after allowing for costs, Auditors improve the NAV for remaining stockholders and to allow Re-appointment of auditors implementation of the companys stock buyback policy.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the companys auditors, and to authorise the directors to fix their Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the remuneration, will be proposed at the forthcoming annual maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of the general meeting.
authority must not exceed the highest of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the ordinary Disclosure of information to auditors stock units or shares as derived from the Daily Official List It is the companys policy to allow the auditors unlimited of the London Stock Exchange over the five business days access to its records.
The directors confirm that, so far as immediately preceding the date of purchase and, ii the each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit information higher price of the last independent trade and the highest of which the companys auditors are unaware and they have current independent bid.
The minimum price which may be taken all the steps which they should have taken as directors paid is 25p per ordinary stock unit or share.
in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors It is proposed in resolution 11 to adopt new articles of are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given association the new articles in order to update the and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions companys current articles of association the articles to of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. take account of the implementation on 1 October 2009 of the last parts of the Companies Act 2006.
The amendments Payment of Creditors are in respect of, amongst other things, its memorandum It is the companys policy to agree in advance the terms of of association, the companys authorised share capital and business with suppliers and then to abide by those terms.
the ability of the company to change its name.
A copy of the new articles will be available for inspection at Royal London As the company has no trade creditors, no disclosure can House, 22 25 Finsbury Square, London, EC2A 1DX and at be made of creditor days at the year end.
the companys registered office: 6 Albyn Place, Edinburgh, EH2 4HL during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from Donations the date of the notice of the AGM until the conclusion No charitable or political donations were made during of the meeting and on the date of the AGM at the meeting the year.
from 15 minutes prior to the meeting until its conclusion.
A summary of the material changes proposed to be brought By order of the board about by the adoption of the new articles is set out in the appendix on page 24.
Voting Policy The management reviews resolutions put to general meetings of the companies in which it invests and, wherever practicable, Steven Hay will cast its vote, usually by proxy.
Company Secretary 10 December 2009 Report & Accounts 2009 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 23 Directors Report continued Chairmans casting vote Appendix The principal changes which would arise from the adoption Provisions in the current articles giving the chairman of the new articles are set out below.
a casting vote at shareholders meetings became ineffective from 1 October 2007, but companies with a casting vote provision in their articles on that date were Conversion of the companys capital from allowed to keep it.
All shareholders are to be treated equally stock to shares and therefore the casting vote provision in the companys Resolution 10 in the notice of meeting proposes that the articles became redundant on 3 August 2009. equity capital of the company be denominated in ordinary shares rather than ordinary stock.
There will be no practical Suspension of registration of share transfers effect on the interests of the stockholders, who will simply Provisions in the current articles permitting the board become ordinary shareholders.
Currently the companys to suspend the registration of share transfers are now capital comprises ordinary stock units of 25p each.
Under the 2006 Act, share However, a single stock unit does not carry with it a single transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The existing articles provide that on a poll new articles reflect this new provision of the 2006 Act.
every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every 1 nominal of stock of which that person is the holder.
To simplify the relationship between shareholdings and voting rights the company recommends that the articles be amended so that each converted 25p share carries a single voting right.
The passing of resolution 11, which relates to the adoption of new articles of association of the company may cause stockholders proportionate holdings of total voting rights to vary and accordingly stockholders with substantial holdings should reassess their proportionate holding of voting rights following the annual general meeting.
The companys memorandum of association The provisions regulating the operations of the company are set out in the companys memorandum and articles of association.
The memorandum contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities the company is authorised to undertake.
The 2006 Act reduces the constitutional significance of a companys memorandum.
The 2006 Act provides that a memorandum will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
The company is therefore proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue of the 2006 Act, would otherwise be treated as forming part of the articles as of 1 October 2009.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares The 2006 Act abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital.
The company is proposing changes to its articles to reflect this.
The directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the 2006 Act.
24 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009
