DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the financial A long term investment horizon is observed and little attention is statements of the Company for the year to 31 March 2009. paid to short term market trends when deciding policy.
This patient approach allows market volatility to be exploited to shareholders Business Review long term advantage.
An average holding period for investments of Business and Status five years or more is targeted.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Investment may be made in xed interest securities, convertible section 833 of the Companies Act 2006. securities funds, unquoted entities and other assets based on the The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
It was individual investment cases.
With prior approval of the Board, the approved as an investment trust under section 842 of the Income Company may use derivatives for the purpose of ef cient portfolio and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31 March management i. e. for the purpose of reducing, transferring or 2008, subject to matters that may arise from any subsequent enquiry eliminating investment risk in its investment, including protection by HM Revenue and Customs into the Companys tax return.
In the against currency risk and for investment purposes.
The primary opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted investment focus is on equity investments predominantly with good its affairs so as to enable it to continue to seek approval as an liquidity.
investment trust under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Exposures to any one entity are monitored regularly by the Board.
At the time of investment the maximum exposure to any one holding is limited to 8% of total assets.
A maximum of 40% of total assets Objective may be invested in holdings exceeding 3% of total assets.
These Scottish Mortgage carries on business as an Investment Trust.
The two restrictions do not apply to investment in unit trusts or OEICs, investment objective is to maximise total return, whilst also generating investments by way of rights issues or certain government bonds.
real dividend growth, from a focused and actively managed The maximum permitted investment in other UK listed investment global portfolio.
The equity portfolio is relatively concentrated and companies in aggregate is 15% of gross assets.
investments are chosen on their long term merits rather than with reference to geographical asset allocation or the composition of an Borrowings are invested in equity markets when it is believed that index.
The Company aims to achieve a greater return than the FTSE investment considerations merit the Company taking a geared All World Index in sterling terms over a five year rolling period.
Gearing levels, and the extent of equity gearing, both in absolute terms and relative to the peer group, are discussed Investment Policy by the Board and Managers at every Board meeting.
The portion Scottish Mortgage is a truly active fund and does not attempt to track of borrowings which is not invested in equities may be invested in its benchmark index.
Its objective is to maximise total return, whilst xed interest securities.
Apart from in exceptional circumstances the also generating real dividend growth, from a focused and actively Company will not take out additional borrowings if, at the time of managed global portfolio.
Investments are chosen for inclusion within borrowing, this takes the level of effective gearing beyond 130% the equity portfolio by looking closely at the merits of individual with net asset value calculated with borrowings at par value.
companies in a structured and rational fashion.
The benchmark is a reference point for judging performance and A global perspective is taken.
Asset allocation is the outcome of emphatically is not a portfolio construction tool.
The portfolio does stock selection and not arrived at by making speci c weightings not set out to reproduce the index and there will be periods when to regions, industries or sectors.
Achieving diversi cation is a performance diverges signi cantly from the benchmark.
Performance requirement when selecting investments but an unconstrained against the benchmark is assessed over a five year rolling term.
approach is adopted and there are no xed limits set as to geographical, industry and sector exposure.
Levels of diversity Details of investment strategy and activity this year can be found in achieved are monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Managers Review on pages 8 to 10.
The number of equity holdings will typically range between 50 and 100 and are chosen from around the world.
18 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT Discount Other risks faced by the Company include the following: The Board recognises that it is in the long term interests of shareholders Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and to manage discount volatility and believes that the prime driver of regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the Companys discounts over the longer term is performance.
The Board does not Stock Exchange Listing, financial penalties or a quali ed audit report.
have a precise discount target at which shares will be bought back Breach of section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act as it believes that the announcement of speci c targets is likely to 1988 could lead to the Company being subject to tax on capital hinder rather than help the successful execution of a buyback policy.
Baillie Giffords Heads of Business Risk & Internal Audit and Future buybacks will be considered primarily by reference to the Regulatory Risk provide regular reports to the Audit Committee on Companys discount relative to its peers.
The Managers monitor During the year the Company bought back a total of 1,900,000 investment movements and the level of forecast income and expenditure to ensure the provisions of section 842 are not breached.
shares, all of which are held in treasury, increasing net asset value per share by 0.07%.
Between 1 April 2009 and the date of this Operational Financial Risk failure of the Managers accounting report, the Company has bought back a further 175,000 shares, systems or those of other third party service providers could lead which are being held in treasury, increasing net asset value per to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a share by 0.01%.
The Board reviews the Managers Report on Internal Controls and the reports by other key third party providers Performance are reviewed by the Manager on behalf of the Board.
At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving Gearing Risk its objectives.
The Company may borrow money for investment purposes known as gearing.
If the investments fall in value, any borrowings will magnify The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the progress and performance of the Company over time are established industry the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not renewed, the Company may have to sell investments to repay borrowings.
measures and are as follows: the movement in net asset value per ordinary share after All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and gearing levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at every meeting.
deducting borrowings at fair value : The majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities the movement in the share price: that are readily realisable.
the movement of net asset value and share price performance Employees compared to the Benchmark: The Company has no employees.
The executive responsibility for the discount after deducting borrowings at fair value : investment management has been delegated to Baillie Gifford & Co. the total expense ratio: Social and Community Issues As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or earnings per share: and community responsibilities.
The Company, however, believes that it dividend per share.
is in the Shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
Details The one and five year records of the KPIs are shown on pages 2, of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment are set 3 and 17. out on page 23.
In addition to the above, the Board considers peer group Borrowings comparative performance.
A range of comparator groups are There are four debentures in issue, all of which are listed and quoted used including: a selected grouping of five best of breed trusts: a on the London Stock Exchange and details of which are given on group of the five large AIC Global Growth investment trusts Large pages 40, 46 and 47.
In addition, term bank borrowings and loan Trust Peer Group : a universe of global growth trusts as fide ned by facilities are in place which are also shown on page 40.
Winter ood Securities: the AIC Global Growth Sector: and the larger Standard and Poors universe of Global Growth Trusts.
During the year bank loans of 8,230 million, CHF 35.5 million, The Board also reviews the absolute and relative discount which CHF 60.5 million, U$100 million, U$30 million and 73 million can be found on pages 2 and 3. were repaid and a bank loan of U$99 million drawn down.
Review of the Year and Future Trends The Company has an Aaa Issuer Rating by Moodys.
A review of the main features of the year and the investment outlook Financials is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Review The net asset value per share decreased by 41.1% during the year, on pages 4, 5 and 8 to 10 respectively.
compared to a decrease in the benchmark of 22.8%: dividends Principal Risks and Uncertainties increased by 19.4% to 12.30p per share: at 31 March the discount The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and its was 8.0%.
Both revenue earnings and the dividend include a principal risks are therefore market related and include market risk non-recurring 1.5p per share from the reimbursement of previous comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, years VAT and associated interest thereon.
The percentage changes liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of those risks and how excluding the non-recurring 1.5p are revenue earnings 13.9% and they are managed are contained in note 23 to the accounts on dividend 4.9%.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Interests Nature Ordinary 25p shares held at Name of interest 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 Sir Donald MacKay Bene cial 2,469 2,469 GA Ball Bene cial 10,000 10,000 MM Gray Bene cial 221,000 272,900 Non-bene cial 12,500 12,500 Professor JA Kay Bene cial 5,000 FC McBain Bene cial 1,069 WG McQueen Bene cial 1,500 1,500 JPHS Scott Bene cial 33,940 30,396 Lord Strathclyde Bene cial 3,142 3,142 The Directors at the year end, and their interests in the Company, were as shown above.
Mr JPHS Scott acquired a further 458 shares on 7 April 2009.
There have been no other changes intimated in the Directors interests up to 13 May 2009.
The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and Dividends experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership and The Board recommends a final dividend of 5.50p per ordinary proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, share which, together with the interim of 6.80p already paid, including their relevant experience, can be found on pages 6 and 7. makes a total of 12.30p for the year compared with 10.30p for There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent the previous year.
The dividend includes a non-recurring 1.50p per share from the reimbursement of previous years VAT and associated professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Terms of Appointment and Re-elections If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary shares Letters which specify the terms of appointment are issued to new will be paid on 1 July 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close Directors.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection of business on 5 June 2009.
The ex-dividend date is 3 June 2009. on request.
Under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, a Corporate Governance Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high standards election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
This statement outlines how the principles Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2006, once every three years and Directors who have served for more the Combined Code were applied throughout the financial year.
than nine years offer themselves for re-election annually.
Compliance The names of Directors retiring and offering themselves for re-election The Company has complied throughout the year under review with together with the reasons why the Board supports the re-elections are the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Board is also adhering to the principles of the AIC Code in all Independence of Directors material respects.
All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent The Board of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship that The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
It has could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
a number of matters reserved for its approval including strategy, Sir Donald MacKay who has served on the Board for more than nine investment policy, currency hedging, gearing, treasury matters, years, offers himself for re-election annually.
The Directors recognise dividend and corporate governance policy.
A separate meeting the value of progressive refreshing of, and succession planning devoted to strategy is held each year.
The Board also reviews the for, company boards and the Boards composition is reviewed financial statements, investment transactions, revenue budgets and annually.
However, the Board is of the view that length of service performance.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to will not necessarily compromise the independence or contribution enable the Board to function effectively and to allow Directors to of directors of an investment trust company, where continuity and discharge their responsibilities.
experience can be a bene t to the board.
The Board concurs with Following the appointment of two Directors during the year, the Board the view expressed in the AIC Code that long-serving Directors now comprises eight Directors, all of whom are non-executive.
should not be prevented from being considered as independent.
The executive responsibility for investment management has been Following formal performance evaluation, the Board has concluded delegated to the Companys Managers and Secretaries, Baillie that, notwithstanding his length of service, Sir Donald MacKay Gifford & Co, and, in the context of a Board comprising only nonretains independence of character and judgement and his skills executive Directors, there is no chief executive of cer.
The Senior and experience are a bene t to the the Board.
Independent Director is Mr GA Ball and his replacement will be announced on his retirement.
20 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Attendance at Meetings Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Number of meetings 7 2 2 Sir Donald MacKay 7 2 2 GA Ball 5 1 1 MM Gray 6 2 2 Professor JA Kay appointed 11 December 2008 2 1 FC McBain appointed 26 February 2009 1 1 WG McQueen 7 2 2 JPHS Scott 6 2 1 Lord Strathclyde 7 2 2 Meetings Performance Evaluation There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to The Nomination Committee met to assess the performance of the address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment Chairman, each Director, the Board as a whole and its Committees, policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue budgets, after inviting each Director and the Chairman to consider and dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
The Board respond to a set of questions.
The appraisal of the Chairman was considers that it meets suf ciently regularly to discharge its duties led by Mr GA Ball.
The table above shows the attendance record for the The appraisals considered, amongst other criteria, the balance of skills Board and Committee Meetings held during the year.
The Annual of the Board, the contribution of individual Directors and the overall General Meeting was attended by all Directors serving at that date.
effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
Following this process it was concluded that the performance of each Director, the Chairman, Nomination Committee the Board and its Committees continues to be effective and each The Nomination Committee consists of the independent nonDirector and the Chairman remains committed to the Company.
executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee meets on an annual basis and at A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments was such other times as may be required.
The Committee has written carried out and the Nomination Committee is satis ed that they are terms of reference which include reviewing the Board, identifying capable of devoting suf cient time to the Company.
There were and nominating new candidates for appointment to the Board, no signi cant changes to the Chairmans other commitments during Board appraisal, succession planning and training.
also considers whether Directors should be recommended for Induction and Training re-election by shareholders.
The Committee is responsible for New Directors are provided with an induction programme which considering Directors potential con icts of interest and for making is tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
Regular recommendations to the Board on whether or not the potential brie ngs are provided on changes in regulatory requirements that con icts should be authorised.
The terms of reference are available could affect the Company and Directors.
The Directors receive other on request from the Company and on the Companys website: training as necessary.
Remuneration The Nomination Committee reviewed the Directors balance of age, As all the Directors are non-executive, the provisions of the skills, knowledge and experience during the year.
The Committee Combined Code in respect of Directors remuneration are not concluded that, in line with the policy for regular refreshment of the relevant to the Company except to the extent that they relate Board, two new Directors should be appointed.
The Committee speci cally to non-executive directors.
Consequently there is no identi ed the skills and experience that would strengthen the Board requirement for a separate remuneration committee.
Directors fees and prepared a diverse list of high quality candidates.
A short list are considered by the Board as a whole within the limits approved was then prepared and an interview process was undertaken.
The Companys policy on remuneration is set out conclusion of this process Professor JA Kay and Ms FC McBain were in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 26 and 27. appointed to the Board on 11 December 2008 and 26 February 2009 respectively.
Information on their background and experience Internal Controls and Risk Management can be found on page 6.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys Given the quality of the candidates identi ed, it was not necessary system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
to either appoint external search consultants or use open advertising The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than on this occasion.
eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 DIRECTORS REPORT Major Interests in Shares No.
of ordinary Name 25p shares held % of issue D. C. Thomson & Company Limited Direct 13,400,000 4.9 Legal & General Group Plc Direct 10,847,845 4.0 BlackRock Inc Indirect 8,461,197 3.1 The above information has been intimated to the Company as at 13 May 2009.
The Board con rms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, further action is required to manage the risks identi ed.
The Board evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the Company con rms that these procedures have been in place throughout the in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance Companys financial year and continue to be in place up to the date for Directors on the Combined Code.
of approval of this Report.
The Directors con rm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Accountability and Audit system and they have procedures in place to review its effectiveness The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditors in on a regular basis.
connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 28 to 30.
The practical measures to ensure compliance with regulation and company law, and to provide effective and ef cient operations and Going Concern investment management, have been delegated to the Managers and The Companys assets, the majority of which are investments in Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of the Management quoted securities which are readily realisable, exceed its liabilities Agreement.
The Board acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise signi cantly.
The Board approves borrowing limits and reviews and control the discharge by the Managers and Secretaries of their regularly the amount of any borrowings and compliance with obligations.
The U$99 million loan with Lloyds TSB was repaid on 20 April 2009 and replaced with a U$99 million facility Baillie Gifford & Co have been delegated responsibility for the from The Bank of New York Mellon.
Accordingly, the accounts have design, implementation and maintenance of control policies and been prepared on the going concern basis as it is the Directors procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company and to manage opinion that the Company will continue in operational existence its affairs properly.
This responsibility also extends to maintaining for the foreseeable future.
effective operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Audit Committee The Baillie Gifford & Co heads of Business Risk & Internal Audit and An Audit Committee has been established consisting of all Directors.
Regulatory Risk provide the Board with regular reports on Baillie Its authority and duties are clearly fide ned within its written terms Gifford & Cos monitoring programmes.
The reporting procedures for of reference, which are available on request from the Company these departments are fide ned and formalised within a service level and on the Companys website: www.
Baillie Gifford & Co conduct an annual review of their As the Board believes that Sir Donald MacKay is independent system of internal controls which is documented within an internal and that there are no con icts of interest, the Board considers it controls report which complies with Technical Release AAF 01 06 appropriate for Sir Donald MacKay to be a member of the Audit Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of Service Organisations made Committee.
Mr WG McQueen is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
This report is independently reviewed by The Committees responsibilities which were discharged during the Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors and a copy is submitted to the Board.
year include: The Companys investments are segregated from those of Baillie monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the half-yearly and Gifford & Co and their other clients through the appointment of annual financial statements and the internal financial controls: The Bank of New York Mellon as independent custodian of the Companys investments.
making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditors and approving the A detailed risk map is prepared which identi es the signi cant risks remuneration and terms of their engagement: faced by the Company and the key controls employed to manage these risks.
developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly to the nature and extent of the risks facing the Company and that they are reviewing and monitoring the independence, objectivity and being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have been identi ed effectiveness of the external auditors: during the year they also provide a mechanism to assess whether 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT reviewing the arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & Con icts of Interest Co whereby its staff may, in con dence, raise concerns about Each Director submits a list of potential con icts of interest to possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other the Nomination Committee on an annual basis.
The Committee matters insofar as they may affect the Company: considers these carefully, taking into account the circumstances surrounding them and makes a recommendation to the Board on reviewing the terms of the Investment Management Agreement: whether or not the potential con icts should be authorised.
Board and authorisation is for a period of one year.
Having considered the considering annually whether there is a need for the Company lists of potential con icts there were no situations which gave rise to have its own internal audit function.
to a direct or indirect interest of a director which con icted with the interests of the Company.
The Audit Committee considers the experience and tenure of the audit partner and staff and the nature of services provided.
Investment Managers The Committee receives con rmation from the auditors that they An Investment Management Agreement between the Company and have complied with the relevant UK professional and regulatory Baillie Gifford & Co sets out the matters over which the Managers requirements on independence.
Non audit fees for the year to have authority in accordance with the policies and directions of, 31 March 2009 were 565 and related to the certi cation of and subject to restrictions imposed by, the Board.
The Management results for the debenture trustees.
The Committee does not believe Agreement is terminable on not less than 12 months notice.
Careful that this has impaired the auditors independence.
consideration has been given by the Board as to the basis on Internal Audit which the management fee is charged.
The Board considers that The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of the need for maintaining a relatively low total expense ratio is in the best interest an internal audit function.
The Committee continues to believe that of all shareholders as lower costs means higher returns, particularly the compliance and internal control systems and the internal audit when compounded over long periods.
The Board is also of the view function in place within the Managers and Secretaries provide that calculating the fee with reference to performance would be suf cient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which unlikely to exert a positive in uence over the long term performance.
safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys assets, Details of the fee arrangements with Baillie Gifford & Co are shown is maintained.
An internal audit function, speci c to the Company, on page 36. is therefore considered unnecessary.
The Board considers the Companys investment management and Relations with Shareholders secretarial arrangements on an ongoing basis and a formal review The Board places great importance on communication with is conducted annually.
The Board considers, amongst others, the shareholders.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with following topics in its review: the quality of the personnel assigned to institutional shareholders and report shareholders views to the handle the Companys affairs: the investment process and the results Board.
The Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as achieved to date: the administrative services provided by the appropriate.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with any Secretaries and the marketing efforts undertaken by the Managers.
members of the Board may do so by writing to them at the address Following the most recent review, it is the opinion of the Directors on the back cover.
that the continuing appointment of Baillie Gifford & Co as Managers, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for The past year has been dif cult but the Board has no hesitation in communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged for fully backing the Managers approach that is based on achieving each resolution is announced at the Meeting and is published on the long term growth on a global basis.
The notice period for the Annual General Meeting is at least twenty working days.
Directors Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date information Professor JA Kay and Ms FC McBain were appointed on 11 December on the Companys website: www.
Having been appointed during the year, Professor Kay and Ms McBain are required to seek Voting Policy and Socially Responsible Investment election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the believe that the Board will bene t from Professor Kays and Ms McBains Investment Managers, Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote extensive experience and recommend their election to shareholders.
against resolutions they consider may damage shareholders rights or economic interests.
The Company believes that it is in Lord Strathclyde retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and and will offer himself for re-election.
governance factors when selecting and retaining investments and Sir Donald MacKay having served more than nine years, is subject have asked the Managers to take these issues into account as long to annual re-election.
as the investment objectives are not compromised.
The Managers do Following formal performance evaluation, the performance of Lord not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on the Strathclyde and Sir Donald MacKay continues to be effective and grounds of environmental, social and governance issues but adopt a each remains committed to the Company.
Their contribution to the positive engagement approach whereby matters are discussed with Board is greatly valued and the Board recommends their re-election management with the aim of improving the relevant policies and to shareholders.
The Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Mr GA Ball will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
The Managers are signatories of the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 DIRECTORS REPORT Director Indemni cation and Insurance The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued ordinary shares expires at the end of the The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of each of its Directors.
The deeds cover any liabilities that may arise to a third Annual General Meeting.
party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach of Resolution 10, which is being proposed as a special resolution, trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemni ed in respect of liabilities seeks to renew the Companys authority to make market purchases to the Company, any regulatory or criminal fines, any costs incurred in of its own ordinary shares for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
connection with criminal proceedings in which the Director is convicted The Company may hold bought-back shares in treasury and then: or civil proceedings brought by the Company in which judgement is a sell such shares or any of them for cash or its equivalent under given against him her.
In addition, the indemnity does not apply to the Treasury Shares Regulations : or any liability to the extent that it is recovered from another person.
b cancel such shares or any of them.
The Company also maintains Directors and Of cers liability insurance.
All buy backs up to the 10% issued share capital limit imposed by the Treasury Share Regulations will initially be held in treasury Share Capital while shares bought back in excess of that limit will be cancelled as Capital Structure before.
Shares will only be re-sold from treasury at or at a premium The Companys capital structure as at 31 March 2009 consists of to the net asset value per ordinary share.
284,346,176 ordinary shares of 25p each, of which 272,089,897 Treasury shares do not receive distributions and the Company will are allotted and fully paid and 12,256,279 are held in treasury.
not be entitled to exercise the voting rights attaching to them.
As at 31 March 2008, 284,346,176 ordinary shares of 25p each, of which 273,989,897 are allotted and fully paid and The Directors are seeking shareholders approval at the Annual 10,356,279 held in treasury.
General Meeting to renew the authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the date of the passing Dividends of the resolution, such authority to expire at the Annual General The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
Interim Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010.
Any such shares dividends are determined by the Directors, whereas the proposed purchased shall either be cancelled or held in treasury.
Under the final dividend is subject to shareholder approval.
Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority of the Financial Services Capital Entitlement Authority, the maximum price exclusive of expenses that may be On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the paid on the exercise of the authority shall be an amount equal surplus assets will be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion to to the higher of a 105% of the average of the middle market their shareholdings.
quotations as derived from the Daily Of cial List of the London Stock Exchange for the shares over the 5 business days immediately Voting preceding the date of purchase and b the higher of the price of On a show of hands, every ordinary shareholder present in person the last independent trade and the highest current independent or by proxy has one vote and on a poll every ordinary shareholder bid as stipulated by Article 5 1 of Commission Regulation EC present in person has one vote for every share he she holds and 22 December 2003 implementing the Market Abuse Directive as a proxy has one vote for every share in respect of which he she is regards exemptions for buy back programmes and stabilisation of appointed.
The minimum price again Information on the deadlines for proxy appointments can be found exclusive of expenses that may be paid will be 25p per share.
Purchases of shares will be made within guidelines established, from time to time, by the Board.
The Company does not have any Purchase of Shares warrants or options in issue.
Your attention is drawn to Special During the year to 31 March 2009 the Company bought back Resolution 10, in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
1,900,000 ordinary shares nominal value 475,000, on the This authority, if conferred, will be exercised only if to do so would London Stock Exchange, all of which are held in treasury.
The total result in an increase in net asset value per ordinary share for the consideration for these shares was 10,761,000.
Between 1 April remaining shareholders and if it is in the best interests of shareholders 2009 and the date of this report the Company has bought back generally.
a further 175,000 shares, which are held in treasury, at a cost of 639,000.
At 31 March 2009 the Company held 12,256,279 Authority to Allot Shares and Disapply Pre-emption treasury shares.
Rights The principal reasons for such share buy backs are: Resolution 11, which is being proposed as a special resolution, seeks to give the Directors power to sell ordinary shares held in i to manage imbalances between the supply of and the demand for treasury see above for cash up to a maximum of 6,797,872 the Companys shares which may exacerbate any discount of the in aggregate representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital quoted market price to the published net asset value per share: and of the Company as at 13 May 2009 without first being required ii to enhance net asset value for continuing shareholders by to offer such shares to existing shareholders pro rata to their existing purchasing shares at a discount to the prevailing net asset value.
The shares in question were purchased at a price after allowing for This power will last until the Annual General Meeting of the costs below the net asset value.
As a result of such purchases the net Company to be held in 2010. asset value of the Company has increased by approximately 0.07%.
24 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 as amended Treasury Shares Regulations came into force on 1 December 2003.
The Treasury Shares Regulations give exibility concerning what the Company can do with any of its ordinary shares which it may buy back.
The Company may hold such shares in treasury and then sell them at a later date for cash rather than simply cancelling them.
The Treasury Shares Regulations require such sale to be on a pre-emptive, pro rata, basis to existing shareholders unless shareholders agree by special resolution to disapply their pre-emption rights.
Accordingly, Special Resolution 11 will give the Directors power to sell ordinary shares held in treasury on a non pre-emptive basis, subject always to the limitations noted above.
Treasury shares are explained in more detail under the heading Purchase of Shares above.
The Directors consider that the power proposed to be granted by Resolution 11 is advantageous should the shares trade at a premium to net asset value and natural liquidity is unable to meet demand.
The Directors do not intend to use this power to sell shares on a non pre-emptive basis at a discount to net asset value.
At 13 May 2009 the Company held 12,431,279 treasury shares, representing 4.6% of the ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
The Directors believe that granting the power to sell treasury shares in the above circumstances is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
Recommendation The Board unanimously recommends you to vote in favour of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Creditor Payment Policy It is the Companys payment policy for the forthcoming financial year to obtain the best terms for all business.
In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is its policy to abide by these terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at 31 March 2009 or 31 March 2008.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors who held of ce at the date of approval of this Directors Report con rm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company auditors are aware of that information.
Independent Auditors The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are willing to continue in of ce and, in accordance with section 489 and section 491 i of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions concerning their reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board BAILLIE GIFFORD & Co Managers and Secretaries 14 May 2009 SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25
