MANAGERS REVIEW Managers Review We have had three strategic investment contentions over the last five Since the global financial crisis of last autumn Chinas structural years.
They have been that: strengths have, however, been seen in full relief.
The contrast with the travails of the West as well as with less well-positioned developing the rise of China and to a lesser extent other emerging nations is startling.
Chinas dramatic monetary stimulus is already economies will transform the global economic scene: feeding through to renewed bank lending whilst the room for scal stockmarkets underestimate the power of technological expansion has been exploited but far from exhausted.
This appears innovation in exaggerated revulsion to the bubble of to be translating into an early and dramatic recovery of the economy 19982000: and despite the much feared export decline.
At present we would expect China to account for up to 150% of total world growth in 2009. the Western financial systems are dangerously awed.
Whilst this response has been formidable both in scale and We sincerely believe that each of these three hypotheses have survived apparent success it is every bit as important for us to contemplate the extraordinary conditions of the last 12 months.
Indeed we would the long term implications of Chinas evolution.
We do not wish to argue that their explanatory power has only grown during this time imply either that there are not severe challenges or that the Chinese of crisis.
It has therefore thoroughly disturbed us that our shareholders Communist Party has discovered the eternal secrets of economic have suffered so badly over the reporting period.
In the next year the banking system needs to ensure however, to measure ourselves over rolling five year timeframes as that the monetary stimulus is channelled into productive investment an absolute minimum as we deeply believe that anything less is far rather than speculation.
Beyond this timeframe the need to shift more likely to encapsulate luck rather than skill.
Even more dangerously, the balance of the economy from exports to the internal market, yearly assessment tends to endorse the pursuit of momentum in share from East to West, from the cities of the coast to the rural interior prices rather than rewarding the gradual underlying value built by are major challenges.
We would not despair that they can be outstanding companies exploiting persistent opportunities.
China has already delivered the worlds largest car whilst we are sorry that the last year has been so tough and market over 20 years of progress and the worlds largest internet damaging to our longer term record we will only abandon our user base over a decade.
Sensible reforms to healthcare too seem contentions and our stocks when their long-run prospects have more easily achieved than in America.
deteriorated rather than when the dreadful mood of the market has The challenge for us is to re ect the changing nature of the Chinese hurt their immediate valuation.
Unless the important facts change economy in our portfolio.
The shift towards domestic consumption nor will our portfolio.
We aim to be investors not speculators.
and away from exports and even a moderation in the use of China commodities mean that exposure more often needs to be sought Twelve months ago China was suffering from a phase of economic in Greater Chinas own companies rather more than has been our overheating.
Agricultural in ation, wage increases and property historic policy.
With the considerable assistance of my Chinese exuberance all needed to be dampened down.
Government policy colleague Wanyi Yao we are gradually embarking on this evolution was aimed at accomplishing this.
China was therefore as opportunities permit.
Our holdings in Tencent, China Merchants enjoying a classic, traditional economic cycle of its own before Bank, and Baidu.
com as well as in China Mobile should be seen in the onset of the world financial crisis.
Arguably we should have this light.
With the burgeoning rapprochement between China and been paying even more attention to developments in China as the Taiwan, TSMC might appropriately be included in this list.
domestic stockmarket, for all its faults, indicated that first in ation and then the industrial and real estate slowdown were serious issues.
08 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 Petrobras 2 Google Petrobras, huge unexploited oil reserves.
Google, highly innovative search engine continually developing new uses.
2 1 Russia, Brazil and India Technology In the other key emerging markets for world growth the response Possibly the most puzzling experience of last year was the abject to crisis has been less overwhelmingly successful.
The most share price performance of our technology stocks in the autumn.
This obvious casualty has been Russia.
This has hurt our portfolio.
puzzles us because we can think of few companies that are in a The exaggerated appetite for debt finance displayed by many better position to ride out the crisis.
The industry in general, and the oligarchs and the large capital needs of the resource industry have companies that we own in particular, tend to have extremely strong been shown up.
We do not think that these developments are cash positions and are well used to fide ationary trading conditions.
insurmountable but they do moderate our prior enthusiasm.
We have Just as we were disturbed by their sharp declines so we are now sold Norilsk Nickel where oligarch debt has opened the door to pleased that there is every indication that the strengths of these increased state machinations and cut back our position in Gazprom businesses are being acknowledged.
Indeed from Amazon to Google as current energy prices make the enormous investment programme to Apple there are clear indications that both innovation and structural problematic.
We have no plans to make any further reductions.
changes tend to be magni ed in tough times and that these companies are actually thriving rather than merely surviving.
Whilst the virtues of We feel no such need for apology in the case of our substantial these three companies are gradually and variably being recognised Brazilian holdings.
The economy is enduring some current weakness by the markets there are still other stocks in related areas that we are but shows no signs of losing its fundamental balance.
We are happy increasingly enthused by as they remain out of investment favour.
both to loan money to the Brazilian government via our long term The principal example of this is Nintendo, which continues to churn in ation protected bond holding and to back the investment needs out high returns and generate impressive cash ow by thinking of Petrobras.
Their remarkable oil discoveries in offshore Brazil seem differently about the gaming industry.
We are delighted to continue to us to be much more signi cant than the wild oscillations of the to add to our holding as the market worries about exchange rates spot oil price.
The rewards for these projects are years ahead whilst and monthly sales gures.
Sadly we can nd nothing else of similar the cost equation is improving as few apart from Petrobras are in a attractions in the wastelands of the Japanese corporate sector.
position to invest in such assets.
To put it another way our enthusiasm for Petrobras is based on its own long term prospects not on a We maintain our belief in investing in leading alternative energy speculation about the course of monthly oil prices.
We can understand their weak showings over the last year as unlike the companies above they do need access to India shows encouraging signs of suffering less from the financial bank and project finance.
Yet we do not think that their prospects crisis than it did from the in ationary pressures and overheating of and value has been destroyed by challenging but temporary early last year.
Our problem remains identifying attractive companies circumstances.
Indeed those with relatively strong financial and at reasonable prices.
We admire the manner in which both Hero competitive advantages may well emerge from this downturn in Honda motorbikes and HDFC mortgage finance are navigating even stronger positions than we had estimated.
We certainly judge their sectoral challenges.
that this is the case for Vestas wind and First Solar thin lm whilst we hope, with less con dence, that this remains so for its fellow solar company Q-Cells.
It seems to us that the two most important governments in the world are increasingly committed to alternative energy development.
This is imminently important in both America and China although we will need to observe the competitive implications of Chinese investment in this area very carefully.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 Nintendo 2 Banco Santander Nintendo is successfully dominating Banco Santander a combination of growth and broadening the games market.
strategy coupled with more prudent lending.
1 2 The Aftermath of the Western Financial Debacle Conclusion and Outlook We had long been concerned by the complexities, gearing and Over time we think that the crisis of 2008-9 will come to be seen greed inculcated by far too much of the Western financial sector.
as a fide ning event in the decline of the West and the rise of China.
Our direct exposure has been low.
It would have been better if it Whether this proves an absolute decline of the West or merely a had been non-existent.
This, however, was less critical to our fortunes relative one depends heavily on far-sighted political leadership than the complete freezing of the financial system after the Lehman as the financial and demographic challenges rise.
We confess to surprise that the deplorable conduct of the encouraged by progress in America than Britain on this score.
banking industry translated into an inability to provide even the most The rise of China is unlikely to be smooth but it is also likely to basic financial services to the real economy in a manner not seen encompass areas as yet little changed from defence relations to at least since the 1930s and arguably not for several centuries.
We suspect too that it will become This situation was untenable for long and is being gradually evident even to the most determined mathematical risk modellers corrected but even the temporary stoppage of credit has severely that danger lies more in the West than in the emerging giants.
In the coming year we suspect that there will be many surprises.
Where does this sad series of events leave our attitude to the These are just as likely to be positive as negative despite the financial sector?
We would like to say that bank managements experiences of the last year.
It appears to us that the scale of are demonstrating a return to their dull reputations of yore and to monetary and scal easing globally combined with the easing of less exotic reward structures but we see little evidence that this is the credit squeeze, a vicious inventory cycle and the sharp collapse true.
From Barclays to Goldman Sachs there is no evidence of less of a commodity boom are now exerting very expansionary forces complexity or reduced avarice.
At the same time the renancing on the global economy.
It is not inconceivable that animal spirits of banking systems by state injection appears to us to be less than revive.
It is conceivable that in ation rather than fide ation is in satisfactory.
Creaking organisations such as Citi are being kept alive eventual prospect.
We will endeavour to plot our way around these in an echo of Japanese zombie banks whilst politics in Britain or challenges whilst remembering just how unpredictable markets can America prevents full state control in the manner that served Sweden be in the short-run.
Last year saw falls of historic proportions bringing so well after its banking crisis.
These drawbacks seem likely to lessen decade long capital returns on equities into negative territory.
This is the available bene ts for those financial institutions that have been unusual and suggests that a prolonged deep recession and savage both more prudently run and that have the interests of shareholders corporate earnings falls are already discounted by markets.
Such rather than insiders at their heart.
Some bene ts will, however, an atmosphere could easily prove a splendid time to invest and a remain in the shape of higher spreads on new business and the questionable one at which to become pessimistic.
balance sheet strength to expand organically and by acquisition.
We maintain our belief in both our investment process and the It is in this spirit that we own Berkshire Hathaway where the shrinking economic viewpoints that have guided us over the last five years.
of insurance capacity can be exploited by Mr Buffett and Banco The value of our companies lies not in the earnings of the next Santander where Snr.
Botin can reap the advantages of his prior quarter or year but in their ability to deliver cash ows for their prudence as demonstrated in his part of the fateful ABN Amro deal.
We will always make mistakes but we genuinely believe that more of our companies are in a stronger rather than a weaker position than a year ago.
In the bulk of these cases it is because they can participate in the rising wealth of the emerging economies, that their competitive positions have been strengthened by the collapse of awed financial models, or that their prospects are built on exceptional innovation.
For all the dif culties of the last year we do not think that this is a framework for a global portfolio which we should be at all ashamed of now or in the future.
