DIRECTORS AND MANAGERS Directors and Managers Members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Baillie Gifford & Co, a leading UK investment management rm, who act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company have done so since its formation in 1909.
Professor John Kay Directors John Kay was appointed a Director on 11 December 2008.
Sir Donald MacKay John has a distinguished record as an economist, academic, author Sir Donald MacKay, the Chairman, is an economist with an and commentator on business, government and economic issues.
extensive record in advising governments, organisations and He is a Visiting Professor at the London School of Economics, a companies.
Sir Donald was appointed a Director in 1999 and Director of Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. Value and Income became Chairman in 2003.
He is also Chairman of the Nomination Trust PLC and a member of the Scottish Governments Council of Committee.
He was Professor of Political Economy at Aberdeen Economic Advisers.
University and Professor of Economics at Heriot-Watt University.
He is a former chairman of The Malcolm Group PLC and Scottish FC McBain Enterprise and is currently a director of Edinburgh New Income Fiona McBain was appointed a Director on 26 February 2009.
Fiona is Chief Executive of Scottish Friendly Assurance, a Glasgow based and mutually owned financial services group with over GA Ball 500,000 policyholders.
Before joining Scottish Friendly in 1998, Geoffrey Ball, the Senior Independent Director, is a long-standing Fiona, a chartered accountant, was employed by Prudential plc Director who also has considerable industrial experience in and Arthur Young now Ernst & Young where she spent some time the house building sector.
Geoffrey was appointed a Director in working across a number of industry sectors, both in the UK and in 1983.
He is executive chairman of Cala Group Ltd, having led the United States.
She is also a Director of the Association of Friendly the management buy out in 1999.
He was president of the House Societies and a Director of the Association of Mutual Insurers.
Builders Federation of England and Wales from 2001 to 2003 and he was a director of The Standard Life Assurance Company WG McQueen for 13 years until 2001.
Gordon McQueen, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, brings to the Board first class financial and banking expertise.
MM Gray Gordon was appointed a Director in 2001.
Until 2003 he was an Michael Gray joined the Board in 2004 after a successful career executive director of HBOS plc, Bank of Scotland and Halifax plc, in printing and technology industries where he gained valuable where his main role was chief executive, Treasury.
He is a director global business experience.
As chairman and chief executive he of JP Morgan Mid Cap Investment Trust plc and Shaftesbury PLC.
led the growth of McQueen International over a 17 year period as it evolved from being a printing company into a global enterprise JPHS Scott providing a range of support services to technology companies.
John Scott is a former international investment banker who On McQueens acquisition, he became senior vice president of maintains a number of interests in the investment trust sector.
Sykes Enterprises Inc. a global NASDAQ quoted outsourcing John was appointed a Director in 2001.
He is a former executive services company.
He retired from Sykes in 1999 and currently director of Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
During his twenty years has many business, community, charity and sporting interests and with Lazard, he was involved with the merchant banks corporate responsibilities including being a member of the Advisory Board of advisory activities and its Asian businesses.
He is currently a director The Winning Scotland Foundation and of The Scottish Governments of various companies, including Martin Currie Paci c Trust plc, JP Rural Development Council.
He is a former director of Scottish Morgan Claverhouse Investment Trust plc, Xaar plc, Miller Insurance Enterprise and the Scottish Community Foundation.
Services and Schroder Japan Growth Fund plc.
In addition, he is chairman of Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC and deputy chairman of Endace Limited.
06 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 DIRECTORS AND MANAGERS Donald MacKay Geoffrey Ball Michael Gray John Kay Fiona McBain Gordon McQueen John Scott Thomas Strathclyde Lord Strathclyde Funds under the management or advice of Baillie Gifford total over Thomas Strathclyde, currently Leader of the Opposition in 40 billion at 31 March 2009.
Based in Edinburgh, it is one of the House of Lords, has considerable political experience.
the leading privately owned investment management rms in the UK, Tom was appointed a Director in 2004.
His parliamentary career to with 33 partners and a staff of over 600. date includes extensive ministerial experience at the Departments of The manager of Scottish Mortgages portfolio is James Anderson, Employment, the Environment, Trade and Industry and the Scottish a partner of Baillie Gifford where he is Chief Investment Of cer Of ce.
Prior to entering politics in 1988 as a Government Whip, and Head of the Global Team.
Lord Strathclyde worked in the City for the insurance brokers, The rm of Baillie Gifford & Co are authorised and regulated by Bain Dawes.
Lord Strathclyde is also chairman of London based the Financial Services Authority.
hedge fund manager Trafalgar Capital Management, a director of Galena Asset Management Limited, Marketform Limited and Management Details Hampden Agencies Limited.
He is also president of the Quoted Baillie Gifford & Co are appointed as investment managers and Companies Alliance.
The management contract can be terminated at 12 months notice.
Managers and Secretaries Scottish Mortgage is managed by Baillie Gifford & Co, an investment Management Fee management rm formed in 1927 out of the legal rm Baillie & Baillie Gifford & Cos annual remuneration is 0.32% of total assets Gifford, WS, which had been Managers and Secretaries to the less current liabilities excluding short term borrowings for investment Company since its formation in 1909. purposes, calculated and payable on a quarterly basis.
Baillie Gifford & Co are one of the largest investment trust managers in the UK and currently manage eight investment trusts.
Baillie Gifford also manage unit trusts and Open Ended Investment Companies, together with investment portfolios on behalf of pension funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the UK and overseas.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07
