What we do Middle East construction services 1 The growth we have Abu Dhabi We have nearly 40 years achieved over the last two We extended the operations experience in the Middle years, during which time of Al Futtaim Carillion to Abu revenue and underlying Dhabi at the beginning of 2008.
East, during which time our operating profi t have Since then, our business in Abu increased by 64% and 85%, Dhabi has grown substantially, businesses in the region have respectively, has been driven contributing 55 per cent of our by our strategy of building total Middle East construction built an outstanding reputation strong relationships with a services revenue in 2009.
Our for quality and reliability, having small number of selected, fi first project in Abu Dhabi was fi nancially robust customers the prestigious 500-bedroom delivered some of the regions with long-term investment Yas Hotel for Abu Dhabis programmes, for whom largest developer, ALDAR.
This most prestigious buildings and quality and value for stunning hotel forms the centre infrastructure projects.
piece of Abu Dhabis new Geographical diversifi cation, notably the extension of our operations into Abu Dhabi in 2008, has enabled us to continue to deliver substantial revenue and profi t growth in the region Underlying despite the downturn operating profi t 1 in Dubai.
47.0m 2 1 1 Before intangible amortisation, non-recurring operating items and non-operating items.
C Ca arillio rillion n pl plc c 08 08 A An nn nu ual al R Re ep por ortta an nd d A Ac cco coun unfit ts s 20 200 09 9 Section 02 What we do 2 3 4 Formula 1 Grand Prix circuit, Oman Dubai Egypt which hosted its fi first F1 race in Our business in Oman, Carillion In Dubai, Al Futtaim Carillion Al Futtaim Carillion extended November 2009.
Currently, we Alawi, has a long history of also has an outstanding track its operations to Egypt to build are building three more major delivering high-profi le projects record for delivering high the 2 billion Cairo Festival projects in Abu Dhabi, the Al to exacting standards, including quality projects, including City development for our Joint Muneera development for the Guest Palace Qasr Al Alam, Dubai Festival City, Motor City, Venture partner, Al Futtaim.
In ALDAR, infrastructure for a new the Grand Mosque and, currently, the infrastructure works for 2009, this project contributed aluminium smelter for EMAL the Royal Opera House, which world-renowned Burj Dubai some two per cent of our and a new headquarters for the is due for completion in 2010.
Development and infrastructure Middle East construction Abu Dhabi Investment Council.
In 2009, we continued to grow works for Dubai Aluminium.
services revenue, but we expect our business in Oman, which Although our activity levels in activity levels on the project to contributes around 23 per cent Dubai have reduced signifi cantly increase in 2010 as further of our Middle East construction over the last 12 months, from phases of the Cairo Festival City services revenue, and won 55 per cent of our Middle East development are scheduled to further major and prestigious construction services revenue start during the year.
projects, including the Majlis, in 2008 to 20 per cent in 2009, a new parliament building, we expect our markets to the National Museum and the stabilise in 2010 and to use our Muscat Court Complex.
market leading reputation to continue to win high-quality projects selectively, for fi nancially robust customers.
3 4 Middle East construction services 1 Yas Hotel, Abu Dhabi 2 Royal Opera House, Oman 3 Dubai Festival City 4 Cairo Festival City C Ca arillio rillion n pl plc c An Ann nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd A d Ac cco cou un nt ts s 20 200 09 9 09 09
