What we do Support services 1 Having the ability to Facilities management We are one of the UKs largest combine these services and Our facilities management support services companies use leading-edge technology business provides an extensive to provide customers with range of services, notably with the skills and resources to fully integrated, nationwide integrated solutions for bluesolutions is a key strength chip private sector customers provide all the services needed to that helps to differentiate with large, complex property Carillion from many of our estates.
We have strong manage, maintain and operate competitors.
positions in a number of market buildings and infrastructure.
sectors, particularly for The long-term contracts we customers in the fi financial have some of them for services, commercial, utilities, more than 30 years to media and telecommunications deliver services for hundreds sectors.
For example, we of thousands of buildings, provide integrated facilities over 17,000 km of roads and management services for over substantial sections of the 7,000 BT properties in the UK rail and utility networks, UK, for Virgin Media, Philips, provide good visibility of Siemens, Deutsche Bank, Bank future revenues and make of Ireland and the Nationwide a major contribution to the Building Society.
resilience of our business mix.
2 Government services In the UK, we are a major Underlying supplier of integrated facilities operating profi t management services to central and local government 117.7m departments.
For example, 1 1 Before intangible amortisation, non-recurring operating items and non-operating items.
Carillion plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 02 What we do we are the leading supplier to M&E services direct to its management and maintenance telecommunications sector in Defence Estates and to acute own extensive customer base, services for motorways and 2009, when a Carillion-led Joint NHS hospitals.
We also provide Planned Maintenance plays a trunk roads and we provide Venture secured a 1.0 billion, facilities management services key role in supporting our similar services for a number seven-year contract to provide for the HM Revenue and facilities management and of Local Highway Authorities.
nationwide asset management Customs estate and we have government services businesses, In Canada, we have marketand maintenance services for a growing presence in the because M&E services form a leading positions in the Ontario Openreach, BTs local access education sector, as a leading substantial part of the and Alberta road maintenance network business.
supplier to the Building Schools integrated facilities markets.
In the rail sector, our 5 for the Future programme.
In management contracts we have main customers are Network Consulting Canada, we have a growing for public and private sector Rail and Transport for London, Our consultancy business business, driven by our success customers.
These include Public for whom we recently secured provides engineering and in winning Public Private Private Partnership projects, a seven-year contract to architectural design and project Partnership projects, especially such as the UK Government maintain the East London Line.
This in the health sector, for which Communications Headquarters, We also provide a wide range business has a high-quality we provide facilities for which Planned Maintenance of support services to the customer base and a strong management services.
delivers M&E maintenance telecommunications, water, gas track record on high-profi le services.
projects, such as Heathrow 3 Planned Maintenance We signifi cantly strengthened Terminal 5.
Our consultancy 4 Carillion Planned Maintenance Infrastructure services our position in the business uses its specialist is one of the top three suppliers We have long-term asset capabilities to support other of mechanical and electrical management and maintenance Carillion businesses by providing engineering M&E services in contracts for roads, railways and the design services they need the UK.
As well as providing public utility services networks.
in order to deliver integrated In the UK, we are a leading solutions for buildings and supplier to the Highways infrastructure, notably Public Agency, providing integrated Private Partnership projects.
5 2 3 4 Support Services 1 BT Tower, London 2 Great Western Hospital, Swindon 3 Government Communications Headquarters, Cheltenham 4 Management and maintenance services for Openreach 5 London Heathrow, Terminal 5 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 05
