What we do Our operations UK Carillion has annual revenue of Operations over 5 billion, employs around Support services 50,000 people and operates Public Private Partnership projects Construction services across the UK, in the Middle East and North Africa, Canada and the Caribbean.
Underlying operating profi t Revenue Market sectors 2 We provide all the facilities management, maintenance and 4,320.9m other services needed to keep buildings, particularly large, complex property estates, fully operational, for public and private sector customers.
Support services 2009 We also provide asset 1 management and maintenance 117.7m 80% services for road and railway of total revenue infrastructure and for utilities, including telecommunications, Public Private water, electricity and gas.
Partnership projects We deliver Public Private 1 Partnership PPP projects for 32.2m schools, hospitals, prisons, defence and other government Middle East accommodation, and also for construction services roads and railways.
1 47.0m Construction We have a strong and selective services excluding construction services capability, the Middle East which plays a key role in 1 30.9m providing integrated solutions for PPP projects and for our support services customers.
1 Before intangible amortisation, non-recurring operating items and non-operating items 2 Includes 79.7 million of revenue generated outside of the UK, Middle East and North Africa and Canada and the Caribbean.
Carillion plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 02 What we do Middle East and North Africa Canada and the Caribbean Operations Operations Support services Support services Construction services Public Private Partnership projects Construction services Revenue Market sectors Revenue Market sectors We have nearly 40 years We have operated in Canada experience of operating in and the Caribbean for over 40 564.4m 541.2m the Middle East, with years, delivering a wide range of well-established Joint Venture construction services for public businesses in the United Arab and private sector customers.
Emirates, Oman and Egypt An increasing proportion of providing construction services our construction and support for buildings and infrastructure.
2009 2009 services work in Canada, These businesses have built notably in Ontario, relates to 10% 10% market-leading reputations Public Private Partnership PPP of total revenue of total revenue for delivering high-quality projects, for which Carillion projects for a small number has built a market-leading of long-term, fi nancially reputation, especially in the robust customers.
We also have a Joint Venture We have also established business in the United Arab leading positions in the road Emirates that provides facilities maintenance markets of management services, primarily Ontario and Alberta, where for the buildings we construct.
we have long-term contracts to manage and maintain In 2010, we established a new substantial lengths of the business in Qatar, focussed on Provincial highway network.
the construction of major infrastructure projects.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 03
