What we do Public Private Partnership projects 1 Our specialist private fi finance UK education We are a leader in Public Private team arranges fi finance for Carillion has a strong track Partnership PPP projects, both these projects in which we record in the education sector.
make equity investments We have delivered, or are in the in the UK and in Canada.
PPP on which we target a process of delivering, over 140 15 per cent internal rate of new schools, most of which projects use private sector fi finance return over the life of the form part of the UK concession contract, which is Governments 65 billion to deliver a wide range of assettypically between 25 and 35 Building Schools for the Future based services for central and years.
To date, Carillion has BSF programme, which is won concession contracts for being partly funded by private local government.
We are one of the leading suppliers to the national Once the construction phase BSF programme, having been is complete and the project awarded contracts for BSF has moved successfully into programmes in Durham, the operational phase, we Gateshead, Nottingham, have the option of selling Rochdale, South Tyneside and our equity investments and Tameside.
The BSF programme reinvesting the proceeds in also encompasses the delivery new projects.
To date we of the Academy schools have sold investments in programme for which Carillion 28 projects, generating has been selected by the UK Underlying operating profi t proceeds of some 280 Government as a framework 1 million and a pre-tax profi t supplier.
2 1 1 Before intangible amortisation, non-recurring operating items and non-operating items.
Carillion plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 02 What we do 2 UK health Ministry of Defence.
The largest further prisons and secure by Carillion of around 123 km of As a leader in the development of these is Allenby Connaught, a training centres.
We have sold the M40, between the M25 and of PPP projects since their 35-year concession contract that our equity investments in all Warwick.
In total, Carillion has inception in the early 1990s, commenced in 2006 with a these projects, but continue to built six PPP road projects, we delivered the UKs fi first PPP six-year construction phase to be well placed to deliver prisons for which it continues to provide hospital in 1997, the Darent rebuild Army accommodation under any future PPP investment long-term maintenance services, Valley Hospital, in Kent.
Since across the South of England.
Carillion also and sold its equity investments then, we have maintained a Carillion is also providing built the landmark Government in three of these, including the leading position in the health facilities management services Communications Headquarters M40 widening project.
sector of the UK PPP market.
To for the old estate as well as for at Cheltenham, one of the 6 date, we have secured contracts the new accommodation being largest, technically complex and Canada health for 20 PPP hospitals and other built to replace it.
The other two secure accommodation projects The UK PPP procurement model healthcare facilities, of which projects are the Permanent Joint to be delivered under the PPP has been adopted in Canada 15 are in the UK.
We have sold Headquarters, Northwood, programme in the UK to date.
where our well-established our equity investments in eight construction of which is nearing business is a leader in this 5 hospital projects, but continue completion and for which our UK roads market, especially in the health to provide facilities management facilities management contract Carillion delivered one of the sector.
Carillion delivered two services for these hospitals.
is already fully operational, and fi first privately fi nanced road of the fi first PPP hospitals in The construction phase of the Royal School of Military projects in the UK, namely the Canada, the Royal Ottawa and the new Queen Alexandra Engineering, based at Bicester, widening of 12 kilometres of the new William Osler Hospital Hospital in Portsmouth will be Chatham and Minley, on the M40 between its junction in Ontario, for which Carillion completed in 2010 and Carillion which construction is due with the M25 and Loudwater, also has long-term facilities is already providing facilities for completion in 2015. which was completed in 1998. management contracts.
management services for both The 30-year PPP concession Currently we have three further 4 the old and new hospitals, as UK secure and other contract for this project also hospital projects under part of the 35-year concession Government accommodation includes the management construction in Ontario, the contract.
Carillion delivered the fi first PPP and maintenance Sault Area Hospital, the Royal prison in the UK, namely HM Victoria Hospital in Barrie and 3 UK defence Prison Altcourse in Liverpool in the Centre for Addiction and Carillion has three major PPP 1997, and subsequently three Mental Health in Toronto.
defence projects for the UK 6 3 4 5 Public Private Partnership projects 1 Bigwood School, Nottingham 2 Queen Alexandra Hospital, Portsmouth 3 The Allenby Connaught project, Salisbury Plain and Aldershot 4 Government Communications Headquarters, Cheltenham 5 M40 motorway PPP project, Buckinghamshire 6 Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, Canada Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 07
