David Garman Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Age 65.
Philip was appointed to the Board in October 2004 Age 58.
Appointed to the Board in September 2004, David is becoming Chairman in May 2005.
He is Chairman of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nominations Committee.
Philip is also Chairman of Aggreko plc Audit and Nominations Committees.
David was Group Chief and Bunzl plc.
He was an Executive Director of BG plc from 1992 Executive of TDG plc until its takeover in 2008 before which he to 1998, latterly as Deputy Chairman.
Philip joined the Board of was an Executive Director of Associated British Foods plc, having Bunzl plc on 1January 2010 becoming Chairman on 1March 2010. previously held senior positions in a number of leading UK food In order to take up this appointment, Philip retired as Chairman companies.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Phoenix IT of Northgate plc on 31 December 2009 and as a Non-Executive Group plc and a Director of the Oakwood Partnership Ltd. Director of Davis Service Group plc on 28February 2010.
John McDonough Executive Director Group Chief Executive Age 41.
Richard was appointed to the Board on 10 December Age 58.
John was appointed Group Chief Executive in January 2009 with responsibility for Carillions UK Building, Private Finance 2001 having formerly been Vice President, Integrated Facilities and Middle East and North Africa businesses.
Richard has been Management, Europe, the Middle East and Africa of Johnson the Managing Director of Carillions Middle East and North Africa Controls Inc.
He is Chairman of the CBIs Construction Council businesses since June 2007 prior to which he held senior positions and a member of the CBIs Presidents Committee.
John is a in the Groups Infrastructure and Building businesses.
Richard has Non-Executive Director of Tomkins plc where he is also Chairman groupwide responsibility for health and safety matters.
John is a member of the Nominations Committee.
Richard Adam Group Finance Director Age 52.
Richard was appointed Group Finance Director in April 2007.
He qualifi ed as a chartered accountant with KPMG in 1982 and gained broad experience in a number of public and private company fi finance director roles from the age of 30.
Immediately prior to joining Carillion, Richard was Group Finance Director of Associated British Ports Holdings plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director and the chairman of the Audit Committee of SSL International plc.
Carillion plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 04 Governance 06.
Steve Mogford Executive Director Non-Executive Director Age 55.
Don was appointed to the Board in September 2006 Age 53.
Steve was appointed to the Board in September 2006 and is responsible for much of Carillions Support Services and is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration business.
Don also has responsibility for the Groups sustainability Committees.
Steve is Chief Executive of SELEX Galileo Limited, a programme.
He joined Carillion from Johnson Controls Inc in 2002, Finmeccanica company, which he joined in May 2007.
From April having held a number of senior positions in Johnson Controls and 2000 to May 2007, he was a Director of BAE Systems plc with prior to that in Mowlem plc.
Don is a member of the CBIs Public responsibility for fi xed wing military aircraft and naval business.
He is a chartered certifi ed accountant.
David Maloney Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Age 49.
Vanda was appointed to the Board in June 2005 and Age 54.
David was appointed to the Board in November 2005 is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration and is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Committees.
Vanda is Deputy Chairman of the North West Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
David is Chairman Development Agency and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Hoseasons Holdings Ltd and a Non-Executive Director of of Marketing.
She is also a Non-Executive Director of SIG plc and Micro Focus International plc, Ludorum plc, Cineworld Group plc The Manchester Airport Group plc.
Vanda was Chief Executive and Enterprise Inns plc.
He is also Chairman of the Board of Offi cer of Blick plc from 2001 to 2004, a Director of Ultraframe plc Trustees for Make a Wish Foundation UK.
Before taking up these from 2002 to 2006, Non-Executive Chairman of Eazyfone Limited appointments, David held senior positions in a number of services from 2006 to 2009 and has also served as a Trustee and sector companies, including Chief Financial Offi cer for Le Meridien Non-Executive Director of The Manufacturing Institute.
She was Hotels and Resorts Limited, Chief Financial Offi cer for Thomson appointed OBE in 2002 for Services to Industry and to Export.
Travel Group Holdings plc and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 35 Governance Report of the Directors The Directors of Carillion plc treasury policy and fi financial risk management Operating and fi financial review see pages 28 to 29 present their report to the social, community and environmental issues Sustainability review see pages 30 to 33 Company and confi rm that at the resources and employees Group Chief Executives review see page 16 and Report of the Directors see pages 37 to 38. date of this Report, and as far as they are individually aware, the Analysis of turnover and net assets by business segment and geographical location are given in Note 2 to the fi financial Companys auditors are aware statements on page 66. of all relevant audit information Share capital Carillion has only one class of shares, with one vote for every share.
and each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make himself Profi ts and dividends The consolidated income statement is shown on page 56.
Profi t or herself aware of relevant audit before tax was 147.7 million 2008: 115.9 million.
information and to establish that A 2009 interim dividend of 4.6 pence per ordinary share 2008: the Companys auditors are aware 4.1 pence was paid in November 2009.
It is proposed to pay a fi final dividend of 10.0 pence per ordinary share 2008: 8.9 pence of that information.
on 18 June 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 23 April 2010.
The payment of these 2009 interim and fi final dividends amounts to 57.9 million 2008: 51.4 million.
A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered allowing shareholders a convenient means of reinvesting their dividends in The Directors report should be read in conjunction with the the Company by buying further shares.
A DRIP application form Chairmans statement, the Group Chief Executives review, the is available from the share registrar, Equiniti see page 122 for Operating and fi financial review, the Corporate Governance report contact details.
and the Remuneration report which are incorporated by reference in and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
Directors The Directors of the Company who served during 2009 are shown Principal activities and business review on page 48 of the Remuneration Report.
Biographical details for Carillion is one of the UKs largest support services companies, each Director at 31 December 2009 are given on pages 34 and 35. with a substantial portfolio of Public Private Partnership projects and extensive construction capabilities.
The Group has operations Richard Howson was appointed a Director on 10 December 2009 in the UK, the Middle East and in Canada and the Caribbean.
and will hold offi ce until the Annual General Meeting on 5 May 2010 at which, being eligible, he offers himself for election.
A review of the Groups businesses, fi financial performance and Richard Howson has a contract of service which is subject to one future developments is contained in the Chairmans statement, years notice of termination by the Company.
Group Chief Executives review and the Operating and fi financial review.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Richard Adam, Don Kenny, John McDonough and Steve Mogford retire by rotation The following specifi c issues are discussed in the sections shown and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the Annual in brackets General Meeting on 5 May 2010.
Richard Adam, Don Kenny and John McDonough have contracts of service all of which are subject achievements in respect of the Groups Key Performance to one years notice of termination by the Company.
Indicators KPI in 2009 and the KPIs set for 2010 Group Chief Executives review see pages 16 to 19 Roger Robinson served as an executive director until he stood fi financial performance in 2009 Operating and fi financial review down from the Board in May 2009.
Roger was appointed to the see pages 20 to 29 Board of Carillion plc in May 1999 and had groupwide principal operational risks and risk management Group Chief responsibility for Carillions UK infrastructure and international Executives review see page 16 businesses in the Middle East and Canada and the Caribbean.
He was also the Board member responsible for Group Health and Safety matters.
Carillion plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 04 Governance David Hurcomb served as an executive director until he stood The objectives of Carillions Equal Opportunity and Diversity Policy down from the Board in December 2009 having been appointed are to to the Board on 1 January 2008.
David had responsibility for Carillions UK Building and PFI businesses.
have a workforce that represents and responds to the diversity of customers and todays society The interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital improve safety and quality delivered through a balanced and of the Company are shown on page 39. productive workforce develop the Groups public image and market reputation and to Indemnity improve links with the communities in which it operates To the extent permitted by the Companies Acts, the Company may adhere to legal requirements indemnify any Director, Secretary or other offi cer of the Company reduce employee turnover, absenteeism and sickness levels and against any liability and may purchase and maintain insurance thereby reduce costs and improve effi ciency against any liability.
The Company purchased and maintained provide a fair working environment in which discrimination is not throughout 2009, Directors and Offi cers liability insurance.
tolerated create a working environment free from discrimination, Confl icts of interest harassment, victimisation and bullying The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to work towards fi nding ways in which under-represented groups consider and, if it sees fi t, to authorise situations where a Director can fully realise their potential within the Group and to take has an interest that confl icts, or may possibly confl ict, with the reasonable steps to help such groups interests of the Company.
The Board considers that the procedures ensure that all employees are aware of the Group Equal it has in place for reporting and considering confl icts of interest Opportunities and Diversity Policy and to provide any necessary are effective.
ongoing training to enable them to comply with it be an organisation that understands and values employee Key contractual arrangements diversity and recognises the merits of having a workforce that There are no persons with whom the Group or Company has refl ects the diverse backgrounds and skills available within the contractual or other arrangements, who are deemed to be total population and accordingly provides all employees with essential to the business of the Group or Company.
opportunities to develop and reach their full potential.
Employees Carillion places great importance on open and regular Information relating to employee numbers and remuneration is communication with employees through both formal and informal given in Note 7 on page 73. processes.
As part of this commitment, a Group newspaper, Spectrum, is produced on a regular basis for all employees.
Employees are key to achieving Carillions business strategy and the Group is committed to improving their skills through training and The views of employees on matters affecting their interests development and through nurturing a culture in which employees and the success of Carillion are also sought through The Great feel valued for the contributions they make to the Company and Debate, People Forums, Team Talks, and one-to-one meetings motivated to achieve their full potential.
between employees and their line managers.
Carillions core values of openness, collaboration, mutual The Great Debate is a major exercise, which has been undertaken dependency, sustainable profi table growth, professional delivery by the Group in each of the last six years, involving a wide range of and innovation help to differentiate Carillion from its competitors employees that forms a statistically signifi cant sample.
In 2009, by creating a culture in which everyone in Carillion is encouraged around 3,900 UK employees took part in The Great Debate.
The to understand the needs of their customers and to work in results of each Great Debate are used to inform and guide the partnership with customers and suppliers to deliver high-quality, development of work related initiatives as part of Carillions value-for-money services.
strategy to become an employer of choice.
It is Carillions aim to foster a working environment in which all employees are treated with courtesy, dignity and respect.
Carillion strives continually to eliminate all bias and unlawful discrimination in relation to job applicants, employees, business partners and members of the public.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37
