Our performance Sustainability review continued Sustainable communities and workforce National resource protection and Creating a sustainable business requires the commitment of all our environmental enhancement people.
We seek to achieve this through our Health and Safety, What we do and how we do it can have signifi cant impacts on leadership, personal development and employee engagement the use of natural resources and the environment.
We use our programmes, which are described in more detail on pages 16, knowledge and skills to develop sustainable service solutions for 17, 37 and 38. customers to create positive impacts in these areas.
How we do business is based on our belief that it is not only Carillion has developed and implemented environmental what we do that matters, but also how we do it, which drives management systems across the Group and all our UK and Middle our commitment to living our values in everything we do.
We East and North Africa operations are accredited to ISO14001 by a make Values Awards to our people to recognise the outstanding registered third party.
contributions they make to our success in delivering an excellent service to our customers and to creating a positive impact on the The preservation of natural habitats and the wildlife they support communities in which we operate.
is important both socially and environmentally.
Since 2000, we have supported the UK Wildlife Trusts through the Carillion Natural We feel proud that our people are also winning prestigious Habitats Fund, and to date we have given over 255,000 to the awards.
Our Group Chief Engineer, Professor Quentin Leiper, Trusts to support 44 projects.
The local Wildlife Trusts, which care was awarded the CBE in Her Majesty the Queens 2009 Birthday for almost 2,500 nature reserves across the country, are able to Honours List.
Quentin received the award for services to the apply for a grant from the Fund to support a conservation project.
Sustainability agenda as an employee of Carillion and also We also encourage our employees to work with their local Wildlife as a former President of the Institution of Civil Engineers.
Trusts on these projects to improve nature conservation, especially where projects are close to Carillion offi ces or worksites.
Carillion Buildings Tony Fleming won the Business in the Community BITC Midlands Region, Volunteer of the Year Award.
In recognition of our ongoing commitment to integrate Tony received this award for showing exceptional commitment sustainability into everything we do, we have adopted the UK to volunteering, through Carillion, to make a positive impact on Governments Sustainable Procurement Taskforce SPTF Flexible his local community.
Tony, who was also a Business Action on Framework.
This framework provides a step-by-step approach to Homelessness champion, has now retired from Carillion, but demonstrating leadership in sustainable procurement and we have remains committed to his involvement in the Carillion programme.
plans in place to achieve the requirements of each phase of the framework.
Our commitment to sustainable communities also extends beyond the roles played by our own people.
We have a community Carillion continues to be a member of the WWF-UK Forest and engagement strategy for all our major worksites and projects Trade Network FTN and during 2009 we continued to work and we encourage our people to understand how Carillion can towards ensuring we use timber products from sources certifi ed by have positive impacts on the communities in which we operate the Forest Stewardship Council on all our projects.
We report the and to participate in community activities.
volumes and sources of the timber we use to the WWF-UK FTN annually and develop detailed action plans for improvement.
Carillion gives over one per cent of its pre-tax profi ts in cash or in kind to community activities.
We are a national partner in the Business Action on Homelessness BAOH campaign, designed to help homeless people break the cycle of no home, no job and since becoming a partner in 2006 we have assisted over 100 homeless people every year on their journey to full employment.
As 2009 marked Carillions tenth anniversary as an independent company, we donated 25,000 to charities in the UK, Canada and the Middle East.
Donations of 500 were made to 50 different charities, nominated by our employees.
As one of the UKs leading providers of training for support services and construction skills, we continue to work with the Construction Industry Training Board and contribute to the development of individuals and communities.
In 2009, 69 per cent of our apprentices successfully completed their training in one of our 18 UK training centres, including 258 people who were trained through The Princes Trust Get into Construction programme.
Carillion plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 03 Our performance Climate change and energy Sustainable consumption and production Climate change is increasingly recognised as the most serious Carillions leadership in developing and implementing its long-term threat to human prosperity and lifestyle.
The effective sustainability strategy model, which relates our impacts on the management and reduction of greenhouse gas GHG emissions environment and on society to business performance, has made has become increasingly important, as it is now widely accepted a major contribution to the Groups risk management policies that companies will need to make substantial changes to the ways and processes.
in which they operate, if we are to respond effectively to this threat.
These policies and processes address strategic risks and those In 2007, Carillion set the challenging target of reducing its direct specifi c to individual businesses and contracts, including economic, carbon emissions by 50% by 2010.
This target will be measured social, environmental and ethical risks, and are therefore against the Groups 2006 carbon emissions, adjusted for revenue fundamental to the management of the Group and all its growth.
In order to achieve this target, we have developed a operations.
carbon reduction strategy and policy, which involves measuring and reporting our carbon footprint each quarter, in accordance We believe that our leadership in sustainability differentiates us with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol carbon accounting standard.
We seek to understand the needs of our Our carbon footprint covers our direct emissions generated from customers and their objectives in respect of sustainability and to buildings, transport, travel, waste and from plant powered by fossil use our knowledge and skills to meet their needs by developing fuel on project sites.
We also seek to promote sustainable solutions by explaining to our customers how a sustainable We are focusing on our activities in areas where we can have the approach can not only create positive impacts on the environment greatest direct impact by reducing carbon emissions generated by and on society, but also reduce costs, increase effi ciency and improve the quality of the services we offer.
employee business travel commercial vehicles For example, Carillion recently secured the prestigious Public plant fuel Private Partnership project to fi finance, design, build and operate Carillion offi ces.
the new Southmead Hospital in Bristol.
The delivery of sustainable solutions for all aspects of this project were key to Carillions In order to manage our carbon emissions effectively, we have success, as Carillion and the North Bristol NHS Trust are both begun a programme of work to understand our indirect impacts committed to achieving the highest standards of sustainability.
and in 2010 we will be trialling our models for managing these The project will involve creating a state-of-the-art building that will impacts on a selection of construction sites.
be the most sustainable major acute hospital in the UK, with low energy utilisation and a carbon footprint below the government In 2009, we continued to develop our understanding of how our target of 3.43Te CO a year.
This demonstrates how Carillions 2 operations affect climate change, together with our commitment leadership in sustainability helps to differentiate us from our to developing new measures to reduce these effects.
We regard competitors and contributes to the strong positions we hold in this as fundamental to the development of our business and we our chosen market sectors.
have also linked this to other measures we are pursuing, including the reduction of our overall cost base.
We continue to promote the use of telephone and video conferencing to reduce the need to travel, introduced more fuel effi cient cars and procured all the electricity we use from renewable or climate change levy-exempt sources.
We are also working with our customers to provide sustainable building, infrastructure and lifetime facilities management and services.
Our 2009 sustainability report provides more information on our carbon reduction programme and will be published in April 2010 on our website.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33
