3183415 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and Accounts of the Details of the relationship agreement between LBG and the Company are Company for the year ended 31 December 2009. set out on page 45. Business Review The interests of the Directors, their families and any connected persons The information that fulfils the Companies Act requirements of the in the issued share capital of the Company are shown on page 58. Business Review can be found in the following sections: shaRe Capital STRuCTuRE oF ThE CoMPANyS CAPITAL Principal risks and uncertainties The Risk and Risk Management As at 31 December 2009, the Companys issued and fully paid up share section on pages 22 to 27 capital was 482,031,787 ordinary shares of 15 pence each.
All ordinary Performance and development Chief Executives Statement on shares are quoted on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in during the year and position at pages 8 to 10 and the Financial uncertificated form via CREST.
Details of the movement in the issued the end of the year Commentary on pages 12 to 21 share capital during the year are provided in Note 29 to the financial Information on likely future Chief Executives Statement on statements on page 91. developments page 10 and the Financial Commentary on pages 15, 19 The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares of the and 20 Company are set out in the Articles of Association.
The Articles can be amended by a special resolution of the members of the Company and Directors and officers indemnity The Corporate Governance copies can be obtained from Companies house.
holders of ordinary and insurance Report on page 45 shares are entitled to receive the Companys Reports and Accounts: Financial and non-financial KPIs Key Performance Indicators on attend, speak and exercise voting rights and appoint proxies to attend pages 6 and 7 general meetings.
Environmental, employee and The Corporate Social VoTING RIGhTS social community matters Responsibility Report on pages At any general meeting, on a show of hands, each member who is present 28 to 37 in person shall have one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed by a member entitled to vote on a resolution has one vote.
Results and dividends on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have The consolidated statement of comprehensive income is on page 62 one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
and profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders amounted to 39.8 million.
An interim dividend of 1.84 pence per Proxy forms sent by the Company to shareholders in relation to share 2008: 1.84 pence per share was paid on 16 September 2009. any general meeting must be received by the Company not less than The Directors recommend that shareholders approve a final dividend 48 hours before the time appointed for holding of the meeting or of 2.66 pence per share 2008: final dividend of 2.55 pence per share to adjourned meeting.
be paid on 18 May 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 March 2010.
RESTRICTIoNS oN VoTING RIGhTS If any shareholder has been sent a notice by the Company under Section A resolution to renew the Directors authority to offer a scrip 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and failed to supply the relevant dividend will be put to the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual information for a period of 14 days, then the shareholder may not for General Meeting AGM.
so long as the default continues be entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other status of Company right conferred by membership in relation to shareholders meetings.
The Company is registered as a public limited company under the Companies Act 2006.
If those default shares represent at least 0.25% of their class, any dividend payable in respect of the shares shall be withheld by the Company and pRinCipal aCtivities subject to certain limited exceptions no transfer, other than an excepted The Company is a financial services holding company with principal transfer, of any shares held by the member in certificated form shall interests in the provision of wealth management advice and services to be registered.
A full review of the activities of the Group is given in the Chief Executives Statement on pages 8 to 10.
RESTRICTIoNS oN ShARE TRANSFERS There are restrictions on share transfers, all of which are set out in the suBstantial shaReholdeRs Articles of Association.
Restrictions include transfers made in favour The Company is aware of the interests of the following companies in of more than four joint holders and transfers held in certificated form.
3% or more of the ordinary issued share capital of the Company as at Directors may decline to recognise a transfer, unless it is in respect of 23 February 2010: only one class of share and lodged and duly stamped with the Transfer office.
The Directors may also refuse to register any transfer of shares Lloyds Banking Group plc LBG : 286,418,796 59.37% held in certificated form which are not fully paid.
Directors may also BlackRock Investment Management Ltd: 25,329,491 5.25% choose to decline requests for share transfers from a uS Person as M&G: 19,137,973 3.97% defined under Regulation S of the united States Securities Act 1933 that Corporate Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2009 St. Jamess Place plc.
3183415 41 would cause the aggregate number of beneficial owners of issued shares Except as stated in the Remuneration Report, no Director has, or has who are uS Persons to exceed 70. had during the year under review, any beneficial interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to The registration of transfers may be suspended at such times and for such the Listing Rules published by the FSA and the Companies Act 2006. periods not exceeding 30 days in any year as the Directors may from Details of all Executive Directors service contracts are set out in the time to time determine in respect of any class of shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the Companys share PowER oF ThE DIRECToRS schemes may cause share awards granted to employees under such The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company schemes to vest on a takeover.
and their powers are subject to any regulations of the Articles, to the provisions of the Statutes and to such regulations as may be prescribed by CReditoRs payment poliCy special resolution of the Company.
The payment of supplier invoices is made on the Companys behalf by St. Jamess Place Management Services Limited SJPMS, a subsidiary The Companys Articles of Association contain, for example, specific company.
It is SJPMSs policy to pay creditors in accordance with provisions and restrictions concerning the Companys power to the Confederation of British Industry Better Practice Payment Code borrow money.
They also provide that Directors have the power to on supplier payments.
SJPMSs average number of days purchases allot unissued shares, up to pre-determined levels set and approved outstanding in respect of trade creditors at 31 December 2009 was by shareholders in general meeting.
This also applies to the Directors 17 days 2008: 20 days.
allotting equity securities otherwise than in accordance with statutory pre-emption rules.
ChaRitaBle and politiCal donations Charitable contributions to the St. Jamess Place Foundation during diReCtoRs the year totalled 1,330,000 2008: 1,040,752.
A list of charitable Details of the Directors as at 23 February 2010 and their biographies donations made by the Foundation, together with a report which are shown on pages 38 and 39.
Brief particulars of the Directors outlines the basis on which priorities for donations have been established membership of the Board Committees are contained in the Corporate is available on request.
Further details on the Foundation are included Governance Report on pages 43 to 49. in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 28 to 31.
Contributions during the year to other charitable organisations Charles Gregson was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2010 as an totalled 3,000. independent non-executive Director and will retire at the forthcoming AGM where he will offer himself for re-election.
Jo Dawson resigned It is the Groups policy not to make any donations to political parties as a non-independent non-executive Director on 5 February 2010. within the meaning of the definitions set out in the Political Parties, As reported in last years Report and Accounts Andy hornby resigned Elections and Referendums Act 2000 and Sections 362 to 379 of the as a non-independent non-executive Director on 16 January 2009 Companies Act 2006.
The Group did not make any political donations and his replacement, Steve Colsell was appointed to the Board on during the year 2008: nil.
30 January 2009. employees The Companys Articles of Association require that any Director The Company is committed to providing equal opportunities for all appointed during the year to fill a casual vacancy must stand for people in recruitment, training and career development and has regard reappointment at the next AGM and that, at each AGM, all those for peoples aptitudes and abilities.
The Company will not tolerate Directors who were elected or last re-elected at or before the AGM held discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, marital status, age, in the third calendar year before the current year shall retire from office gender, sexual orientation or disability.
The Companys recruitment by rotation.
Further details on the background of those Directors seeking process seeks to find candidates most suited for the job.
The Company re-election are set out in the Directors biographies on pages 38 and 39 respects the dignity of individuals and their beliefs and does not and in the Notice of Meeting.
tolerate any sexual, racial, physical or mental harassment of staff in the workplace.
Accordingly, all those Directors who were elected or last re-elected at or before the AGM held in 2007 shall retire from office by rotation.
It is the Companys policy that disabled persons should be given the same The Directors retiring by rotation at the AGM are David Bellamy and opportunity for training, career development and promotion as other Mike wilson and being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election employees.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is at the AGM.
Derek Netherton will seek annual re-election to meet made to maintain the employees employment and suitable retraining is corporate governance guidelines applicable to his length of service on offered, if appropriate.
Full and fair consideration is given to applications the Board.
The Chairman is pleased to confirm that the non-executive for employment from disabled persons.
Director seeking re-election continue to be effective in his role on the Board and its committees and has demonstrated his continued commitment to the roles.
3183415 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report continued Further details of the Groups approach to employee involvement, auditoRs training, development and communication can be found in the Corporate Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: Social Responsibility Report on pages 28 to 37. so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit Change of ContRol information of which the auditors are unaware: and There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate the Directors have taken all reasonable steps to ascertain relevant upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
None audit information and ensure that the auditors are aware of is considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the such information.
business as a whole as all agreements are entered into in the ordinary course of business and are on arms length commercial terms.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. agm The Companys AGM will be held on 13 May 2010 at The Royal The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their Aeronautical Society, 4 hamilton Place, London w1J 7BQ at 11.00 a. m. willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed until the end of the 2011 AGM will be put to shareholders at the AGM on authoRity to puRChase own shaRes 13 May 2010.
At the AGM in 2009, shareholders granted authority to the Directors for the purchase by the Company of its own shares.
The authority will diReCtoRs ResponsiBility statement expire at the end of the AGM to be held in 2010 or 18 months from the The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: date granted, whichever is earlier.
During the year the Company did not purchase any of its own ordinary shares.
The Directors will propose the The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with renewal of the authority to purchase own shares at the forthcoming AGM.
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Eu and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position going ConCeRn and profit for the Company and the undertakings included in the The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to consolidation taken as a whole.
affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the The European Embedded Value EEV supplementary information Business Review as referred to on page 40.
The financial position of the has been prepared in accordance with the EEV principles issued in Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are May 2004 by the Chief Financial officers Forum as supplemented by described in the Financial Commentary on pages 12 to 21.
In addition the the Additional Guidance on EEV Disclosures issued in october 2005 Notes on pages 81 and 86 and the Risk and Risk Management section on the EEV Principles.
pages 22 to 27 include: the Companys objectives: policies and processes Pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rules Chapter 4, the for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and of its financial instruments: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity.
performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together As shown on page 19 of the Financial Commentary, the Groups capital with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by position is strong and well in excess of regulatory requirements.
long-term nature of the business results in considerable positive cash flows arising from existing business.
As a consequence, the Directors on behalf of the Board believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable d Bellamy a Croft future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Chief Executive Finance Director preparing the accounts.
Further information on the basis of preparation of these accounts can be seen in Note 1 to both the Consolidated 23 February 2010 Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards and Parent Company Accounts on uK GAAP basis.
