3183415 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 About us St. Jamess Place Wealth Management is a leading UK wealth management organisation.
Founded in 1991, St. Jamess Place was listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1997 and is now a FTSE 250 company with over 21 billion funds under management.
The Company provides face-to-face advice to clients based on their individual needs and circumstances, adapting the advice as requirements change over time to ensure that recommendations remain appropriate.
This relationship-based approach has proved to be very Our Approach to Investment resilient, no more so than in the volatile period of the last Management few years.
As the UK, along with other economies, emerges We do not employ in-house fund managers because we from the credit crisis in what is likely to be a slow and believe that no single investment house has a monopoly fragile recovery, there is increasing demand for trusted faceof investment expertise.
We therefore carefully select to-face advice from experienced advisers backed by a strong a number of external managers from across the globe organisation and brand.
to manage our range of funds.
The cornerstone of this approach is the Investment Committee who manage the We believe we remain uniquely positioned to continue to fund managers on behalf of our clients.
succeed in our market because of the two fundamental principles that have underpinned our business from day 1: The Investment Committee is assisted by the independent the strength of the relationship between our advisers and investment consulting firm, Stamford Associates, who play their clients: and our approach to investment management.
an important role in selection and monitoring of investment managers.
This approach gives us both the flexibility to The St. Jamess Place Partnership respond to market conditions as they change and also the The members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership play confidence that we are employing the best fund managers the leading part in delivering our wealth management for our clients.
The Partnership so called because of the way they work in partnership with their clients work from a Stamford provides highly specialised skills and a level of network of offices across the UK.
On average, they have investment manager research that would not normally be 17 years experience in their field and include some of the available to private clients or trustees.
They maintain most experienced, able and highly-regarded professionals close contact with our investment managers and monitor working in wealth management today.
the investment footprints of their portfolios on an ongoing basis.
All our Partners are experienced advisers: some have particular expertise in specific and often highly technical New Fund Managers areas.
If a clients circumstances require specific expertise, During 2009, the Investment Committee in conjunction the Partner will consult and if necessary introduce with Stamford Associates identified and appointed three a colleague who can provide it.
Partners often work new fund managers and added a new investment mandate to alongside clients other professional advisers, providing a the responsibilities of one of our existing managers, Stuart complementary service and a fresh perspective.
We believe Mitchell of SW Mitchell Capital.
The three new managers advice is best given face-to-face and focused on the personal appointed were: needs of each individual client.
Peg McGetrick at Liberty Square Asset Management Our Partners recognise that no one clients objectives or John Wood at JO Hambro Capital Management circumstances are the same as another.
The relationships Kenneth A Broekaert at Burgundy Asset Management between Partners and clients endure because they are founded on mutual respect and trust, with the emphasis We remain committed to monitoring and reviewing all on building and maintaining a long-term relationship.
The of our fund managers to ensure we generate the optimum large majority of clients choose to continue the working return for our clients investment and will be making relationship with their Partner indefinitely, appreciating a further new appointments, of both managers and mandates source of trusted advice as their financial needs evolve over in 2010. the years.
The success of our approach can be seen from the fact that an estimated 75% of new investments came from existing clients or from referrals from them.
