3183415 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 President and Board of Directors 1.
David Bellamy 56 Chief Executive 6. andrew Croft 45 I Finance Director Sir Mark founded the St. Jamess Place Group David joined the Company in April 1991 and Andrew joined the Company as Financial with Mike Wilson in 1991 and was Chairman was appointed to the Board in September 1997, Accountant in 1993 and was promoted of the Company until September 2004, when before becoming Chief Executive in May 2007. to Finance Director in September 2004. he resigned from the Board and was appointed He previously fulfilled a number of roles at He qualified as a chartered accountant at President of the Company.
He chairs the St. Jamess Place including Group Operations  in 1988, has a Investment Committee.
Sir Mark originally Director and Managing Director.
David has degree in Accounting and Economics from practised as a barrister and was formerly deputy worked in the financial services industry Southampton University and is a member of the chairman of the Securities and Investments since 1973 and is a Trustee of the St. Jamess Investment Committee.
He is also a Trustee of Board, the forerunner to the Financial Services Place Foundation.
the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
He is chairman of the Pension Corporation and of Synergy Insurance Services.
Charles Gregson 62 Rem Non-executive Director Non-executive Director THE CURRENT DIRECToRS oF THE Steve was appointed to the Board as a nonCharles joined the Board in January 2010 CoMPaNY aRE: independent non-executive Director in January as an independent non-executive Director 2009 to represent Lloyds Banking Group plc.
and will be a member of the Remuneration 2.
Mike wilson 66 N Chairman He is finance and strategy director of Wealth Committee.
Charles is a non-executive Mike has worked in the financial services and International at Lloyds Banking Group.
chairman of ICAP plc and a non-executive industry since 1963 and founded the St. Jamess Steve joined HBOS in 2006 as finance director, director of International Personal Finance plc.
Place Group with Sir Mark Weinberg in 1991. insurance and investment and prior to that, held He was recently appointed to the Board of He was Chief Executive until September a number of senior finance and strategy roles Caledonia Investments plc and CPP Group plc 2004, when he became Chairman.
Mike is a in the life, general insurance and consumer and has extensive board and senior management member of the Nominations Committee.
He is a non-executive director experience in the UK and overseas.
He has was formerly chairman of the Mental Health of Invista Real Estate Investment Management served on the boards of United Business Media Foundation and a non-executive director of Holdings plc, a graduate of Imperial College, plc, Provident Financial plc and MAI plc.
Vendme Luxury Group plc between 1993 London and a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
Charles graduated in History and Law from and 1998.
Mike is a Trustee of the St. Jamess Trinity Hall, Cambridge and has an MA in Law.
He qualified as a solicitor in 1972.
Sarah Bates 51 I R Non-executive Director Sarah joined the Board as an independent non-executive Director in September 2004 and is a member of the Investment and Risk Committees.
She is a director of various listed investment trusts and chairman of the Stena Line UK Pension Fund Trustees and the Cancer Research UK Pension Fund Investment Committee.
Sarah is also an advisor to, or member of, various other investment committees including the Investment Committee of the Daily Mail & General Trust pension schemes and of the National Heritage Memorial Fund.
She recently became a nonexecutive director of Development Securities plc.
Sarah graduated in Philosophy and Law from Trinity Hall, Cambridge and has an MBA from the London Business School.
1 4 13 5 2 3 11 Corporate Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2009 St. Jamess Place plc.
Michael Sorkin 66 I Rem N a Ian has worked in the financial services industry Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director since 1986 and joined St Jamess Place in Derek joined the Board in May 1996 and is Michael was appointed to the Board as an December 1991.
He was appointed to the an independent non-executive Director.
He independent non-executive Director in January Board in January 2003.
He has a degree from is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a 2002 and nominated Senior Independent Lancaster University and an MA from Leicester member of the Remuneration and Nominations Director in May 2005.
Ian is also a Trustee of the St. Jamess Committees.
Derek is chairman of Greggs Remuneration and Nominations Committees Place Foundation.
plc and is a former non-executive director and is a member of the Audit and Investment of Next plc and Hiscox plc.
He is a Fellow of Committees.
He joined Hambros Bank in 9.
David lamb 53 I the Institute of Actuaries and was formerly a 1968, was a director of Hambros plc between Business Development Director director of J Henry Schroder & Co Limited.
1986 and 1999, and managing director of David joined the Company in 1992 with S G Hambros from 1999 to 2001.
He is vice responsibility for the Finance Department.
Mike Power 52 R a chairman of Investment Banking at N M He was promoted to the position of Business Non-executive Director Rothschild Corporate Finance Limited and Development Director in 2001 and to the Board Mike joined the Board as an independent nondirector of Almar plc and Leucadia National in December 2007.
He has responsibility for executive Director in May 2005.
He is a former non-executive developing the Companys wealth management the Risk Committee and is Deputy Chairman director of J z Equity Partners plc.
proposition and fund management range.
David of the Audit Committee.
He is Professor of is a graduate of City University, London and a Accounting at the London School of Economics 13.
Roger walsom 56 R Rem Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
He is also and Political Science and Research Director Non-executive Director a member of the Investment Committee and of the ESRC Centre for Analysis of Risk and Roger was appointed to the Board as an Trustee of the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
Mike is a Fellow of the Institute of independent non-executive Director in Chartered Accountants in England and Wales July 2005 and is a member of the Risk and and an Associate of the UK Chartered Institute Remuneration Committees.
He is a member of the Risk years in the financial services industry, Management Committee of the London School Roger graduated in Law from Southampton of Economics and lectures and writes on risk University and qualified as a solicitor in 1980 management, regulation and compliance issues.
He became a partner at Ashurst, another leading City law firm, in 1988, specialising in the financial services industry.
He retired as a partner in April 2005 but continues to work as a consultant to Ashurst.
He is a nonexecutive director of Invesco Income Growth Trust plc and the Miller Insurance Broking Group.
He was formerly a non-executive director of the Pensions Regulator.
Ages correct as at 23 February 2010.
I Member of the Investment Committee R Member of the Risk Committee Rem Member of the Remuneration Committee N Member of the Nominations Committee A Member of the Audit Committee 6 9 12 7 10 8
