Business review continued 22 Consequently, any failure by SVG Capital Any further material change in the economic to meet any call may have a material adverse environment, including a continued sloweffect on the value of SVG Capitals interest down in economic growth and or changes in in a fund and or on the net asset value of interest rates or foreign exchange rates, could SVG Capital and or on SVG Capitals ability have a negative impact on the performance to generate returns for its Shareholders.
and or valuation of the underlying portfolio In addition, a failure to meet a call may result companies.
SVG Capitals performance may in a cross-default under the Notes and the be affected by prolonged weakness or further Revolving Credit Facility which could result deterioration in public markets and by market in a substantial loss.
events, which may impact on not only its quoted portfolio companies but also the public If another investor or limited partner in a fund company comparable earnings multiples in which the Company holds an interest used to value unquoted portfolio companies.
were to default on a call, this may result in the other investors including the Company A further consequence of the difficulty in in the fund in question becoming subject achieving attractive sale prices for portfolio to individual calls of a larger amount but companies is that the general partners, subject to each investors original capital or other managers, of the private equity commitment and, in addition, the fund in funds in which the Company holds interests question may make fewer or smaller or more are more likely to delay disposing of portfolio highly leveraged investments.
Any such companies until market conditions improve.
occurrence may lead to a reduction in the As a result, the Company is likely to receive diversification of the Companys interests distributions in respect of its investments in underlying portfolio companies, increase at a slower rate than may have otherwise volatility, increase the Companys financing been the case in a more favourable economic requirements and may have an adverse effect environment.
In addition to this, a fund on the Companys business and prospects.
managers ability to realise its interest in certain portfolio companies in whole or in part may be subject to contractual restrictions Investment holding risk period such as shareholder lock-up arrangements.
Investment in private equity requires a long It may therefore be the case that the term commitment with no certainty of Company decides to pay calls with debt return.
Many of the investments made by finance rather than relying upon receiving the Group are illiquid holdings in buy-out distributions from investments which it has and development capital funds and, in some made which may therefore increase the cases, may not be capable of being realised Companys borrowings and risk and volatility in a timely manner or at all.
There can therefore be no of cash distributions, if any, made by the assurance as to whether, and if so how much, buy-out and development capital funds the value of the Companys assets will grow.
The timing of returns, if any, to SVG Capital is uncertain and unpredictable.
Current market conditions have made it more difficult for general partners or other Investments in buy-out and development managers of private equity funds to dispose capital funds may be difficult to value and of investments at attractive prices and dispositions may require a lengthy time otherwise on favourable terms.
The Company period since there is only a limited market for considers that it is likely that these difficult secondary sales of private equity investments.
circumstances will continue in the short to Further, sales or other transfers of interests medium term and, while they do continue, in buy-out and development capital funds it may be that the returns of the Company sometimes require the written consent of the from its investments will be reduced general partner of the fund, the granting of and or delayed.
which is at its discretion.
Accordingly, the Group may not be able to sell its investments in buy-out and development capital funds at their net asset value.
The Companys portfolio is concentrated with respect to private equity fund managers as explained below and this may impact the ability to place a large holding of a single fund on the secondary market at any one time.
