Business review continued 20 SVG Advisers The effect of the operating agreement In addition to any Group borrowings the therefore is to increase the Groups reliance Company also holds interests in funds which The investment management and advisory on Permira and increase its concentration are leveraged themselves such as SVG business, SVG Advisers, was established risk.
Subject to earlier termination, the Diamond I, II, III and Vintage I.
The additional in 2001 with the key objective of providing operating agreement will terminate on the leverage in these funds may create additional intelligent solutions and innovative structures date on which the first closing of Permira V volatility to valuations.
All underlying for investing in private equity or public occurs if none of SVG Capital, any other investments are valued at fair value by the equity using private equity techniques.
member of the Group or any SVG product Directors in accordance with the current makes any commitment to Permira V or, International Private Equity and Venture 2009 was also a year of transition and if SVG Capital, any other member of the Capital IPEV Guidelines.
The IPEV stabilisation for SVG Advisers, with the Group or any SVG product does so, the Guidelines contain detailed methodology departure of some senior members of date of final closing of that fund.
There can setting out best practice with respect to the team and the appointment of Tony be no assurance as to when Permira V will valuing unquoted investments.
In valuing Dalwood as CEO in May.
If the first closing of Permira V its portfolio, SVG Capital is dependent on changes were made to the Board of SVGA, has not occurred by 30 June 2012, the such information as Permira and other fund including the appointment of Andrew Sykes Company and Permira Holdings are each managers may provide to it as a limited as non-executive chairman.
SVG Advisers is able to terminate the operating agreement partner in the relevant fund.
Permira and a scalable business and in order to ensure by giving written notice.
A copy of the other fund managers are themselves SVG Advisers has a robust platform for Circular to shareholders is available on the dependent on information made available by growth we will be investing significantly in Companys website: www.
the management of the portfolio companies.
the business during the course of 2010 and This information from Permira, other fund 2011.
Over the nine years since the business managers and portfolio companies is was established, external funds under Risks and risk management necessarily limited, subjective and depends management have grown to 4.0 billion, The Board has adopted a matrix of key on the accuracy of judgments by the investing in over 180 funds managed by risks which affect its business and a robust underlying portfolio companies, many of 96 private equity fund managers.
framework of internal control which is which are unquoted and not publicly traded Total external fee income all of which is designed to monitor those risks and to provide and by the general partners and other recurring, stood at 28.8 million, which a monitoring system to enable the Directors managers of the funds.
There can be no compares to 28.4 million for 2008. to mitigate these risks as far as possible.
assurance that such information or judgments Including fees paid by SVG Capital to Further details of the Directors system of are accurate or complete.
It should be noted SVG Advisers, total fees earned by the internal control and its monitoring system, that the Company has no direct access to the operating subsidiaries and other income is set out in the Corporate Governance underlying management accounts of the 16 were 33.8 million, contributing 5.8 million Statement.
The principal risks are portfolio companies.
Investment in funds to the Groups 2009 profit before tax.
This considered to be as follows: requires a long term commitment with no number includes certain exceptional items.
The ability of the funds to General risks associated with investment achieve capital appreciation could be affected Contractual arrangements in private equity by any significant general change in the value of the investments held by the funds.
As was fully reported in a Circular to Investment in private equity involves a high There can be negative movements in shareholders dated 24 March 2005, degree of risk.
The Group invests in private valuations which can be due to deterioration SVG Capital entered into arrangements with equity through its exposure to buy-out and in a specific portfolio companys performance Permira which allowed SVG Capital full access development capital funds.
Such investments and or changes in market or public company to Permira IV and to its successor, Permira V. are illiquid and might be difficult to realise, comparable earnings multiples.
In highly Concurrent with the arrangements, Permira particularly within a short timeframe.
leveraged companies, reductions in earnings subscribed for shares in the Company.
The The Directors seek to maintain a diversified may have a significantly greater impact on arrangements also included an operating portfolio of investments to mitigate these their valuation.
Private equity investments, agreement which imposes material limits on risks, although the portfolio does remain by their nature, involve uncertainty as to the the extent to which the Group may have concentrated with respect to private equity ultimate value likely to be realised upon investments which are not in Permira Funds fund managers as explained on page 23. disposal of those investments if any, or Permira Products.
These limits substantially particularly because their predominantly prevent the Group from investing in private Valuation and leverage risk unquoted nature means that a ready market equity funds or products managed or advised may not exist for them.
Portfolio companies The Groups exposure to valuation risk by general partners or managers other than may be difficult to value and disposals, if any, comprises mainly movements in the value Permira during the term of the operating of such investments may require a lengthy of its underlying investments.
One of the principal undertakings period of time depending on the market of the Groups portfolio of private equity made by SVG Capital is that the Company for such investments at the time.
The value funds is given on pages 26 to 27 and a will operate with the intention that no more of these investments could decrease and detailed analysis of the 20 largest underlying than 20% of the gross assets and uncalled SVG Capital, as an investor in a fund, companies is given on pages 17 to 19. commitments of the Group will be in may not recover the full amount of its non-Permira funds or products subject original investment.
to certain limited exceptions and subject to a maximum of 25%.
16 Further information on the risks facing the Group are detailed in note 29 on the accounts.
The following risks should thererfore be considered in conjunction with the additional disclosures contained in note 29.
