Business review continued 24 reliance is placed on the general partner as Passive investor with limited recourse to the adequacy or accuracy of information The Company is generally a passive investor provided during any due diligence exercise and has limited powers under the governing conducted prior to an investment being documents of the funds in which it holds made.
The general partner, or relevant interests.
The funds concerned are, within manager, of the fund in question may certain broad parameters, generally have made judgments concerning the authorised to follow broad investment materiality of contingent or actual risks guidelines and, subject thereto, are able or liabilities identified during due diligence to invest in geographies, industries and that may not in practice turn out to have investment opportunities at their discretion.
been accurate: The Company does not review each the purchase agreements relating to the proposed investment and is, subject investment in question may contain only to certain limited exceptions, unable limited representations and warranties from to refuse to meet a Call without suffering the relevant vendors and these may be the consequences of a default.
There can limited in, for example, time and amount.
be no assurance that the strategies adopted Such contractual protection would typically by Permira or other general partners not be addressed to the Company directly or managers of the funds in which the and, in any case, there can be no assurance Company holds interests will be successful as to the ability of the relevant vendor or that the portfolio companies of such to satisfy any claims which may be made funds, or the Companys investments under any such agreement: generally, will appreciate in value.
general operating risks arising from or The Company also holds some investments being, amongst other matters, the cost of in funds in respect of which other members goods and services, difficulty in obtaining of the Group are the general partner, customers, losses arising from customer manager and or adviser.
In these instances, failure, market developments, competition fiduciary duties are owed by the relevant risk, key man risk, foreign exchange risk, members of the Group to other investors financing risks, an increase in costs and the which, together with the terms of the legal and regulatory framework within relevant fund management or advisory which the portfolio company operates: agreement, mean that the relevant members of the Group are unable to submit each there are likely to be prior claims on the proposed investment for review by the assets of portfolio companies from debt Company which will, therefore, remain providers which would reduce the amounts a passive investor in respect of the earned by the equity holders including, relevant fund.
indirectly, the Company: and The Company cannot make claims against lenders to portfolio companies may take general partners or managers of the funds actions which are adverse to the interests in which the Company invests even in cases of the holders of equity interests in the of poor performance except in very limited portfolio company including, indirectly, circumstances typically involving severe the Company.
culpability on the part of the general partner or manager.
The Companys recourse in the The value of the portfolio companies held event of poor performance of the funds by the funds in which the Company holds concerned is highly restricted.
Removal interests may be affected by uncertainties, of the general partner or manager of a fund such as political developments, changes generally requires a high level of investor in government policies, regulations, laws, participation and consent with the relevant taxation, currency fluctuations, currency threshold often being set so as to require repatriation and other restrictions, in some the consent of holders of 75% of the capital of the countries in which the funds may invest.
committed to the fund in question.
The The Company, directly or indirectly through Company is unlikely to be able to procure the funds in which the Company holds such participation and consent on its own interests, may also be exposed to these risks.
and it may therefore be very difficult to remove a general partner or manager of a fund in which the Company invests such that the Company may potentially find itself locked into an under-performing fund.
