Remuneration report 33 SVG Capital plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information Introduction This report provides details of the remuneration paid to the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2009 and describes the Remuneration Committees policy on the remuneration of the Directors for the coming year.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The report is divided into two parts.
Part A, which is not subject to audit, describes the Remuneration Committees policy on the remuneration of Directors for the coming year.
Part B, which is audited, contains tables detailing the Directors emoluments for the year ended 31 December 2009, their accrued pensions and their interests under the Companies long-term incentive arrangements.
A resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting in April 2010.
Part A Unaudited section The Remuneration Committee the Committee The Committees members during the year were Francis Finlay Chairman, Anthony Habgood until 6 May 2009, Denis Raeburn and Gary Steinberg and all were considered by the Board to be independent non-executive Directors.
Their biographies are provided on pages 28 and 29.
Subsequent to the year-end Gary Steinberg resigned from the Board and the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman and selected executives, including the Chief Executive, and the Committees advisers are invited to attend as appropriate.
None of the executives invited to attend during the year participated in discussions or decisions regarding their remuneration.
The Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration policy throughout the SVG Group including making a recommendation to the Board on the remuneration of the Chairman and the operation of the Companys Executive Share Incentive Plans.
Its terms of reference take into account the provisions of the Combined Code on corporate governance.
The Committee has appointed Hewitt New Bridge Street and Towers Watson, independent remuneration consultants, to advise it.
Hewitt New Bridge Street also provides advice on the operation of the Companys share schemes and during the year also advised on the design of incentive arrangements for employees below the Board.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and during the year under review it met formally twice, in February and March 2009.
Both meetings were attended by all four of the Committees members.
In addition, the subcommittee of the Remuneration Committee, comprising the Chairman of the Committee and the Company Secretary, met in October 2009 to effect a proposal for the granting of awards under the Performance Share Plan PSP.
In addition, a number of meetings of the Committee took place by telephone conference call throughout the year.
During the year the Committee: Determined the bonus awards for the year to 31 December 2008.
Approved the increase in Lynn Fordhams remuneration.
Approved revised performance conditions for the awards made under the Performance Share Plan in October 2009.
The revised performance conditions relate to growth in SVG Capitals Net Asset Value measured over four years and absolute Total Shareholder Return measured over three years with each determining the vesting of 50% of the award.
Approved all remuneration packages for SVG Group executives focused on SVG Capital and any Group executive with a proposed total cash remuneration in excess of 250,000 per annum.
Determined the arrangements in connection with the departure of employees from the Group.
Both SVGA and SVGIM have separate Boards with independent directors and the non-executive members of these Boards form the Remuneration Committee for these subsidiaries.
The SVG Capital Remuneration Committee sets parameters and principles for the salary increases, discretionary bonuses and long-term incentive plans for these subsidiaries.
Accordingly, the subsidiary remuneration committees, operating under specified delegated limits of authority from the main Board, met during the year to determine increases in salary and discretionary bonuses for all executives below main Board level.
A summary of these were presented to the SVG Capital Remuneration Committee for its ratification in 2010.
A summary of the terms of reference of the Committee are set out on page 42.
A copy of the full terms of reference of the Committee is available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Policy on the remuneration of executive Directors The Committees aim is to ensure that remuneration packages should attract, retain and motivate senior executives including executive Directors while avoiding paying more than is necessary for this purpose and not encouraging excessive risk taking.
At 31 December 2009 Lynn Fordham was the only executive Director of the Company.
The Committees policy is that the fixed elements of remuneration should be sufficient to allow the Company to be competitive against other companies with which the Company competes for executive talent.
The majority of the remuneration package should be performance-related so that it is linked to the returns created for shareholders and the total cost is sufficiently flexible to reflect changes in business performance.
The variable element comprises a balance between short-term and long-term performance through the Companys annual bonus and the performance share plan.
In order to help mitigate risk and ensure that overall rewards are not excessive, incentive levels are capped at a level that encourages out-performance and allows the Company to deliver competitive levels of remuneration without encouraging undue risk taking.
