Business review continued 12 Marketplace Financial review Understandably, private equity fundraising While recession took hold in many countries in aggregate was slow in 2009.
According The performance for the year ended at the start of 2009 prolonging an already to research $246 billion was raised worldwide, 31 December 2009 needs to be considered difficult operating environment market and a decrease of 61% on 2008 and the lowest with respect to the Rights Issue and Placing, 8 economic conditions improved gradually as total for five years.
While some funds did which had a material impact on the net assets the year progressed.
In the second half of close in the year and in early 2010, in many per share as the issue price of 100p was at a 2009 global equity markets started to rally cases they have been marketing for longer significant discount to the prevailing net asset and credit markets became more receptive and initial targets have been reduced.
to new issues: by the end of the year several As confidence begins to return, we expect to The rebased net asset value per share countries had emerged from recession and see some more GPs returning to the market.
therefore increased by 7.1% during the sentiment had begun to lift.
Finally, regulatory discussions are ongoing year from 208.1p to 222.9p.
The portfolio in both Europe and the US.
A number of Despite uncertainty remaining, deal activity performance is analysed in more depth amendments on the European Commissions started to pick up during the fourth quarter, in the investment portfolio review.
proposed Directive on Alternative Investment in part driven by an improvement in the Fund Managers are being discussed by the availability of financing and a stabilisation Cash balances and uncalled commitments European Parliament and we dont yet know of asset prices.
While deal activity for the year The Groups cash balances increased from the outcome of these discussions.
In the US, in aggregate remained low a result of the 131 million at the prior year-end to 144 President Obamas proposed plans to restrict environment in which we were operating million at 31 December 2009.
The increase deposit-taking banks from owning, operating prospects for deals this year look encouraging.
was mainly a result of the share issue net or advising private equity or hedge funds With the environment for realisations also proceeds of 161 million and a drawdown as part of a broader regulation to limit riskimproving, General Partners GPs are of 110 million from the Companys loan taking by banks, remain under consideration.
working on preparing some of their portfolio facility.
Set against this was a 90 million We continue to participate in those debates companies for sale and in some cases actively buy-back of Senior Notes, net investment via our industry association to encourage seeking exit routes for their investments.
cash outflows of 88 million and finance any additional regulation to be reasonable Initial Public Offerings IPOs were expected costs of 41 million.
to pick up in 2010 and while recently a The Company made no new primary number have been postponed due to market commitments during the year but it did invest uncertainty and investor caution, several in 40 million of high yielding subordinated companies are still set for a public market debt issued by P25.
However, IPOs constitute only one fell from 493 million to 371 million, partly divestment route, and in the past six months due to the appreciation of sterling.
There both trade sales and secondary activity was a 36 million 1.5% call from Permira IV, have started to gather pace, with healthy reducing the uncalled commitment to this competition emerging for good quality fund from 202 million to 166 million, assets.
Corporate transactions also appear falling in sterling terms from 196 million to be increasing as buyers look to acquire to 148 million.
or merge with strategically attractive assets.
8 Preqin press release 07.01.10, data from Preqins Research Report, Q4 2009 Fundraising Update.
