11 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information Strategy In the near to medium term the Board will The mechanism chosen to return capital seek to maximise shareholder value by to shareholders will be decided nearer the Investing in international private equity focusing on maintaining and improving time of distributions.
Currently the board the strength of the balance sheet: and anticipates using pro-rata tender or other The Companys core investment focus offering investors a choice between share buy-back mechanisms to provide is on international private equity.
reinvestment in the private equity asset those shareholders who wish to do so, class and return of capital, once sufficient with the ability to receive a return of capital Diversification distributions are received.
in a simple, equitable, transparent and low The majority of the Companys investments cost way.
In the absence of a significant are focused on one manager, Permira, an improvement in the market environment, In accordance with existing contractual international private equity specialist.
The the Company does not expect to receive agreements, which were approved by current relationship with Permira is addressed any major distributions from its investment shareholders in 2005, Permira Funds through the operating agreement of portfolio over the next 12 to 24 months.
currently represent 76% of the Companys 21 March 2005 as set out in Contractual investment portfolio, and in the short term arrangements on page 20.
Information on The Company will therefore have an it is not expected to change materially.
the Companys investment portfolio, over-riding near-term objective of The world is going through a period of including the diversification of its underlying maintaining and improving the strength major economic change, and much of assets by vintage year, size, geography and of the balance sheet, to ensure that we the outcome remains unclear.
As it industry sector is contained in the investment continue to have appropriate funds to becomes clearer, the Board may adjust portfolio review on pages 14 to 16 and on meet all our commitments and outgoings.
this investment strategy, in consultation pages 2 to 5.
Furthermore, until the Company is in with shareholders.
a position to offer a return of capital Building a successful fund to shareholders, no new commitments SVG Advisers, the 100% owned subsidiary management business to third-party managers will be made.
of SVG Capital, is a profitable, stand-alone In this period, any new commitments will fund management business, which has SVG Capitals fund management business, be minimal and limited to existing funds grown significantly in recent years.
It is an SVG Advisers, was established in 2001 with to protect or enhance shareholder value, important asset for the Company and its the strategy of providing intelligent solutions and commitments to new SVG Advisers shareholders.
The immediate priorities for for mid-sized institutions and high-net-worth funds, which will be capped at amounts SVG Advisers are to manage, on behalf investors for investing in private equity or required as a General Partner or manager of their investors, all existing funds through public equity using private equity techniques.
the difficult market conditions: and to At 31 December 2009 funds under further improve the efficiency and The Company expects to continue to management stood at 4.0 billion, investing scalability of the business.
invest in the private equity asset class in over 180 funds managed by 96 private over the longer term.
However, the Board There is now a separate management equity fund managers.
This investment recognises SVG Capitals diverse shareholder structure for each of SVG Capital and platform within the business is a key source base, and their requirement for flexibility SVG Advisers.
The CEO of SVG Capital will of intellectual capital that the Group given uncertain market conditions.
have responsibility for management of can leverage.
Through the review process it became the Companys balance sheet, investment clear that some shareholders would like strategy and relations with shareholders.
Strategic review to see capital flows from distributions The CEO of SVG Advisers will be responsible reinvested by the Company: some would for the successful management, development In April the Company announced a strategic like a return of capital: and some were and growth of SVG Advisers.
review with the objective of improving share undecided.
Accordingly, once the price performance and liquidity: A full description of the Groups principal Company receives sufficient distributions risks and its risk management process is SVG Capital will remain a long-term from the underlying investment portfolio, included on pages 20 to 25 of the Business investor in private equity, which has it will offer each shareholder a choice Review, as well as note 29 of the accounts on historically outperformed other asset classes between reinvestment of available capital pages 85 to 91.
These include risks relating to over the course of the economic cycle.
by the Company in the private equity class, valuation and leverage, funding, borrowing, The Company also concluded it will and a return of capital.
New commitments concentration and portfolio company risk.
continue to operate as a listed Investment would then be made by the Company Trust, which provides an attractive way on behalf of reinvesting shareholders.
for investors to gain an exposure to the The timing, number and size of such private equity asset class.
offers will be driven by the timing and size of receipt of distributions: by the requirement to comply with the constraints of the Companys senior borrowings: by relevant taxation legislation: and will be subject to the Companys overall priority of maintaining a prudent level of debt.
A key driver of the pricing of any return of capital will be net asset value.
