25 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information The fund documentation relating to Permira Risk of warehousing assets IV contains no provision for the removal The Company has, in the past, occasionally of the general partner or manager by vote made commitments to fund investments of the limited partners save in circumstances in order to seed a prospective SVG Advisers involving severe culpability.
Even if those product and then warehoused the investments circumstances were to arise, which the on the balance sheet until the product was Company considers to be unlikely, the consent launched.
In the current difficult fund raising of a special majority of limited partners would environment, there is a risk that no new be required which the Company is unlikely funds will be raised in the near future into to be able to procure on its own.
Once the which these commitments can be transferred.
Company has made a capital commitment The Company will therefore either have to a fund, it may be difficult to terminate its to sell these investments or hold them on its participation or reduce its capital commitment balance sheet.
even if the investment returns arising from that fund are poor or not competitive.
Taxation risk Currency and interest rate risk Any change in the taxation legislation or practice could affect the value of the Groups The Group is exposed to currency risk directly investments and as a result, its performance.
since the majority of its assets and liabilities A breach of Section 842 of the Income and are denominated in foreign currency and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 could result their sterling value can be significantly in the Group being subject to corporation affected by movements in foreign exchange tax on realised gains on the sale of portfolio rates.
Currency risk is monitored on a regular investments which would have a material basis by the Board.
The Group may from adverse effect on the net returns earned by time to time hedge against foreign currency SVG Capital.
However, the Group has strict movements affecting the value of its controls in place to ensure that it complies balance sheet.
with the requirements of Section 842 and contracts with specialist tax advisers Regulatory risks to provide advice on changes to tax regulation and practice.
However, there The regulatory environment in which the can be no guarantee in advance that the Group operates is increasingly complex and Company will satisfy the conditions for the Group faces a number of regulatory risks.
approval by HMRC as an investment trust Breaches of regulations such as the UK Listing under Section 842 or that the Company Authoritys Listing Rules could lead to a will not become a close company, which number of detrimental outcomes and damage would result in its being unable to qualify the Groups reputation.
Breaches of controls as an investment trust for tax purposes.
by service providers could also lead to The Company has agreed allocation reputational damage or loss.
Key regulatory arrangements within the documentation risks have been identified and appropriate of Permira Funds in order to assist in monitoring of such risks is undertaken compliance with the conditions for approval regularly on behalf of the Board.
by HMRC as an investment trust under Three of the Companys subsidiaries: Section 842.
There can be no guarantee or SVG Advisers Limited, SVG Investment assurance however that such arrangements Managers Limited and SVG Managers will be secured for future investments.
Limited are authorised and regulated Any failure to do so will increase the risk by the Financial Services Authority.
Certain other subsidiaries are regulated by foreign regulators.
There are a number of legislative initiatives to increase regulation of the alternative investments sector including private equity.
Such legislation has not been finalised, however there is a risk that such legislation, when enacted, could materially affect the business of the Company or its subsidiaries.
