21 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information Future commitment funding risk The Group Revolving Credit Facility and the Notes may mature before the investments At 31 December 2009, the Group had in underlying portfolio companies are uncalled commitments, including warehouse realised.
In that case, the Group will be commitments, of 371.1 million 2008: required to seek a refinancing of such 492.9 million, compared to Shareholders financing.
There can be no assurance that funds of 620.4 million 2008: 434.2 the Group will be able to obtain new finance million, including cash balances of 144.1 on competitive terms or at all and therefore million 2008: 130.6 million.
In addition, it may suffer a loss as a result of having the Company has the ability to draw a further to dispose of investments at a price which 215 million from its loan facility.
The does not reflect the full value of the asset Company has reached an agreement with which may be achieved upon its maturity.
its bankers to extend the form of its revolving A failure to obtain new finance could result credit facility to January 2013, but at the in a member of the Group defaulting on same time reduce the size of the facility from its obligations which could have a material 550 million to 325 million initially, with adverse effect on the Group.
The Revolving further step-downs to 320 million in March Credit Facility is currently available until 2011, 315 million in September 2011 and January 2013.
The convertible bonds mature 250 million in March 2012.
The Company in 2016 and the Notes are due in 2013, has 220.6 million of unsecured Notes in 2014 and 2015. issue, after repurchasing 26.7% of the Notes in January 2009.
The Notes are repayable Any reduction in the net asset value between 2013 and 2015.
In addition the attributable to shareholders and the share Company has 100.1 million of subordinated price will be amplified by balance sheet convertible bonds in issue, repayable in 2016, gearing.
The Directors keep the Groups after buying back 5.1 million per value of gearing under review and impose restrictions convertibles during the year.
In March 2009, on borrowings to mitigate this risk.
the Company received gross proceeds of 171.3 million from a Rights Issue and Placing.
Default risk The Board considers cash flow forecasts A funds documentation generally provides at each Board meeting and expects for certain penalties in the event that to meet a substantial portion of its uncalled an investor in the fund fails to meet a call.
commitments, as well as commitments There is typically a grace period during to future funds, from distributions received which interest accrues on the unpaid from its investments and from borrowings amount.
If the default continues, the investor available to the Group.
may become subject to various sanctions, including termination of the investors right Borrowing risk to participate in future investments, loss of its entitlement to distributions or income The Revolving Credit Facility and the but not its liability for losses or expenses, Notes each contain financial covenants.
mandatory transfer or sale of its interest, The consequences for the Company continuing liability for the principal and of breaching such covenants would be interest in respect of the defaulted amount serious.
The lenders under the Revolving and partial or total forfeiture of the investors Credit Facility would no longer be interest.
In addition, the general partner or required to advance amounts available manager may have other rights and remedies under the Revolving Credit Facility and including legal remedies.
The investor may amounts outstanding under the Revolving also remain liable for future calls in respect Credit Facility and the Notes may become of the relevant fund as and when they are immediately due and payable by the made.
There can be no assurance as to Company.
In such circumstances, the the price which may be achieved in any Company may become obliged to sell mandatory transfer or sale following a default its assets on unfavourable terms to repay on a call.
Certain funds give the general its debts, thereby reducing the returns partner or manager the right to proceed which shareholders may otherwise have directly to forfeiture proceedings following earned.
Any such default may also trigger notice and continuation of default by an a cross-default under other existing investor.
In the case of a forfeiture, the share financing arrangements.
of the fund held by the defaulting investor would generally be allocated among the general partner or manager and the remaining investors.
In addition, the investor may remain liable for the defaulted amount.
