Remuneration report 33 SVG Capital plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information Introduction This report provides details of the remuneration paid to the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2009 and describes the Remuneration Committees policy on the remuneration of the Directors for the coming year.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The report is divided into two parts.
Part A, which is not subject to audit, describes the Remuneration Committees policy on the remuneration of Directors for the coming year.
Part B, which is audited, contains tables detailing the Directors emoluments for the year ended 31 December 2009, their accrued pensions and their interests under the Companies long-term incentive arrangements.
A resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting in April 2010.
Part A Unaudited section The Remuneration Committee the Committee The Committees members during the year were Francis Finlay Chairman, Anthony Habgood until 6 May 2009, Denis Raeburn and Gary Steinberg and all were considered by the Board to be independent non-executive Directors.
Their biographies are provided on pages 28 and 29.
Subsequent to the year-end Gary Steinberg resigned from the Board and the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman and selected executives, including the Chief Executive, and the Committees advisers are invited to attend as appropriate.
None of the executives invited to attend during the year participated in discussions or decisions regarding their remuneration.
The Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration policy throughout the SVG Group including making a recommendation to the Board on the remuneration of the Chairman and the operation of the Companys Executive Share Incentive Plans.
Its terms of reference take into account the provisions of the Combined Code on corporate governance.
The Committee has appointed Hewitt New Bridge Street and Towers Watson, independent remuneration consultants, to advise it.
Hewitt New Bridge Street also provides advice on the operation of the Companys share schemes and during the year also advised on the design of incentive arrangements for employees below the Board.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and during the year under review it met formally twice, in February and March 2009.
Both meetings were attended by all four of the Committees members.
In addition, the subcommittee of the Remuneration Committee, comprising the Chairman of the Committee and the Company Secretary, met in October 2009 to effect a proposal for the granting of awards under the Performance Share Plan PSP.
In addition, a number of meetings of the Committee took place by telephone conference call throughout the year.
During the year the Committee: Determined the bonus awards for the year to 31 December 2008.
Approved the increase in Lynn Fordhams remuneration.
Approved revised performance conditions for the awards made under the Performance Share Plan in October 2009.
The revised performance conditions relate to growth in SVG Capitals Net Asset Value measured over four years and absolute Total Shareholder Return measured over three years with each determining the vesting of 50% of the award.
Approved all remuneration packages for SVG Group executives focused on SVG Capital and any Group executive with a proposed total cash remuneration in excess of 250,000 per annum.
Determined the arrangements in connection with the departure of employees from the Group.
Both SVGA and SVGIM have separate Boards with independent directors and the non-executive members of these Boards form the Remuneration Committee for these subsidiaries.
The SVG Capital Remuneration Committee sets parameters and principles for the salary increases, discretionary bonuses and long-term incentive plans for these subsidiaries.
Accordingly, the subsidiary remuneration committees, operating under specified delegated limits of authority from the main Board, met during the year to determine increases in salary and discretionary bonuses for all executives below main Board level.
A summary of these were presented to the SVG Capital Remuneration Committee for its ratification in 2010.
A summary of the terms of reference of the Committee are set out on page 42.
A copy of the full terms of reference of the Committee is available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Policy on the remuneration of executive Directors The Committees aim is to ensure that remuneration packages should attract, retain and motivate senior executives including executive Directors while avoiding paying more than is necessary for this purpose and not encouraging excessive risk taking.
At 31 December 2009 Lynn Fordham was the only executive Director of the Company.
The Committees policy is that the fixed elements of remuneration should be sufficient to allow the Company to be competitive against other companies with which the Company competes for executive talent.
The majority of the remuneration package should be performance-related so that it is linked to the returns created for shareholders and the total cost is sufficiently flexible to reflect changes in business performance.
The variable element comprises a balance between short-term and long-term performance through the Companys annual bonus and the performance share plan.
In order to help mitigate risk and ensure that overall rewards are not excessive, incentive levels are capped at a level that encourages out-performance and allows the Company to deliver competitive levels of remuneration without encouraging undue risk taking.
Remuneration report continued 34 Basic salary Salaries are reviewed annually with changes becoming effective in April each year.
The Committee decides on the increases awarded to the executive Directors and is consulted on increases for all employees of the business.
When setting basic salaries the Committee pays due regard to competitive market data provided by Towers Watson on similar positions in other private equity organisations and financial institutions and takes account of individual performance and contribution within the role.
The Committee is also sensitive to wider issues including pay and employment conditions in the Group when setting pay levels.
The Committee considers Group performance, individual performance and appropriate benchmark data in reaching any decisions.
No executive Director of the Company is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
In view of the economic conditions in late 2008 and early 2009, salaries were not increased for 2009.
Lynn Fordhams salary was increased in May 2009 from 240,000 to 340,000 to take account of her promotion to the position of Chief Executive.
With effect from April 2010 Lynn Fordhams salary will increase to 350,000.
This represents an increase of 2.9%, which is in-line with increases awarded to the broader employee population.
Annual bonus Annual bonuses are intended to reward achievement of Group and personal objectives.
Bonuses are non-pensionable and discretionary.
The Committee sets the performance targets for the annual bonus plan at the beginning of the financial year.
The targets are chosen to reflect the successful implementation of the business plan and strategies agreed by the Board.
The normal maximum annual bonus for an executive Director has been set at 200% of salary, although, this cap can be exceeded in exceptional circumstances.
The Committee believes that capping bonuses at this level enables the Company to provide competitive levels of remuneration while ensuring that executives are not incentivised to take inappropriate risks.
The bonus awarded to Lynn Fordham in respect of her performance in the year to December 2009 amounted to 400,000.
This included a bonus of 180,000 in respect of the first five months of the financial year to which she was contractually entitled under the terms of her recruitment in 2008.
The bonus earned for the remaining seven months whilst she was in the role of Chief Executive was 220,000.
This reflects the key performance parameters for Lynn Fordham of restructuring the balance sheet, implementing the short-term financing strategy for the business and building relationships with key shareholders.
The overall bonus earned was slightly above the on-target level reflecting the Committees assessment that the bonus targets were fully met and that Lynn Fordham had performed well during the year.
Lynn Fordham has used part of the 2009 bonus awarded to purchase 34,071 shares in SVG Capital plc.
Long-term incentives Lynn Fordham and selected employees of the SVG Group are eligible to participate in the Performance Share Plan PSP at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee believes that participation in long-term incentives ensures that a significant part of executives potential remuneration is tied to the returns received by shareholders over the longer term through the use of performance conditions linked to the Groups strategy and through exposure to the Groups share price.
This provides alignment between executives and shareholders and, because vesting of awards takes place three or four years after grant, provides an element of lock-in and encourages a focus on performance that is sustainable in the longer term.
PSP awards are made annually, as this enables executives to build up a series of overlapping awards, which the Committee believes is more retentive than larger one-off awards.
The PSP enables awards of conditional free shares or nil or nominal cost options to be made.
Award levels are determined by reference to the level of salary and bonus earned in the previous year as this provides a link to individual performance.
The maximum that can be awarded in any financial year is 200% of base salary and bonus.
For the purposes of calculating these limits the maximum amount of bonus which may be used is capped at 300% of base salary and the value of an award shall be calculated and, if necessary, adjusted to take into account the total exercise cost if any payable by an award holder on exercise and any employers secondary National Insurance contributions or overseas equivalent that may have been transferred to the award holder.
In practice, the cap on the amount of bonus that may be included in the calculation of awards is unlikely to be reached as the normal maximum annual bonus of 200% of salary can only be exceeded in exceptional circumstances.
In order to ensure that long-term incentives provide alignment with shareholders the Committee sets performance conditions that reward executives for delivering absolute growth in the value of the Group.
In previous years, growth in the Companys NAV has been used as the sole performance condition as this reflects the underlying value of the business.
During the year, the Committee conducted a review of the NAV performance condition to determine whether it remained appropriate for future awards under the plan.
The review concluded that given that one of the Groups current objectives is, in the longer term, to offer investors flexibility between reinvestment and return of capital, continuing to use NAV as the sole performance measure could result in a conflict of interest when management come to make decisions on the return of capital.
In order to provide an appropriate balance to the NAV condition the Committee determined that part of the 2009 award of long-term incentives should be based on Total Shareholder Return TSR performance, as TSR will capture capital returned to shareholders.
The performance conditions used for the 2009 awards consist of i the average growth in the Companys undiluted Net Asset Value per Share NAV over a four-year period and ii the Companys average annual compound TSR over a three-year period, with each determining the vesting of 50% of the award.
NAV-based awards will normally vest on the fourth anniversary of the award being granted provided that the award holder is a Director or employee within the SVG Group on that date and to the extent that the NAV performance condition has been satisfied.
If average annual growth in NAV over the performance period is less than 7% per annum none of this part of the award will vest.
If average annual growth in NAV over the performance period is 15% per annum or more all of this part the award will vest.
For NAV growth between these two points, between 0% and 100% of this part of the award will vest on a pro-rata basis.
TSR based awards will normally vest on the third anniversary of the award being granted provided that the award holder is a Director or employee within the SVG Group on that date and to the extent that the TSR performance condition has been satisfied.
If average annual compound TSR over the performance period is less than 10% per annum none of this part of the award will vest.
If average annual compound TSR over the performance period is 20% per annum or more all of this part of the award will vest.
For TSR performance that is between these two points between 0% and 100% of this part of the award will vest on a pro-rata basis.
35 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information The Remuneration Committee believes that TSR and growth in NAV are appropriate measures of long-term performance for a business focused on delivering superior levels of NAV growth and returns to shareholders.
In setting the performance targets for the 2009 awards the Remuneration Committee took account of the current shareholder expectations of future performance for the Company.
To balance the fact that the performance targets for the NAV based awards are lower than those that apply to awards made in 2008, the Committee reduced the percentage of an award vesting for threshold performance from 25% of the award to 0%.
The Committee is satisfied that these new performance conditions are at least as challenging as those set when the plan was first introduced.
The Chairman of the Committee consulted with major shareholders in advance of the first grant under the new performance targets and the major shareholders consulted were in broad agreement with the new performance targets.
The PSP replaced the 2001 ESOP following the 2007 AGM.
However, whilst the Committee does not intend to make further grants under the ESOP it has been retained for use in exceptional circumstances such as for the recruitment and retention of senior staff or to reward exceptional performance.
Any grant of options under the ESOP will count toward the individual limits under the PSP and appropriately demanding performance conditions will be set at the time of grant.
The Committee does not intend to adjust awards under the PSP including the Recruitment Award made to Lynn Fordham or options under the 2001 ESOP to take account of the recent Rights Issue and Placing.
In addition, the Company introduced a SIP at the 2007 AGM.
The SIP is a tax approved all-employee share plan with standard features.
No awards have been made under the SIP.
Benefits Benefits in kind which are not pensionable relate to the provision of health insurance and life assurance cover.
Private health insurance is offered to all employees who have the option to cover their partners and dependent children.
In addition, all employees are entitled to a contribution to their pension plans.
External appointments The Company permits executive Directors of the Company to accept limited non-executive Directorships and other similar appointments, it being recognised that such appointments increase their commercial knowledge and business experience to the general benefit of the Company.
Fees earned from such directorships may be retained by the executive Directors.
Lynn Fordham does not currently have any paid external non-executive Directorships.
During the year, Andrew Williams was a non-executive Director of CDC Group plc and Macquarie Bank International plc, respectively.
Annual Directors fees of 75,000 for these appointments were retained by Andrew Williams.
Executive Director service contracts Lynn Fordhams contract provides for six months notice for termination and SVG Advisers Limited may terminate her employment by paying a sum in lieu of notice calculated by reference to her salary and other benefits.
In the event of termination of her employment on the giving of notice by SVG Advisers Limited or constructive dismissal in contemplation of or following a change of control of SVG Capital on or before 1 July 2010 she will be entitled to receive a liquidated payment of 340,000 less necessary withholdings reduced by 1 364 for each day that she has served under any period of notice that she may be under at the time of termination.
Such payment will be in addition to her normal salary and benefits in respect of the period preceding termination and will be made in full and final settlement of all and any claims arising from or in connection with her termination.
Date of last Notice period issued contract months Lynn Fordham 13 November 2009 6 Andrew Williams, an executive Director during the year ended 31 December 2009, was employed by Schroder Investment Management Limited SIM and was seconded to the Group.
His contract with SIM provided for six months notice.
Andrew Williams ceased to be a Director of the Company on 8 May 2009 and his contract with SIM terminated on 31 October 2009.
The Remuneration Committee decided, in view of the turbulence in the markets and the exceptional circumstances facing the Company that it was in the best interests of the Company that Andrew, given his long involvement with the Company and with its advised funds, be available, after the expiry of his notice period, to ensure a smooth transition in a period of considerable challenge.
To that end, he has been retained by SVG Advisers Limited as a consultant for the six month period commencing on 1 November 2009 at a fee of 36,900 per calendar month plus VAT.
Andrew also received a bonus of 405,555 for the period to 31 October 2009 to reflect his significant contribution in building the value of SVG Advisers Limited over many years and the important role he played in the restructuring of the Companys balance sheet in late 2008.
In addition, a payment of 76,000 was made to him as compensation and his professional costs of 71,000 were met by the Company.
Options held by Andrew over ordinary shares of the Company under the 2001 Executive Share Option Plan and awards held by him over ordinary shares of the Company under the Performance Share Plan have lapsed.
Remuneration report continued 36 Policy on the remuneration of non-executive Directors Remuneration paid to non-executive Directors is determined by the Board and reviewed each year.
When considering remuneration levels, the Board will consider, amongst other things, industry practice and contribution to various committees and time spent on the business of the Company.
Appointment, re-appointment and re-election of non-executive Directors All Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter Directors retire by rotation at least every three years.
The Chairman meets with each Director before a Director is proposed for re-election, and, subject to the evaluation of performance carried out each year, the Board agrees whether it is appropriate for that Director to seek an additional term.
When recommending whether an individual Director should seek re-election, the Board will take into account the provisions of the Combined Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its committees.
Non-executive Directors are appointed under letters of appointment and do not have service contracts.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Performance graph The TSR for the five years to 31 December 2009 is shown in the graph below.
This graph looks at the value of 100 invested in SVG Capital on 31 December 2004 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE All-Share Total Return Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intermediate financial year ends.
For this purpose, the Committee has decided that the FTSE All-Share Total Return Index is the most appropriate available index for comparative purposes because it is the principal index in which the Companys shares are quoted.
This graph looks at the value, by the end of 2009, of 100 invested in SVG Capital on 31 December 2004 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE All-Share Total Return Index.
