Board of Directors Lord Harris of Peckham 66 Baroness Noakes 60 Chairman and Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Lord Harris is now in his 52nd year in carpet retailing and Baroness Noakes, a chartered accountant, joined the is one of the best known names in the business.
Baroness Noakes is a Non-Executive Chairman and Chief Executive of Harris Queensway plc Director of Severn Trent plc and a trustee of the Reuters from 1964 until the company was taken over in 1988.
Previously she was with Lord Harris is a non-executive director of Arsenal KPMG for 30 years and was the Senior Non-Executive Holdings plc and Arsenal Football Club plc.
He was a Director of the Bank of England and a non-executive Non-Executive Director of Great Universal Stores plc for director of Hanson plc and ICI plc.
Baroness Noakes 18 years until July 2004 and was a Non-Executive Director chairs the Audit and Nomination Committees and is the of Matalan Plc for two years until January 2007.
Christian Sollesse 50 Simon Metcalf 66 Managing Director, UK and Republic of Ireland Non-Executive Director Christian Sollesse joined Carpetright in 1995 having Simon Metcalf joined the Board in 2004.
He is a chartered worked for many years in senior retail management roles accountant and worked in corporate finance as a director in Harris Queensway and Harris Interiors.
Christian was of County Bank and its successor organisations for over appointed Sales Director in 1997 with responsibility for 25 years, latterly as Vice Chairman of Hawkpoint Partners.
In June 2005 Christian was He is currently a Non-Executive Director of The Collinson appointed Managing Director, UK and Republic of Ireland, Group, Professional Travel Insurance Limited and a taking responsibility for trading operations.
number of other private companies.
He is a trustee of the Bankside Gallery.
Simon chairs the Remuneration Martin Harris 40 Committee.
Group Commercial Director Guy Weston 48 Martin Harris joined Carpetright in 1991, previously having Non-Executive Director been an Executive Director of Harveys Furnishing Group Limited.
Martin became Marketing Director in 1997, Guy Weston joined the Board in 2005.
Guy began his resigning to become a Non-Executive Director in 1998. career as a management tutor and business analyst In November 2002 Martin resumed Executive Director before entering the food and beverage industry, responsibilities as Buying Director and was appointed working for R Twining & Co. Jacksons of Piccadilly and Commercial Director when he assumed responsibility for The Ryvita Company.
Currently, Guy is Chairman of Marketing in 2003.
Martin took on responsibility for supply Heals PLC and Wittington Investments Ltd, a Director chain and logistics in June 2005 and was responsible of the Thrombosis Research Institute and a Trustee of for the move to Carpetrights new central cutting and the Garfield Weston Foundation.
distribution centre and offices in early 2008.
Geoff Brady 55 Neil Page 46 Non-Executive Director Group Finance Director Geoff Brady joined the Board in March 2007.
He has Neil Page joined Carpetright in July 2008 as Group had a career of over 35 years in the retail sector including Finance Director.
Neil began his career with British Rail Chief Executive Officer of Allied Carpets plc, Managing and Marks and Spencer.
He joined Superdrug in 1991, Director of Daimler Chrysler Retail UK and Commercial holding a variety of finance and operational positions Director of Superdrug plc.
He was a Deputy Chairman of before taking up the role of Finance and IT Director for Matalan Plc and a Non-Executive Director of Floors-2-Go AS Watson Health & Beauty UK Ltd in July 2002.
Plc, prior to both companies return to private ownership.
He is currently a Non-Executive Director of Fairline Boats Ltd, Saul D. Harrison & Sons plc and Harvey Jones Holdings Ltd. 14 Carpetright plc | Annual report and accounts 2009
