Managers report At the close of 2008, most investors would have business model.
Despite these warning signs, enthusiastically accepted an offer of 30.1% their share prices outperformed as investors performance by UK equities in 2009.
The credit embraced high levels of risk, possibly attempting and banking crises were in full flow, against a to compensate for previous risk-aversion.
backdrop of unremittingly bad news.
However, As other investors sought risk, our contrarian massive intervention by central banks and principles demanded that we consider reducing governments reassured investors that economic risk.
Consequently, we sold Carnival, Galiform, catastrophe had been avoided, temporarily at JJB Sports, Legal & General, Premier Farnell, least, and a rush for risk soon began, Next and JD Wetherspoon.
These sales were not accentuated by the near zero returns from an automatic response to the consensus view holding cash.
we, after all, only make money when the The stock markets recovery from its March low consensus agrees with us but a balanced was unprecedented, and many shares performed judgement that valuations discounted very spectacularly.
For example, 271 stocks in the strong recoveries in the companies operating FTSE All-Share Index increased more than 100% profitability.
from their lows, including 122 stocks which On the other hand, a number of shares in large, increased more than 200% and 61 stocks which stable companies such as Vodafone, increased by over 300%.
GlaxoSmithKline and AstraZeneca continue to sit Some commentators have described these on fairly undemanding valuations.
We have been investments as opportunities of a lifetime.
With highlighting this opportunity for some years and, hindsight, this may be true, but only foresight in general, our shareholders have yet to benefit.
was available at the time of investment and, at Conventional wisdom asserts that there is little that point, the outlook was uncertain.
Of course, difference between being early and being wrong.
we now know that investor sentiment improved However, in this situation, our earliness is nicely significantly after the huge fiscal and monetary compensated with some chunky dividends.
stimuli, but scepticism about the interventionist It is curious that, at a time when most policies could instead have pushed markets commentators highlight the uncertainties and lower, making rights issues unlikely and forcing a frailties of the global financial system, we have number of companies into financial difficulties.
the choice of holding these cheap defensive Investment Style stocks or expensive cyclical stocks.
At the depth of the crisis, our analysis of the A number of reasons for this paradox come to most depressed stocks indicated a variety of mind.
The typical fund manager often justifies negative outcomes.
We identified a number of high management charges by rolling around in stocks which would reward us significantly for the murkier parts of the market.
It is much accepting these risks, particularly where the harder to illustrate brilliance of thought by market appeared to be underestimating the investing in Leviathans as these stocks are, chance of meaningful recovery in profitability, superficially anyway, dull.
and overestimating the probability of bankruptcy.
There are relatively new management teams at Therefore, we had the opportunity to buy a few most of these large companies who are ordering stocks that were exceptionally cheap on a great, though calculated changes.
We do not probability-weighted basis.
The subsequent expect dramatic increases in profitability but we performance of stocks such as Travis Perkins up think it is likely that these companies will 217% during the year and 273% from its low, significantly improve their operating Signet 185% and 302% and Kingspan 92% and performance over a number of years: if they do, 197% clearly demonstrates where sentiment had higher valuations may well follow.
with strong balance sheets, improving businesses Some of our shareholders might have expected and good dividend growth are, we think, very us to have purchased a greater number of out-ofattractive investments.
If this is what dull looks favour stocks as prices fell in 2008 and early like, that is fine.
We looked closely at many of the worst Portfolio Concentration performers but decided that even the lowest Our positive view on large stocks determines prices did not sufficiently discount the nasty some very big positions, and the portfolio scenarios.
These companies shared common therefore remains very concentrated.
At the end characteristics: massive debt, weak market of the year, the largest ten equity holdings position or, simply, an increasingly pressurized accounted for 61% of the portfolio.
We are not afraid to be top heavy as the balance sheets and 10 10 T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t valuations of the companies indicate no undue portfolio.
We shall find more opportunities if risk.
Our view is that a short list of stocks we markets move lower, but the overall trend is not know well, and consider cheap, is much critical for our purposes.
We are always patient in preferable to a longer list of stocking fillers.
our search for cheap companies, although patience can be seriously tested in an Corporate Bonds information rich environment.
Sometimes a Lehmans bankruptcy in 2008 generated much meeting with a companys management, or a volatility, and a number of interesting review of a companys report and accounts may opportunities.
We took advantage of a seem to offer good reason to deal.
However, as dysfunctional corporate bond market to purchase any information gleaned is likely to be widely a number of short-dated bonds in late 2008 and available, it should not artificially generate early 2009.
These have performed well, and activity.
We believe that because patience is so provided a welcome boost to income.
difficult to apply, the virtue is often very well Gold Shares rewarded.
During the year we made, for us, an unusual Mistakes purchase of gold shares.
We have often said that As with any year, we made some mistakes our portfolio is built with minimal regard to the through every investors common failing of macro-economic outlook: we doubt that our skills missing a stock that rose significantly, or holding in macro-economic analysis would deliver a a stock that fell significantly.
However, we are alert to preferred definition of error is where we can see the problems currently affecting a number of how, with the same information available, we economies.
Worries about high levels of should have acted differently.
By this definition, consumer debt appear to have been overtaken perhaps our biggest mistake was not to buy more by worries about excessive government debt.
A of the cyclical stocks we believed were very great financial experiment is in progress, and cheap.
However, these stocks had omitted their unpleasant outcomes, such as deflation or high dividends, and all are luxury holdings for us.
inflation or a blend of both are possible Further, we had to discipline ourselves to stop particularly as some of the central bankers, buying the risk of significant losses might have regulators and politicians were responsible for been small but, vitally, it had to be controlled.
For these reasons, we regard an exposure to gold as a sensible method of International Stocks hedging current risks.
We cannot guarantee that Our buy ideas are always selected from a pool the gold price will continue to rise, or that gold of shares under-performing through investor fear shares will correlate to a rising price, but we or boredom.
We believe our investment struggle to identify cheaper and more efficient philosophy and process are as relevant in protection for the portfolio.
international markets as in the UK, and our analysis of international stocks and UK listed Revenue stocks is identical.
We analyse the conventional A large number of dividends were cut or omitted wisdom which has driven the shares down, and over the last year and the cyclical part of our find reasons why the conventional wisdom may portfolio was significantly affected by this.
Then we conduct a However, we refused to act mechanistically and valuation exercise to measure the potential sell those shares currently contributing little or upside if the conventional wisdom is wrong, and nothing to the portfolios revenue account.
We the margin of safety that exists if it is right.
aim always to trade rationally, and we believe In addition to dual listed stocks 7.5% of that selling a stock simply because it produces portfolio and the gold share ETF 1.7% of no income is not rational, and that such a policy portfolio, we have 2.9% invested in would detract from the portfolios total return.
This part of the Gearing portfolio, does provide us with a larger universe Throughout the year we have held a reasonable of investment opportunities and may be further amount of cash, similar liquid assets and bonds, developed over time.
ending the year with 15.8% of the portfolio in such assets.
This is not an explicit indication of bearishness, rather our relative lack of equity holdings is an admission that we cannot find Alastair Mundy enough cheap stocks to completely fill the Investec Asset Management Limited 23 February 2010 T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t 1 11 1
