Report of the directors The directors present their report and accounts The UK equity element of the portfolio will be for the year ended 31 December 2009. mostly invested in the FTSE All-Share Index: however, exceptional positions may be BUSINESS REVIEW sanctioned by the Board and up to 10% of the Introduction portfolio may be held in listed international This business review forms part of the Report of equities in developed economies.
Its function is to provide a may continue to hold securities that cease to be balanced and comprehensive review of the quoted or listed if the manager considers this to Companys performance and development during be appropriate.
There is an absolute limit of 10% the year and its position at the year end.
The on individual stocks with a maximum exposure to review also covers the principal risks and a specific industrial or commercial sector of uncertainties faced by the Company and sets out 25%, in each case irrespective of their key performance indicators used to measure, weightings in the benchmark index.
monitor and manage the Companys business.
It is the Companys policy to invest no more than Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC was incorporated 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment in 1926 with the registered number 214601. companies including listed investment trusts.
The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of Business of the Company investments, typically comprising 70-80 holdings, The Company carries on business as an but without restricting the Company from investment company under Section 833 of the holding a more or less concentrated portfolio Companies Act 2006 and was approved by HM from time to time as circumstances require.
Revenue & Customs as an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income & The Companys long term investment strategy emphasises: Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31 December 2008.
In the opinion of the directors Achieving a portfolio yield of between 120- the Company has subsequently conducted its 140% of that of the FTSE All-Share Index affairs so that it should continue to qualify.
Stocks of companies that are out of favour The Companys principal business activity of and whose share prices do not match the investment management is sub-contracted to Managers assessment of their longer term Investec Asset Management Limited IAM under value the ultimate supervision of the board of directors.
From time to time fixed interest holdings or non The Company has one active wholly owned equity interests may be held on an opportunistic subsidiary company, whose principal business is basis.
investment dealing, and one dormant subsidiary.
Derivative instruments are not normally used but A review of the business is given in the in certain circumstances, and with the prior Chairmans statement and the Managers report.
approval of the Board, their use may be The results of the Group are shown on page 27. considered either for hedging purposes or to Going Concern exploit a specific investment opportunity.
The directors have reviewed the going concern Liquidity and borrowings are managed with the basis of accounting for the Company.
The aim of increasing returns to shareholders.
The Companys assets consist substantially of equity Companys gearing range total gross assets shares in listed companies and in most divided by total net assets may fluctuate between circumstances are realisable within a short 75% and 130%, based on the current balance timescale.
The use of the going concern basis of sheet structure, with an absolute limit of 150%.
accounting is appropriate because there are no Risk is managed through diversification of material uncertainties related to events or holdings, investment limits set by the Board and conditions that may cast significant doubt about appropriate financial and other controls relating the ability of the Company to continue as a going to the administration of assets.
Investment Objective and Policy Investment Approach The Companys investment objective is to provide The investment approach of our Manager is growth in income and capital to achieve a long premised on a contrarian view on the timing of term total return greater than the benchmark buy and sell decisions, buying the shares of FTSE All-Share Index, through investment companies when sentiment towards them is at or primarily in UK securities.
The Companys policy near its worst and selling them as fundamental is to invest in a broad spread of securities with profit improvement and or re-evaluation of their typically the majority of the portfolio selected long term prospects takes place.
from the constituents of the FTSE 100 Index.
T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t 15 15
