2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Report of the directors continued The belief is that repeated investor behaviour in words cheap stocks will outperform driving down the prices of out of favour expensive stocks.
companies to below their fair value will offer 4.
Diversification is an important control.
This will allow the Particular companies or sectors can be out of Company to purchase shares at significant favour for a considerable time.
discounts to their fair value and to sell them as they become more fully valued, principally as a Performance result of predictable patterns in human In the year to 31 December 2009 the net asset psychology.
value total return of the Company was 45.0% The Managers process is designed to produce compared with a total return of the Companys best ideas to drive active fund management benchmark index of 30.1%.
In addition, the graph within a rigorous control framework.
The below shows the ungeared investment framework begins through narrowing down the performance over a five year period compared universe of stocks by passing those companies with the FTSE All-Share Index.
The Chairmans with a market capitalisation above 100m through Statement on pages 7 to 8 and the managers a screening process which highlights the weakest report on pages 10 to 11 include a review of performing stocks.
This isolates opportunities with developments during the year together with attractive sentiment characteristics which are then information on investment activity within the in turn scrutinised in greater detail to identify Companys portfolio and an assessment of future investment opportunities.
The process is very much bottom up and can Ungeared 5 year performance 170 result in large sector positions being taken if enough stocks of sufficient interest are found 160 within a single sector.
However, top down risk 150 analysis is undertaken to identify potential 140 concentration of risk and to factor this awareness into portfolio construction.
The portfolio 130 comprises stocks which have been purchased for 120 different reasons and at different times.
In general, 110 because of the bottom up approach to stockpicking, each of these reasons is independent 100 of the other and the portfolio, therefore, is not excessively vulnerable to longer term macro FTSE All Share Total Return trends.
Cash is a residual of the process and Temple Bar gross assets, excluding effects of gearing and associated costs normally will not exceed 5% of the portfolio value.
Key Performance Indicators The approach to stock selection and portfolio construction is driven by four core beliefs: The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the progress and performance of the 1.
Markets overreact to news on the upside and Company over time, and which are comparable to the downside.
The Manager aims to be those reported by other investment trusts, are sceptical of the crowd and aware of investor set out below:- psychology, which often causes overvaluation Net asset value total return relative to the FTSE of those stocks that are deemed to have good All-Share Index prospects and an undervaluation of those which are out of favour.
There are few companies which sustain below Discount on net asset value normal profits over the longer term.
Weaker Earnings and dividends per share companies tend to leave an industry, thus Total expense ratio improving the balance of supply and demand, are bid for or management is changed.
While some elements of performance against Similarly, there are few companies which can KPIs are beyond management control they sustain supernormal profits over the longer provide measures of the Companys absolute and term.
Such profits tend to be competed or relative performance and are, therefore, monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
Fundamental valuation is the key determinant of stock prices over the long term.
In other 1 16 6 T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t
