Directors JOHN REEVE, Chairman, MARTIN R RILEY, aged aged 65, was appointed a 66, was appointed a director director in 1992.
He had 30 years formerly executive experience in stockbroking chairman of the Willis and fund management in the Group, group managing City and is a former director director of Sun Life of Henderson Crosthwaite Assurance Society and a Ltd, Guinness Mahon & Co Ltd and Barlows PLC.
He is member of the boards of currently chairman of SR Europe Investment Trust the Association of British Insurers and the PLC and Howard Investment Company Ltd and a International Insurance Society.
He is a director of director of various private investment companies.
RICHARD W JEWSON, FIELD L J WALTON, aged aged 65, was appointed a 69, was appointed a director director in 2001.
He started his worked in the timber and career in engineering building material supply management and moved to industry, becoming the City as an analyst with managing director of Cazenove in 1971.
Jewson the builders Subsequently he held a merchants for twelve years number of positions in fund from 1974, and then managing director and management.
He is a non-executive director of a chairman of its parent company Meyer number of engineering and trust companies.
He is International PLC from which he retired in 1993. also a director of Harrods Group Trustees Ltd.
He is currently chairman of Raven Russia Limited DAVID G C WEBSTER, and Archant Limited, and a non-executive director aged 65, was appointed a of Grafton Group PLC and other private director in 2009.
started in corporate finance JUNE F fide MOLLER, at Samuel Montagu before aged 62, was appointed a becoming a founder and director in 2005.
She is a subsequently chairman of non-executive director of Safeway PLC from which he Derwent London PLC, retired in 2004.
He is Archant Limited and a currently chairman of InterContinental Hotels former managing director Group PLC and has a wide range of other business of Carlton Communications interests including membership of the Appeals PLC.
She was previously a Committee of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers.
non-executive director of J Sainsbury PLC, He was previously a director of Reed Elsevier PLC.
Cookson Group PLC and BT PLC.
Independent non-executive director and member of the audit committee and nomination committee.
Chairman of the audit committee and Senior Independent Director.
