DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED Auditors During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the position of auditors to the Company and sought competitive tenders for the appointment of auditors.
Following this process and recognising the particular strengths of the Edinburgh based team of Deloitte LLP to provide a locally based service, the Directors approved the Audit Committees recommendation for the appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors in place of the retiring Grant Thornton UK LLP.
A resolution proposing this appointment and authorising the Directors to determine Deloittes remuneration will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors were unaware and that each Director had taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors were aware of that information.
DIRECTORS Directors The Board currently comprises seven Non-Executive Directors, six of whom are independent from Franklin Templeton Investments, the group of companies associated with the Companys Investment Manager.
The Chairman is NonExecutive and independent from the Investment Manager.
The Directors biographies are set out on pages 8 to 10.
The following were Directors during the year to 30 April 2009: Peter A Smith Sir Peter Burt Neil A Collins Peter O Harrison Christopher D Brady Gregory E Johnson Peter C Godsoe OC resigned 26 June 2008 Hamish N Buchan appointed 26 June 2008 The Company identified suitable candidates for the Board after consultation with appropriate individuals operating in the investment trust industry.
External search consultants were not appointed and no formal advertising was carried out.
Peter Godsoe resigned as a Director and a member of the Audit Committee on 26 June 2008 and Hamish Buchan was appointed as a Director and a member of the Audit Committee on 26 June 2008.
Gregory Johnson is President and Chief Executive Officer of Franklin Resources, Inc.
He is also President of Templeton Worldwide Inc, the parent company of the Investment Manager.
He is therefore not an independent Director.
As a non-independent Director, Gregory Johnson offers himself for re-election as required under UK Listing Rules and the AIC Code of Corporate Governance.
The Companys Articles of Association require newly appointed Directors to submit themselves for election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting and Directors are then subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
All Directors serving longer than nine years must offer themselves for annual re-election.
Neil Collins retires by rotation as a Director and offers himself for re-election as required under the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board recommends the re-election of Neil Collins and Gregory Johnson, whose biographies are set out in this Annual Report, as they will continue to provide the Company with valuable guidance, experience and support.
Each Director has a letter of appointment from the Company.
Other than previously stated, no Director was a party to or had an interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company at any time during the year.
28 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC The Directors meet quarterly and retain full and effective control over the Company through the monitoring of the management team of the Investment Manager, and Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited FTIML the Secretary and Administrator.
The Board is responsible for investment policy and has a schedule of matters reserved for the resolution of the Directors for safeguarding shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The primary focus of the Directors at the quarterly board meetings is a review of the investment performance of the Company and associated matters such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
The Board also reviews the investment mandate, long-term investment strategy, performance of the Company and the appropriate guidelines within which the Investment Manager should operate.
The table below lists the number of scheduled Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there were 5 Board Meetings, 3 Audit Committee Meetings and 2 Nomination and Remuneration Committee Meetings.
Nomination and Board Meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Director Attended Meetings Attended Meetings Attended Peter A Smith 5 N A 2 Christopher D Brady 5 N A N A Hamish N Buchan appointed 26 June 2008 3 2 N A Sir Peter Burt 4 3 2 Neil A Collins 5 3 N A Peter O Harrison 5 3 N A Gregory E Johnson 4 N A N A Peter C Godsoe OC resigned 26 June 2008 0 0 N A In addition to the scheduled Board and Committee meetings, there were a number of additional meetings of the Directors in relation to the tender offer proposals in 2008 and other matters.
Nomination and Remuneration Committee The Board has a Nomination and Remuneration Committee, which currently comprises Sir Peter Burt Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Peter Smith and Neil Collins appointed member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee on 26 June 2008.
The role of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee is to review regularly the Board structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that seem appropriate, to consider the rotation and renewal of the Board, approve the candidate specification for all Board appointments, approve the process by which suitable candidates are identified and short listed, and to nominate candidates for consideration by the full Board, whose responsibility it is formally to make appointments.
In addition, the Committee reviews the level of Directors fees periodically relative to other comparable companies and in the light of the Directors responsibilities.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee is available to shareholders on the TEMIT website www.
co. uk or on request via Client Dealer Services at Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited using the contact details provided on the inside back cover of this report.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED Performance Evaluation The Board has undertaken a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors including the Chairman.
The Board has also considered the independence of each Director.
The evaluation of the Board, of its Committees, and the performance of individual Directors, was carried out through questionnaires and discussions between the Chairman and each Director.
The Chairman has been evaluated by his fellow Directors, led by Sir Peter Burt, the Senior Independent Director and such evaluations shall continue to take place at least annually.
Thereafter the Board meets as a group to review the findings.
The performance and cost of service providers are considered as regular items annually on the Boards agenda.
Information and Professional Development The Board is supplied, via the Secretary and Administrator, with regular information to enable the Directors to discharge their duties.
The Secretary and Administrator provides the Board with regular updates on regulatory issues and on the latest corporate governance rules and guidelines.
Directors Appointment Letters Each of the Directors has an appointment letter with the Company and such letters are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The terms of their appointment provide that a Director will be subject to re-election at the first annual general meeting after their appointment, and at least every three years after that.
The terms also provide that a Director may be removed without notice and that compensation will not be due on leaving office.
Directors Conflicts of Interest The Companies Act 2006 set out directors general duties.
The provisions largely codify the existing law, but with some changes.
Under this Act, from 1 October 2008 a Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a Director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companys Articles give the Directors authority to approve such situations.
There are safeguards which apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to make the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Company maintains a register of Directors conflicts of interest which have been disclosed and approved by the other Directors.
This register is kept up to date and the Directors annually complete an updated conflicts of interest questionnaire disclosing any conflicts or potential conflicts.
Articles of Association Any amendments to the articles of association must be approved by a special resolution at the AGM.
Indemnification and Insurance The Company entered into deeds of indemnity with each of the Directors prior to the date of this report.
These are qualifying third party indemnity provisions and are in force as at the date of this report.
This information is disclosed in accordance with sections 236 2 and 236 3 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Directors.
30 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Remuneration Details of the remuneration policy are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Boards policy is that the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors should reflect the experience of the Board as a whole and be fair and comparable to that of other investment trusts similar in size, capital structure and investment objective.
The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options, long-term incentive schemes or other benefits in accordance with other long standing investment trusts.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, together with details of the remuneration of each Director who served in the year is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 38.
TEMIT has no employees and therefore no retirement or health scheme obligations or policies in respect of employment, including the employment of disabled persons.
No Director had notified the Company of any beneficial interest including any family interest existing either at the beginning or at the end of the year to 30 April 2009 in the Companys Ordinary Shares save for the following Directors: 30 April 2009 30 April 2008 Sir Peter Burt Ordinary Shares 4,000 4,000 Neil A Collins Ordinary Shares 7,000 7,000 Hamish N Buchan appointed 26 June 2008 Ordinary Shares 15,000 N A Peter A Smith Ordinary Shares 10,000 nil The Company has not received notification of any changes in the above interests as at 5 June 2009.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 5 June 2009 the Company had been notified that the following were interested in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
Number Name of Shares Percentage City of London 39,227,085 11.87 Lazard Asset Management LLC Group 20,406,075 6.17 Templeton Investment Plan 16,051,963 4.86 Legal & General Investment Management 14,223,758 4.30 Rensburg Sheppards 11,329,861 3.43 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 31
