MANAGERSREPORT&PORTFOLIOREVIEW 30 APRIL 2009 Mark Mobius and TAMLs Emerging Markets team MANAGEMENTCOMPANY MARKETOVERVIEW The Directors have appointed Templeton Asset Global emerging markets experienced significant volatility Management Ltd. TAML as Investment Manager of in the past 12 months.
Having started the period on a the Company.
positive note, global equities, including emerging market companies, began a downward trend in June.
Extreme TAML is part of Franklin Templeton Investments, one risk aversion led to a drying up of liquidity, tight credit of the worlds largest asset management companies.
conditions, problems for highly leveraged companies, TAML is a pioneer of emerging market investment, and high volatility in global stock markets.
having created one of the first dedicated emerging market mutual funds over 20 years ago.
Today, the Recognising the severity of the credit crunch, TAML Emerging Markets Team manages US$19 billion governments globally implemented fiscal stimuli to in emerging markets assets for retail, institutional and support their domestic economies and ease liquidity professional investors across the globe.
Markets subsequently started to recover in March 2009, as investors began to focus on the The TAML Emerging Markets Team, headed by Dr fundamentals and attractive valuations of individual Mark Mobius, is one of the largest of its kind.
It companies, leading to positive inflows into emerging includes 39 dedicated emerging markets portfolio markets.
This led markets to recuperate some of the managers, analysts and product specialists.
Their onlosses recorded in the earlier part of the period.
As at the the-ground presence in 15 countries, and years of end of April, 2009, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index relevant industry experience, greatly assists their had risen 32.6% from its low on 3rd March, 2009.
For understanding of the companies researched for the 12-month period, however, it was still down 23.4% inclusion in the TEMIT portfolio.
Many of the senior in sterling terms.
members of the TEMIT team, including Allan Lam, Eastern European markets were especially affected as Tom Wu, Dennis Lim, Carlos Hardenberg, and Gregorz investors became concerned about the financial state of Konieczny have worked alongside Mark Mobius for a European banks and their Eastern European subsidiaries.
Asian markets outperformed their emerging market TAMLs Emerging Markets Team receives additional counterparts as regional economies continued to record support from the professionals of Franklin Resources relatively higher growth rates.
Asias high foreign Inc. its ultimate parent company and its subsidiaries.
reserves, huge consumer base and significant economic TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 MANAGERSREPORT&PORTFOLIOREVIEW CONTINUED  % presence, provided investors with reasons to remain  positive on the regions potential.
In Latin America, the The Companys performance, relative to the MSCI Brazilian market was adversely affected by lower Emerging Markets Index, benefited significantly from commodity prices.
However, the countrys solid fiscal good stock selection in China.
Overweight positions and management policies, high foreign exchange reserves and good stock selection in Turkey and Indonesia further vast natural resources of oil, iron ore and agricultural enhanced relative performance.
By sector, good stock products lead us to maintain a positive view on the selection in banks and overweight positions in regions leading economy.
Mexico also underperformed, automobile & components and food & staples retailing due to its close economic ties with the US economy.
South Africa was one of the best performing markets in An overweight exposure to the Brazilian real and Hong sterling terms during the reporting period, in large part Kong dollar contributed significantly to relative due to a stronger rand.
performance, due to their appreciation in the latter part of the period.
 The largest contributors to performance in Singapore Year to 30 April 2009 % were overweight exposures to Dairy Farm, whose core NAV total return for the year 23.5 businesses consist of supermarkets, hypermarkets as well MSCI Index total return 23.4 as health & beauty, convenience and home furnishing stores, and in China Vtech Holdings, one of the worlds Relative return 0.1 major manufacturers and distributors of cordless Sector allocation 6.6 telephones and other telecommunication products.
Stock selection 3.0 In Turkey, the Companys holdings in Akbank, one of Total equities 3.6 the countrys leading banks, and Turkcell, the major Currency 2.1 provider of mobile communications services, had the Buybacks 1.7 largest positive attribution effects.
Expenses charged to capital 0.3 In Indonesia, overweight positions in Astra, a major car Relative performance 0.1 and motorcycle company in the country, and Bank Source: Factset and Franklin Templeton Central Asia, one of the countrys biggest banks, as well 12 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC as our zero exposure to the underperforming Bumi PORTFOLIOCHANGES&INVESTMENT Resources, an energy and mining company, contributed STRATEGIES positively to performance.
By sector, good stock selection The Companys search for undervalued stocks trading at in banks and overweight positions in automobile & attractive valuations led to selective investments in the components and food, staples and retailing companies diversified metals & mining, IT consulting, diversified supported performance.
Conversely, detractors to relative performance included Despite being hurt by the decline in commodity prices, underweight positions in South Africa and Taiwan, as many raw material companies are still profitable at well as overweight exposures to Pakistan and Thailand.
While commodity prices have come By sector, holdings in materials companies were the down from their peaks, we believe commodities will largest detractors, while underweight positions in the trend upwards over the long term.
This is, in part, semiconductors and pharmaceutical sectors also because of continued demand from emerging markets detracted from performance.
despite slower economic growth and relatively inelastic supply.
We believe that commodity companies should The Companys absence from outperforming stocks such remain profitable and constitute attractive investment as Remgro, an industrial conglomerate, and Anglogold opportunities.
Taking a long-term view, we continue to Ashanti, a global gold producer, were the largest like the metals sector.
Major purchases included Sesa detractors in South Africa.
TEMIT did not hold these Goa, a leading Indian iron ore miner and exporter, two companies as it has already had exposure to the Anglo American, an international resources group, and sector through its holding in Anglo American.
While Aluminum Corporation of China Chalco, Chinas Anglo American was a detractor due to a correction in leading producer of alumina and primary aluminium commodity prices during the period, the manager products.
remained confident of its longer-term prospects.
The company is well positioned to benefit from continuing The continued liberalisation of the financial sector in demand for raw materials in emerging markets as well as emerging markets could unlock hidden value and allow a recovery in metal prices.
banks to benefit from the growing financial needs of consumers in the region.
Key purchases included Bank Underweight positions in Taiwan Semiconductor Danamon and Bank Central Asia in Indonesia and Manufacturing TSMC, the worlds biggest independent Faysal Bank and MCB Bank in Pakistan.
These emerging integrated circuit foundry, and Novatek Microelectronics, the largest LCD driver integrated circuit supplier in the markets banks focus mainly on their domestic country, also led to negative attribution effects.
While trade finance may be impacted by slower exports, they do not have any significant An overweight exposure to the Pakistani Banks, Faysal exposure to the sub-prime or collateralised debt Bank and MCB Bank, as well as the Thai companies, obligation problems in the US.
These banks benefit from Land & Houses, a real estate developer in Bangkok and the rapidly growing consumer credit business especially Chiangma, and PTT, Thailands only fully-integrated gas when their governments initiate efforts to encourage local company, resulted in the largest negative attribution consumption.
In Taiwan, the Company increased its holdings in Novatek during the period, The continued trend of outsourcing of services to Indian while added exposure to Taiwan Semiconductor consulting companies should lead to higher corporate Manufacturing, because of the improved political earnings.
Thus, exposure to the sector was increased via situation and the continuing consolidation of the the purchase of Tata Consultancy and Infosys technology sector.
Remaining confident of the long-term Technologies, two major IT consulting companies in potential of its holdings in PTT, Land & Houses, Faysal India.
Bank and MCB Bank, the Company increased its Selective additions were also made in consumer-related holdings in these stocks as recent market corrections sectors such as consumer electronics, automobile providing an attractive buying opportunity.
In emerging markets the long-term outlook for consumerism remains attractive due to relatively higher per capita income growth and TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 continued demand for consumer goods and services.
Key OUTLOOK investments include Victory City Industrial Holdings, In our opinion, the emerging markets economies are in Vtech Holdings, Denway Motor, which has a joint a position where economies, companies and individuals venture with Honda Motor for the production and are relatively well placed to overcome the global crisis.
selling of Honda Accord sedans, Fit and Odyssey MPV, We also believe that emerging markets will play a much and Walmex, the largest retailer in Latin America.
greater role in the global economy going forward.
They will emerge as leaders, due to their relatively stronger The availability of more attractive stocks elsewhere in the macroeconomic and financial positions.
investment universe and the attainment of target prices led to selective sales during the reporting period.
This Asia is the worlds largest emerging market region.
Asian reduced the Companys investments in Brazil, the Hong countries are also growing relatively fast.
They include Kong-listed H shares and South Korea.
These sales countries like China and India with very large reduced the Companys exposure to the electric utilities, populations whose per capita income is still growing coal & consumable fuels, oil & gas refining & marketing strongly, and whose capital markets are undergoing rapid and wireless telecommunications services sectors.
Economic growth remains relatively high, sales included Yanzhou Coal Mining, a major Chinese valuations remain attractive and reforms continue, thus coal exporter, Copel, an integrated electric utility in improving the regions business and investment Brazil, and Turkcell, a key provider of mobile environment.
Valuations in Eastern European markets are also attractive, indeed very attractive in markets such as On 30 April 2009, the cash component of the portfolio Hungary and Turkey which are trading at single-digit had increased to 2.5% from 1.0% at the beginning of the P E ratios.
Russia, with its huge land mass, large period.
The Company strives to remain virtually fully population and abundant natural resources could invested to ensure that it is well positioned to benefit become one of the worlds fastest-developing economies from the developments in emerging markets.
Most Latin American economies are faring relatively well, taking into account the current global macroeconomic conditions.
There are some countries which are more prone to the global downturn.
Mexico, for example is one, but greater intra-regional trade has offset some of the adverse impact of lower export demand from the US.
One of the regions main attractions is its huge consumer market with pent-up demand for goods and services and world-class companies that are at the same time underleveraged and inexpensive.
In addition, the regions 14 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Mark Mobius with some of his senior team    markets.
natural resources are among the largest in the world.
Mexico is a net exporter of oil: Brazil is a major exporter of iron ore, and soft commodities such as soybeans and coffee.
While commodity stocks have been negatively affected by the recent decline in commodity prices, many companies are still profitable at current price levels.
While overall global growth has slowed, emerging markets are still expected to grow at a much faster rate than developed markets.
The accumulation of foreign exchange reserves also puts emerging economies in a much stronger position to weather external shocks with reserves, for example, in China, totalling nearly US$2 trillion.
Most importantly of all, for us as value investors, the current valuations of emerging markets are attractive and we continue to be able to identify companies whose share prices do not take full account of their long term potential.
We believe the portfolio is extremely well positioned to capitalise on these undervaluations.
D. Templeton Asset Management Ltd. 12 June 2009 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15
