Key personnel The ability of the Company to achieve its investment objective is significantly dependent upon the expertise of the Investment Manager and its ability to attract and retain suitable staff.
The Company is also reliant upon the skills of its Directors and the loss of any of these individuals could reduce its ability to achieve its planned investment objectives.
The Company and the Investment Manager have endeavoured to ensure that the principal members of their management teams are suitably incentivised, but the retention of such staff cannot be guaranteed.
Operational risk Like many other investment trust companies, the Company has no employees.
The Company therefore relies up on the services provided by third parties and is dependent upon the control systems of the Investment Manager and the Companys service providers.
The security, for example, of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, accounting records and maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements depend on the effective operation of these systems.
These are regularly tested and monitored and an internal control report, which includes an assessment of risks together with an overview of procedures to mitigate such risks, is prepared by the Secretary and Administrator and reviewed by the Audit Committee annually.
The global custodian JP Morgan produces an annual SAS 70 report which is reviewed by its auditors and gives assurance regarding the effective operation of controls.
The Directors, on an annual basis, receive a risk and control report.
This report identifies the areas of risk and the controls that have been put in place to mitigate these risks.
Additionally, the Directors have sought to ensure that the Companys service providers have adopted an appropriate framework of controls which is designed to monitor the principal risks facing the Company, and to provide a monitoring system to enable the Directors to mitigate these risks.
Further information on the risks that TEMIT is subject to is also detailed in Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
FINANCIAL Share Capital Changes in the share capital of the Company are set out in Note 10 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Going Concern The Directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, as such, a going concern basis is appropriate in preparing the Financial Statements.
The Directors anticipate a successful outcome in the upcoming continuation vote following feedback from major shareholders and brokers.
Therefore, the Directors see no reason to present this report other than on a going concern basis.
Change of Financial Year End To allow shareholders to more readily compare the Companys performance with that of its peers, it is the Directors intention to change the Companys financial year end to 31 March.
The quarterly reporting periods would therefore end on 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December each year.
The next full set of financial statements will be made up for the eleven months to 31 March 2010.
Creditor Payment Policy Investment transactions are settled by the Company in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant market.
While the Company follows no formal code, its policy is to agree the terms of payment at the start of business and ensure that the supplier is aware of the terms of payment.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided that the supplier is also complying with all the relevant terms and conditions.
For the year ended 30 April 2009 the number of trade broker creditor days was 1 day 2008: 1 day.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27
