DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED SERVICEPROVIDERS Investment Manager During the year, Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML acted as Investment Manager to the Company under an investment management agreement and received from the Company a monthly fee at an annual rate of 1.00% of the total net assets of the Company.
The investment management agreement between the Company and TAML is of an unlimited duration and may be terminated by either party but in certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay compensation to TAML of an amount up to one years management fee.
Compensation is not payable if at least one years notice of termination is given.
The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of investment management services to the Company on an ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted annually.
When assessing the performance of the Investment Manager, the Board believes it is appropriate to make this assessment over a medium to long term timeframe which is in accordance with the long term approach taken to investment.
In the opinion of the Directors, the continuing appointment of TAML on the agreed terms is in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
The Directors believe that TAML is well positioned to act as Investment Manager to the Company and well resourced to identify attractive investment opportunities and this is evident by the Investment Managers performance to date.
Secretarial and Administration Managers During the year FTIML acted as Secretary and Administrator of the Company.
The fee paid to FTIML for this is an annual rate of 0.20% of the total net assets of the Company, payable monthly.
The agreement between the Company and FTIML may be terminated by either party but in certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay compensation to FTIML of an amount up to one years secretarial and administration fee.
The Directors also keep under annual review the performance of FTIML as secretarial and administration managers.
Custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank acts as global custodian to the Company and receives a fee for the provision of custody and nominee services to the Company under a custody agreement which contains provision for the exclusion or limitation of liability as set out in the custody agreement.
The custody agreement may be terminated by either party giving the other 60 days notice.
Corporate Stockbroker The Company announced the appointment of Winterflood Investment Trusts as its corporate stockbroker on 8 January 2009.
Winterflood replaced UBS Limited who previously held this appointment.
CORPORATEGOVERNANCE The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the Company applies the principles identified in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006.
It also makes reference to the Companys adherence to the Code of Corporate Governance of the Association of Investment Companies AIC.
Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance The Board considers that the Company has complied with the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006 throughout the year ended 30 April 2009.
32 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC
