DIRECTORSREPORT The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2009.
BUSINESSREVIEW Principal Activity and Investment Status The Company is registered as a public limited company in terms of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company is an investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has directed its affairs so as to be able to continue to seek approval as an investment trust from the HM Revenue & Customs under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
Investment Policy The objective of the Company is to provide long-term capital appreciation for its shareholders through investment in companies operating in emerging markets or whose stocks are listed on the stock markets of such countries.
No material change will be made to this policy without shareholder approval.
The Investment Manager employs a bottom-up, value oriented, long-term approach to investing.
It focuses on the market price of a companys securities relative to the Investment Managers evaluation of the companys long-term earnings, asset value and cash flow potential.
As it looks for investment, it focuses on specific companies and undertakes in-depth research to construct an action list from which it makes its buy decisions.
Before a purchase is made, it looks at the companys potential earnings and growth over a five-year horizon.
During its analysis, it also considers the companys position in its sector, the economic framework and political environment.
Risk is spread by investing in a number of holdings, some of which themselves are diversified companies.
Where possible, investment will generally be made directly in the stock markets of emerging countries.
Where the Investment Manager determines appropriate, for example to gain access to markets closed to foreign portfolio investors, investment may be made in emerging markets through collective investment schemes, although such investment is not likely to be substantial.
In addition, investment in companies listed on more developed countries stock exchanges may also be made where those companies have a significant source of their revenue from emerging countries.
The Investment Manager does not anticipate investing a significant part of the Companys assets in such companies.
In any event, Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML or the Investment Manager, as the Investment Manager to the Company, will invest directly only in countries where it is satisfied that acceptable custodial and other arrangements are in place to safeguard TEMITs investments and in companies with perceived satisfactory procedures.
It is intended that the Companys funds will normally be invested in equity investments: the Investment Manager may invest in equity-related investments such as convertibles where there are perceived to be advantages to so doing.
The portfolio will frequently be over-weight or under-weight against the index.
This is consistent with its investment approach of long-term value investing.
The Investment Manager evaluates investment opportunities with updated financial ratios on a daily basis, and adjusts the portfolio to seek optimal exposures to stocks which are assessed to be best bargains in global emerging markets.
The Investment Manager searches for well-managed companies assessed as undervalued, especially those that are outof-favour among investors.
On the other hand, the Investment Manager sells companies that, in its opinion, are overvalued, typically when the earnings prospects or underlying net asset values are fully recognised by other investors.
The Investment Managers investment research and portfolio construction processes may be summarised in five steps: 1 Identify Opportunities A master list is compiled which is screened for securities that meet certain market capitalisation and liquidity criteria as determined by the Investment Manager: TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23
