COMPANYSUMMARY Introduction Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC TEMIT is a closed ended investment trust whose shares are quoted on both the London and New Zealand Stock Exchanges: however the majority of its shareholders are based in the UK.
Objective The investment objective of TEMIT is to provide long term capital appreciation for its investors through investment in companies operating in emerging markets or whose stocks are listed on the stock markets of such countries.
Assets TEMIT is the largest emerging markets investment trust in the UK, with total assets of 1.2 billion as at 30 April 2009, investing in the stock markets of emerging countries.
However, investments in companies listed on more developed stock exchanges may also be made where those companies derive a significant source of revenue from emerging markets.
Management The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall strategy of the Company and monitoring performance of the Company.
The Board has appointed Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML or the Investment Manager as the Investment Manager of the Company to carry out day-to-day investment management services for the Company.
TAML has over 20 years of investment experience in emerging markets and approximately US$19 billion in assets under management.
TAML is part of the Franklin Templeton Group which has US$421 billion in assets under management as of 30 April 2009.
Share Capital At 30 April 2009 the Companys authorised share capital consisted of 1,362,419,566 Ordinary Shares of 25p of which 330,446,352 were issued and fully paid.
During the year the Company bought back 142,234,864 Ordinary Shares of 25p.
AIC The Company is a member of The Association of Investment Companies AIC.
How to Invest There are two ways of purchasing shares in TEMIT: 1.
Through the Templeton Investment Plan.
Through the Templeton Investment Plan, investors have a cost-effective and straightforward route for investing in TEMIT.
The Plan currently has approximately 4,800 members.
The Plan is designed to accommodate the needs of an investor, whether they wish to: invest a regular monthly or quarterly amount minimum 50 monthly or 150 quarterly.
make occasional lump sum investments initial minimum 250, minimum subsequent investments 50.
Directly in the stock market through a stockbroker.
For more information contact your financial adviser or call us free on 0800 305 306.
Alternatively, you can visit the Franklin Templeton Investments website at: www.
co. uk This report does not constitute or form part of any offer for shares or an invitation to apply for shares.
The price of shares and income from them can go down as well as up and you may not get back the full amount that you invested.
Past performance is no guarantee of future performance.
Currency fluctuations will affect the value of overseas investments.
Emerging markets can be more risky than developed markets.
Please consult your professional adviser before deciding to invest.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 1
