Directors Report Business Review Best Buy Europe Financial Performance Revenue up 15% to 3,563m, driven by market share gains and currency movements Headline EBIT down 33% to 101m, reflecting the tough economic environment and our pursuit of market share gains 7m of opex relating to the Big Box project First-time contribution of 8m from Best Buy Mobile, a year ahead of plan Operational Highlights Roll-out of laptop proposition to all UK stores and the majority of European stores Estimated 5% UK laptop share from a standing start Strong growth in handset market share Very strong growth in strategically important products such as mobile broadband and smartphones First new format mid-sized Best Buy stores opened, with a further 30-40 to follow this year Europe Best Buy Europe, in which the Group has had a 50% share since 1 July 2008, encompasses our retail operations across Europe and our share of profits in Best Buy Mobile in the US.
During the year we have made significant progress in evolving our existing customer proposition and product mix beyond mobile phones to include mobile broadband, laptops and other connected devices.
We have not only broadened the offer in our small stores but also introduced a slightly larger format, Wireless World, which embraces gaming and an extended laptop offer, as well as a Geek Squad technology support presence.
We have also laid the foundations for our Big Box consumer electronics format, which we plan to launch in the UK in spring 2010. www.
com 15 Directors Report Business Review Key Performance Indicators Strategy Connections m The Carphone Warehouse has survived Growing our market share of mobile and thrived in a highly competitive connections 12.5m mobile industry by constantly identifying Market share has long been a key 09 12.5 changes in consumer behaviour which element of our strategy.
Significant present opportunities if we address share makes us an important partner 08 11.5 them and threats if we do not.
Over the to network operators and handset 07 10.0 last two years we have been undergoing manufacturers alike.
The opportunity 06 8.2 our biggest evolution yet, as we for market share growth is greater in a address the opportunity presented weak handset market, as more marginal by the Connected World and this players struggle to compete with our Revenues bn governs the main elements of our proposition.
We estimate that our market divisional strategy.
share improved significantly year-on-year 3.6bn and we aim to deliver further strong gains Evolving the retail proposition over the next 12 months.
09 3.6 to embrace a broader array of 08 3.1 connectivity services Launching a multi-channel consumer 07 2.9 We have been very successful in electronics business developing our existing store proposition With our partners Best Buy, the 06 2.5 to offer a wider range of connected acknowledged global champions of devices, to reflect new services available Big Box consumer electronics retailing, in the market and customers changing we are planning to launch a major assault Headline EBIT m technology needs.
Mobile broadband, on the UK electricals market.
Our first laptops and smartphones have been out-of-town stores are scheduled to open 101m significant contributors to top line growth in spring 2010 and, if successful, we 09 101 this year.
Looking ahead, this is set to will roll out a presence across the UK 08 151 continue as we refine the small store supported by a full multi-channel service offer and roll out 30-40 of our new, offering.
We are confident that the planned 07 154 mid-sized stores.
investments will generate a new and 06 116 material leg of growth for the business.
Marketplace Trends Handset sales Western Europe European handset market units sold, millions After five years of strong and consistent 08 94.8 growth, 2008 witnessed a slight fall in the European handset market.
A combination 07 95.1 of market saturation, the macroeconomic 06 89.1 environment and a lack of new products 05 79.6 in the mid-tier all contributed to this decline.
At this stage we expect a similar Source: GFK trend in 2009, followed by stabilisation For the nine markets in which Best Buy Europe operates.
Laptop sales Western Europe Laptop sales and penetration units sold, millions The laptop market is set for continued 08 15.4 strong unit growth as prices fall, hardware becomes subsidised 07 10.9 with mobile broadband, and smaller, 06 7.6 netbook type products proliferate.
05 5.4 The market in Western Europe was up 41% in 2008 but is still only a fraction Source: GFK of the size of the mobile phone market.
For the nine markets in which Best Buy Europe operates.
16 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Business Review Best Buy Europe continued Headline Financials 100% basis 2009 2008 m m Revenue 3,563 3,091 Gross margin 1,033 940 SG&A 845 723 EBITDA 188 217 Depreciation and amortisation 87 65 Joint ventures 1 EBIT 101 151 EBIT % 2.8% 4.9% Short-Term Risks Best Buy Europes revenues grew Pre-pay connections were up 9% 15% to 3,563m, with 9% growth coming to 7.0m.
After a slow second quarter, and Challenges from the strength of the Euro year-onpre-pay sales picked up in the second year.
Headline EBIT fell 33% to 101m half of the financial year as we took A weak consumer 2008: 151m.
Although profitability fell significant market share from general environment and an uncertain year-on-year, we made significant retailers.
Although we initially thought outlook mean that the progress in the development of the that the pre-pay business would be business needs to remain business and are well positioned in terms more at risk from a more cautious flexible in its financial planning of market share, product diversification, consumer environment, any effects The launch of the Big Box an efficient cost base and the strength of were more than offset by our own consumer electronics our relationships with both vendors and strong market share gains.
proposition requires mobile network partners.
significant upfront investment Like-for-like revenue, stripping out the and a major commitment of During the year, we achieved total impact of new space, was up 7.9% and resource on which we may not connections of 12.5m, up 8% year-onat constant currencies, like-for-like achieve a satisfactory return year 2008: 11.5m, despite what we revenue was up 1.1%.
Currency movements could estimate to be a year-on-year decline in have a negative impact on the European handset market.
As a result Divisional gross margin fell 140 basis handset prices and erode we estimate that our market share has points year-on-year, from 30.4% to margins grown significantly, reinforcing our belief 29.0%.
This decline reflected both a in the value of our independent model in more aggressive trading stance, as we Failure to improve working capital management could the eyes of the consumer.
sought to use our scale and strong increase financing costs financial position to grow our market Subscription connections were also share, and the impact in our product up 8% to 4.8m 2008: 4.5m.
Growth mix of lower margin mobile broadband in subscription sales was driven by connections and our drive into the laptop high-end, internet-enabled handsets, market place.
and by mobile broadband connections.
Longer-Term Risks It is clear that mobile data, whether via We opened 180 stores during the year, and Challenges laptops or handsets, using 3G networks and closed or relocated 132, giving net or WiFi, is really taking off.
We have store additions of 48.
The total store Mobile networks may continue positioned ourselves well to capture this base was 2,459 at the year end 2008: to invest in their own rapid growth, as the connections figures 2,411, including 219 franchise stores distribution platforms and demonstrate.
In contrast, the market for 2008: 236.
Total average selling space seek to deal directly with their mid-tier handsets, the historical bread excluding franchises was up 8% to customers and butter of the subscriptions market, 122,470 sqm 2008: 113,438 sqm.
was in decline throughout the year.
There Including franchises, total average The rate of technological change may slow, reducing are now signs however, that the features selling space was up 7% to 131,137 sqm the need for customers to available in high-end devices are now 2008: 122,976 sqm.
upgrade their handsets cascading into the more mass market mid-tier ranges, and this segment of the During the year we reduced our plans We may experience significant handset market is beginning to show for fresh store openings based on our price competition in the signs of improving.
traditional store format after several consumer electronics market, years of rapid expansion.
We focused damaging the economics of instead on the most significant change our business plan Competition between network operators may subside, reducing incentives to customers www.
com 17 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Business Review Best Buy Europe continued to the in-store proposition achieved in planned for spring 2010.
We had the businesss history, which included originally scheduled the first store the introduction of a full laptop offer openings for the second half of 2009, across a significant proportion of the but the highly favourable property portfolio.
In October, we opened the first environment has presented us with of our new, mid-sized stores, which are increasingly attractive opportunities, up to 300 sqm, compared to our normal both in terms of locations and lease small store size of around 60 sqm.
As a result, we have chosen not mid-sized stores offer not only a much to rush, but to take our pick of the wider range of laptops, but also areas opportunities and ensure that our launch dedicated to gaming, wireless TV and has the most material impact.
We music services, all backed up by an incurred approximately 7m of costs in-store Geek Squad presence.
These relating to the launch during the year.
stores have performed very strongly, with excellent customer feedback, and we will Best Buy Europes Insurance business be introducing a further 30-40 over the continues to be an important contributor coming year, through a mix of new stores to the profitability of the business.
Customers value the protection it gives when they commit to a high value During the year we also trialled a major contract and receive a heavily change to how our sales consultants are subsidised, valuable mobile phone.
remunerated, with the introduction of Although performance earlier in the year higher base salaries and bonuses, to was relatively subdued, business picked replace the traditional mix of lower up in the second half.
We benefited from salaries and sales-based commissions.
the introduction of the laptop proposition Under the trial, bonuses are based on into the stores, and also from the a stores Net Promoter Score, which development of a combined insurance is a measure of the difference between and Geek Squad assurance policy, giving positive and negative customer customers not only protection against feedback.
The trial was a success and loss, but also access to technology we are now progressively introducing assistance from the Geek Squad.
this structure across the whole of the UK business.
There has been no Cash flow 100% basis 2009 2008 deterioration in sales performance as a m m result, and we believe that, over time, it Headline EBITDA 188 217 will create even greater trust in the brand in the eyes of customers.
Working capital 160 4 Capex 115 107 In the US, Best Buy Mobile had an Operating free cash flow outstanding year.
This business, in which pre-exceptionals 87 106 Best Buy Europe have a profit-sharing agreement, was launched two years ago White City, London We opened four new mid sized store Best Buy Europe saw an outflow on to reposition Best Buys mobile retailing formats last year show casing a much operating free cash flow of 87m 2008: operations with the assistance of wider range of laptops and connected inflow of 106m.
The adverse movement Carphone Warehouse.
Over the course devices alongside the core mobile was largely due to working capital, of the year its in-store presence has propositions.
particularly in the first half of the year.
been introduced across all of Best Buys Our working capital position reflected an Big Box stores in the US, delivering near increasing alignment of our interests with triple-digit rates of like-for-like growth our network partners, with commission and significant market share gains as a being deferred over the contract life result.
In addition, Best Buy have opened rather than paid up front.
Whilst not 33 standalone stores, taking the total affecting revenue recognition, this had to 39.
Our share of profits for the year an adverse impact on working capital.
was 8m and is expected to grow We have been working with the networks significantly in the year ahead.
and other key suppliers to limit further absorption of working capital, Since the deal with Best Buy, which experiencing minimal absorption in completed at the end of June, we have the second half of the year, and expect committed significant resource to the Big much-improved cash generation Box consumer electronics retail launch, in 2009-10.
Best Buy Mobile, USA Best Buy Mobile had an outstanding performance this year.
We have opened 33 standalone stores this year, taking the total to 39.
Best Buy Mobiles in store presence is now in every Best Buy Big Box store in the US.
18 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Outlook The impact of all of these effects is The short-term outlook for Best Buy expected to result in an EBIT margin of Europe is inevitably uncertain.
The Groups share of the taxed Economies across Europe are set to be profits of the division is anticipated to be in recession throughout 2009, and we in the 30-40m range.
do not expect the handset market to be immune to these wider pressures.
Cash flow for the division will be a major We have set our budgets for the year focus for the year and we are targeting with this in mind.
an operating free cash flow figure of 50m, after Big Box investments and Overall we expect revenues to be broadly start-up costs.
Capex for the core flat in 2009-10, excluding currency business is set to fall with the decline in effects.
We estimate that the handset new store openings, and we aim to market will fall slightly but that we will reduce working capital outflow materially Mobile Life Report 2008 continue to make market share gains, year-on-year.
We established Mobile Life in 2006 with connections approximately flat.
to better understand the impact of mobile phones on our customers In addition, the evolution of the retail Longer term, the outlook is very positive.
Mobile Life provides our proposition should see an increasing Tough trading conditions are effective at business with invaluable insights proportion of non-connection related taking out spare capacity and our which enable us to respond better revenue within the mix, with the result competitive position is improving.
We to our customers needs across the business, to deliver better product that from the following year, connections have made significant progress in solutions, to improve advice, and to will become a less reliable proxy for developing our retail model, and see provide superior customer care.
good prospects of material profits growth from Best Buy Mobile and Best For the full document visit: www.
com We expect gross margin to decline by Buy Big Box stores in the UK over the 25-50 basis points.
This reflects a next five years.
continuation of our trading strategy and further increases of hardware sales within the revenue mix.
However, the cost saving programme which we have undertaken during 2008-09 is expected to offset the impact of the gross margin deterioration at the EBITDA level.
We are planning for a minimal increase in the overall store count.
Our focus will be on further developing the retail proposition and opening 30-40 of our new, mid-sized format stores.
This should result in around 1-2% growth in average space for the year.
Our plans for the Big Box store openings will accelerate through the year and will result in start-up costs of approximately 30m, in line with the figure we indicated in October 2008.
This primarily reflects the costs of the team, research and consultancy fees and the pre-opening rents on the new stores.
Best Buy Mobile is set to grow profits strongly in the coming year, enjoying a full years trading out of all Big Box stores and further standalone store openings.
Best Buy Europes share of profits is expected to rise to 20-25m.
com 19 Directors Report Business Review
