Directors Report Governance Other Statutory Information Employment of disabled people Property, plant and equipment It is the Groups policy to encourage application for Movements in property, plant and equipment are set out in employment from disabled people and to assist with their note 14 to the financial statements.
In the opinion of the training and career development, having regard to particular Directors the current open market value of the Groups aptitudes and abilities.
Every endeavour is made to find interests in freehold land and buildings exceeds the book value suitable alternative employment and to re-train any employee by 7m at 31 March 2009 2008: 21m.
It is expected that any who becomes disabled while serving the Group.
capital gains would either be covered by capital losses or carried forward for relief against capital expenditure.
Employee involvement The Group places significant emphasis on its employees Significant shareholdings involvement in the business at all levels.
Managers are As at 4 June 2009, the Company had been notified, in remunerated according to results wherever possible and all accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency employees are kept informed of issues affecting the Group Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority, of the following through formal and informal meetings and through the Groups interests in the Companys shares: internal publications.
Members of the management team Percentage regularly visit all Group locations and discuss matters of Number of share current interest and concern with employees.
Name of shares capital D P J Ross 177,365,759 19.41% Supplier payment policy Jupiter Asset Management 29,570,218 3.24% The Groups policy is to agree terms of transactions, including payment terms, with suppliers and, provided that suppliers The total interests of the Directors are detailed in the Directors perform in accordance with the agreed terms, it is the Groups Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 38. normal practice that payment is made accordingly.
Details of the average credit period taken on trade payables are provided Going concern in note 20 to the financial statements.
On the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, the Directors are satisfied that the Group has Donations adequate resources to continue in operation for the The Group made charitable donations of 217,000 during the foreseeable future and consequently the financial statements year 2008: 220,000.
No political donations were made continue to be prepared on the going concern basis.
Auditors Contracts with controlling shareholders Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in There are no material contracts with controlling shareholders, office as auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be except as disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 33 proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Share capital The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Details of the movements in authorised and issued share 1 Portal Way capital during the year are provided in notes 24 and 25 to London W3 6RS the financial statements.
T S Morris Company Secretary 4 June 2009 www.
