Directors Report Business Review Other Financial Information Whilst profitability has suffered against the economic environment, we have areas of substantial progress for the Group to report.
Roger Taylor, Chief Financial Officer Joint ventures and associates accelerated a shift in its range of retail reflected in exceptional operating Alongside the results of Best Buy Europe stock away from mobile phones towards expenses.
The Best Buy Europe since the transaction with Best Buy, the laptops and other products, resulting in reorganisation is expected to yield Groups share of results of joint ventures an exceptional charge.
Exceptional costs annualised savings for the joint venture of and associates in the income statement associated with these programmes are up to 50m per annum, and has resulted includes our share of post-tax losses reflected in a post-tax charge of 11m in a post-tax charge through the results from Virgin Mobile, our French MVNO.
through the results of joint ventures.
TalkTalk Group also completed the transfer of its AOL Virgin Mobile had a second successful Prior to the transaction with Best Buy, network operations, hosting, billing year of customer growth, adding over the Group conducted a review of its and customer management from a 300,000 customers and bringing its base central support structures, particularly transitional platform provided by AOL to over 1.1m customers, of whom 44% in relation to its retail and distribution Time Warner onto the Groups own are subscription.
Our share of losses business, to achieve greater divisional systems, at a cost of 16m, shown for the year was 8m.
The business autonomy and efficiency.
This review within exceptional operating expenses.
continued to invest significantly in resulted in a reorganisation programme brand-building and customer recruitment, that is expected to yield savings of Additionally, an exceptional foreign and while it will record further losses in 7m per annum.
Redundancy and other exchange loss of 85m has arisen in the 2009-10, broadly in line with 2008-09 restructuring costs that have arisen as year following a change in the functional levels, as it continues to invest in growth, a result of the programme are reflected currency of the Groups brand company we expect it to move to profitability at the in a post-tax charge of 9m in from Swiss Francs to Sterling.
The EBITDA level on a monthly basis in the discontinued operations.
transaction with Best Buy necessitated second half of this year.
a change in the operations of the brand Further to the divisionalisation process, company, which in turn made Sterling Exceptional items both TalkTalk Group and Best Buy the appropriate functional currency.
The disposal of 50% of the Groups Europe have undertaken comprehensive As a result of the change, movements retail and distribution business gave reorganisation programmes in the on the brand companys Swiss Franc rise to a net gain after tax of 608m, second half of the year.
The TalkTalk borrowings, which would have previously which is reflected in the results of Group programme is expected to been recognised through reserves, discontinued operations.
Indirect generate annualised savings of were thereafter reflected in the income costs of 6m after tax also arose as approximately 10m per annum, and statement.
These borrowings were a result of the transaction.
Further has resulted in redundancy and other converted into Sterling before 31 March to the new partnership, Best Buy restructuring costs of 10m, which are 2009.
A tax credit of 24m has been Europe commenced the disposal of recognised in respect of this loss.
approximately 100 stores, and 20 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2009 The Group no longer has any material Europe at the end of March, and total net Balance sheet exposure to movements in the Swiss debt including Group borrowings to fund The transaction with Best Buy has Franc.
resulted in the deconsolidation of the The loans were provided under a 475m Best Buy Europe balance sheet and the Finally, the Group fully impaired its revolving credit facility, half of which is Groups share of Best Buy Europe is now legacy wireless internet investments, guaranteed by Best Buy Co. Inc. shown in interests in joint ventures and resulting in a non-cash charge of 5m associates.
Best Buy Europe had net debt of 47m at the end of the year, comprising loans Group net assets have increased from Amortisation of acquisition from the Group of 293m and net cash 651m to 1,116m.
Goodwill, other intangibles and other borrowings of 246m: Best intangible assets, property plant and The amortisation charge in respect Buy Europes net cash and other equipment, current assets and current of acquisition intangibles amounted borrowings are not consolidated into liabilities have all reduced significantly to 71m 2008: 75m, primarily in our Group results.
The Groups effective year-on-year as a result of the relation to AOL.
net debt, including the Groups share deconsolidation.
Loans to Best Buy of Best Buy Europe net debt, was Europe are shown separately in the Interest and taxation therefore 182m.
Net interest of 4m was payable during the year, a substantial reduction in the The principal components of TalkTalk Foreign exchange charge for 2007-08 of 45m, as a result Groups operating cash flows are A large proportion of the Groups of the proceeds from the transaction detailed above.
borrowings at the start of the year were with Best Buy.
The effective tax rate held in Euros and Swiss Francs, as a on Headline profits from continuing The Group received gross proceeds of hedge against non-Sterling assets.
The operations excluding joint ventures was 1,041m from the transaction with Best part-disposal of the Euro-denominated 17% 2008: 50%.
The tax rate benefited Buy.
Other cash movements reflect businesses within Best Buy Europe has from the recognition of previously operating cash flows prior to the substantially reduced the Groups unrecognised tax assets.
transaction shown in the Group cash requirement for Euro hedges, although flow as discontinued operations, the some hedges remain in respect of the Earnings per share EPS removal from Group debt of Best Buy Groups investment in and funding to Headline EPS was 12.6p, a reduction Europes cash and debt, and share Virgin Mobile France and on cash flow of 18% year-on-year 2008: 15.2p.
capital invested in the business since hedges for TalkTalk Group.
In the prior year, other cash reflecting the gain on the transaction movements reflect Best Buy Europes The further weakening of Sterling during with Best Buy.
operating free cash flow, together with the year caused significant currency net disposal proceeds of 34m.
outflows in relation to Swiss Francs.
Group cash flow However, the change in the functional The principal acquisition cost in the year currency of the Groups brand company 2009 2008 was the final deferred consideration from Swiss Francs to Sterling during m m payment of 70m for the AOL acquisition.
the year and redenomination of its TalkTalk Group 40 44 borrowings have materially eliminated Tax and interest reflects a sharp the Groups exposure to Swiss Francs by Best Buy Europe reduction in year-on-year interest costs, the end of the year.
Gross disposal proceeds 1,041 and continuing minimal tax payments, Other cash movements 106 140 reflecting the substantial tax losses Financing and treasury Exceptionals available to TalkTalk Group.
The Groups operations are financed by cash element 20 15 committed bank facilities, retained profits Acquisitions net 76 68 Dividends and shares include the and equity.
The Groups committed bank Tax and interest 4 45 acquisition of 24m Group shares into our facilities are a 550m revolving credit Employee Benefit Trust earlier in the year facility RCF, which is used for working Dividends and shares 89 17 to avoid future dilution from the exercise capital purposes, and a 375m term loan.
Other 16 20 of share options, at a cost of 53m.
The facilities mature in March 2013 and Net cash flow 770 69 October 2012 respectively.
The terms Dividends of both facilities are similar and the Opening net debt 843 618 We are proposing a final dividend of covenant packages are identical.
Foreign exchange 86 156 3.00p per share 2008: 3.00p, taking The Group was in compliance with Closing underlying the total dividend for the year to 4.35p, the covenant conditions of both facilities net debt 159 843 which represents an increase of 2% on at the year end.
last year, and which against Headline The Group had underlying net debt at earnings provides dividend cover of Most uncommitted money market loans the year-end of 159m.
In addition, the 2.9 2008: 3.7. have been terminated as a result of Group had used its committed facilities banks credit constraints, although some to provide funding of 293m to Best Buy overdraft facilities are still in use to provide working capital flexibility.
com 21 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Business Review Other Financial Information continued Funding of our subsidiaries is arranged above.
Further details of the Groups centrally with an emphasis on tight cash financial risk management arrangements control and efficient cash management.
are provided in note 22 to the financial All funding is provided on an arms length statements.
basis and currency risk is ordinarily hedged using foreign exchange swaps The Directors, in their consideration or currency borrowings.
Other than of going concern, have reviewed the intercompany loans and capital funding, Groups future cash forecasts and balance sheet translational risk is not revenue projections, which they believe hedged against adverse movements in are based on prudent assumptions, exchange rates and the results of any and based on those forecasts and such movements are taken to reserves.
projections, that it is appropriate to The Group is exposed to limited crossprepare the financial statements of the border transactional commitments and, Group on the going concern basis.
where significant, these are hedged at inception using forward currency In arriving at this conclusion, they have contracts.
noted that at 31 March 2009 there was substantial headroom against committed Group committed debt facilities have banking facilities and that these facilities been used to provide a 475m RCF do not start to mature until 2012. to Best Buy Europe.
This RCF has terms that are broadly similar to the Groups Return on capital employed main external facilities, including a Total shareholders funds at March 2009 debt:EBITDA covenant, and its final were 1,116m, compared to 651m at maturity date is 13 March 2013.
After taking into account Under this RCF 50% of drawings are average net debt, excluding debt used guaranteed by Best Buy Co. Inc. to fund Best Buy Europe, and adjusting for the amortisation of acquisition Treasury policy permits the use of intangibles and exceptional items, the long-term derivative treasury products Group generated a return on capital for the management of currency and employed from continuing operations interest rate risk and the Groups interest of 8.4% 2008: 2.2%.
The return on rate exposures are monitored regularly.
capital employed from continuing More generally, the Group treasury and discontinued operations was function seeks to follow treasury best 8.4% 2008: 12.0%.
practice as recommended by the Association of Corporate Treasurers Assuming a weighted average cost and adheres at all times to their Ethical of capital for the period of 5.8% Code.
The Group does not trade or 2008: 6.5%, this represents an speculate in any financial instruments.
economic value added in respect of continuing operations of 36m Going concern 2008: -60m or 2.6% 2008: -4.3%.
A review of the Groups business Economic value added for all operations activities, together with the factors likely on the same basis was 36m 2008: to affect its future development, 76m or 2.6% 2008: 5.5%.
performance and position are set out elsewhere within this Business Review, including the Risks and Uncertainties section.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are shown in the balance sheet, cash flow statement and accompanying notes to the financial statements.
Further information concerning the Groups financing arrangement and policies are set out in the Financing and treasury section 22 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2009
