SIGMA SHARES Managers Report Sigma Share Class Marcus Phayre-Mudge MRICS Fund Manager 4 June 2009 Introduction In the year to March 2009, smaller property companies underperformed larger ones.
This is to be expected when one considers that in equity bear markets investors aversion to illiquidity increases.
The real estate sector has a long tail of smaller companies, in fact as at the end of March 2009 there were 67 companies out of 80 in the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Index with a market capitalisation of less than 1bn.
However, they accounted for only 38.6% of the total index capitalisation.
Another overriding feature of this bear market has been the increased levels of volatility and the activity within the fund reflects this.
I highlighted in the Interim report that the process of transition from a portfolio dominated by large cap stocks 64% of the portfolio at its creation in July 2007 towards its intended portfolio of smaller companies, had been much slower than envisaged.
Maintaining this slow pace of conversion proved to be the correct top down strategy as large cap stocks have outperformed their smaller brethren.
That said, the pace of conversion did accelerate in the last quarter of the financial year and by March 2009 more than 75% of the portfolio comprised small cap stocks.
I adopted a defensive position throughout the year holding significant levels of net cash.
Sigmas cash position started the financial year at 5% of net assets, rose to 16% at the half year and was 17.0% at 31 March.
The maximum amount of net cash held at any point in the year was 21%.
This strategy has been a critical part of the relative outperformance and reflects our concerns over the year.
TR Property Investment Trust 31 SIGMA SHARES Managers Report continued Performance See-Through Portfolio by Market % In the year to March 2009, the Sigma share class NAV fell 31 March 31 March 31 March 2008 2009 2009 by 43.5%.
This compares with an even larger decline of UK SIGMA Index SIGMA 51.2% in the benchmark.
In total return terms, the figures City Offices 2.9% 3.21% 1.37% are -42.3% for the NAV and -48.6% for the benchmark.
West End Offices 7.2% 5.33% 6.23% West End Retail 4.3% 2.12% 2.58% At the interim stage in September the equivalent figures Docklands 1.1% 0.12% 0.08% were -22.8% for the fund and -21.4% for the benchmark.
GLC SE Offices 9.6% 0.92% 0.92% Provincial Offices 0.5% 0.45% 0.33% Relative outperformance therefore occurred in the second In town Retail 6.6% 6.67% 7.31% half of the year, a period characterised by the acceleration Supermarkets 0.9% 0.81% 0.05% Retail Warehouses 2.7% 3.15% 1.91% of the deteriorating sentiment, asset values and share Out of Town Retail 0.8% 1.77% 0.11% prices.
SE Industrials 4.3% 3.12% 1.26% Other Industrials 1.5% 0.84% 0.34% Self Storage 2.7% 0.41% 2.72% For the second year in a row, I have to report that holding Leisure 0.6% 0.46% 0.58% Residential 2.7% 2.46% 1.61% a significant cash position was the right strategy.
There Other 1.0%0.73%0.10% were only short periods in the year when cash Total UK 49.3% 32.57% 27.50% underperformed property share prices broadly mid July, late October, and December in quite aggressive yet brief, Austria Offices 0.1% 1.51% 1.09% bear rallies.
However, the financial year ended with the Belgium Offices 0.4% 2.87% 3.72% Belgium Retail 0.2% 0.66% 1.49% commencement of a more robust rally from mid March.
Belgium Logistics 0.43% 0.42% Our own analysis shows that the small cap stocks within Central Europe Offices 0.9% 0.24% 0.21% Central Europe Retail 0.8% 1.56% 2.35% the benchmark underperformed large caps producing a Central Europe Logistics 0.2% 0.58% 0.13% price only return of -56% versus -51.2% for the large cap Central Europe Residential 1.0% 0.18% 0.77% Central Europe Other 0.6% 0.02% 0.28% dominated full benchmark price only return.
The Denmark 0.1% 0.36% 0.71% exception to this statement was the very weak Finland Offices 0.6% 2.26% 1.52% French Retail 7.4% 10.21% 12.12% performance of the UKs five largest companies in French Offices 5.7% 7.60% 9.03% November and December.
Quite correctly in hindsight French Logistics 1.3% 1.24% 2.02% French Residential 1.0% 1.39% 0.74% investors were concerned that these companies would French Other 2.0% 1.49% 0.81% require fresh capital to reinforce their balance sheets.
Four German Offices 3.3% 2.72% 0.71% German Retail 0.8% 1.18% 2.11% out of five did subsequently undertake rescue rights German Logisitics 1.1% 0.85% 2.26% issues in January and February resulting in significant German Residential 0.4% 4.74% 0.70% German Other 0.5% 0.10% 0.06% dilution for those existing holders unable or unwilling to Greece 0.8% 0.59% 1.17% take up their rights.
The fifth, Liberty International waited Italian Offices 1.4% 1.63% 1.60% Italian Retail 4.8% 1.96% 3.85% until the end of April and was able to take advantage of Italian Logistics 0.05% 0.00% the improvement in investor sentiment from mid March.
Italian Residential 0.2% 0.09% 0.18% Netherlands Offices & Industrial 1.4% 1.00% 2.76% Netherlands Retail 1.2% 3.39% 2.24% The dramatic weakness of Sterling versus the Euro and the Netherlands Residential 0.18% 0.09% Norway 0.0% 1.78% 1.19% Swiss Franc had a significant bearing on the performance Portugese Retail 0.09% 0.26% of the funds NAV and its benchmark both of which are Russian Offices 0.5% 0.07% 0.39% Russian Retail 0.3% 0.16% 0.26% denominated in Sterling.
By way of illustration, the Russian Industrial 0.02% 0.26% Eurozone constituents of the benchmark had a total return Russian Residential 0.6% 0.00% 1.13% Russian Other 0.1% 0.00% 0.03% of -48.8% for the year when measured in Euros.
The Spain 0.7% 2.29% 2.57% same stocks returned -40.5% in Sterling, such was the Swedish Offices 3.0% 3.57% 4.48% Swedish Retail 3.7% 1.83% 2.97% impact of the currency movement.
We undertook a Swedish Industrial 2.0% 1.24% 1.81% deliberate policy of retaining the majority of the increasing Swedish Residential 0.5% 0.04% 0.02% Swedish Other 0.7% 1.00% 0.79% net cash in Euros.
Switzerland 0.0% 3.37% 0.00% USA 0.63% 0.88% Other Overseas 0.5% 0.26% 0.32% Looking top down from the country level, our overweight positions in France and the Netherlands, coupled with our Total 100.0% 67.43% 72.50% 32 TR Property Investment Trust SIGMA SHARES Managers Report continued underweight exposure to Austrian stocks, were beneficial.
the end of last summer and was over 15% of net assets Whilst our exposure to Central and Eastern Europe by the end of August.
It is hard to imagine, given the significant underperformers, albeit heavily reduced over dismal performance of the sector over the year, that pan the year and our lack of significant positions in Belgium European real estate equities actually trended sideways and Switzerland relative outperformers were detrimental albeit with enhanced volatility for most of the second to relative performance.
quarter from June to late September.
The dramatic weakness in share prices in September and October Investment Activity offered us an opportunity to buy into a number of Sales exceeded purchases over the year and activity was oversold stocks and by early November net cash had greater than in the previous year both in absolute terms reduced to 11.5% of net assets.
Decembers bear rally and as a percentage of the portfolio.
offered a renewed selling opportunity and by Christmas the cash position was back over 18% of net assets.
The Including share buybacks, the investment turnover further deterioration in share prices in January and purchases and sales divided by two was 54m February again offered buying opportunities and at the equivalent to almost 50% of average shareholders funds year end net cash was down to 11.2%.
As the financial in the period.
Once again, this level of investment activity year ended and as highlighted in our Outlook the market reflects not only the continued rotation from large cap to had begun a significant rally.
smaller cap but also quite deliberate efforts, particularly in the second half of the year, to move away from At the year end the fund was 76.4% small cap stocks.
businesses that I felt would struggle in the current credit Alongside selling the large cap stocks and buying small starved conditions.
The focus was on capital structures caps, two other factors have assisted in the transition and cashflow.
I needed to feel comfortable that the process.
Firstly the market correction has led to a number businesses we invested in were not inappropriately of companies capitalisations falling below 1bn and thus leveraged, that their debt structures gave them flexibility entering our universe and secondly, the rescue rights to both dispose of property and take advantage of the issues carried out by four of the five largest UK property drop in short term rates and that their income streams companies.
Sigma sold both the ordinary shares and the were sustainable.
nil paid rights attached to the holdings of Land Securities and British Land, which significantly reduced exposure to The economic outlook changed dramatically in the period these large caps.
and likewise my views on what type of property business could survive and subsequently thrive.
As a result, the Largest Equity Investments expectation that most of our investment activity would The table on pages 40 and 41 shows the top 20 holdings comprise further rotation of large cap stocks into smaller at the year end.
Given the activity described above it is companies was only partially correct.
In fact over 60% of useful to compare these positions with the situation back the sales in the year were of smaller companies.
Large cap stocks in the top 20 holdings reflects the volatility of prices with increased turnover of now number just four: Unibail and Corio on the core holdings but also sales of smaller companies which I Continent, Land Securities and Hammerson in the UK.
These companies fall broadly Together these holdings account for less than 20% of the into three categories: those with too much debt, weaker assets.
Post the year end, Segro successfully completed business models development focus or overly its rights issue and is now once again a large cap stock.
operationally leveraged and those exposed to non-core European markets.
At the half year I commented that our largest positions had to have strong defensive characteristics to cope with I was acutely conscious of the deteriorating market the economic environment we found ourselves in.
Such conditions and varied both the cash position and the characteristics include lower than average leverage, high weightings to defensive stocks accordingly.
The cash quality portfolios focused on the core Western European position net of all outstanding settlements and accrued markets and low development or commited capital income to be distributed as dividends increased investment requirements.
Eurocommercial, which owns significantly in the first five months of the year through to shopping centres in France, Italy and Sweden, and was TR Property Investment Trust 33 SIGMA SHARES Managers Report continued just in the largest ten holdings at the half year, has now Comparing this years holdings with last years, investors will grown to become our second largest position.
This note five Continental stocks which have become important company exhibits all of these characteristics.
Our filtering holdings, namely Wereldhave, Silic, Befimmo, Deutsche process became even tighter as markets deteriorated and Euroshop and Vastned Retail.
These businesses operate in additions to my list of concerns included those a range of geographic and sectoral markets but they all businesses with high operational gearing as the downturn share a number of characteristics, namely lower than looked set to erode topline earnings.
In addition I became average gearing, greater security of income, high levels of concerned about a number of stocks which were occupancy and little or no development expenditure.
becoming temporarily we hope just too small and In the UK, Helical Bar successfully raised an additional risked being seen as beneath the radar by many 10% of equity in a placing in February this year.
This group will undoubtably prove a rich hunting entrepreneurial business does not buy and hold but buys ground of value in due course but in the latter part of and sells, usually with a joint venture partner providing the 2008 they were unpopular and overlooked.
As a consequence I believe that Exposure to Central and Eastern Europe was significantly these extraordinary market conditions are likely to reveal reduced in the second half of the year, selling out of opportunities for businesses such as Helical.
NR Nordic & Russia Properties, Plaza Centres, Orco, Although I continue to reduce our overall UK exposure, Mirland and Bulgarian Land Development.
Not only I have increased our holdings focused exclusively on were these businesses focused on the emerging eastern London and more particularly the West End.
Our positions economies, but their core businesses were invariably in Great Portland, Derwent London and Shaftesbury development focused.
All three of these businesses have successfully Other companies which I had invested in over 2007 and managed the timing of their development exposure and had performed well on a relative basis but which I felt have funded their limited capital commitments.
Central were unlikely to do so well in 2009 included Foncire London also remains the one market which has begun to des Murs focused on investing in mid range hotels attract international investors and is the first sub-market mostly operated by Accor in France, DIC Asset a well where we are beginning to see price stabilisation for high run but leveraged office investor in Germany and IFM quality assets let on long leases.
The weakness of Sterling German office developer.
A key common denominator is not only attracting investors but the majority of all for the core holdings is our belief in managements tourist dollars are spent in London.
capabilities and their ability to execute their chosen The two small cap stocks in the top 20 which I have not strategies.
However last year the judgement I needed to yet mentioned are CFI and Argan.
The latter was make was whether these business plans could be met in highlighted in last years report as a new holding.
This the deteriorating economic conditions.
St Modwen and conservatively run logistics business has weathered the Big Yellow Self Storage are two clear examples of this.
With 60% of the equity owned by Both businesses have sound management teams.
The management, they have been appropriately cautious, not former I commented on at the half year stage and as undertaking speculative development, and have stuck effectively manufacturers of oven ready housing land for rigidly to their geographic and market niche in France.
CFI residential developers, the demand backdrop has not is our newest investment.
It is a French SIIC which is improved and hence the holding was reduced by 90%.
controlled by a well regarded private equity house where For any self storage business such as Big Yellow, investors the former Chief Executive of Unibail Europes largest remain concerned that consumers will pull back from this listed property company is a senior partner.
The type of discretionary spend.
In the face of the slowdown, investment opportunity arose with the private placing of management have successfully renegotiated terms on 40% of CFI.
Under SIIC rules no single investor can hold their entire debt burden as well as placing their north of more than 60% of the equity and the capital raised will England properties in a joint venture with a longstanding be used to acquire assets opportunistically.
The first private equity partner.
The position was reduced by a purchase was a portfolio of cinemas in France.
We expect third but the stock remains in our top 20 holdings.
34 TR Property Investment Trust SIGMA SHARES Managers Report continued this business to source further value opportunities in this change.
In reality a number of factors led to earnings part of the investment cycle.
being greater than expected for the period to March 2009.
Firstly, the deceleration of the rotation away from Distribution of Assets larger stocks certainly helped as these larger companies The table on page 32 explains the see-through by all paid greater than average dividends which matched or country and sub-market and is set against the equivalent exceeded our expectations at least for the year to March for the benchmark.
For reference I have included the data 2009.
Allied to this was the smaller than expected for the previous year as there have been marked changes investment in non-income producing companies such as over the year.
The most striking adjustment has been the developers who tend to recycle cash rather than pay reduction in the exposure to the UK.
The increase in the cash position also flattered been focused on offices outside Greater London and the revenue account although the impact of this was industrials.
Central London office exposure has decreased largely in the first half, when overnight and short dated only marginally over the year although the City of London rates were considerably higher than in late 2008 and sub-market remain less than 3% of total exposure.
2009 following interest rate cuts by the Bank of England and the European Central Bank.
Set against these positive The increased geographical exposure has principally been factors, two of our important small cap holdings, Big to Belgium, France and the Netherlands.
In all three Yellow and St Modwen cut out their dividends.
Although countries the exposure to retail property has increased these two companies announced cuts early they have, significantly, whilst I have gravitated to higher office subsequent to the year end, been joined by others.
exposure in Paris and Brussels.
The latter in particular has proved appropriately defensive given its bias towards One important but ad hoc revenue item merits a full tenants involved in the European political apparatus.
As per the Ordinary share class, Sigma Continental retail property has the twin benefits of benefited from the receipt, shortly before the year end, of generally lower rents as a percentage of retailers turnover all the sums due in our outstanding claim for overpaid and a less indebted customer base than the UK.
Whilst the majority of this 0.807m has been credited to the capital account, the remaining receipt of As noted earlier, Central Europe is a far less important 0.445m has been taken to revenue.
This revenue item region than last year and our exposure is primarily limited is shown on the income statement on page 42 as split to residential rather than commercial property.
In central between 0.325m of write back of prior years VAT and as Moscow we have exposure to high-end developments 0.120m of accrued interest which is included in interest and in Budapest a portfolio of apartments rented by receivable and similar income.
These exceptional receipts international corporates.
Whilst in Poland, we have equate to post tax revenue of 0.27p per share.
maintained our investment in a mid-market housebuilder.
Although our residential investment in the UK is very When looking at the finance cost and taxation numbers, limited, we have maintained our position in high quality once again comparison cannot be made with the Paris apartments and more recently invested in Austrian previous period.
In fact, on an annualised basis, finance residential.
We continue to have virtually no commercial costs have fallen reflecting the complete absence of bank property exposure in Austria.
borrowings and the repayment of Sigmas share of the 8.125% debenture in November 2008.
The tax charge Revenue on the other hand, has risen significantly from 10.2% to It is not possible to make an exact like-for-like comparison 23.2%.
There are a number of reasons for this.
Firstly we with last years revenue earnings because the previous now receive most of our UK equity income as property period to March 2008 was less than 12 months Sigmas income distributions from REITs.
We receive these gross launch was in July 2007.
I also stated in the Interim that and treat them like rental income whereas in previous Sigmas revenue will be less predictable than the Ordinary years this income came in the form of dividends taxed at share class as the portfolio composition continues to source and not subject to further taxation in our accounts.
TR Property Investment Trust 35 SIGMA SHARES Managers Report continued Secondly as the cash balances have increased, so too has Cash, Gearing and Debentures interest income, which again is subject to corporation tax The changes in the cash position are well documented in the Trust.
To date we have had sufficient excess within Investment Activity such was its importance this expenses brought forward to be able to shelter this year.
Sigma had nil net debt throughout the year and the income from tax so this has not led to an increase in the net cash position fluctuated with my outlook for the quantum of tax actually paid, however, accounting sector.
At the start of the year it was 6.9m 5% of NAV convention requires that as the brought forward expenses and peaked over the summer months at 24m 21% of are utilised the full tax charge is applied to the income NAV.
By the year end the net cash was 8m 11.2% of account, reflecting the level of taxation which would be NAV.
All these figures are adjusted for the debenture applied if the relief was not available.
The contra-entry is debt, the cost of the final dividend and any outstanding within the 0.77m tax credit in the capital account tax rights issues commitments.
In reality the tax paid of 0.34m is largely the debenture was repaid.
The withholding tax on our foreign income which cannot be remaining debenture is repayable in 2016 and Sigmas recovered.
This is a relatively larger amount than the share is 2.85m.
Ordinary share class due to the larger exposure to The see-through leverage which adds the proportionate Continental stocks.
debt of all our equities to the on balance sheet cash or debt as in previous years fell steadily through the year.
Revenue Outlook This was not only due to the increase in our own cash The expectations for 2010 and beyond are tempered by position but also reflects the increasingly defensive several factors.
A number of companies have now positioning of the portfolio over the course of the year.
announced reduced or zero dividends as the risk to The see-through figure fell from 38.4% to 34.6% whilst earnings and the need to retain cash within their the benchmarks equivalent number rose from 42% to businesses became increasingly apparent.
In addition, 47% as asset values declined.
although the cash holding has been beneficial in preserving capital we expect interest income to remain The Trust maintains a 50m credit facility, of which modest.
The portfolio is now dominated by smaller Sigmas share is 10m.
This facility is currently unutilised.
companies and as already stated these have historically been lower dividend payers.
At the same time, the rotation of the portfolio has led to Marcus Phayre-Mudge increased exposure to Euro denominated stocks.
In the Fund Manager Sigma share class year to March 2009, 66% of income was from Continental stocks whilst 34% was from UK companies and this is positive from a revenue perspective.
The strength of the Euro in the first quarter of the new financial year has led to approximately a 15% increase in the Sterling value of Euro dividends received.
In the near term, we expect any cash we hold to continue to yield very little, however, once this capital is reinvested it is almost certain to yield more than cash.
Although the revenue outlook remains difficult to predict with any great certainty the timing of the receipt of dividends does give some assistance.
Broadly 40% of all dividends are received in the first quarter.
Our current expectation is in the region of 1.80p per share however we must be prepared for earnings disappointment from some quarters.
