THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Appointment of New Directors reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share The directors have determined that, due to the size of the price discount, contracts, investment policy, finance, risk, Board and the independence of each of its members, investment restrictions, performance, corporate there is no requirement for a separate Nominations governance and Board membership and appointments.
In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, The Board annually reviews its size and structure, and is all directors have full and timely access to relevant responsible for succession planning.
The Board has an information.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the open mind regarding the use of external recruitment Companys investment performance and considers consultants or internal process, and has, in the past, financial analyses and other reports of an operational chosen to combine both routes to ensure best practice.
The Board monitors compliance with the Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset Directors Training allocation, investment and gearing limits within which the When a new director is appointed, he she is offered Fund Manager has discretion to act and thus supervises training by the Investment Manager.
Directors are also the management of the investment portfolio, which is provided on a regular basis with key information on the contractually delegated to the Investment Manager.
Companys activities, including regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting The Board has responsibility for the approval of unquoted investments and any investments in in-house funds directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors ensure that they are updated on managed or advised by the Investment Manager.
It has also adopted a procedure for directors, in the furtherance regulatory, statutory and industry matters.
of their duties, to take independent professional advice at Board Meetings the expense of the Company.
The number of meetings of the Board and Committees Further details of the Boards consideration of key held during the year under review, and the attendance of operational matters is contained in the Business Review individual directors, are shown below: section of the Report of the Directors on pages 48 to 52.
Meetings Board Audit MEC Conflicts of Interest No.
of meetings in the year 6 2 1 The Companys Articles of Association were altered at Peter Salsbury 6 2 1 the 2008 Annual General Meeting, in line with the Companies Act 2006.
The Board now has the power to Caroline Burton 6 2 1 Richard Stone 5 2 1 authorise any potential conflicts of interest that may arise and impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
Peter Wolton 6 2 1 Hugh Seaborn 6 2 1 A comprehensive exercise was undertaken to identify the potential and actual conflicts of interest of the Paul Spencer 5 1 1 Directors and their connected persons.
The Board then In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, reviewed these conflicts and approved them excluding directors also attend a number of informal meetings to the Director to whom the potential conflict related.
A represent the interests of the Group.
register of conflicts is maintained and will be reviewed at least annually to ensure all details are kept up-to-date.
The Board In the future, appropriate authorisation will be sought The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of prior to the appointment of any new director or if any the Companys affairs.
Certain strategic issues are new conflicts arise.
monitored by the Board at meetings against a framework which has been agreed with the Managers.
Additional Internal Controls meetings may be arranged as required.
The Board has a The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its systems of internal controls and for reviewing their decision, which are categorised under various headings, effectiveness.
The Investment Manager is responsible for including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial the day to day investment management decisions on TR Property Investment Trust 59 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued behalf of the Group.
Accounting and company secretarial steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those services have both been outsourced.
that are not directly their responsibility, and which report the details of any known internal control failures.
The The internal controls aim to ensure that assets of the Board also has direct access to company secretarial Group are safeguarded, proper accounting records are advice and services provided by Capita Company maintained, and the financial information used within Secretarial Services Limited, which, through its nominated the business and for publication is reliable.
Control of representative, is responsible for ensuring that the Board the risks identified, covering financial, operational, and Committee procedures are followed and that compliance and risk management, is embedded in the applicable regulations are complied with.
controls of the Group by a series of regular investment performance and attribution statements, financial and Voting Policy risk analyses, fund manager reports and quarterly control The Board has approved a corporate governance voting reports.
Key risks have been identified and controls put policy which, in its opinion, accords with current best in place to mitigate them, including those not directly practice whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial the responsibility of the Investment Manager.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed on a Relations with Shareholders continuing basis by the Compliance and Risk departments Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the of the Investment Manager, the Administrator and the Board and the Investment Manager.
The prime medium Company Secretary.
Each maintains its own system of by which the Company communicates with shareholders internal controls, and the Board and Audit Committee is through the Interim and Annual Reports which aim to receive regular reports from them.
The control systems provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, Companys activities and their results.
This information assurance against material misstatement or loss and is supplemented by the daily calculation and by the to manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to publication at the London Stock Exchange of the Net achieve objectives.
Asset Value of the Companys Ordinary and Sigma shares and interim management statements.
As the Company has no employees and its operational functions are undertaken by third parties, the Audit This information is also available on the Companys Committee does not consider it necessary for the website, www.
co. uk together with a monthly Company to establish its own internal audit function.
Instead, the Audit Committee relies on internal control At each AGM a presentation is made by the Fund reports and other internal control reports received from its Managers following the business of the meeting.
principal service providers, particularly the Investment Shareholders have the opportunity to address questions Manager, to satisfy itself as to the controls in place.
to the Chairman and the Chairman of the Audit The Board has established a process for identifying, Committee at the AGM.
All shareholders are encouraged evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the to attend the AGM.
The process is subject to regular review by the It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Accounts and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders Directors on the Combined Code published in September so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the 1999 the Turnbull Guidance.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance The Board undertakes an annual review of the Groups of the AGM, or to contact the Board at any other time, are system of internal controls, and the business risks have invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the been analysed and recorded in a risk map that is registered address given on page 91. reviewed regularly.
The Board receives each quarter a formal report from each of the Investment Manager, the Administrator and the Company Secretary detailing the 60 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued General presentations are given to both shareholders and A.
4.1 The Board does not have a separate Nominations analysts following the publication of the annual results.
This function is carried out by the meetings between the Fund Manager and shareholders Board as part of the agenda of regular Board are reported to the Board.
2.1 The Board does not have a separate Remuneration Committee.
The functions of a Remuneration Good corporate governance extends to a companys policies on the environment, employment, human rights Committee are carried out by the MEC.
Corporations are playing an C. 3.5 As the Company has no employees and its increasingly important role in global economic activity and operational functions are undertaken by third the adoption of good corporate governance enhances a parties, the Audit Committee does not consider it companys economic prospects by reducing the risk of necessary for the Company to establish its own government and regulatory intervention and any ensuing internal audit function.
damage to its business or reputation.
Policies relating to physical property either held directly or by the companies in which the Trust invests, is described in the Directors Report under Environmental Policy on By order of the Board page 52.
For and on behalf of The Companys objective remains the long-term Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited maximisation of shareholders total return.
Secretary Compliance Statement 4 June 2009 The directors acknowledge that the Company did not comply with the following provisions of the Combined Code in the year ended 31 March 2009.
2.1 Due to the nature and structure of the Company the Board of non-executive directors do not feel it is necessary to appoint a chief executive.
3.3 A senior independent director has not been identified as the Board considers that all the directors have different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead when issues arise and to whom concerns can be conveyed.
A senior independent director will be appointed with effect from 1 August 2009.
