THE GROUP COMPANY Managers Report Ordinary Share Class & Sigma Share Class Market Background and Outlook Chris Turner MRICS Marcus Phayre-Mudge MRICS Fund Manager Fund Manager Ordinary share class Sigma share class Managers Report more severe decline than that recorded in other We have tried to make this section rather stronger on European real estate markets.
In part this reflected the outlook than history.
In doing so we assume that greater speed of decline of the UK economy relative to shareholders will be pretty familiar with the chain of the rest of the Europe, the higher levels of leverage in the events that has brought the world economy and stock UK and the widespread application of index linked rents markets to their current state, and, in any case, tackling on the Continent.
Valuation techniques have also had an the section this way also allows us to avoid too much use impact.
In the absence of transaction evidence, UK of tedious negative superlatives.
Nevertheless we do need valuers have been urged to use their judgement and to to sketch a picture of where we have been in order to take into account evidence of what property is not selling provide a context for expressing our views on the at a given price.
Continental valuers are generally happier potential trend in events over 2009 and 2010. to stay with the last transaction evidence even when this may be somewhat historic.
We need to be careful in The first core unknown is the extent and depth of the placing too much emphasis on monthly value current international recession.
Since early March global movements in making any long term judgement about equity markets generally have made a strong recovery, led the relative performance of various markets in such a by financial stocks including property shares.
thinking among buyers suggests that recovery is close at hand, though recessions accompanied by financial crises Certainly across both the UK and Europe there has been generally last twice as long as normal recessions.
There no really safe place to hide.
Everywhere the best relative have been so many twists and turns in 2008 that we can performance has come from properties with bond like only be sure that it is impossible to predict with any characteristics, let on ground leases or to Governments or certainty what lies ahead.
The current extreme volatility in blue chip companies on long unbreakable leases.
global share prices only reflects extreme swings in Conversely, empty buildings or properties let on short investor sentiment.
leases to small businesses are suffering the most severe value declines.
For commercial property the second core unknown is the speed and impact of the fide-gearing exercise that is In the UK, investment turnover has dropped very sharply, required across Europe.
The debt mountain is the but the market has not ground to a halt and recently industrys elephant in the room.
It is impossible to there has been a growing queue of cash buyers, seeking ignore but nobody talks about it because nobody knows longer term bond like income from investment grade what to do about it.
tenants the new definition of a prime property.
Bank finance is still quite scarce, with a modest maximum per Property Investment Markets property and per bank.
Loan rates and terms will be Pan-European commercial property investment markets tough relative to the recent past.
The sellers of high saw a sharp fall in both values and turnover over the past quality income streams have generally been exactly those twelve months.
The twin problems have been the onset who, a year ago, might have been predicted to be todays of the recession and the scarcity of credit.
On the basis of buyers open ended funds facing redemptions, life published indices UK values fell very rapidly an average insurance companies, and major property companies.
decline, March to March of some 30%, a more rapid and Well let prime buildings comprise maybe 10% of total TR Property Investment Trust 11 THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued stock.
Buildings not let to investment grade tenants or let for about 225 billion of this amount.
To put this into on leases with less than five years to run, that is to say, context, the same figure was 41 billion ten years ago and the bulk of UK commercial property, are still hard to sell in those ten years UK average commercial property values at yields below 10%, and, where the passing rent is have actually fallen by 5% according to the IPD Monthly above rental value, yields can be into the teens.
For the long term health of the banking industry buildings and development sites are rarely offered for lack those numbers ought to be halved over the coming years.
In short, a supermarket let to What has changed since we commented last November, is Tesco for another 25 years will bring in multiple offers, the value of the real estate against which this debt is probably at above asking price, while a nearby row of part secured.
In both the UK and Europe, values will have empty sheds will attract no interest whatever.
fallen by 10% or more and may have another 10% to 15% to fall from April 2009.
As a result, loan to value Very little debt distressed real estate has so far been ratios are being squeezed.
To put this into context, the brought to the block.
If, when and how this property finds total value of the UK commercial property market was its way back into circulation is the big unknown for UK estimated at 750-850 billion at its peak in mid 2007. and European property markets over the next three years.
The 40% decline seen since will have reduced this figure With cash earning virtually no income it is of no surprise to 450-510 billion, and another 10% to 15% decline that the prime market has reactivated.
Will those who from here implies a nadir value of 400m-450 billion, dont buy today have missed the boat?
We think not, in against which to set the 300 billion of debt.
Hopefully the sense that this is a huge boat which is stuck fast in these figures exaggerate the problem, but they lend some the mud.
It will require a sustained return to economic weight to those who believe that many leveraged investors growth combined with huge amounts of capital to get the or unquoted funds may now be in or close to negative entire commercial property market moving again.
The big equity and have little immediate chance of refinancing gains should lie further ahead, when empty or half empty without very substantial fresh equity capital.
buildings can be bought from distressed owners for well below construction costs, filled with occupiers and turned Few banks yet appear to have taken any significant writeinto investments again.
downs on their commercial property exposure.
Almost every bank is taking steps to avoid foreclosures where So what might be the trend in average UK commercial interest continues to be paid, and is using LTV breaches property values over the next two years?
We noted in our as an opportunity to widen spreads and change loan last interim comments that pricing in the IPD Index terms subject, usually, to substantial upfront fees.
Loan derivative market was proving a more reliable guide to extensions and the provision of some short term flexibility events than agents research.
Current pricing offers two to distressed owners is currently the order of the day.
Firstly that average capital values will result the pipeline of distressed commercial property fall by 24% in calendar 2009, by a further 6% over being offered into investment markets remains very 2010.
Secondly, and more controversially, pricing implies modest.
In truth, the banks have little incentive to act that the recovery in values in 2011-2013 will be just 1% differently given the mayhem that assertive action might to 3% pa, that is to say, very anaemic, suggesting, cause both to their own precarious balance sheets and to possibly that values will be pinned down while mess in the market in distressed assets.
the debt market is mopped up.
Interestingly Halifax House Price Index derivative pricing also points to a nadir So can the policy of doing nothing succeed in making the in 2010, then prices in a quite rapid rebound in values in problem go away?
It is possible, but it seems unlikely.
We the subsequent three years.
Maybe a house will be a would need a scenario in which an early and sustained better investment over the next five years than a recovery in economic growth might, if combined with commercial property.
renewed fears of significant future inflation, result in a sudden positive step change in both tenant and investor Debt demand for commercial real estate.
The result could be The quantum of bank, corporate and mortgage debt an early renewal of value growth which could restore LTV outstanding against commercial property appears to have covenants or allow the banks to foreclose on assets changed very little since last November.
At that time, in the knowing there was a ready market for them assisted by a interim report, we noted that it was estimated that around renewed desire from the banking industry to offer new e1,000 billion was then owed across Europe of which commercial loans.
close to 300 billion is in the UK.
UK banks alone account 12 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued We have no special insight into the speed of the 2010.
Projected falls over this period now range between economic recovery, but the events of the past year make 10% and 30% depending on the type of property and it unlikely that most businesses will start to hire staff and the existing vacancy rate in the locality.
The average UK lease floorspace until a recovery is very well in trend.
vacancy rate is now 12% with industrial and storage Inflation worries must be considered more likely.
The space showing an average of 16%.
concept of printing money through quantitative easing In recent recessions average headline rental values have causes many people unease.
While the velocity of money never fallen very far in statistical terms.
Landlords remains so weak and there is so much slack in the generally prefer to maintain their headline asking rents to economy, inflation may not be a danger, but the defence avoid affecting the value of their neighbouring property mechanisms of many investors are tuned into the thought and to lease on terms that offer rent free periods and that hard assets might not be so undesirable at some other incentives to mask the true underlying or effective time in the not too distant future.
What is different now is both the speed and If playing for time is not the answer, then the commercial severity of this recession and the presence of extra factors property market does face a long drawn out and hard at work in the market.
The first factor is the level of refinancing road lasting perhaps five to seven years.
We leverage across the industry.
Almost all loans have income think that e1,000 billion of debt probably needs to be cover covenants.
This means that indebted owners are halved over time.
Many European banks will be under less able to afford the luxury, in time and income loss, of pressure to prioritise fresh lending to the business and holding out for their required rent, but rather need to residential sectors.
All banks will be keen to avoid lending replace as much of their lost income as they can with as more than 70% loan to value, so, unless values leap from great a speed as possible.
The second factor, applicable in just their current levels, the banks will have to get their the UK, is the sharp increase in the empty rates charges capital back from fresh equity lured into the property market introduced recently by the Government.
Empty rates are by bargains.
If we cannot find this equity then distressed now a severe tax on vacant space, and thus add further asset sales accompanied by substantial and permanent to the desire of owners to take whatever rent they can for write-downs for the banks, will be the order of the day.
In space as quickly as possible.
the UK a substantial number of commercial property loans How far can rental values fall?
And will a sharp fall in may now be covered by the Governments asset protection rental values of itself increase the demand for space?
scheme, and here, and in Eire, it may well be unhappy tax Property is a very inelastic commodity, you cant build it payers who finally pick up the tab for this mess.
without considerable bureaucracy, you cant move it about like oil or gold and pulling it down is a last and rather Rental Values and Tenant Demand extreme resort.
The City of London office market is an Rental values are now in decline for almost all types of interesting example.
Here a wave of new construction commercial property both here and on the Continent.
completions are coinciding with the banking crisis.
The Through 2008 they showed remarkably little change.
In vacancy rate has doubled from 6% to 12% in 12 months the UK the IPD benchmark recorded falls of only 1% over and headline rental values for Class A space have the year in headline rental values.
Most locations have probably dropped by 25% from 60 to 45 per square started the recession with lower vacancy rates than seen foot in the same period.
Rent free periods are now in the early 1990s, thanks to the absence of a general around 1 year for every 5 on the lease, so underlying development boom in the period 2004-2007. rents are commensurately lower.
With 5% by total Into 2009 the situation has markedly worsened with volume still under speculative construction and City net average declines of over 1% per month now being employment growth unlikely to re-occur for some while, recorded.
On the Continent rents payable are generally the outlook is not good.
If rents continue to tumble new indexed annually to prices so that they actually rose in occupiers can be attracted in by price, but only at the cost 2008, though rental values did not.
The unemployment of demand and increasing supply elsewhere in London.
numbers are, and will be, the key statistic to watch.
Aside from retailers, business tenants have no normal Redundancies go hand in hand with lower requirements incentive to take more space than they need merely on for workspace, and lower disposable income.
forecasts have recently been aggressively downgraded to We are assured by the Government that we dont have suggest that a much sharper rate of rental value decline is enough houses in the UK, but do we have enough in prospect over the remainder of 2009 and through TR Property Investment Trust 13 THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued commercial real estate?
With full employment and strong Liquidity remained reasonable in the larger stocks, but for net immigration during 2005-2007, real rental growth smaller companies, particularly those on AIM, the was still limited to a few choice locations.
Now, with marketability has often became non-existent for weeks on rising unemployment and net emigration, the property end with the eventual effect that large scale transactions industry may need to adjust to the idea that there is no in these stocks were either impossible or had to take permanent shortage of space and rental values can place at prices way below the official spread.
move both up and down, and that some tenants will With few honourable exceptions, the managements of the have to be accommodated on shorter leases with break more geared UK and European property companies clauses and that not all rent reviews must be upwards remained far too optimistic for far too long.
The implications of these adjustments may affect those with leverage, which in 2007 would have been investors attitude to the yield structure of the market classed as no more than modest, have found themselves over the next decade.
forced to be sellers of their most defensive assets or issuers of fresh equity at distressed price levels.
A long Property Share Background term lesson from the present events is that the mere Pan-European property shares fell by 51.2% in Sterling in having and holding of leveraged real estate on a long the year to end March 2009.
This was by far the worst term basis is not a perfect self contained business plan.
annual performance in the Sectors recorded history.
Share There is an urgent need in some property company price movements were dominated by capital structures.
As board rooms for little more strategic thinking and worldly a rule of thumb, the more leveraged the business the wisdom than evidenced in 2008. greater the share price decline.
High dividend yield was no defence.
Indeed once a dividend yield had passed into Earnings were broadly in line with expectations and double figures, investors merely assumed that a substantial without the adjustments for value movements, showed dividend cut must be coming soon.
little of the stress that affected balance sheets.
The outlook for earnings has deteriorated.
Over the next three years With property values in rapid decline, all net asset value rising vacancy rates will hurt top line income as will lease NAV results became too historic to be of immediate renewals at lower rents.
Meanwhile the savings from lower value.
Investors and brokers moved quickly to calculate interest costs will chiefly benefit Continental property future, or bottom of the cycle, NAVs, using indications of companies, while most of their UK counterparts have fixed future value movements from derivative pricing and other the bulk of their debt costs for some years ahead.
When the resulting future shareholders funds companies now selling assets on 8% yields to repay were stress tested into the current balance sheets the debt costing less than 6% may be saving their balance result was often alarming in terms of potential breaches sheets, but they will be hurting their earnings.
The precipitous decline of many property share prices across Europe to stand on Until Q1 2009, dividend cuts or omissions were barely on apparently enormous discounts to asset value, was based the agenda.
In the UK they are commonplace just four on far more logic than was apparent to many outsider months later.
Heavily leveraged companies have cut from commentators or indeed to the managements of many of expediency, the lighter leveraged to preserve cash.
Europe the heavily leveraged have also cut or omitted, but the lighter leveraged companies have maintained or Debt profiles and loan covenants and headroom became even slightly increased their 2009 payouts often with more important than asset profiles.
There has been a share alternatives priced to encourage shareholders to scramble for greater disclosure of the terms and take the stock to boost the equity capital.
Sadly, despite covenants involved in property company debt.
Over the representations, the UK Government has not, so far, year, it became apparent that many companies had faced allowed UK REITs to offer scrip alternatives to property and will face serious refinancing issues in the income distributions.
Those companies whose debt is entirely from banks have the advantage that their In the seven weeks from the second week of March, UK lenders may be anxious to avoid confrontation.
Those property shares rose as much as 65% while European with quoted bonds are not so fortunate as the bond stocks gained as much as 40% in Sterling terms since holders are likely to push for repayment if the loan terms when pricing has retreated somewhat.
The fastest risers are breached.
Almost all the recent rights and other equity have been the most endangered companies, whose issues have come from companies with quoted bonds.
14 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued share prices often represented option money ahead of to position their portfolios away from fixed interest and perceived bankruptcy or which were seen as unable to into hard assets to better withstand the return of refinance save on terms that would leave the existing sustained inflation.
It may well be wiser to borrow long shareholders with little of the equity.
These are the term at current interest rates than to lend, especially sectors zombies, and the list unfortunately includes some before bond markets are to be swamped with well known names whose boards might have been more Government debt.
The problem for property investors is alert when times were good.
The surge in their share little debt is available, the margins required are historically prices represents a re-pricing of the risk of total wipe-out, extreme and banks remain unwilling to lend against short and the increased belief that some, at least, of these or low quality income streams.
businesses will find enough external capital to restore Is commercial property cheap today?
Well it is when their balance sheets.
compared to prices two or three years ago, but those prices were set in a debt fuelled boom.
The rapid fall in Outlook UK property values and the decline of Sterling have made We are in uncharted territory.
The past recessions within London real estate a popular destination for overseas living memory offer only partial clues as to what may capital.
This has helped stabilise pricing for good quality happen next.
The range of potential outcomes, for both assets in both the residential and commercial markets, the local and global economies, is extremely wide in but risk premiums and yields are likely to remain very terms of the timing, strength and speed of the recovery.
high by historic standards until we have worked our way Powerful swings in sentiment will continue to produce back to increasing employment and rising tenant demand.
substantial volatility in stock pricing.
The speed of the decline in economic activity has now slowed markedly.
For most equity sectors the return of economic growth is The innate desire to be optimistic has fashioned a very expected to herald a sharp improvement in earnings per sharp and very welcome rally in equity markets on the share.
However for the quoted property sector the basis that less bad is a certain harbinger of good.
Cash earnings growth outlook over the next five years is not has also been burning a hole in some investors pockets.
The impact of rising vacancy and falling rental The bulls have chewed their finger nails for 2 years, now values will hit top line income slowly but steadily for it is the turn of the bears.
Certain economic forecasts several years to come.
Cost lines will receive relatively and particularly those linked to Governments are little benefit from lower interest rates.
Current average predicting a speedy revival of economic growth.
If this is debt costs for the quoted sector are around 5.5% in the correct we may have passed the nadir in equity pricing UK and 4.3% in the Continent slightly below the even if we have not passed the nadir of the recession.
current marginal cost of debt for good quality borrowers, However there are those wiser than ourselves who warn so refinancing brings no earnings benefit.
Meanwhile sales that any recovery will take much longer to occur and will of property at 7% and 8% yields to repay debt costing be slow, bumpy and unstable.
less will repair a balance sheet but reduce earnings.
In terms of UK and European economies there are a In short we have no clear conviction yet.
We are very number of major hurdles still to be jumped.
A credible aware that our principal task is to take great care of your plan to fix the banks remains elusive particularly in capital and, so far as possible, maintain your income.
We relation to their lending on commercial property.
If have made modest investments over the last two months deflation continues then the banks loan problems may which have reduced our exposure to cash in both share worsen.
Paltry deposit and bond rates may not be classes.
We have stuck with high quality balance sheets maintainable if inflation returns.
Any rise in consumer and companies with positive cash flow and avoided confidence risks being choked off by both higher interest buying back into zombie stocks.
This has been at the cost rates and higher taxation.
From several angles the return of some short term relative performance, and reflects the of inflation now looks not only inevitable, but also the fact that we view the risk and reward rationale behind the only way that the enormous pile of government and rerating of some stocks as questionable.
personal debt can be belittled back to relative normality.
Indeed the first argument in favour of commercial property investment today rests on the need for investors TR Property Investment Trust 15
