THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Ordinary share class 31 March 31 March issued Ordinary and Sigma share capital at the date of the 2009 2008 AGM is proposed, with the shares purchased to be Ordinary Ordinary cancelled.
Based on the number of shares in issue at the shares shares of 25p of 25p date of this Report, 14.99% of the Companys issued With beneficial interest: Ordinary share capital is equivalent to 38,483,078 Ordinary C M Burton 18,700 18,700 shares and 14.99% of the Companys issued Sigma share P L Salsbury 32,500 32,500 capital is equivalent to 18,725,808 Sigma shares.
These R A Stone 115,000 70,000 figures have been calculated on the basis that there is no P H Wolton 10,104 10,104 change in the issued share capital between the date of this H Seaborn 15,486 5,885 Report and the AGM to be held on 28 July 2009.
P Spencer 15,000 Any purchase of shares would be made at a discount to the prevailing Net Asset Value, thus enhancing the Net There have been no changes in the directors interests Asset Value of the remaining shares.
The terms of the between the end of the financial year and the date of resolution will restrict the price payable to the effect that it this report.
could not be less than 25p per share for Ordinary shares and 12.5p per share for Sigma shares being the nominal Sigma share class 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 values and not more than 5% above the average of the Sigma Sigma closing mid-market quotations for the five business days shares shares of 12.5p of 25p immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy the shares concerned.
With beneficial interest: C M Burton 6,600 18,700 Resolution 11 Electronic Communications P L Salsbury 65,000 65,000 At the AGM held on 29 July 2008, the Companys Articles R A Stone 60,000 50,000 P H Wolton 20,000 20,000 of Association were updated to permit communication to members in electronic form and to take advantage of H Seaborn 38,574 12,045 P Spencer 25,000 new provisions relating to website communications.
At the AGM on 28 July 2009, the Company will seek There have been no changes in the directors interests shareholder approval to allow the Company to supply between the end of the financial year and the date of documents and make information to members available this report.
Before the Company can communicate with a member by means of website communication, Other Statutory Information however, the relevant member must be asked individually Directors Interests in Shares to agree that the Company may send or supply The directors interests in the share capital of the documents or information to him by means of a website.
Company are shown in the tables above.
A member can always request a hard copy version of the document or information.
Further information is set out in There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the Explanation of Notice of Meeting on page 90. the year in which a director of the Company is or was materially interested and which is or was significant in Recommendation relation to the Company's business.
No director has a The directors consider that the resolutions are in the contract of service with the Company.
interests of the Company and shareholders taken as a whole and recommend that all shareholders vote in favour Payment of Suppliers of the resolution, as the directors intend to, in respect of It is the Company's payment policy for the current their own beneficial holdings of Ordinary and Sigma shares financial year to obtain the best possible terms for all amounting, in aggregate, to 421,964 shares.
The Company agrees with its suppliers the TR Property Investment Trust 53 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued terms on which business will take place and it abides by weighted vote in accordance with the underlying Net these terms.
There were no trade creditors at 31 March Asset Value of each Ordinary share and similarly each 2009 2008: same.
Sigma shareholder has a weighted vote in accordance with the underlying Net Asset Value of each Sigma share.
Share Capital Changes The procedure used to determine the relevant weighting At 1 April 2008 the Company had 258,600,000 Ordinary of each share is outlined in the Articles.
The number of shares and 127,680,000 Sigma shares in issue.
votes given to each shareholder on a poll is determined by multiplying the Share Voting Number by the number Between 1 April 2008 and 31 March 2009 the Company of shares held by each shareholder.
For each class of made market purchases for cancellation of 1,875,000 share the Share Voting Number is a number equal to Ordinary shares for an aggregate consideration of the Net Asset Value of the assets attributable to that 2,992,000 and 2,758,000 Sigma shares for an aggregate class, divided by the number of shares in that class in consideration of 1,450,000.
This represents a further issue on the Voting Calculation Date a date six weeks 0.73% of the Ordinary share capital and 2.16% of the before the general meeting is convened.
The Net Asset Sigma share capital in issue at 31 March 2008.
At Values of the assets attributable to each class of shares is 31 March 2009 256,725,000 Ordinary shares and calculated every day by the Administrator.
124,922,000 Sigma shares were in issue.
Restrictions on voting Since 1 April 2009, and up to the date of this document, Holders of Sigma shares do not have the right to vote, at the Company has made no further market purchases for general meetings of the Company, on resolutions which cancellation of Ordinary shares of 25 pence each or of relate only to the Ordinary shares, other than where the Sigma shares of 12.5 pence each.
Board determines that such a resolution will have a At the AGM in 2008 the directors were given power to buy substantial adverse impact on the holders of Sigma back 38,599,250 Ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
Since shares and or where it is a requirement of the Listing the AGM the directors have bought back 1,875,000 shares Rules that all shareholders are entitled to vote.
The same under this authority.
The outstanding authority is therefore restrictions on voting apply to the holders of Ordinary 36,724,250 shares.
This authority will expire at the 2009 shares in relation to the Sigma shares.
Also at the AGM in 2008, the directors were given No member shall be entitled to vote at any general power to buy back 19,124,242 Sigma shares of 12.5 pence meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held by each.
Since the AGM the directors have bought back them if any call or other sum then payable by them in 2,758,000 Sigma shares under this authority.
The respect of that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued outstanding authority is therefore 16,366,242 Sigma shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member shall be shares.
This authority will also expire at the 2009 AGM.
The entitled to vote if he has been served with a restriction Company will seek to renew the power to make market notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide purchases of Ordinary and Sigma shares at this years AGM.
the Company with information concerning interests in Rights and obligations attaching to shares those shares required to be provided under the Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, Companies Acts.
shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as Deadlines for voting rights the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make Company in respect of which the business being voted specific provision as the Board may decide.
Subject to the upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, Articles, the Companies Acts and other shareholders rights, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
Voting The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy At a general meeting of the Company, when voting is by forms of not less than 48 hours or such shorter time as a show of hands, each holder of Ordinary shares and the Board may determine before the meeting not each holder of Sigma shares has one vote.
If a poll vote excluding non-working days.
is called for then each holder of Ordinary shares has a 54 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued % of Ordinary Transfer of shares share voting Any shares in the Company may be held in Shareholder rights uncertificated form and, subject to the Articles, title Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited 6.91 to uncertificated shares may be transferred by means TR Property ISA PEP and Shareplan Schemes 6.50 of a relevant system.
Subject to the Articles, any Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited 5.24 member may transfer all or any of his certificated F&C Investment Management Limited 3.21 shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form Alliance Trust plc 3.20 or in any other form which the Board may approve.
Significant Voting Rights Sigma shares The instrument of transfer must be executed by or on % of Sigma behalf of the transferor and in the case of a partlyshare voting paid share the transferee.
Shareholder rights Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. UK 4.88 The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without M&G Investment Management Ltd 4.05 giving any reason, decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
The Board may Declarations of interests in voting rights of the Company also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share at 30 April 2009, are set out above.
unless the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped or In addition at 30 April 2009 the following shareholders held certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the over 3% of the voting rights on a non-discretionary basis: Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such % of Sigma share voting other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may Shareholder rights reasonably require: ii is in respect of only one class of Heartwood Wealth Management Limited 8.85 share: and iii if joint transferees, are in favour of not Reliance Mutual Insurance Society Ltd. 8.17 more than four such transferees.
Insight Investment Management Global Limited 7.02 The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited 5.48 Companys certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% Goldman Sachs Asset Management International 4.55 interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has Derbyshire County Council Pension Fund 3.40 been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Merseyside Pension Fund 3.23 Articles after failure to provide the Company with F&C Asset Management plc 3.06 information concerning interests in those shares required See page 54 for further information on the voting rights of Ordinary to be provided under the Companies Acts, unless the and Sigma shares.
transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale as defined in the Articles.
ISAs The Company has conducted its affairs, and will continue Significant Voting Rights Ordinary shares to conduct its affairs, in such a way as to comply with the % of Ordinary share voting Individual Savings Accounts Regulations.
Both Ordinary Shareholder rights shares and Sigma shares can be held in Individual Legal & General Investment Management Limited UK 4.29 Savings Accounts.
Declarations of interests in voting rights of the Company, Directors Indemnity at 30 April 2009, are set out above.
Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is in place in respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of In addition, at 30 April 2009 the following shareholders held Association provide, subject to the provisions of UK over 3% of the voting rights on a non-discretionary basis: legislation, an indemnity for directors in respect of costs which they may incur relating to the defence of any proceedings brought against them arising out of their positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour by the court.
TR Property Investment Trust 55 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued To the extent permitted by law and by the Companys Application of the AIC Codes Principles Articles of Association, the Company has entered into This statement describes how the principles of the deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code Company in respect of liabilities which may attach to issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 them in their capacity as directors of the Company.
These have been applied to the affairs of the Company.
provisions, which are qualifying third party indemnity In applying the principles of the Code, the directors have provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies also taken account of the Code of Corporate Governance Act 2006, were introduced in January 2007 and currently published by the AIC, which established the framework of remain in force.
best practice specifically for the Boards of investment trust companies.
There is some overlap in the principles laid Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information down by the two Codes and there are some areas where to Auditors the AIC Code is more flexible for investment trust The directors who were members of the Board at the companies.
time of approving the Report of the Directors are listed on page 45 of these financial statements.
Each of these The directors believe that during the period under review directors confirms that: they have complied with the provisions of the Code, insofar as they apply to the Companys business, and with to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, the provisions of the AIC Code.
there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the Companys auditors are Composition and Independence of the Board unaware: and The Board currently consists of six directors, all of whom each director has taken all the steps a director might are non-executive and are independent of the Investment reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of Manager.
None of the directors have any other links to relevant audit information and to establish that the the Investment Manager: they all have other professional Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Powers of the Directors Shareholder Information Subject to the Companys Memorandum of Association, Further information on the Company can be found on the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given pages 92 to 94. by special resolution, the business of the Company is Going Concern managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to of the Company, whether relating to the management of adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the as the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to which are readily realisable and, accordingly, it has borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its adequate financial resources to continue in operational undertaking, property, assets and uncalled capital and to existence for the foreseeable future.
issue debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to any Registered Auditor third party.
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditor will be put to shareholders at the Directors forthcoming AGM.
Directors retirement by rotation and re-election is subject to the Articles of Association, the Combined Code Corporate Governance published in June 2006 and the AIC Code of Corporate Corporate Governance Report Governance.
The Board of Directors is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The Articles of Association require that up to one-third of the directors must retire every year and that every director must retire by rotation at least every three years.
They 56 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued may then offer themselves for re-election.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one directors appointments also provide that a director shall be Committee member has recent and relevant financial subject to election at the first AGM after appointment and experience.
to re-election at least every third year thereafter.
The Committee has written terms of reference, which The directors retiring by rotation at the forthcoming AGM clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
These can be are Mr Seaborn and Mr Stone who, being eligible, offer found on the website, are available on request and will themselves for re-election.
Mr Salsbury has served on the also be available for inspection at the AGM.
Board for more than nine years.
In accordance with the The Committee meets at least twice a year to review the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, he will stand internal financial and non-financial controls, to consider for annual re-election by shareholders and offers himself and recommend to the Board for approval the contents for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
of the draft Interim and Annual Reports to shareholders, The Board has considered the continued appointment of and to review the accounting policies and significant Mr Salsbury, who has served on the Board for twelve financial reporting judgements.
In addition, the Committee years.
He has no other links to the Investment Manager.
reviews the Auditors independence, objectivity, The Board subscribes to the AIC Code view that length of effectiveness, appointment, remuneration, the quality of tenure is not in itself felt to be an issue, rather the the services of the service providers to the Company, and, directors contribution.
The Board is conscious of the need together with the Investment Manager, reviews the to maintain continuity on the Board and believes that Companys compliance with financial reporting and retaining directors with sufficient experience of both the regulatory requirements.
Representatives of the Company and the markets is of great benefit to Investment Managers, Administrators and Company shareholders.
Moreover, long-serving directors are less Secretarys internal audit and compliance departments likely to take a short-term view.
The Board has concluded may attend these meetings at the Chairmans request.
that Mr Salsbury continues to make a valuable The provision of non-audit services by the Companys contribution and, notwithstanding his length of service, Auditors is considered and approved by the Audit believes that he remains independent in character and Committee on a case-by-case basis.
Accordingly, all six directors are regarded as being free of any conflicts of interest and no issues in Representatives of Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys respect of independence arise.
Auditors, attend the Committee meetings at which the draft Annual Report and Accounts are reviewed, and are The Chairman is Mr Salsbury.
The directors biographies, given the opportunity to speak to the Committee on page 45, demonstrate the breadth of investment, members without the presence of the representatives of commercial and professional experience relevant to their the Investment Manager.
positions as directors of the Company.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that Ernst & Young LLP is Board Committees independent of the Company.
The Board has established an Audit Committee as set out below.
The Management Engagement Committee, which The Board recommend the reappointment of Ernst & also carries out the functions of a Remuneration Young LLP as Auditors at the forthcoming AGM.
Committee, was formed in November 2006.
Further The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at details are set out below.
The Board does not have a the AGM to deal with questions relating to the Accounts.
This function is carried out by the Board as part of the agenda of regular Board Management Engagement Committee meetings when required.
The Management Engagement Committee MEC was formed in November 2006 comprising the Chairman and Audit Committee all directors of the Company.
The Audit Committee the Committee comprises all the members of the Board.
The Committee Chairman is TR Property Investment Trust 57 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued The MEC meets at least on an annual basis, towards the Performance Evaluation end of the financial year.
In order to review the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees and of the individual directors, the Chairman The MEC reviews, on an annual basis, the performance of has put in place, and carried out, an appraisal process.
Thames River and its continued suitability to manage the This was implemented by way of a questionnaire and Companys portfolio.
It also reviews the terms of the interviews with the Chairman.
In respect of the Chairman, Investment Management Agreement, to ensure they are the interview was conducted by the Chairman of the competitive and fair and in the best interests of the Audit Committee.
The process is considered by the shareholders, and to negotiate terms where appropriate.
Board to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for At the MEC meeting in March 2009, the MEC confirmed improving the functioning and performance of the Board that Thames River should be retained as the Investment and the Committees, the contribution of individual Manager for the financial year ending 31 March 2010. directors, as well as building on and developing individual and collective strengths.
In addition to the Investment Management role, the Board has delegated to external third parties the custodial services The Chairman confirms that, in the light of the formal which include the safeguarding of assets, the day to day performance evaluation, the performance of each of the accounting, company secretarial services, administration and directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered commitment to his or her role, including commitment of into after full and proper consideration of the quality of the time for Board and Committee meetings and any other services offered, including the control systems in operation duties.
The Board believes it has a good balance of skills, insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
These experience, ages and length of service to ensure it contracts are reviewed annually by the MEC.
In addition to the reviews by the MEC the Board reviews and The performance of the Company is considered in detail considers performance reports from the Investment Manager at each Board meeting.
The Board also receives regular reports from the Administrator and Company Secretary and In particular, it is considered that each of the directors the Investment Manager also reports to the Board on the makes a significant contribution to the affairs of the performance of all other third party service providers.
Company and that directors seeking re-appointment at the Companys forthcoming AGM merit re-appointment The MEC also reviews, on an annual basis, the directors by shareholders.
The results of the most recent review are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 and 47.
Directors Remuneration Directors remuneration is considered by the MEC.
The At the MEC meeting in March 2009 it was decided that MEC determines and approves directors fees following Paul Spencer will become Chairman of the Audit proper consideration, having regard to the level of fees Committee with effect from 1 August 2009.
His payable to non-executive directors in the industry remuneration will be increased from 25,000 to 30,000 generally, the role that individual directors fulfil in respect per annum to reflect his increased responsibility.
Richard of Board and Committee responsibilities and the time Stone will resign as Chairman of the Audit Committee committed to the Companys affairs.
In the recent review and become the Senior Independent Director.
His external advice was also taken.
remuneration will remain at 30,000 per annum.
The remuneration of all other Directors will remain unchanged The Companys Articles of Association limit the aggregate for 2009 10. fees payable to the Board to a total of 250,000 per annum.
Detailed information on the remuneration Tenure Policy arrangements for the directors of the Company can be No director has a contract of employment with the found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Directors terms and conditions for appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company and will be available at the AGM.
