THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued An interim dividend of 0.90p per Sigma share was paid management of risk and internal controls is contained in on 13 January 2009 to shareholders on the register at the Corporate Governance Report on pages 56 to 61.
Management Arrangements and Fees Capital Return Throughout the period investment management 2009 2008 Change arrangements have been provided by Thames River Capital NAV per Sigma share 61.34p 108.64p -43.5% LLP Thames River, accounting and administrative services Sigma Share Price 39.00p 92.00p -57.6% by BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited, custodial services by JP Morgan Chase and company secretarial Falls in property equity prices resulted in a reduction in services by Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited.
shareholders funds of 44.8% per Sigma share.
Over the The significant terms of the investment management same period the price only element of the benchmark fell agreement with Thames River are as follows: by 51.2%.
Notice Period Details of the investments held in the Sigma portfolio are The investment management agreements IMAs shown in the Managers Report on pages 37 to 41. provide for termination of the agreements by either Performance Measurement party without compensation on the provision of not The directors consider performance measured against the less than 12 months written notice.
benchmark to be the key performance indicator for the Management Fees share class.
The Benchmark for the share class for the Ordinary share class period to 31 March 2009 was the FTSE EPRA NAREIT For the period under review, a base management fee Europe Index in Sterling.
of 0.70% pa on the net asset value of the Ordinary share class was paid quarterly in advance to the From 1 April 2009, the Benchmark for the share class is Investment Manager.
For the period up to 31 March FTSE EPRA NAREIT Small Cap Europe Index in Sterling.
This 2009 a rebate applied to reduce the management benchmark, provided by FTSE, is FTSE EPRA NAREIT Europe fee to 0.40% pa on any portion of the share class net Index in Sterling, adjusted to exclude those stocks with a asset value exceeding 450m.
The constituents are adjusted quarterly.
Further details and the rationale for this The fee is based on the share class net asset value change are set out in the Chairmans Statement.
determined in accordance with the Association of Investment Companies AIC method of valuation On a total return basis the Sigma share class returned on the last day of March, June, September and -42.3% against a Benchmark total return of -48.6%.
The performance for the financial year just ended and the Management fee arrangements for the period outlook for the forthcoming financial year are covered in commencing 1 April 2009 were due for review.
The detail in the Chairmans Statement, Market Background board decided that the usual industry practice of and Outlook and Sigma Class Managers Report on pages charging management fees based totally on the value 6 to 15 and 31 to 36. of the underlying assets under management did not fully align the manager and shareholder interests.
Share Buy-back Activity Although some elements of costs covered by the fee During the year to 31 March 2009, the Company clearly do increase or decrease as assets under repurchased 2,758,000 Sigma shares at an average cost management increase or decrease, there is a of 52.59p per share.
substantial overhead of employing and accommodating a quality fund management team which is effectively a Financial Instruments and the Management of Risk fixed cost.
The Board have therefore agreed a revised By its nature as an investment trust, the portfolios of both management fee of which a substantial proportion is share classes are exposed to market price risk, foreign fixed with a small ad valorem element.
currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Companys policies for managing these risks are outlined in note 11 to the The fee for the Ordinary share class for the period from financial statements.
Further information on the 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2010 is a fixed fee for the 50 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued period of 2.65m plus an ad valorem fee of 0.20% pa Ordinary share class based on the net asset value determined in A performance fee is payable if the total return of accordance with the Association of Investment adjusted net assets attributable to Ordinary Companies AIC method of valuation of the Ordinary shareholders, as defined in the IMA with Thames River, share class on the last day of March, June, September at 31 March each year outperforms the total return of and December, payable quarterly in advance.
the Companys Benchmark plus 2% the hurdle rate : this outperformance expressed as a percentage is The result of this fee arrangement is that the total known as the percentage outperformance.
Any fee management fee as a percentage of net asset value will payable will be the amount equivalent to the adjusted become variable.
The percentage fee will increase as net net assets attributable to Ordinary shareholders at asset value falls and decrease as net asset value rises.
31 March each year multiplied by the percentage The fee arrangements will be reviewed for the outperformance, then multiplied by 15%.
For the period ended 31 March 2009 the maximum Sigma share class performance fee payable for the period was capped For the period under review, a base management fee at 1% of the adjusted net assets attributable to of 1.10% pa on the net asset value of the Sigma Ordinary shareholders.
share class was paid quarterly in advance to the From 1 April 2009 the cap on this fee will be Investment Manager.
The fee is based on the share increased from 1% to 2%, however if the adjusted net class net asset value determined in accordance with assets at the end of the period are less than at the the AIC method of valuation on the last day of beginning of the period, the maximum performance March, June, September and December respectively.
fee payable will be limited to1% of the adjusted net With the same rationale as described for the assets attributable to the Ordinary shareholders.
Ordinary share class fee review described above, If any fee exceeds the relevant cap 2% or 1% as the fee for the Sigma share class for the period applicable, such excess will be carried forward and from 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2010 is a fixed fee applied to reduce any percentage underperformance for the period of 0.65m plus an ad valorem fee of in future periods.
At 31 March 2009, an excess of 0.30% pa based on the net asset value 3.1m is being carried forward.
determined in accordance with the AIC method of valuation of the Sigma share class on the last day Sigma share class of March, June September and December, payable A performance fee is payable if the total return of quarterly in advance.
adjusted net assets attributable to Sigma shareholders, as defined in the IMA with Thames River, at 31 March The fee arrangements will be reviewed for the each year outperforms the total return of the following financial year.
Companys Benchmark plus 2% the hurdle rate : For both share classes the management fee includes this outperformance expressed as a percentage is fund accounting and administrative services, safe known as the percentage outperformance.
Any fee custody and company secretarial services which are all payable is the amount equivalent to the adjusted net provided by third parties.
The Company has a direct assets attributable to Sigma shareholders at 31 March contractual relationship with the parties providing these each year multiplied by the percentage outperformance, services and the fees incurred are deducted from the then multiplied by 20%.
gross fees due to Thames River.
This affords the The maximum performance fee payable in any period is Company a high degree of transparency and control in capped at 5% of the adjusted net assets attributable to respect of these services.
Sigma shareholders unless the adjusted net assets at the Performance Fees end of the period are less than at the beginning of the In addition to the management fees, the Board has period when the maximum performance fee payable will agreed to pay the Investment Manager performance be limited to 1% of the adjusted net assets attributable related fees in respect of a performance period if to the Sigma shareholders.
If any fee exceeds the certain performance objectives are achieved.
relevant cap 5% or 1% as applicable, such excess will TR Property Investment Trust 51
