THE GROUP COMPANY Managers Report Ordinary Share Class & Sigma Share Class Market Background and Outlook Chris Turner MRICS Marcus Phayre-Mudge MRICS Fund Manager Fund Manager Ordinary share class Sigma share class Managers Report more severe decline than that recorded in other We have tried to make this section rather stronger on European real estate markets.
In part this reflected the outlook than history.
In doing so we assume that greater speed of decline of the UK economy relative to shareholders will be pretty familiar with the chain of the rest of the Europe, the higher levels of leverage in the events that has brought the world economy and stock UK and the widespread application of index linked rents markets to their current state, and, in any case, tackling on the Continent.
Valuation techniques have also had an the section this way also allows us to avoid too much use impact.
In the absence of transaction evidence, UK of tedious negative superlatives.
Nevertheless we do need valuers have been urged to use their judgement and to to sketch a picture of where we have been in order to take into account evidence of what property is not selling provide a context for expressing our views on the at a given price.
Continental valuers are generally happier potential trend in events over 2009 and 2010. to stay with the last transaction evidence even when this may be somewhat historic.
We need to be careful in The first core unknown is the extent and depth of the placing too much emphasis on monthly value current international recession.
Since early March global movements in making any long term judgement about equity markets generally have made a strong recovery, led the relative performance of various markets in such a by financial stocks including property shares.
thinking among buyers suggests that recovery is close at hand, though recessions accompanied by financial crises Certainly across both the UK and Europe there has been generally last twice as long as normal recessions.
There no really safe place to hide.
Everywhere the best relative have been so many twists and turns in 2008 that we can performance has come from properties with bond like only be sure that it is impossible to predict with any characteristics, let on ground leases or to Governments or certainty what lies ahead.
The current extreme volatility in blue chip companies on long unbreakable leases.
global share prices only reflects extreme swings in Conversely, empty buildings or properties let on short investor sentiment.
leases to small businesses are suffering the most severe value declines.
For commercial property the second core unknown is the speed and impact of the fide-gearing exercise that is In the UK, investment turnover has dropped very sharply, required across Europe.
The debt mountain is the but the market has not ground to a halt and recently industrys elephant in the room.
It is impossible to there has been a growing queue of cash buyers, seeking ignore but nobody talks about it because nobody knows longer term bond like income from investment grade what to do about it.
tenants the new definition of a prime property.
Bank finance is still quite scarce, with a modest maximum per Property Investment Markets property and per bank.
Loan rates and terms will be Pan-European commercial property investment markets tough relative to the recent past.
The sellers of high saw a sharp fall in both values and turnover over the past quality income streams have generally been exactly those twelve months.
The twin problems have been the onset who, a year ago, might have been predicted to be todays of the recession and the scarcity of credit.
On the basis of buyers open ended funds facing redemptions, life published indices UK values fell very rapidly an average insurance companies, and major property companies.
decline, March to March of some 30%, a more rapid and Well let prime buildings comprise maybe 10% of total TR Property Investment Trust 11
