Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Board of Directors Keith Hamill aged 57 Michael Fallon MP aged 57 Chairman Independent Non-executive Director Keith Hamill became Chairman of Tullett Prebon plc in Michael Fallon became a Director of Tullett Prebon plc in December December 2006.
He served as Chairman of Collins Stewart plc 2006 and is a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations and subsequently Collins Stewart Tullett plc from 2000 to 2006.
He had previously been a Director of Collins Stewart is also Chairman of Travelodge, Heath Lambert, Alterian plc, Deputy Tullett plc since September 2004.
He is a Director of Attendo AB, Chairman of Collins Stewart plc, a Non-executive Director of easyJet a provider of long-term care in Scandinavia, and the Conservative plc and Pro-Chancellor of Nottingham University.
He is a chartered MP for Sevenoaks.
He is also a member of the Treasury Select accountant and was previously Finance Director of WH Smith, Forte Committee of the House of Commons, and chairs the Treasury and United Distillers, Director of Financial Control at Guinness and sub-committee, responsible for overseeing HM Revenue and a partner in Price Waterhouse.
He was also a member of the Urgent Customs.
He was Opposition spokesman on Trade and City matters Issues Task Force of the Accounting Standards Board and Chairman from 1997-1998.
He was previously a Director of Just Learning Ltd, of the CBI Financial Reporting Panel.
He is Chairman of the Quality Care Homes PLC and Bannatyne Fitness Ltd.
Richard Kilsby aged 58 Terry Smith aged 56 Independent Non-executive Director Chief Executive Richard Kilsby joined the Board in December 2006 and is Chairman Terry Smith started his career with Barclays Bank and became a of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and stockbroker in 1984 with W Greenwell & Co.
He was top rated Nominations Committees.
He had previously been a Director of bank analyst in London from 1984 to 1989, during which period Collins Stewart Tullett plc since June 2005.
He is Non-executive he also worked at BZW and James Capel.
In 1990 he became Chairman of 888 Holdings plc.
He has formerly held many positions head of UK Company Research at UBS Phillips & Drew, a position in finance and the City including: Vice Chairman of the virt-x stock he left in 1992 following the publication of his best selling book, exchange created by the merger of the Swiss Exchange with Accounting for Growth.
He joined Collins Stewart subsequently Tradepoint, Chief Executive of Tradepoint an AIM quoted Collins Stewart Tullett plc shortly after and became a Director in electronic exchange, Non-executive Director of Collins Stewart 1996.
He is an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Bankers, has plc and an Executive Director of the London Stock Exchange an MBA from The Management College, Henley and is quali ed responsible for listing, secondary regulation and the introduction as a Series 7 Registered Representative and a Series 24 General of the SETS trading system.
He is a chartered accountant and was Securities Principal with the NASD.
He has acted as Chief Executive previously an audit partner at Price Waterhouse.
of Tullett Prebon plc since December 2006, and is also Chairman of Collins Stewart plc.
Rupert Robson aged 49 Independent Non-executive Director Paul Mainwaring aged 46 Rupert Robson was appointed to the Board in January 2007.
He is Finance Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Paul Mainwaring quali ed as a chartered accountant with Audit and Nominations Committees.
He has held a number of Price Waterhouse in 1987, and obtained an MBA from Cran eld senior roles in City institutions, most recently Global Head, Financial School of Management in 1991.
From 1993 to 2000, he worked Institutions Group, Corporate Investment Banking and Markets at for Caradon plc in a number of financial roles, including three HSBC between 2003 and 2006 and, prior to that, Head of European years as Finance Director of MK Electric.
In 2000, he was appointed Insurance, Investment Banking at Citigroup Global Markets.
He is as Group Finance Director of TDG plc.
He was appointed as Group Chairman of Charles Taylor Consulting plc and Silkroute financial Finance Director of Mowlem plc in 2005.
He was appointed to Group Ltd and a Non-executive Director of Tenet Group Ltd and the Collins Stewart Tullett plc Board in October 2006, and has London Metal Exchange Holdings Limited.
been Finance Director of Tullett Prebon plc since December 2006.
David Clark aged 62 Senior Independent Non-executive Director David Clark worked for Bankers Trust, Commerzbank and Midland Bank before being appointed Treasurer, Europe of HSBC Holdings in 1992.
In 1995 he joined Bankgesellschaft Berlin AG becoming Managing Director of Bankgesellschaft Berlin UK plc until June 1999.
He was Senior Adviser to the Major Financial Groups Division of the FSA until March 2003.
He is Non-executive Chairman of Charity Bank and a Non-executive Director of Caf Bank and Westpac Europe Limited.
He was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Tullett Liberty in September 2000 and to the Collins Stewart Tullett plc Board in March 2003, and subsequently became a Director of Tullett Prebon plc in December 2006.
He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Tullett Prebon plc 23 Annual Report 2009
