Business Review continued Pensions Outlook The Group has two fide ned bene t pension schemes in the UK which were acquired with Tullett and Prebon, both of which are Although the worlds financial markets have remained unsettled, closed to new members and future accrual.
The combined fide cit of overall activity in the markets slowed in the second half of 2009 in these schemes under IAS19 has reduced to 1.3m at 31 December comparison to the particularly volatile markets experienced in the 2009 2008: 8.5m.
During 2009 the schemes assets have autumn of 2008 and into the first half of last year and, as expected, increased from 106.9m to 137.7m re ecting strong investment activity currently remains at this more normal level.
returns and the additional contributions, and the schemes liabilities have increased from 115.4m to 139.0m mainly re ecting a The underlying revenue run rate in the first two months of the year reduction in the discount rate applied to the schemes liabilities.
is 5% lower than a year ago at constant exchange rates.
We expect this run rate against prior year to improve, particularly in the second Return on capital employed half.
In addition, the net effect of the broker defections in North The return on capital employed in 2009 was 47% 2008: 50% America has been to reduce revenue by 6%.
The bene t from the which has been calculated as operating pro t divided by average actions that we have taken to mitigate the impact of the broker shareholders funds, less net funds or plus net debt as appropriate, defections will increase during the year as the rebuilding and adding back cumulative amortised goodwill and post-tax programme continues and the new brokers hired build up to their reorganisation costs and exceptional items.
Regulatory Capital The eventual outcome of the regulatory debate about how to The Groups lead regulator is the Financial Services Authority FSA.
strengthen the financial system remains uncertain, but we are The Group applied for and received a waiver from the FSA con dent that our role as an intermediary in the OTC markets will in relation to the Consolidated Supervision requirements of the continue to be vital and that our business will continue to add Capital Requirements Directive effective from 1 January 2007 to signi cant value to our customers.
We have a well diversi ed and 31 December 2011. robust business, and we are well positioned to respond to and to bene t from, changes in the way in which the OTC markets and our Under the terms of the waiver, the Group is subject to the financial customers operate and are regulated.
holding company test whereby the aggregate financial resources of the Group are calculated by reference to the capital and reserves of the parent company, Tullett Prebon plc, and the Groups aggregated financial resources requirement is calculated as the sum of the requirements of all the Groups subsidiaries under Pillar 1 of the FSA framework.
The Groups regulatory capital headroom is consistently in excess of 300m.
The Board is responsible for approving the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP required by the FSA.
The ICAAP formally documents that the Groups capital resources are suf cient to cover the Pillar 1 requirements and assesses whether these resources are suf cient to cover those additional risks identi ed during the Pillar 2 review.
The ICAAP documentation is regularly updated and formally approved by the Board at least annually.
Information disclosure under Pillar 3 is available on the Groups website www.
Many of the Groups broking entities are also regulated on a solo basis, and are obliged to meet the regulatory capital requirements imposed by the local regulator of the jurisdiction in which they operate, whether this be the FSA, FINRA or other regulator.
The Group maintains a signi cant excess of financial resources in such entities.
14 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2009
