Directors Report The directors present their report, together with the audited Directors financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for The directors who served throughout the year were as follows: the year ended 31 December 2009.
Keith Hamill Principal activities Non-executive Chairman Tullett Prebon plc operates as an intermediary in wholesale financial markets facilitating the trading activities of its clients, in Terry Smith particular commercial and investment banks.
The main subsidiary Chief Executive undertakings through which the Group conducts its business are set out in Note 38 to the consolidated financial statements.
Paul Mainwaring Finance Director Results and dividends The results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income David Clark Statement on page 39.
Senior Independent Non-executive Director The directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 10.0p Michael Fallon per ordinary share.
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid Independent Non-executive Director on 20 May 2010 to ordinary shareholders whose names are on the register on 30 April 2010.
Richard Kilsby Independent Non-executive Director Tullett Prebon plc paid a final dividend for 2008 of 8.0p per ordinary share and an interim dividend for 2009 of 5.0p per ordinary share.
Rupert Robson Independent Non-executive Director Business review The information that ful ls the requirements of the Business Biographical details of the directors are set out on page 23. Review can be found on pages 05 to 21.
The Business Review is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
It includes The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions an analysis of the development and performance of the Group for the bene t of its directors which remain in place at the date during the year, the position of the Group at the end of the year, of this report.
financial and nonfinancial performance indicators, and information on the main trends and factors likely to affect the development, Directors interests performance, key performance indicators and position of the The interests all bene cial of those persons who were directors business.
A description of the principal risks and uncertainties at the end of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company, facing the Group is included in the Risk Management section together with comparatives for the previous year or the date of of the Business Review.
Information on environmental, employee, appointment, were as follows: social and community issues and information about persons with 2009 2008 whom the Group has contractual or other arrangements which Number Number are essential to the business, is included in the CSR section of the Keith Hamill 80,299 80,299 Business Review.
Terry Smith 9,245,510 8,805,779 This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the members Paul Mainwaring 123,683 20,000 of the Company as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, David Clark its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume Michael Fallon 2,000 2,000 responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and such responsibility Richard Kilsby is expressly disclaimed.
By their nature, the statements concerning Rupert Robson 7,000 7,000 the risks and uncertainties facing the Group in this Annual Report involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can There were no changes in the interests of the directors in the cause results and developments to differ materially from those ordinary share capital of the Company from the end of the year to anticipated.
The forward-looking statements re ect knowledge the date of this report.
and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these The Tullett Prebon plc Employee Share Ownership Trust held forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should 555,631 shares at 31 December 2009 2008: 1,425,892 and the be construed as a pro t forecast.
Tullett Prebon plc Employee Bene t Trust 2007 held 677,797 shares 2008: 696,736.
The bene ciaries of the trusts are the employees A separate Corporate Governance Report is included within this Annual of the Group, including the executive directors.
Under Schedule 1 Report on pages 26 to 29 and is incorporated into this Directors Report of the Companies Act 2006 the executive directors are deemed by reference.
The Corporate Governance Report includes the information to be interested in these shares.
that ful ls the requirements of section 7.2 of The Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR with the exception of the information referred to in DTR 7.2.
6 which is located in this Directors Report.
24 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2009 Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors share options are set out in the Report on Directors Substantial interests Remuneration, including changes which have occurred since At 5 March 2010, being the latest practicable date before signing the end of the financial year.
of this document, the following not being directors, their families or persons connected, within section 252 of the Companies Act Share capital and control 2006 had noti ed the Company that they were interested in 3% Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with or more of the voting rights of the issued ordinary share capital of details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital the Company: during the year are shown in Note 27 which is incorporated into % this Directors Report by reference.
Lloyds Banking Group plc 11.06 The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right Jupiter Asset Management Limited 5.09 to xed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc. 4.89 meetings of the Company.
OppenheimerFunds, Inc. : Baring Asset Management Limited 3.89 No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Legal & General Group Plc 3.94 The voting rights of the ordinary shares held by the Tullett Prebon Policy of payment to suppliers plc Employee Share Ownership Trust and the Tullett Prebon plc It is the Groups policy that all transactions are settled in accordance Employee Bene t Trust 2007 are exercisable by the trustees with relevant terms and conditions of business agreed with the in accordance with their duciary duties.
The right to receive supplier, provided all such terms and conditions have been complied dividends on these shares has been waived.
The Company does not have any trade creditors.
There are no speci c restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the Annual General Meeting transfer of shares, which are both governed by the provisions of the The AGM of the Company will be held at 2.30pm on 13 May 2010.
Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys in a separate Notice of Meeting sent to all shareholders entitled shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities to receive such Notice.
or on voting rights, nor are there any arrangements by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights carried by securities Political and charitable donations are held by a person other than the holder of those securities.
During 2009 no political donations were made by the Group 2008: nil.
No charitable donations were made during 2009 2008: nil.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in Note 29 which is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the auditors will be With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
Disclosure of information to the auditors Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the Annual Report con rms that: shareholders.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit The powers of the directors include the authorities to allot shares information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and and to buy the Companys shares in the market as granted by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
At the last the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken AGM a resolution was passed granting authority to the directors to as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit purchase up to 21,531,358 ordinary shares.
This authority will expire information and to establish that the Companys auditors are at the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, on 1 July 2010, unless aware of that information.
This con rmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Further powers of the directors are described in the Schedule of with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. matters reserved for the Board, which is available on the Companys website, and in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 26 to 29.
By order of the Board The Schedule of matters reserved for the Board is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
Paul Mainwaring Company Secretary 8 March 2010 Tullett Prebon plc 25 Annual Report 2009
