Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information As an intermediary, the business does not take trading risk and does Objectives, strategy and risk pro le not hold principal trading positions.
The key day-to-day risks faced by the business are counterparty credit risk which in the event of The Companys objective is to maximize returns to shareholders a counterparty default becomes a market risk and settlement risk.
over the medium to long term, at an acceptable level of risk.
Around three-quarters of the revenue is derived from Name The strategy to achieve this objective is to continue to build Give-Up activities, where the business is not at any time a business, operating as an intermediary in the wholesale OTC counterparty to the trade, and where its exposure to a client financial markets internationally, with the scale and breadth is limited to outstanding invoices for commission.
All activity to deliver superior performance and returns, whilst maintaining relating to derivatives is undertaken Name Give-Up.
The level strong financial management disciplines.
of invoiced receivables is monitored closely, by individual client and in aggregate, and there have been very few instances in the The key actions to deliver this strategy are: last few years when invoiced receivables have not been collected.
Develop and maintain strong pools of liquidity in all major The balance of the revenue is derived from Matched Principal financial products and all major financial centres: activities, where we are the counterparty to both sides of a matching trade.
To mitigate settlement risk the business undertakes Attract and retain key revenue producers: transactions on a strict  basis.
In the event of a client default in a Matched Principal trade, our exposure is not D evelopment of electronic broking capabilities to support to the principal amount but to the movement in the market value of our voice broking expertise: the underlying instrument, and so our exposure becomes a market risk.
This risk is mitigated by use of central counterparty services and Focus on improving contribution rates: and other default risk transfer agreements wherever possible, and where such services are not available, by taking swift action to close out Focus on maintaining an appropriately sized support cost base.
any position that arises as a result of a client default.
Once a Matched Principal transaction has settled usually 13 days after trade date, there is no ongoing risk for the business.
Discussion of our risk management governance structure and the Groups risk pro le is included on pages 15 to 18.
Tullett Prebon plc 05 Annual Report 2009
