Business Review continued Those OTC derivatives that are deemed to be standard will not Regulatory developments all migrate to trading on exchanges.
The proposals in both Europe and the US allow for standardised OTC derivatives to be traded Various proposals aimed at strengthening the financial system on venues other than exchanges, including Multilateral Trading generally, and the operation of the OTC derivatives markets Facilities in Europe which our existing electronic platforms in the speci cally, continue to be debated by regulators and politicians region are registered as, and Alternative Swap Execution Facilities in both the United States and Europe.
in the US, the current fide nition of which covers our operations.
In addition it is not universally accepted that mandating trading on There are three common objectives of the proposals directed at the organised markets is appropriate.
In the UK the FSA argue that such OTC derivatives markets: a move would be detrimental and that the regulatory objectives can be achieved by other means.
A reduction in operational risk through increased standardisation of contracts and increased use of electronic post-trade It is inconceivable that OTC derivatives trading will all move onto processing: pure electronic platforms.
Pure electronic platforms, without intervention or support from brokers, are suitable only for the very A reduction in counterparty risk through increased use of central few highly liquid and highly standardised OTC products, and these counterparties CCPs and higher collateralisation and capital are already transacted on such platforms.
The role of voice broking charges for bilateral contracts: and in providing liquidity will continue to be required in all but the most standardised of products.
The hybrid model in electronic broking, An increase in transparency through increased use of electronic under which electronic solutions operate together with and trading platforms and increased pre and post-trade reporting alongside voice brokers, is much more suitable for the majority of and use of trade repositories.
Hybrid platforms have evolved from voice broking and the provision of pricing and volume data into execution The proposals directed at reducing the systemic risk of individual platforms and we believe that the process of electroni cation financial institutions seek to do so through, amongst other matters, in OTC derivatives markets will continue to be evolutionary.
introducing increased capital and liquidity requirements, speci c tax disincentives or levies, and restrictions on activities.
It is not plausible that all OTC derivatives will move to being cleared through a CCP.
Moves to central counterparty clearing transfer It is dif cult at this stage to accurately judge how or when these rather than eliminate risk and it is essential that CCPs are able to proposals will be implemented or to estimate the effect that manage the risks effectively.
Some products are unsuitable for these proposals will have on the level of overall activity in the central counterparty clearing and we agree with the FSA that CCPs OTC markets.
We are, however, con dent that vibrant OTC should not be forced to clear a product if they are unable to manage markets will remain essential to the effective operation of the the risks of doing so.
Nor does it follow that if an OTC derivative worlds financial system, and that the role of intermediaries in product is cleared by a CCP it will no longer be voice brokered.
those markets, creating liquidity and facilitating ef cient trading Interest rate swaps in the inter-bank market have been successfully and risk management, will be of increasing importance.
cleared through SwapClear since 1999 with over 60% of all inter-dealer swap volumes now cleared through this facility.
Interest There remain a number of misconceptions about the proposals and rate swaps remain one of the largest voice brokered OTC products.
their potential impact on OTC markets, how trading is undertaken, and how well positioned individual inter-dealer brokers and other The OTC markets and the inter-dealer broker IDB sector are not trading venues are to respond and bene t. We put forward the synonymous.
The majority of OTC transactions are undertaken following views.
directly between banks and other counterparties.
The proportion of the total market volume that is transacted through IDBs appears It is neither practical nor desirable for all OTC derivatives to become to be increasing.
We believe that this trend is likely to continue standardised.
One of the primary reasons that OTC markets exist as banks seek to gain the bene ts of accessing deep liquidity is because of the need for financial institutions and end-users and trading anonymously, as well as facilitating reductions in their to manage their risks through bespoke contracts.
Restricting the xed costs, that are achieved by executing trades through IDBs.
range of products that are available to manage risk positions would be counter productive to improving the strength of the financial system or the economy.
06 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2009 Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Some of the emerging markets offer signi cant opportunities Overview as their wholesale financial markets continue to develop and in October 2009 we announced that we had reached agreement Activity in many of the markets in which we operate was lower to acquire Conveno, one of the leading and most well respected during 2009 than 2008, particularly in the second half when activity IDBs in Brazil, marking our entry to the on-shore Latin American in 2008 was boosted by the upheaval in financial markets following market.
The acquisition is conditional on approval from the Brazilian the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
authorities, including the Central Bank of Brazil, and is expected to complete in the second quarter of 2010.
Revenue of 947.7m is slightly higher than reported for 2008, with lower underlying revenue due to reduced levels of market activity We have continued to develop our electronic capabilities and offset by more favourable translation exchange rates for our market share.
Our focus is on the hybrid model under which North American and Asian operations.
Operating pro t of 170.8m electronic platforms build upon and support the business is 4.3m lower than for 2008, re ecting a reduction in operating excellent voice broking franchise and high level technology margin.
Given that there is some operational leverage in the to create a set of tools that enable our brokers to provide a full business, operating margins are adversely affected by lower levels broking service to meet client demand.
We have a growing suite of underlying revenue, but at 18.0% for 2009 are only a little lower of ef cient and stable electronic platforms which are competitive than the 18.6% for 2008.
This re ects the active management of our with similar platforms provided by our peers.
front of ce costs, the bene t of the actions taken at the end of 2008 to reduce xed support costs, and strong management control.
In addition, we are developing our post-trade risk management services.
In response to client demand we have extended the There has been signi cant structural change in the banking coverage of tpMATCH, our FRA matching platform, to all major industry and adjustments to the business models of many of currencies in multiple tenors, enabling clients in all three regions to our customers following the unprecedented events in the worlds reduce their interest rate risk.
The recently announced acquisition financial markets during 2008, including a reduction in risk appetite of OTC Valuations will complement our Information Sales business and financial sector leverage.
This has resulted in a move of capital and will allow us to meet the increasing demand for independent away from more complex structured products towards the more valuation services.
Revenues from our established Information traditional ow products, towards cash products rather than Sales activities together with hybrid revenues from products derivatives, and towards first derivatives rather than complex that have established electronic execution capability now secondary and tertiary derivatives.
Volumes in emerging markets represent approximately one-sixth of the Groups total revenue.
products, volatility products and equity related products have been particularly affected.
The majority of our business, however, Between August and December 2009, 77 brokers on certain desks is in the more traditional ow products of foreign exchange and in our North American business resigned following a raid on the interest rate swaps although volumes were also generally lower in business by BGC.
Although these brokers did generate substantial these areas than in 2008 and in government bonds and corporate revenue, actions are being taken to strengthen the management and bonds where the level of activity during the year was supported organisation of our North American business, including replacing by high levels of issuance.
We have hired new senior management to lead our credit and mortgage backed securities activities and are making progress in The business is well diversi ed across both products and recruiting brokers in these and other affected areas.
Legal action is geographies and our performance in 2009 has bene ted from being taken against BGC and former employees in the US and also the investments made in the last two years in increasing the scale in London, and against former employees in Hong Kong who have and breadth of the business.
In particular, our business in Europe unlawfully terminated their employment with us in order to join has bene ted from the investments made in Credit through BGC, following raids earlier in the year on our London and Hong both broker hires and the launch of an electronic broking platform, Kong businesses.
and in Energy through the acquisitions of Primex and Aspen.
Tullett Prebon plc 07 Annual Report 2009 Business Review continued Our key financial and performance indicators for 2009 compared with those for 2008 are summarised in the table below.
Reported revenue in 2009 of 947.7m was slightly higher than 2008, and was 9% lower at constant exchange rates.
Year end broker headcount was 2% lower, and average revenue per broker at 565k was 7% lower at constant exchange rates.
The reduction in broker headcount re ects the impact of the cost reduction action taken at the end of 2008 and the decline in headcount in North America due to the defection of the brokers in the second half of the year, which has offset increased headcount in Europe and Asia Paci c. Reported operating pro t for 2009 of 170.8m is 2% lower than in 2008 and is 11% lower at constant exchange rates.
The operating margin has reduced by 0.6% points to 18.0%.
The objectives of the cost reduction action undertaken towards the end of 2008 to increase exibility in front of ce costs and to reduce absolute support costs have been delivered.
Broker compensation as a percentage of broking revenue has, however, increased by 0.5% points to 58.0%, driven by increases in North America and Asia due to inef ciencies in certain desks as a result of revenue declines, and generally increased costs of employment across the business as a result of competitive pressures.
Support costs have been signi cantly reduced, driven by reductions in headcount.
Non-broker headcount of 824 at the end of 2009 is 7% lower than at the end of 2008 and 13% lower than at June 2008.
Change Constant Exchange 2009 2008 Reported Rates Revenue 947.7m 943.6m 0% -9% Operating pro t 170.8m 175.1m -2% -11% Operating margin 18.0% 18.6% -0.6% points Broker headcount year end 1,612 1,653 -2% Average revenue per broker 000 565 548 3% -7% Broker employment costs : broking revenue 58.0% 57.5% 0.5% points Non-broker headcount year end 824 889 -7% 08 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2009
