Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Investment Managers Henderson Global Investors Founded in 1934, Henderson Global Investors Henderson is wholly-owned by Henderson Group plc, which is dual-listed on the London Stock Exchange and Australian Securities Exchange.
Henderson Group is a constituent of the FTSE 250 and S&P ASX 200 indices.
Since 31 October 2008, the Group has been incorporated in Jersey and tax-resident in the Republic of Ireland.
Henderson Group plc is a focused organisation consisting solely of Henderson, the asset management entity of Henderson Group plc.
The Groups strategic focus is the development of Henderson as a leading investment manager, based around its core fixed income, equity and property capabilities as well as its offering of alternative products, such as private equity and hedge funds.
With its principal place of business in London, Henderson is one of Europes largest investment managers, with over 58.1bn assets under management and employing over 900 people worldwide.
Artemis Investment Management Established in 1997, Artemis Investment Management Ltd manages over 10.1bn on behalf of a range of retail and institutional clients.
Witans portfolio is a segregated mirror of Derek Stuarts 1.9bn UK Special Situations Strategy launched in 2001 a contrarian fund that aims to outperform the FTSE AllShare Index by 3% per annum.
This approach seeks to exploit market inefficiencies, with an absolute return mindset, in order to generate maximum returns.
It is a stock-picking strategy that aims to achieve long term capital growth by focusing on stocks that are out of favour and have turnaround potential.
Marathon Asset Management Marathon Asset Management was founded in 1986 and is totally independent, managing some 25bn of institutional client assets.
At the heart of Marathons investment philosophy is the capital cycle approach to investment.
This is based on the idea that the prospect of high returns will attract excessive capital and hence competition, and vice versa.
In addition, the assessment of management and how they respond to incentives and the forces of the capital cycle is critical to the investment outcome.
The investment philosophy is intrinsically contrarian.
Given the long term nature of the capital cycle, Marathons investment ideas generally require patience and, by industry standards, long stock holding periods.
Southeastern Asset Management Founded in 1975 and based in Memphis Tennessee, Southeastern manages over 20bn for a range of institutional, high net worth and retail clients.
When Southeastern makes an investment they take the view that they are purchasing that company in its entirety.
They aim to avoid capital loss while targeting an annual average return of at least inflation plus 10%.
In the US they manage the Longleaf mutual funds which reopened in 2008 to new investors, after being closed for several years, due to the large amount of opportunity in the market.
Southeastern is 100% employee owned with all staff equity investment made exclusively into the firms funds.
MFS Investment Management MFS is a global investment firm managing 113.6 bn of equity and fixed-income assets for investors worldwide.
Founded in 1924, MFS established one of the industrys first in-house fundamental research departments in 1932.
Today, MFS offers a broad range of investment styles that combine both fundamental and quantitative research and portfolio management.
Their investment philosophy has remained consistent: to identify opportunities on behalf of clients through the application of global research and bottom-up security selection.
MFS culture is investment driven, client centred, and collaborative.
To underscore their values of collaboration and accountability, they structure ownership and compensation to reward long term investment performance and teamwork.
Up to 22% ownership of MFS is available to key MFS contributors.
Their majority shareholder since 1982 has been Sun Life of Canada U. S. Financial Services Holdings, Inc. 18 Annual Report 2009 Thomas White International Founded in 1992 by a Managing Director of Morgan Stanley Asset Management, Thomas White has 670m under management.
With professionals in Chicago and Bangalore, India, Thomas White invests in 50 markets around the world using a disciplined value-driven strategy.
Its analysts are aided in their stock selection by proprietary fundamental appraisal techniques applied to each company within an industry and or country.
This body of valuation knowledge has been refined over decades.
Their unique analytical approach allows them to limit overall portfolio volatility and downside risk while delivering excellent long term investment returns.
Wellington Management Tracing their roots to 1928, Wellington Management is one of the largest independent investment management firms in the world.
They are a private firm whose sole business is investment management.
With client assets under management totalling just under 333bn, they serve as investment adviser for institutional clients in over 40 countries.
Wellingtons most distinctive strength is their commitment to proprietary, independent research the foundation upon which their investment approaches are built.
Wellingtons commitment to investment excellence is evidenced by their significant presence and long term track records in nearly all sectors of the liquid, global securities markets.
Varenne Capital Partners Varenne Capital Partners invests internationally in significantly undervalued equity and other listed securities.
Varenne was established in 2003, managing some 51m, and is a Paris based boutique with four founding partners.
The managers at Varenne focus on companies with good to excellent economic characteristics a measurable, sustainable competitive advantage delivering long term above average returns on capital employed that trade at discounts of at least 45% to its intrinsic value estimates.
Brandes Brandes Investment Partners, L. P. Brandes is a leading US investment advisory firm, managing approximately $33.2bn in equity and fixed income assets for institutional and private clients worldwide.
Since the firms inception in 1974, Brandes has applied the value investing approach, pioneered by Benjamin Graham, to security selection.
Among the first investment firms to bring a global perspective to value investing, they manage a variety of investment strategies.
They believe that a securitys price and its intrinsic value detach from one another in the short term.
The firm focuses on the fundamental characteristics of a company in order to develop an estimate of its intrinsic value.
Comgest Wholly owned by its principals and staff, Comgest is completely independent.
Founded in Paris in 1986, Comgest also has offices in Hong Kong, Dublin and Tokyo and manages some 8.9bn solely in equities 7.0bn in Asia Emerging markets.
Comgest uses a fundamental bottom-up approach, investing in companies that show exceptional characteristics that are likely to appreciate over the long term.
No specific sectors or geographical zones are favoured.
Comgests objective is to achieve above average returns at below average levels of risk over the long term, reflecting the excellent visibility and strong profit growth of the companies in which it invests.
Orbis Orbis employs over 200 staff based at offices in Bermuda, London, Sydney and Seoul and manages approximately 15.6bn.
Orbis adopts a bottom-up approach to selecting a portfolio of typically 30-50 stocks, offering best value, diversification and liquidity.
Orbis offers a range of equity-based pooled investment vehicles, including a range of equity funds, three of which are AAA rated by Standard & Poors.
Witan invests in Orbiss Australian Equity Fund, which since the fund launch in May 2006 has consistently outperformed its benchmark.
