Annual Report 2009 The principal changes in the new Articles, as proposed One of the other key provisions of the Memorandum for adoption at the AGM, relate to shareholder meetings which is deemed to form part of the Companys Articles and resolutions, the Companys constitution and share from 1 October 2009 is the restriction created by the capital.
existing authorised share capital statement.
The Act removes the requirement for a company to place limits In August 2009, changes were made to the provisions in on its authorised share capital.
the Act on company meetings by The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 Shareholders By adopting the new Articles, which do not contain the Rights Regulations to implement the EU Shareholder objects clause or the authorised share capital statement, Rights Directive in the UK.
The new Articles incorporate the Company will remove these provisions, which would amendments in relation to meetings to ensure otherwise be deemed to form part of the Companys consistency with the Act as amended by the Articles under section 28 of the Act.
A more detailed explanation of these and other Under the Act all provisions of the Companys amendments is set out in the summary on pages Memorandum of Association the Memorandum, but 73 to 75. most significantly the objects clause, are deemed, from 1 October 2009, to form part of the Companys Articles.
Recommendation It is possible for the objects clause to be removed or The Board considers that the resolutions relating to amended by amending the Articles by special resolution.
the above items of other business are in the best It is not necessary under the Act for a company to interests of shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the set out its objects and the Act provides that, unless the Board unanimously recommends to shareholders Articles state otherwise, a companys objects will be that they vote in favour of the above resolutions to be unrestricted.
proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Warning to Shareholders Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, would make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders and that any such calls would relate only to official documentation already circulated to shareholders and never in respect of investment advice.
If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone call, please call either the Company Secretary or the Registrar at the numbers provided on page 80.
