Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Board of Directors a Independent non-executive directors.
b Members of the Audit Committee which is chaired by Mr Boyle.
c Members of the Remuneration Committee which is chaired by Mrs Claydon.
a, c a, b a a, c H M Henderson R A Bruce MA, MBA J E B Bevan MA M C Claydon BA, MBA A L C Bell MA Appointed a director in 1988, Andrew Bruce was appointed James Bevan was appointed a Catherine Claydon joined the Andrew Bell was appointed a Harry Henderson became a director in 2002.
From director and Chief Executive Chairman in March 2003.
Group Credit Risk Director at CCLA Investment 1992 to 2007 she worked at Officer with effect from He was formerly a partner Barclays PLC where he has Management.
Before joining Goldman Sachs, from 2002 as 8 February 2010.
He is of Cazenove & Co. and responsibility for asset quality CCLA in November 2006, Managing Director, Pension responsible for the overall subsequently a senior and credit risk across the he was the Chief Investment Advisory Group.
He has executive at Cazenove Group Barclays Group.
He is also a Officer at Abbey.
Prior to to 2008 she held the same worked in the City since 1987, plc, retiring in 2002.
Mr non-executive director of Abbey, he was Chief position at Lehman Brothers initially specialising in Henderson is Chairman of Clearstream International.
She is a nonEuropean equities as a Witan Investment Services Barclays Stockbrokers and executive director of London strategist at Barclays fide Zoete Limited.
He is also a director Barclays Personal Investment Metal Exchange Limited.
Wedd BZW, following which of Cadogan Settled Estates Management, having joined Mrs Claydon is a Canadian he was Co-Head of the Limited.
Investment Trusts team at postgraduate research in BZW and Credit Suisse First applied economics and asset Boston.
From there, in 2000 allocation at Cambridge he joined Carr Sheppards University.
Crosthwaite now Rensburg Sheppards Investment a, b A Watson CBE, BSc Econ, Management Limited where a, c a, b R H McGrath R W Boyle MA, FCA R E Clarke BSc, MSc, ACA until February 2010 he was a ASIP, Barrister-at-Law, FSI Hon director and Head of Research and Strategy.
Prior to the City, he worked for Shell in Oman, leaving to take a Sloan Fellowship at the London Business School.
He is a nonexecutive director of Framlington Innovative Growth Trust plc, Henderson High Income Trust plc and the Association of Investment Companies, as well as serving as a governor of Bedford School.
Mr Bell is a director of Witan Investment Services Rory McGrath was appointed Tony Watson was appointed a Robert Boyle was appointed Robert Clarke was appointed Limited.
He is a director with effect from formerly Chief Executive of appointed Senior a Chartered Accountant 15 September 2008 and was H. Young Holdings plc, a Independent Director in and was a partner of Chief Executive Officer from marketing company.
He is a  LLP, that date until 7 February Mr McGrath is a director of executive director of where he was responsible for 2010.
Throughout 2009 he Witan Investment Services Hammerson plc, Lloyds multi-national client was responsible for the Limited.
Banking Group plc and accounts, specialising in the overall management of Vodafone Group Plc and telecoms and media sectors: Witan.
Mr Clarke has held Chairman of the Trustees of he was chairman of the PWC various positions in the the Marks & Spencer Pension European Entertainment and financial services sector and Scheme.
He was Chairman of Media Practice for twelve until 2008 was a director and Strategic Investment Board years retiring in 2006.
He is a the Chief Executive of Limited Northern Ireland non-executive director, and Majedie Investments PLC.
and was a member of the chairman of the audit Mr Clarke is a director of Financial Reporting Council.
committee, of Maxis Berhad Witan Investment Services Mr Watson retired in 2006 in Malaysia, Centaur Media Limited.
He will stand down from an executive career in plc, Prosperity Voskhod Fund from both the Witan Boards the investment management Ltd an AIM listed company in April 2010. industry, most recently as and the Hampshire Chief Executive of Hermes Partnership NHS Foundation Pensions Management Trust and a non-executive Limited.
director of Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc.
He is also the independent member of the audit committee of the National Trust.
21 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Statutory Information defined in section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and In this Section operates as an investment trust in accordance with Activities and Business Review section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act Investment Policy 1988 the Taxes Act.
HM Revenue & Customs Status approval of the Companys status as an investment Subsidiary Company trust has been received in respect of the year ended ISAs 31 December 2008, although approval for that year Substantial Share Interests may be subject to review should there be any Assets subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Revenue and Dividend Assessment.
The Company will continue each year to Company Revenue Account seek approval as an investment trust under section 842 Directors of the Taxes Act.
Directors Interests Directors Conflicts of Interest Subsidiary Company Directors Indemnity The Company has one subsidiary company, Witan Directors Fees Investment Services Limited, which provides marketing Financial Instruments and the Management of Risk services and investment products to the Company and Investment Managers executive management and marketing services to third Share Capital party investment trust clients.
Witan Investment New Zealand Listing Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Payment of Suppliers Financial Services Authority to manage savings schemes Independent Auditors for investors.
Donations Annual General Meeting AGM ISAs Corporate Governance Statement The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so that its investments fully qualify for the stocks and The directors present the Annual Report of the Group for shares component of an ISA.
Substantial Share Interests Activities and Business Review As at 12 March 2010, the following had notified the A review of the business is given in the Chairmans Company of interests in the Companys voting rights: Statement on pages 3 to 5 and in the Business Review on % pages 6 to 16.
AXA Investment Managers UK Limited The Company is required by the Companies Act to direct 17.8%: indirect 0.1% 17.9 set out in this report a fair review of the business of Legal & General Group plc direct 4.2 the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2009 and of the position of the Group at The above percentages are calculated by applying the shareholdings as the end of the year and a description of the principal notied to the Company to the issued ordinary share capital as at 12 March 2010 the shareholdings representing the voting rights.
risks and uncertainties facing the Group business review.
The information that fulfils the requirements Assets of the business review can be found within the Business At 31 December 2009 the total net assets of the Group Review on pages 6 to 16. were 1,022.8 million 2008: 879.2 million.
At this date the net asset value per ordinary share was 502.7p 2008: Investment Policy 410.1p.
The Companys investment policy is set out, within the Business Review, on page 10.
Revenue and Dividend The profit for the year was 209.6 million, of which Status 22.5 million is attributable to revenue 2008: loss of Witan Investment Trust plc the Company is 279.2 million, of which a profit of 25.3 million was incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in attributable to revenue.
The profit for the year the United Kingdom.
It is an investment company as attributable to revenue has been applied as follows: 22 Annual Report 2009 000 28 April 2009.
Mr McGrath is the non-executive director who leads on marketing matters but the Board has Distributed as dividends: decided not to establish a permanent committee to First interim of 4.30p per ordinary share cover this area of the business.
paid on 11 September 2009 9,162 As noted on page 28, Mr Henderson was formerly a Second interim of 6.20p per ordinary share senior executive at Cazenove and a partner in its payable on 1 April 2010 12,407 predecessor firm.
As one of a number of institutional Retained revenue earnings 955 investors, the Company purchased in 2001 a holding of shares in Cazenove Group plc Cazenove see note 22,524 10 v on page 56.
Subject to this exception, no director was a party to, or had an interest in, any The directors have declared a second interim dividend contract or arrangement with the Company at any time instead of a final dividend in order to ensure that, as in during the year or to the date of this report.
With the previous years, the distribution is made to the shareholders exception of Mr Clarke and Mr Bell, no director has a before 5 April.
The Company intends to grow the dividend service contract with the Company.
at least in line with inflation year on year.
Directors Interests Company Revenue Account The interests of the directors in the share capital of the As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, Company were as follows: the Company has not presented its own income statement.
The profit on the revenue return of the 31 December 2009 Company dealt with in the accounts of the Group Ordinary shares: Beneficial Non-Beneficial amounted to 22,549,000 2008: 25,206,000.
H M Henderson 722,732 471,500 Directors R E Clarke The current directors of the Company are shown on R H McGrath 27,688 1,993 page 21.
R A Bruce 3,228 473 A Watson 25,000 All the directors held office throughout the year under J E B Bevan review, with the exception of Mrs Claydon, who was R W Boyle 7,528 appointed a director with effect from 9 March 2009, and M C Claydon 11,695 Mr Bell, who was appointed after the year end and with effect from 8 February 2010.
Mr A W Jones served as a 797,871 473,966 director until his retirement at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2009.
1 January 2009 Ordinary shares: Beneficial Non-Beneficial At the Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2010, Mr Bell, Mr Bevan and Mr Boyle will retire in H M Henderson 722,732 471,500 accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
R E Clarke Mr Henderson and Mr McGrath will also stand for R H McGrath 27,688 1,485 re-election, having served as directors for more than R A Bruce 3,167 397 nine years.
A Watson 25,000 J E B Bevan Throughout the year the membership of the Audit R W Boyle 4,606 Committee comprised Mr Boyle Chairman, Mr Bruce M C Claydon and Mr Watson.
During the year the following directors served as members of the Remuneration Committee: 783,193 473,382 Mr A W Jones, Mr H M Henderson, Mr R H McGrath and Mrs M C Claydon.
Mrs Claydon was appointed to on appointment on 9 March 2009. the Committee and became its Chairman on Since the year end, Mr McGraths non-beneficial 10 November 2009.
Mr Jones served as Chairman of interests have increased to 2,106 shares, as a result of the Committee until his retirement from the Board on regular investment through the Jump and Jump CTF 23 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Statutory Information continued share plans, and Mr Bruces non-beneficial interests appropriate.
The Board believes that its powers of have increased similarly to 489 shares.
Mrs Claydons authorisation of conflicts has operated effectively since holding has increased to 28,352 shares.
Since they were introduced on 1 October 2008.
The Board also appointment Mr Bell has acquired a holding of 20,000 confirms that its procedures for the approval of conflicts ordinary shares.
No other changes in the interests of of interest have been followed by all the directors.
the directors have been notified.
No director had an interest in the secured bonds, debenture stock or Directors Indemnity preference shares of the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association allow the Company, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, to: Directors Conflicts of Interest Directors have a duty to avoid situations where they have, a indemnify any person who is or was a director, or a or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or director of any associated company, directly or possibly could conflict, with the Companys interests.
indirectly against any loss or liability, whether in With effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act connection with any proven or alleged negligence, 2006 the Act has allowed directors of public default, breach of duty or breach of trust by him or companies to authorise such conflicts and potential her, or otherwise, in relation to the Company or any conflicts, where appropriate, but only if the Articles of associated company: and Association contain a provision to this effect.
The Act also allows the Articles of Association to contain other b purchase and maintain insurance for any person who provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest is or was a director, or a director of any associated to avoid a breach of duty.
There are two circumstances in company, against any loss or liability or any which a conflict of interest can be permitted: either the expenditure he or she may incur, whether in situation cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to give connection with any proven or alleged negligence, rise to a conflict of interest or the matter has been default, breach of duty or breach of trust by him or authorised in advance by the directors.
The Companys her, or otherwise, in relation to the Company or any Articles of Association, which were adopted by associated company.
shareholders on 28 April 2008, give the directors the relevant authority required to deal with conflicts of Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place interest.
Each of the directors has provided a statement of in respect of the directors and was in place throughout all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest, the year under review.
if any, applicable to the Company.
A register of conflicts of interest has been compiled and approved by the Board.
Directors Fees The directors have also undertaken to notify the The report on the directors remuneration is set out on Chairman as soon as they become aware of any new pages 36 to 38. potential conflicts of interest that need to be approved by the Board and added to the Register, which is reviewed Financial Instruments and the Management of Risk annually by the Board.
It has also been agreed that By its nature as an investment trust, the Company is directors will advise the Chairman and the Company exposed to market risk, price risk, currency risk, interest Secretary in advance of any proposed external rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The Companys appointment and new directors will be asked to submit a policies for managing these risks are outlined in note 14 list of potential situations falling within the conflicts of to the accounts on pages 57 to 63. interest provisions of the Act in advance of joining the Board.
The Chairman will then determine whether the Investment Managers relevant appointment causes a conflict or potential It is the opinion of the directors that the continuing conflict of interest and should therefore be considered by appointment of the investment managers listed on the Board.
Only directors who have no interest in the pages 18 and 19 is in the interests of the Companys matter being considered would be able to participate in shareholders as a whole and that the terms of the Board approval process.
In deciding whether to engagement negotiated with them are competitive approve a conflict of interest, directors will also act in a and appropriate to the investment mandates.
The way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to Board reviews the appointments of the investment promote the Companys success in taking such a decision.
managers on a regular basis and makes changes as The Board can impose limits or conditions when giving appropriate.
authorisation if the directors consider this to be 24 Annual Report 2009 Share Capital Independent Auditors The Companys share capital comprises: Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditors, and to authorise the directors to a ordinary shares of 25p nominal value each shares determine their remuneration, will be proposed at the The voting rights of the shares on a poll are one vote for forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
every four shares held one vote per 1 of nominal value.
At 31 December 2009 there were 203,464,280 Directors Statement as to the Disclosure of Information shares in issue and thus the number of voting rights was to the Auditors 50,866,070 on a poll.
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: b 2.7% preference shares of 1 nominal value each 2.7% preference shares 1 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant The 2.7% preference shareholders have no rights to audit information of which the Company's auditors attend and vote at general meetings.
At 31 December are unaware: and 2009 there were 500,000 2.7% preference shares in issue.
Further details on the preference shares are given in 2 the director has taken all the steps that he ought to note 17 on page 65. have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish c 3.4% preference shares of 1 nominal value each that the Company's auditors are aware of that 3.4% preference shares information.
The 3.4% preference shareholders have no rights to attend and vote at general meetings.
At 31 December This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 2009 there were 2,055,000 3.4% preference shares in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the issue.
Further details on the preference shares are given in Companies Act 2006. note 17 on page 65.
Donations During the year a total of 10,934,374 ordinary shares No donations were made to political parties during were bought back by the Company for cancellation.
No donations were made to charities during There were no other changes to the issued share capital the year.
or the voting rights of the share capital during the year.
Since the year end a further 3,716,127 ordinary shares Annual General Meeting AGM have been bought back for cancellation.
The following information is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in There are no restrictions on the transfer of the any doubt about the action you should take, you Companys share capital and there are no shares or stock should consult an independent financial adviser, which carry specific rights with regards to control of the authorised under the Financial Services and Company.
If you have sold or transferred all of your voting rights in the Company, please New Zealand Listing forward this document with its accompanying Since 8 March 2006 the Companys shares have been form of proxy at once to the purchaser or listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange, in the transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other category of Overseas Listed Issuer.
agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for onward transmission to the Payment of Suppliers purchaser or transferee.
It is the Companys payment policy for the financial year to 31 December 2009 to obtain the best terms for all The AGM will be held on Tuesday 27 April 2010 at business.
In general, the Company agrees with its 2.30 pm.
The formal notice of the AGM is set out on suppliers the terms on which business will take place and pages 68 to 75.
Resolutions relating to the following it is the Companys policy to abide by such terms.
At items of other business will be proposed at the AGM, for 31 December 2009 the Company had no trade creditors which shareholder approval is required in order to 2008: none.
comply with the Companies Act 2006.
25 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Statutory Information continued Share buy-back facility calculated by valuing the Companys debt on a fair Resolution 10 Authority to make market purchases value basis.
The directors will not use this authority of the Companys own ordinary shares special unless to do so would result in an increase in the net resolution asset value per ordinary share.
Shares will not be bought at a price that is less than 25p the nominal The Companys Articles of Association permit the value or more than 5% above the average middle Company to purchase its own shares and to fund such market price of the shares over the preceding five purchases from its accumulated realised capital profits.
The directors intend to seek a fresh authority at the AGM in 2011.
At the AGM in April 2009 a special resolution was passed giving the Company authority, until the conclusion of Resolution 11 Authority to make market purchases the AGM in 2010, to make market purchases for of the Companys own preference shares special cancellation of the Companys ordinary shares up to a resolution maximum of 32,077,708 shares being 14.99% of the At the AGM in April 2009 a special resolution was passed issued ordinary share capital as at 28 April 2009.
As at giving the Company authority, until the conclusion of 31 December 2009 the Company had valid authority, the AGM in 2010, to make market purchases for outstanding until the conclusion of the AGM in 2010, cancellation of the Companys own 2.7% preference to make market purchases for cancellation of 21,547,934 shares and 3.4% preference shares up to a maximum of shares.
During the year ended 31 December 2009 the all those in issue.
This authority has not been used.
Company purchased for cancellation a total of Accordingly, as at 31 December 2009 the Company had 10,934,374 of its own ordinary shares with a nominal valid authority, outstanding until the conclusion of the value of 2,733,593.50, representing 5.1% of the AGM in 2009, to make market purchases for cancellation ordinary shares in issue at 31 December 2008.
These of 500,000 2.7% preference shares and 2,055,000 3.4% purchases, which cost 44.2 million including stamp preference shares.
No preference shares were bought duty, were funded from the realised capital reserves.
back between the year end and the date of this report.
A further 3,716,127 shares have been bought back The Board considers that the Company should continue between the year end and the date of this report.
to have authority to make market purchases of its own preference shares for cancellation.
Accordingly, a special The Board considers that the Company should continue resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM to to have authority to make market purchases of its own authorise the Company to make market purchases for ordinary shares for cancellation.
Accordingly, a special cancellation of up to the whole of the issued preference resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM to share capital in issue at the date of the AGM equivalent authorise the Company to make market purchases for to 500,000 2.7% preference shares and 2,055,000 3.4% cancellation of up to 14.99% of the ordinary shares in preference shares if there is no change in the issued issue at the date of the AGM equivalent to 29,942,248 preference share capital between the date of this report ordinary shares if there is no change in the issued and the AGM.
The directors do not intend to use this ordinary share capital between the date of this report and authority unless, in their view, to do so would be in the the AGM.
Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing best interests of the shareholders generally.
Shares will Authority this is the maximum percentage of its equity not be bought back at a price that is less than 1 the share capital that a company may purchase through the nominal value or more than 5% above the average market pursuant to such authority.
middle market price of the shares over the preceding five business days.
The directors intend to seek a fresh The directors believe that buying back the Companys authority at the AGM in 2011. own shares in the market, at appropriate times and prices, is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Resolution 12 Revision of the Articles of Association The Company will make purchases, within guidelines The Company proposes to adopt new Articles of set from time to time by the Board and if or when Association Articles.
These incorporate amendments market conditions are suitable, with the aim of to the current Articles to reflect the changes in company maximising the benefit to the remaining shareholders.
law, brought about by the Companies Act 2006 the The Company announced in December 2004 its Act, which came into effect on 1 October 2009: intention to buy back shares proactively in order to changes made to the Act in August 2009, to implement maintain an appropriate level of discount, with the aim the EU Shareholder Rights Directive in the UK: and some of moving the level of the discount to below 10% as minor technical or clarifying changes.
