Governance Other Statutory Information community contributions and related activities on community Management Report support are described in the Corporate Responsibility Review on The Directors Report for the year can be found on pages 4 to 44. page 26.
In line with Group policy, no donations were made for The management report for the year, as required by the Disclosure political purposes during the year 2008: nil.
and Transparency Rules, is incorporated by reference within the Directors Report.
Share capital At the 2009 AGM, shareholders approved an increase in the Major acquisitions and disposals Companys authorised share capital.
The Company was also Full details of acquisitions and disposals are disclosed in the authorised at the 2009 AGM to allot shares, within certain limits Business Review on pages 4 to 34 and notes 37 and 38 to the and as permitted by the Companies Act.
A renewal of this authority Financial Statements on pages 139 to 145. will be proposed at the 2010 AGM.
The Companys authorised and issued share capital as at 31 December 2009, together with Events after the balance sheet date details of shares issued during the year, is set out in note 30 to the Events after the balance sheet date are disclosed in note 42 Financial Statements on pages 123 to 124. to the Financial Statements on page 149.
Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote.
Further Related party transactions information on the voting and other rights of shareholders are set out in the Articles of Association the Articles and in the Related party transactions are set out in note 40 to the Financial explanatory notes which accompany notices of general meetings, Statements on page 147. all of which are available on the Companys website at Creditor payment policy www.
It is the Groups policy to: Authority to purchase shares agree the terms of payment in advance with the supplier: The Company was authorised at the 2009 AGM to purchase its own ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: and shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the Articles.
A renewal of pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
this authority will be proposed at the 2010 AGM.
Shares repurchased may be cancelled or retained as treasury shares to accommodate The number of days purchases outstanding as at 31 December requirements for shares under the Groups share incentive schemes.
2009 was 33 2008: 37 for the Group excluding Accord Energy No shares were purchased under this authority during 2009.
Limited and 20 2008: 39 for the Company.
Material shareholdings Essential contractual arrangements At 24 February 2010, Centrica had received notification of the The Group has contractual and other arrangements with various following material shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure and third parties.
Whilst the loss of or disruption to certain of these Transparency Rules: arrangements could temporarily affect the operations of the Group, % of share this Annual Report does not contain information about these third Ordinary shares capital Nature of holding parties as none of the arrangements with them are considered to be essential to the Groups business.
Legal & General Group 228,227,811 4.44 Direct Significant agreements change of control Petronas 199,375,000 3.88 Direct The following are significant agreements to which the Company is party which take effect, alter or terminate upon the change of Auditors control in the Company following a takeover bid:  LLP have expressed their willingness as part of the demerger in 1997, BG Group plc which is a to be reappointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the separately listed company and not a part of Centrica assigned recommendation of the Audit Committee, separate resolutions to ownership of the British Gas trade marks and related logos to reappoint them as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Centrica for use in Great Britain.
BG Group plc has the right to call Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the for a re-assignment of this intellectual property if control of forthcoming AGM.
Centrica is acquired by a third party: and This Directors Report comprising pages 4 to 44 has been in 2009, Centrica entered into certain transactions with EDF Group approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: in relation to an investment in British Energy, an owner and operator of nuclear power stations in the UK.
The transactions include rights for EDF Group and Centrica to offtake power from existing and new build British Energy nuclear power stations and to invest in new build nuclear power stations.
As part of these Grant Dawson arrangements, on a change of control of Centrica, Centrica loses General Counsel & Company Secretary its rights to participate on the Boards of the companies in which it 25 February 2010 has invested and on Technical Committees for new nuclear Registered office: development.
Furthermore, on a change of control of Centrica, Millstream where the acquirer is not located in a specified country, EDF Maidenhead Road Group is able to require Centrica to sell out its investments.
Windsor Charitable and political donations Berkshire SL4 5GD During the year, the Group made cash charitable donations to Company registered in England and Wales No.
3033654 support the community of 4.8 million 2008: 5.9 million.
