REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE company.
The overall policies and the processes to implement them Introduction were reviewed and appropriately modied in the light of the The Audit Committee is chaired by Phil Hodkinson.
The other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to non-audit services members are Maarten van den Bergh, Clay Brendish, that external auditors may not perform.
The Audit Committee Patricia Hewitt and Carl Symon.
They are all independent monitors the extent of non-audit work being performed by the non-executive directors.
With the exception of Patricia Hewitt who external auditors and approves any work not included on the list of joined the Committee on 8 May 2008, they were members of the services the Committee has pre-approved before it is undertaken.
It Committee throughout the 2009 financial year.
Appointments are also monitors the level of non-audit fees paid to the auditors.
for a period of up to three years, which may be extended for two Details of non-audit work carried out by the external auditors are in further three year periods, provided the director remains note 32 in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements on independent.
The Board considers that the Committees members page 129. generally have broad commercial knowledge and extensive The Audit Committee reviews BTs published financial results, the business leadership experience, having held between them Annual Report & Form 20-F and other published information for various prior roles in major business, Government and financial statutory and regulatory compliance.
It reports its views to the management, treasury and financial function supervision and that Board to assist it in its approval of the results announcements and this constitutes a broad and suitable mix of business, financial the Annual Report & Form 20-F. management and IT experience.
The Board has reviewed The Committee also reviews the disclosure made by the Chief membership of the Committee and is satisfied that it includes a Executive and Group Finance Director during the certication process member in the person of Phil Hodkinson who has the recent and for the annual report about the design and operation of internal relevant financial experience required for the provisions of the Code controls or material weaknesses in the controls, including any fraud and is an audit committee financial expert for the purposes of the involving management or other employees who have a significant US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Committee typically meets four times role in the companys financial controls.
The Board, as required by each financial year: in May, July, November and February and the UK law, takes responsibility for all disclosures in the annual report.
chairman of the Committee reports on the discussions at the next The Audit Committee reviews internal audit and its relationship Board meeting.
with the external auditors, including plans and performance: and The Group Finance Director, Company Secretary, Director Internal monitors, reviews and reports on risk management processes and Audit and Director Group Financial Control although not members the standards of risk management and internal control, including of the Audit Committee, will attend meetings with the agreement the processes and procedures for ensuring that material business of the chairman of the Committee.
The external auditors will risks, including risks relating to IT security, fraud and related normally attend meetings, although they will not be present when matters, are properly identied and managed.
the Committee discusses their performance and or remuneration.
It reviews promptly all material reports on the company from the The papers and minutes of Audit Committee meetings are sent to internal auditors and ensures that appropriate action is taken on directors who are not members of the Committee.
issues arising from such reports, including monitoring managements responsiveness to the findings and recommendations of the internal auditors.
Committee role It reviews the processes for dealing with complaints received by The Committees terms of reference are available from the Company the company regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or Secretary and are posted on our website at www.
com committees auditing matters and the condential, anonymous submission by The Committee recommends the appointment and employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or reappointment of the external auditors and considers their auditing matters whistleblowing procedures, ensuring resignation or dismissal, recommending to the Board appropriate arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent action to appoint new auditors.
It ensures that key partners are investigation and appropriate follow up action.
The partner currently responsible for BTs audit has held that position for two years.
The Committee Committee activities discusses with the auditors the scope of their audits before they commence, reviews the results and considers the formal reports of At each of its meetings, the Committee reviews with the Director the auditors and reports the results of those reviews to the Board.
Internal Audit and appropriate executives the implementation and The Committee reviews the auditors performance each year by effectiveness of key operational and functional change and gathering feedback from Committee members and senior remedial programmes and IT programmes.
The Committee also sets management, and by considering reports on the audit rms own aside time at every meeting to seek the views of the internal and internal quality control procedures and assessment of external auditors in the absence of management.
During the 2009 financial year, the Committee During the year, the Audit Committee business included placed particular emphasis on understanding the quality of audits consideration of the following: conducted in respect of the groups overseas subsidiaries and is May: satisfied that the performance of the external audit process the effectiveness of internal control procedures: continues to be effective.
No contractual obligations exist that the annual financial statements, full year results announcement, restrict the groups choice of external audit rm.
and related formal statements: As a result of regulatory or similar requirements, it may be the basis of accounting for long term contracts: necessary to employ the external auditors for certain non-audit work.
In order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the BT Global Services major contracts review: external auditors, the Board has determined policies as to what annual review of security, business continuity and fraud: non-audit services can be provided by the external auditors and the annual report on the performance of the Internal Audit and approval processes related to them.
Under those policies, work of a Regulatory Compliance functions: consultancy nature will not be offered to the external auditors annual update on whistleblowing.
unless there are clear efficiencies and value-added benets to the 54 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
