BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW BT Global Services order intake m 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2007 2008 2009 We have more than 3,400 points of presence in more than 170 How we are structured countries.
We are the largest supplier of networked IT services to - We have four customer-facing lines of business: BT Global Services, UK national and local government.
BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
These are supported by Despite these strengths, during 2009 the level of profitability in two internal functional units: BT Design and BT Operate.
BT Global Services fell signicantly.
BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach operate mainly in the UK, As explained in the Principal risks and uncertainties section in where we are the largest communications services provider to the this years and previous years annual reports, our pricing, cost and residential and business markets.
BT Global Services operates in the profitability estimates for major contracts generally include longUK and globally.
term cost savings that we expect to make over the life of the BT is one of Europes largest and most successful contract.
In 2009, a failure to achieve these anticipated savings communications wholesalers to other communications providers made a number of these contracts less profitable or even loss CPs.
In the UK we support CPs through BT Wholesale and making, adversely impacting our profits.
Openreach, and internationally through Global Telecoms Markets, an operating unit of BT Global Services.
Actions taken We have integrated our networks, IT and testing facilities which The Board changed the senior management team within BT Global are managed by BT Design and BT Operate.
specifically, BT Design Services, with a new Chief Executive for the division appointed in deploys platforms, IT systems and processes that support our October 2008.
The new teams brief was to address the cost base, products and services, while BT Operate is responsible for making to bring greater focus to the profitability of new contract wins and sure they run smoothly.
to reduce shortfalls in delivery performance on existing contracts.
The new management team undertook an extensive review of BT Line of business financial performance Global Services financial position, contracts and operations.
The The financial performance of each of the lines of business for 2009, financial review covered the financial performance of BT Global 2008 and 2007 is discussed in this Business review.
We measure Services and its balance sheet position.
The contract reviews the financial performance of BT Retail, BT Wholesale and covered the largest and most complex contracts and were Openreach based on EBITDA and operating profit before specic conducted jointly with external advisors.
For 2009, we measure the results of BT Global Services on an contract and financial reviews, a charge of 1.6bn was recognised, adjusted basis, being before the impact of contract and financial which includes 1.2bn relating to the two major contracts that are review charges and specic items.
For further discussion of these the subject of ongoing commercial negotiations.
These charges items see pages 33 and 47 to 48.
A reconciliation of adjusted reect a more cautious view of the recognition of future cost EBITDA to group operating profit loss by line of business, and for efficiencies and other changes in underlying assumptions and the group, is provided in the table at the foot of pages 34 to 35. estimates, particularly in the light of the current economic outlook.
1.3bn of the total charge relates to contract costs which had been previously capitalised on the balance sheet.
BT Global Services BT Global Services management team is implementing a number of process improvements.
Some of these were in place by the end Business overview of 2009, the rest are being implemented in 2010.
These include BT Global Services is a provider of networked IT products, services undertaking more regular contract reviews to assess commercial and solutions.
We aim to be the partner of choice for large risks and opportunities as part of a strengthened contract enterprise and government customers in the UK and globally.
governance process that combines operational, financial and risk We have created a powerful combination of networked IT and reporting.
Additional scrutiny of contracts and cost transformation professional services capabilities together with strong customer plans have been put in place and will continue to be conducted on partnerships, investing and innovating together to build long-term a rigorous and regular basis involving strong independent oversight value.
of assumptions and estimates for new and existing contracts.
We The Gartner Groups research organisation recognises BT as a are also placing greater focus on profitable sectors, setting global leader in Gartners Magic Quadrant for Network Service stringent win criteria and enhancing due diligence around our Providers, and industry analyst Telemark Services has given BT its ability and readiness to meet our delivery requirements on all major platinum award, reecting customer satisfaction with our delivery of contracts.
global data virtual private network services, regarded as best in class.
Immediate action has also been taken to address the cost base, Customer service improvements in 2009 included a reduction of with particular focus on external procurement and total labour more than 40% in the average time to provide international MPLS resource.
We reviewed rates across our contractor base, and services and a 6% improvement in the delivery of international successfully reduced these rates by up to 35%.
We have addressed repairs within the target time.
spend of 450m with suppliers across seven categories of expenditure, including our contractor base, and have successfully 10 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW BT Global Services new structure BT Global Services UK Domestic Multinational BT Global Services Corporations Enterprises renegotiated contracts, resulting in price reductions of 12% on rationalisation and restructuring costs associated with people and average, and up to 35% in some categories.
In addition, we have property.
Further analysis of these charges, including their cashow focused on a number of areas of significant discretionary impact, is provided in the Specic items section of the Financial expenditure including travel, consultancy and conferencing and review on pages 36 to 37. have achieved reductions in these areas.
These actions are expected to deliver sustainable cost reductions in the 2010 financial year.
Market context We believe that we have identied a clear path to a profitable and How BT Global Services is changing sustainable business, building on a strong market position.
The operational review was completed towards the end of 2009, The global networked IT services market is valued at around resulting in a revised operating model and restructuring plan which 600bn.
We remain well placed to help our global customers will reshape and refocus the business, further enhancing BT Global reduce costs and streamline their businesses in a challenging Services ability to serve customers and establish a signicantly market environment.
We are seeing continued interest in network lower cost base.
operational efficiency, workforce management, security, unied Under the new operating model, BT Global Services will focus on communications including Telepresence and conferencing and three customer segments: global hosted contact centre solutions, as our customers respond to being the number one provider of networked IT services to the current economic environment.
corporate and public sector customers in the UK, building on BT Global Services strong market position and the groups 21CN Operational performance products and services In the UK providing networked IT services to key multinational customers, We serve businesses in virtually every sector of British industry, differentiating BT Global Services through seamless global from banking and finance to transport, logistics and the public connectivity and delivery of BTs core portfolio of products and sector.
We have around 1,800 multi-site customers in the UK.
services We continue to make progress on our N3, Spine and London creating a BT Global Services Enterprises unit consisting of a Local Service Provider contracts with the National Health Service discrete portfolio of businesses addressing specic customer NHS National Programme for Information Technology NPfIT, the needs in key countries.
largest non-military IT programme in the world.
Building on our work as the local service provider responsible for significant structural changes are being implemented.
The majority upgrading NHS IT systems in London, we have taken on the will be completed in 2010 in order to deliver the benets of the running of IT systems at eight acute hospitals in the South of new operating model which include: England.
In addition, we are working with a further four acute integrated sales, marketing, professional services, account trusts in the South of England which have yet to roll out systems as management and delivery capability, competing effectively in part of NPfIT, as well as implementing 25 new systems in each target market community and mental health trusts in the region.
enhanced bid management and start-up processes to improve We are deploying one of the worlds largest converged IP win rates on selected deals and ensure standardisation and networks for the Department for Work and Pensions to be quality of delivery completed in 2010. a single global service model, consolidating a large number of Reinforcing our presence in the local government sector, we individual centres into a small number of larger operational hubs, agreed a ten-year strategic partnership with South Tyneside which will provide a single point of customer contact and enable Council, worth more than 180m for delivery of a number of key improved right first time customer service council services.
We also won an extension to our existing continued rationalisation of systems and networks, reducing the arrangement with Liverpool City Council and a new contract with number of systems by a third and halving the number of global Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council and two contracts with networks, thereby removing duplication and enabling significant Norfolk County Council with a combined value of 40m to provide cost savings voice and data services and a schools internet service.
We are the ofcial communications services partner for the restructuring corporate support functions to serve the three London 2012 Olympic Games and Paralympic Games.
This involves customer segments more efficiently and effectively the provision and management of voice and data networks, strategic partnering for sales, service and infrastructure.
internet access and land lines required at each of the London 2012 As a result of this operational review, the group has recorded Games venues.
specic item restructuring charges of 280m in 2009, with further We signed a number of deals with major UK corporate sector charges of approximately 420m in total expected to be recorded customers including: over the next two financial years, the majority in 2010.
These a seven-year, 160m outsourcing deal with Nationwide Building charges predominantly arise from legacy networks and products Society to manage its networked IT services BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 11 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW BT Global Services UK Non UK revenue m 9,000 47% 8,000 40% 7,000 36% 6,000 5,000 60% 4,000 64% 53% 3,000 2,000 Non UK 1,000 UK 0 2007 2008 2009 In 2009, BT Global Services revenue increased by 12% to 8,828m a three-year contract extension with Manpower to provide fully 2008: 7,889m, 2007: 7,312m, compared with growth of 8% managed global wide area network WAN infrastructure and in 2008.
Revenue in 2009 includes the impact of foreign exchange managed services rate movements of 588m and acquisitions of 368m.
Excluding a five-year contract with Carillion worth 32m for voice hosted these, underlying revenue was 7,872m, compared with reported voice, IP data, conferencing and private automated branch revenue of 7,889m in 2008.
Revenue from outside the UK has exchange PABX maintenance.
increased to 47% of BT Global Services total revenue 2008: 40%, 2007: 36%, reecting the impact of organic growth as well as the Outside the UK impact of foreign exchange rate movements and overseas BT Global Services signed orders with 529 new customers outside acquisitions.
the UK in 2009 and we continued to strengthen our business with Revenue from managed network solutions increased by 17% to large multinational corporations.
5,328m, compared with growth of 10% in 2008.
The increase was We signed a number of major deals in 2009, including: driven by growth in revenue from both networked IT services and a five-year, US$526m contract with Procter & Gamble to provide MPLS and reects the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and manage local area network LAN and WAN infrastructure in and acquisitions, together with substitution of UK calls and lines.
more than 80 countries Revenue from calls and lines decreased by 8% to 1,095m, a contract with BMW to manage a large part of its compared with a decline of 6% in 2008.
The decrease was due to communications infrastructure, including voice over IP VoIP, the gradual decline in this revenue stream as customers switch to contact centres, email services and videoconferencing more email, IP network and conferencing products as shown by the a three-year managed services contract with SWIFT to connect growth in managed network solutions.
Other revenue increased by strategic ofces across Europe, the US and Asia with BTs unied 12% to 2,049m, compared with a growth of 11% in 2008.
The communications video solution increase was mainly driven by growth in revenue from the global a three-year contract with Munich Re to provide security and carrier business and reects the impact of foreign exchange rate network services in 33 countries movements and acquisitions.
During the year, we won new networked IT services contracts worth 5.5bn 2008: 5.0bn, a contract with the Emirates airline to consolidate and manage its 2007: 5.2bn.
Networked IT services contracts represent 68% of worldwide contact centres our total order value of 8.0bn 2008: 8.0bn, 2007: 9.3bn.
a seven-year, 118m extension of current services provided to Adjusted gross profit decreased by 9% to 2,576m in 2009 Syngenta for data and voice services plus deployment of IP 2008: 2,839m, 2007: 2,759m, compared with an increase of telephony, managed LAN and BT OneVoice to 112 sites and the 3% in 2008, primarily due to high costs and the continued decline deployment of BT managed mobile services to 13 countries.
in higher margin UK business.
Including the impact of the contract Successes in the public sector outside the UK included a contract and financial review charges of 1.6bn, gross profit in 2009 with Barcelona City Council for 500 wireless broadband hot spots, decreased by 66% to 965m.
providing free internet access across the city, and a contract with Gross profit is revenue less costs directly attributable to the the Colombian government supporting digital inclusion under provision of products and services reected in revenue in the which BT will convert 755 public schools into telecentres and period.
Selling, general and administrative SG&A costs are those provide additional bandwidth to a further 1,150 schools.
costs that are ancilliary to the business processes of providing We are also part of the Match consortium that won a 30m products and services and are the general business operating costs.
contract with the Dutch Ministry of Home Affairs for the housing Adjusted SG&A costs increased by 15% to 2,267m in 2009 and hosting of the national governments IT infrastructure.
SG&A costs include the impact of foreign exchange Financial performance rate movements of 221m and acquisitions of 170m.
Excluding these, underlying adjusted SG&A costs decreased by 5% to 2009 2008 2007 m m m 1,876m, reecting the renewed focus from the new management team on total labour resource, supplier negotiation and Revenue 8,828 7,889 7,312 discretionary and general overhead expenditure in the second half a Adjusted gross profit 2,576 2,839 2,759 of 2009.
Including the impact of the contract and financial review a Adjusted SG&A costs 2,267 1,978 2,024 charges of 28m included within SG&A costs, SG&A costs increased a Adjusted EBITDA 309 861 735 by 16% to 2,295m.
Contract and financial The decrease in gross profit together with the impact of higher review charges 1,639 SG&A costs resulted in adjusted EBITDA of 309m, a reduction of b EBITDA 1,330 861 735 552m compared with 2008.
In 2008, EBITDA increased by 17% to b Operating loss profit 2,106 117 70 861m.
Depreciation and amortisation increased by 4% to 776m a Adjusted items are before contract and financial review charges and specic items.
12 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW Average annual revenue per consumer household 290 280 270 260 250 240 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2007 2008 2009 2008: 744m, 2007: 665m, compared with an increase of 12% numbers would be included for free in our packages a first for the in 2008.
The increase reects the increased investment in our UK market.
global infrastructure, customer related capital expenditure and the Our new BT Basic tariff offers very low line rentals to vulnerable impact of acquisitions, as well as the impact of foreign exchange customers on low income benets.
We are the only movements.
communications provider in the UK to provide this service.
In The above factors resulted in an operating loss of 2,106m, addition we design our handsets to be inclusive and meet the compared with an operating profit of 117m in 2008 2007: 70m.
needs of older and disabled customers.
Our range of handsets won praise in 2009 for its contribution to reducing carbon emissions with new energy saving power supplies.
BT Retail Broadband Business overview BT Total Broadband is the UKs most popular broadband service.
BT Retail aims to help its customers enhance the way they live their We offer a more complete experience than our rivals by including in lives and run their businesses.
At home we enable our customers to the price all the extras customers need to have a safe and enjoyable keep in touch with friends and families and to enjoy fast, reliable, broadband experience.
For example, we offer McAfee security on secure and safe connection to the internet.
We are bringing up to seven PCs in the house, and Digital Vault, which enables broadband to the TV and TV to broadband so that people can watch customers to back-up valuable digital material including music and what they want when they want.
At work we serve small and pictures.
medium-sized enterprises SMEs typically with up to 1,000 The BT Home Hub is at the centre of BT Total Broadband.
It has employees, although some are signicantly larger and enable an iconic design and is the market-leading wireless router.
Its latest them to cut their costs and improve their service by using release offers unbeatable wireless coverage and reduced energy communications and IT services that were once available only to consumption.
We do this by taking the drudgery out of Some customers want access to the internet on the move.
We implementing new technologies so our customers can focus on offer these customers 3G dongles as part of their Total Broadband doing what they do best.
Further, BT FON enables customers who agree to share a There are four divisions in BT Retail: BT Consumer, BT Business, small, secure section of their home broadband connection access to BT Ireland and BT Enterprises.
broadband via other BT FON members locations and BT Openzone We are the UKs largest communications provider, with 20.7m Wi-Fi hotspots.
Between them, BT Openzone and BT FON offer BT xed lines and 4.8m broadband lines.
customers the chance to get online at more than 150,000 locations in the UK and Ireland and another 50,000 locations worldwide Market context through roaming partners.
Market conditions have been challenging: the rate of growth in We also offer lower priced broadband and voice services under demand for broadband has been slowing as the market matures the award winning Plusnet brand.
Acquired in 2007, Plusnet offers and competition intensies, both from local loop unbundlers with customers a leading online self-service experience.
large customer bases to whom they can sell broadband, and from BT was named as the Readers Digest most trusted internet the mobile operators who are now offering mobile broadband as service provider ISP and voted joint top for broadband customer well as mobile voice.
At the same time the economic downturn is service in a poll conducted by the Broadband Genie comparison causing business and personal customers to shop around for the website.
We have responded by offering customers complete packages BT Vision that meet their needs and deliver great value for money.
Consumers increasingly want to buy telephony, broadband and TV from a single provider.
BT Vision our on-demand television service enables us to meet these needs.
It is available on Operational performance subscription or pay-per-view terms.
BT Consumer BT Vision gives customers access to more than 70 TV and radio Voice channels and pay-per-view services from a wide range of content We offer value for money services with three main packages of calls providers, including blockbuster movies and live Premiership and lines Unlimited Weekend Calls, Unlimited Evening and football.
At 31 March 2009, BT Vision was the UKs largest onWeekend Calls and Unlimited Anytime Calls.
All offer competitive demand service with more than 5,000 hours of programming terms but customers who use us the most receive the best value.
In 2009, we announced our new Friends & Family Mobile scheme The take-up of BT Vision accelerated during the financial year.
By which now offers discounts of up to 40% on calls to mobiles the end of March 2009, we had 423,000 customers, around making it cheaper to call a mobile from a BT landline than from predouble the number at the end of the previous year.
We also announced that calls to 0845 and 0870 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 13 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW BT Retail broadband market share year end 000 lines 16,000 14,000 66% 12,000 65% 10,000 66% 8,000 6,000 4,000 34% Other ISPs 35% 34% 2,000 BT 0 2007 2008 2009 DSL LLU installed base opt for the subscription unlimited views packs and subscribers phones.
We have also seen growing sales of business applications viewing of the service has more than tripled.
and are seeing strong growth in telemetry solutions.
In December 2008, we announced a partnership with the BBC and ITV to launch a new digital entertainment platform subject to Other services any relevant approvals.
The new platform aims to build on BT The creation of BT Engage IT incorporating Basilica and Lynx, Vision and Freeview and will bridge the gap between two which we acquired in September 2007 enables us to offer previously separate technologies, bringing TV to broadband and customers a wide range of IT services, including data centre broadband to the TV.
It will combine free digital channels with free virtualisation, unied communications and managed services.
We on-demand content from the public service broadcasters as well as have seen good growth with mid-market companies and are also pay-TV delivered over the broadband line.
We aim to launch the growing our customer solutions business to provide fully managed service in mid 2010. and outsourced IT and communications solutions.
We see great potential in the development of cloud computing BT Business as a way of delivering IT services to SMEs at signicantly lower prices Voice and with considerable benets of simplicity, security and agility.
We In the business voice market, we aim to simplify the management are leading with business applications, exploiting the growing trend of communications, give better value for money and drive towards software as a service whereby SMEs access and use innovation so that customers get more benefit from their applications over the internet as and when they need it rather than investment in communications.
We have seen strong take-up from paying to have the applications permanently on their own customers for packages that bring together calls, lines, broadband computers.
As an example we are working with salesforce.
com to and mobile, with consistent service BT Business One Plan.
At enable our SME customers to access customer relationship 31 March 2009, BT Business One Plan had more than 460,000 management CRM systems of a sophistication previously only locations, and accounted for 35% of call revenues from business available to very large companies, with support and service from BT.
We continue to grow BT Tradespace, our online trading We have seen an increased take-up of voice over IP VoIP and community that brings businesses and individual sellers together are developing services that use the internet to integrate voice with with potential customers and partners.
At 31 March 2009, there other business applications.
were 338,000 members of the BT Tradespace community, and we We have seen strong growth in conferencing, with customers were adding around 2,500 each week.
Towards the end of the using communications to reduce business travel costs.
financial year, we launched a number of enhancements including We have made  applications a reality tools that enable service businesses to take bookings over the web, with the launch of Ribbit for salesforce.
This service makes it and support SMEs in search marketing.
easy for sales professionals to update key customer relationship management CRM systems using seamless voice-to-text BT Ireland technology, both from the desk and on the move.
BT Ireland operates across Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
Broadband We are one of the leading communications providers to BT Business remained UK SMEs preferred internet service provider.
consumers and SMEs in Northern Ireland.
We are also one of the During 2009, we enhanced this service to include mobile leading networked IT services partners of government and major broadband.
Customers are provided with a plug-and-play 3G customers and are responsible for providing regulated wholesale dongle, enabling them to connect and work wherever they are.
also reduced entry-level prices to support customers feeling the In the Republic of Ireland we are a leading provider of networked impact of the recession.
When we sell broadband to customers, we IT services to government and major businesses, and one of the also offer them value-added services and now have an attachment largest and most successful providers of wholesale network rate of 113% ie on average we sell a little more than one services.
We are one of the largest DSL broadband providers to value-added service every time we sell a broadband service.
have seen strong growth in web hosting in particular, as customers We gained significant traction in the private and public sectors recognise the benets of seamless business-grade service for and secured a number of the largest managed services contracts hosting and internet access.
O Ireland outsourced its network 2 operations to BT in a seven-year deal, while 3 Ireland selected BT as Mobility its principal subcontractor to support the delivery of the National We have seen strong growth in mobile sales.
Our focus has been on Broadband Scheme.
The Scheme is run by the Department for helping customers work on the move rather than just making Communications, Energy and Natural Resources with the aim of mobile phone calls and this approach has driven strong growth in achieving broadband availability throughout the Republic of mobile messaging especially in the sale of BlackBerry smart Ireland.
Other key contracts were won in the banking, engineering and public sectors.
14 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
