REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE July: non-audit services governance policy: Audit Committee and External Audit effectiveness: first quarter results, announcement and related formal statements: BT Global Services major contracts review: pension accounting assumptions: management of corporate fraud risks.
October: review and approval of trading update.
November: review of fees for audit and non-audit work: half year results, announcement and related formal statements: BT Global Services major contracts review: review of global assurance capabilities: half year report on the performance of Internal Audit and Regulatory Compliance: review of internal control requirements under Sarbanes-Oxley and the Combined Code for the 2009 financial year: review of regulatory developments: external audit plan.
January: review and approval of trading update.
February: third quarter results, announcement and related formal statements: BT Global Services major contracts review: trends on auditing and accounting issues in overseas operations: annual review of accounting policies: the process for post investment reviews: review of the operation of Sarbanes-Oxley S404 processes: the Internal Audit Plan for the 2010 financial year.
The Committee evaluated its performance and processes by again inviting Committee members and key executives and the external auditors to complete questionnaires.
This formed part of the annual Board and Committee evaluation.
Committee members, and those others consulted, continue to regard the Committee as effective on both behaviours and processes.
The Committee agreed that there should be continued focus on the conciseness and improving the clarity of papers and that the Board annual accounting seminar should cover enterprise-wide risk management processes in addition to key financial issues.
The Committee also reviewed the experience, skills and succession planning within the Group Finance function.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 55 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE The Board considered the results of the review and agreed a Introduction number of recommendations.
Progress has been made in The Nominating Committee is chaired by the Chairman.
The other implementing them: in particular, the membership of the members are the Deputy Chairman, Clay Brendish, Eric Daniels and Nominating Committee has been increased, the Remuneration Phil Hodkinson.
Clay Brendish and Eric Daniels joined the Committee has simplied the structure of executive remuneration, Committee on 8 May 2008.
Four of its five members are customer segment strategies have continued to be discussed and independent non-executive directors.
Although he is not more time has been set aside in Board meetings for the discussion independent, the Board believes that Sir Michael Rake, as Chairman of customer service and the right first time initiative.
A further of the Board, is the most appropriate person to chair the review was carried out by the Chairman and Secretary through a Committee.
He would not participate in the selection and questionnaire and discussion with directors in April 2009.
The appointment of his successor.
The Company Secretary and, where results of the work are currently being considered and reviewed by appropriate, at the invitation of the Chairman, the Chief Executive the Board and an action plan will be produced.
The Deputy attend the Committees meetings.
Chairman reviewed the performance of the Chairman taking into account the views of the non-executive directors.
Separate questionnaires about Audit Committee effectiveness Committee role and activities were also completed and the outcome of the review are in the The Committees terms of reference are available from the Company Report of the Audit Committee.
Secretary and are posted on our website at www.
com committees The Nominating Committee ensures an appropriate balance of experience and abilities on the Board, using Report of the Committee for this evaluation to review the size and composition of the Board and recommending any proposed changes to the Board.
Responsible and Sustainable It keeps under review the need to refresh the Board, prepares a description of the specic experience and skills needed for an Business appointment, considers candidates who are put forward by the directors and external consultants, and recommends to the Board the appointments of all directors after having met short-listed Introduction candidates.
It makes recommendations to the Board on whether to The Committee for Responsible and Sustainable Business is chaired reappoint non-executive directors at the end of terms of ofce.
It by the Chairman and comprises: Gavin Patterson, Chief Executive also reviews the time required from the Deputy Chairman and other BT Retail: Larry Stone, President Group Public and Government non-executive directors to carry out their duties and advises the Affairs: and Alex Wilson, Group Human Resources Director: three Board on succession planning for the positions of the Chairman, non-executive directors: Clay Brendish, Phil Hodkinson and Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive and all other Board Deborah Lathen and three independent members: Lord Hastings, appointments.
Baroness Jay and Dame Ellen MacArthur.
The Committee met twice during the 2009 financial year.
It reviewed Board succession, the size, prole and composition of the Board, and the Board and Committee evaluation questionnaire and Committee role process.
Under the leadership of the Chairman, the Committee, With input and recommendations from executive management and supported by the Committees appointed search consultants, advice from an independent experts panel, the Committee sets the MWM, conducted a thorough search process to identify candidates responsible and sustainable business strategy for the BT group for the positions of Chief Executive, and consequently of Chief globally including wholly owned subsidiaries for approval by the Executive BT Retail, Chief Executive BT Global Services and Board, and reviews and agrees implementation plans and targets, consequently Group Finance Director.
The Committee evaluates performance, embeds responsible activity into standard recommended to the Board the internal appointments of Ian business practice, oversees a culture of transparency and Livingston formerly Chief Executive BT Retail, Gavin Patterson, stakeholder accountability and distributes, within the approved Hanif Lalani formerly Group Finance Director and budget, funding to support the strategy.
The Committee also reviewed and recommended to the Board, following rigorous review, the continued appointment of Clay Committee activities Brendish and Phil Hodkinson for a further three years.
Clay The Committee aims to optimise the positive impact of BT as an Brendish and Phil Hodkinson retire by rotation at the 2009 AGM.
organisation through exemplary application of communication The minutes of Nominating Committee meetings are sent, at services: and through responsible policies, behaviour and practices.
their request, to directors who are not members of the Committee, It promotes world class corporate responsibility CR performance where appropriate to do so.
to minimise any CR risks to BTs operations and reputation, and helps to maximise business opportunities from CR.
It encourages Board evaluation the innovation of new communication services that help create a more sustainable society and ensures that BT both adopts best The Nominating Committee considered options for an independent practice and policy in the workplace, including the development of third party conducting the sixth formal evaluation in 2008, and, skills and talent, and makes a tting contribution to the following Board discussion, this was subsequently carried out by communities within which BT operates.
It met three times in the Egon Zehnder during February-April 2008 by way both of 2009 financial year.
The review focused on unlocking greater effectiveness rather than grading the past.
Private sessions were held with each director and feedback was given to them individually.
56 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Report on directors remuneration is divided into the The Committee met five times during 2008 09.
In addition to the following sections: Chairman, the members of the Committee are non-executive directors.
The Deputy Chairman, Maarten van den Bergh, has been Remuneration policy not audited chairman of the Committee since October 2006 and the other i Role of the Remuneration Committee members who served during 2008 09 were: ii Remuneration principles Sir Michael Rake iii Remuneration in 2008 09 and 2009 10 iv Other matters Matti Alahuhta Executive share ownership Eric Daniels appointed 8 May 2008 Pensions Deborah Lathen Other benets Carl Symon Directors who have left the Board Service agreements In addition, the Chief Executive is invited to attend meetings, Outside appointments except when it would be inappropriate for him to be there, for Non-executive directors letters of appointment example, when his own remuneration is discussed.
Non-executive Non-executive directors remuneration directors who are not members of the Committee are entitled to Directors service agreements and contracts of appointment receive the papers discussed at meetings and the minutes.
Directors interests The Committee has received advice during the year from Performance graph independent remuneration consultants, Kepler Associates, who were appointed by the company.
Kepler advises both the Committee Remuneration review audited and the company and attends Committee meetings when major Directors emoluments remuneration issues are discussed.
They provide no other services to Former directors the company.
The Committee also regularly consults the Chief Loans Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group HR Director, the Pensions Director Reward and Employee Relations, and the Company Share options Secretary.
Share awards under long-term incentive plans Vesting of outstanding share awards and options ii Remuneration principles Deferred Bonus Plan awards Share awards under the Employee Share Investment Plan BTs policy is to reward its senior executives competitively, taking and Allshare International account of the performance of the individual lines of business and the company as a whole, remuneration of other FTSE 30 companies and the competitive pressures in the global information and Remuneration policy communications technology ICT industry.
This ICT comparison is This part of the Report on directors remuneration is not subject important as an increasing proportion of BTs revenues is derived to audit.
from networked IT services and broadband.
The Committee has amended the policy such that base salaries Shareholders will be asked to vote on this Report at the are typically positioned at levels below the median of the 2009 AGM.
comparator group, with the remuneration package as a whole basic salary, annual bonus in cash and deferred shares and the i Role of the Remuneration Committee expected value of any long-term incentives having the potential to The Remuneration Committee, under delegated authority from the deliver upper quartile rewards only for sustained and excellent Board, agrees the framework for the remuneration of the Chairman, performance.
the executive directors and certain senior executives.
This includes A significant proportion of the total remuneration package the policy for all cash remuneration, executive share plans, service bonuses and long-term incentives is variable and is linked to contracts and termination arrangements.
The Committee approves corporate performance.
The performance targets are reviewed changes to the executive share plans and recommends to the Board regularly to ensure that they are challenging.
any changes which require shareholder approval.
The Committee In setting remuneration of the directors, the Committee takes also determines the basis on which awards are granted under the into account the pay and employment conditions of employees executive share plans to executives reporting to the senior elsewhere in the group.
The Committee is satisfied that the incentive structure for senior The Board has reviewed compliance with the Combined Code on executives does not raise environmental, social and governance reward-related matters and confirms that the company has risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
As complied with all aspects.
The Chairman, Sir Michael Rake, is a members of the Board, all Committee members receive and review member of the Committee, in accordance with the provision of the an annual corporate responsibility report detailing the way in which Combined Code permitting a company chairman to be a member of, the company manages social, ethical and environmental issues.
The but not chair, the remuneration committee.
Committee for Responsible and Sustainable Business, chaired by Sir The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Michael Rake, meets three or four times each year.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 57 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
