Financials Critical accounting estimates The Group prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS as Changing the assumptions selected by management, in particular the discount rate issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and IFRS as adopted by the and growth rate assumptions used in the cash flow projections, could significantly European Union, the application of which often requires judgements to be made by affect the Groups impairment evaluation and, hence, results.
management when formulating the Groups financial position and results.
Under IFRS, the directors are required to adopt those accounting policies most appropriate The Groups review includes the key assumptions related to sensitivity in the cash to the Groups circumstances for the purpose of presenting fairly the Groups financial flow projections.
Further details are provided in note 10 to the consolidated position, financial performance and cash flows.
In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often required in Revenue recognition and presentation respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect the reported results or net asset Arrangements with multiple deliverables position of the Group should it later be determined that a different choice would be In revenue arrangements including more than one deliverable, the deliverables are more appropriate.
assigned to one or more separate units of accounting and the arrangement consideration is allocated to each unit of accounting based on its relative fair value.
Management considers the accounting estimates and assumptions discussed below to be its critical accounting estimates and, accordingly, provides an explanation of Determining the fair value of each deliverable can require complex estimates due to each below.
the nature of the goods and services provided.
The Group generally determines the fair value of individual elements based on prices at which the deliverable is regularly The discussion below should also be read in conjunction with the Groups disclosure sold on a standalone basis, after considering volume discounts where appropriate.
of significant IFRS accounting policies, which is provided in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, Significant accounting policies.
Presentation: gross versus net When deciding the most appropriate basis for presenting revenue or costs of revenue, Management has discussed its critical accounting estimates and associated both the legal form and substance of the agreement between the Group and disclosures with the Companys Audit Committee.
its business partners are reviewed to determine each partys respective role in the transaction.
Impairment reviews IFRS requires management to undertake an annual test for impairment of indefinite Where the Groups role in a transaction is that of principal, revenue is recognised on lived assets and, for finite lived assets, to test for impairment if events or changes in a gross basis.
This requires revenue to comprise the gross value of the transaction circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
billed to the customer, after trade discounts, with any related expenditure charged as an operating cost.
Impairment testing is an area involving management judgement, requiring assessment as to whether the carrying value of assets can be supported by the net Where the Groups role in a transaction is that of an agent, revenue is recognised on present value of future cash flows derived from such assets using cash flow a net basis, with revenue representing the margin earned.
projections which have been discounted at an appropriate rate.
In calculating the net present value of the future cash flows, certain assumptions are required to be made Taxation in respect of highly uncertain matters.
including managements expectations of: The Groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree growth in EBITDA, calculated as adjusted operating profit before depreciation and of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot amortisation: be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority timing and quantum of future capital expenditure: or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these long term growth rates: and items may give rise to material profits, losses and or cash flows.
the selection of discount rates to reflect the risks involved.
The complexity of the Groups structure following its geographic expansion makes The Group prepares and internally approves formal five year plans for its businesses the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
The resolution of issues and uses these as the basis for its impairment reviews.
In certain markets which are is not always within the control of the Group and it is often dependent on the forecast to grow ahead of the long term growth rate for the market, further years will efficiency of the legal processes in the relevant taxing jurisdictions in which the be used until the forecast growth rate trends towards the long term growth rate, up Group operates.
Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in to a maximum of ten years.
respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be substantial differences For businesses where the first five years of the ten year management plan are used between the tax charge in the consolidated income statement and tax payments.
for the Groups value in use calculations, a long term growth rate into perpetuity has been determined as the lower of: Significant items on which the Group has exercised accounting judgement include a provision in respect of an enquiry from UK HMRC with regard to the CFC tax legislation the nominal GDP rates for the country of operation: and see note 33 to the consolidated financial statements, potential tax losses in respect the long term compound annual growth rate in EBITDA in years six to ten estimated of a write down in the value of investments in Germany see note 6 to the consolidated by management.
financial statements and litigation with the Indian tax authorities in relation to the acquisition of Vodafone Essar see note 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
For businesses where the full ten year management plans are used for the Groups The amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements in respect of each value in use calculations, a long term growth rate into perpetuity has been determined matter are derived from the Groups best estimation and judgement, as described as the lower of: above.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these items means eventual resolution could differ from the accounting estimates and therefore the nominal GDP rates for the country of operation: and impact the Groups results and cash flows.
the compound annual growth rate in EBITDA in years nine to ten of the management plan.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 71 Critical accounting estimates continued Recognition of deferred tax assets Licences and spectrum fees The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is more likely than not The estimated useful life is, generally, the term of the licence, unless there is a that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future, against which presumption of renewal at negligible cost.
Using the licence term reflects the period the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
over which the Group will receive economic benefit.
For technology specific licences with a presumption of renewal at negligible cost, the estimated useful economic life Recognition, therefore, involves judgement regarding the future financial reflects the Groups expectation of the period over which the Group will continue to performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset receive economic benefit from the licence.
The economic lives are periodically has been recognised.
reviewed, taking into consideration such factors as changes in technology.
Historically, any changes to economic lives have not been material following Historical differences between forecast and actual taxable profits have not resulted these reviews.
in material adjustments to the recognition of deferred tax assets.
Customer bases The estimated useful life principally reflects managements view of the average Goodwill economic life of the customer base and is assessed by reference to customer churn The amount of goodwill initially recognised as a result of a business combination is rates.
An increase in churn rates may lead to a reduction in the estimated useful life dependent on the allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of the identifiable and an increase in the amortisation charge.
Historically, changes to the estimated assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
The determination of the fair value of the useful lives have not had a significant impact on the Groups results and financial position.
assets and liabilities is based, to a considerable extent, on managements judgement.
Capitalised software Allocation of the purchase price affects the results of the Group as finite lived The useful life is determined by management at the time the software is acquired and intangible assets are amortised, whereas indefinite lived intangible assets, including brought into use and is regularly reviewed for appropriateness.
For computer goodwill, are not amortised and could result in differing amortisation charges based software licences, the useful life represents managements view of expected benefits on the allocation to indefinite lived and finite lived intangible assets.
over which the Group will receive benefits from the software, but not exceeding the licence term.
For unique software products controlled by the Group, the life is based On transition to IFRS, the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3, Business combinations, on historical experience with similar products as well as anticipation of future events, retrospectively as the difficulty in applying these requirements to the large number which may impact their life, such as changes in technology.
Historically, changes in of business combinations completed by the Group from incorporation through to useful lives have not resulted in material changes to the Groups amortisation charge.
1 April 2004 exceeded any potential benefits.
Goodwill arising before the date of transition to IFRS, after adjusting for items including the impact of proportionate Property, plant and equipment consolidation of joint ventures, amounted to 78,753 million.
Property, plant and equipment also represent a significant proportion of the asset If the Group had elected to apply the accounting for business combinations base of the Group, being 12.6% 2008: 13.1% of the Groups total assets.
Therefore, retrospectively, it may have led to an increase or decrease in goodwill and increase the estimates and assumptions made to determine their carrying value and related in licences, customer bases, brands and related deferred tax liabilities recognised depreciation are critical to the Groups financial position and performance.
Estimation of useful life The charge in respect of periodic depreciation is derived after determining an Finite lived intangible assets estimate of an assets expected useful life and the expected residual value at the end Other intangible assets include the Groups aggregate amounts spent on the of its life.
Increasing an assets expected life or its residual value would result in a acquisition of 2G and 3G licences, computer software, customer bases, brands and reduced depreciation charge in the consolidated income statement.
These assets arise from both separate purchases and from acquisition as part of business combinations.
The useful lives and residual values of Group assets are determined by management at the time the asset is acquired and reviewed annually for appropriateness.
The lives On the acquisition of mobile network operators, the identifiable intangible assets are based on historical experience with similar assets as well as anticipation of future may include licences, customer bases and brands.
The fair value of these assets is events, which may impact their life, such as changes in technology.
Furthermore, determined by discounting estimated future net cash flows generated by the asset, network infrastructure is only depreciated over a period that extends beyond where no active market for the assets exist.
The use of different assumptions for the the expiry of the associated licence under which the operator provides expectations of future cash flows and the discount rate would change the valuation telecommunications services, if there is a reasonable expectation of renewal or an of the intangible assets.
alternative future use for the asset.
The relative size of the Groups intangible assets, excluding goodwill, makes the Historically, changes in useful lives and residual values have not resulted in material judgements surrounding the estimated useful lives critical to the Groups financial changes to the Groups depreciation charge.
At 31 March 2009, intangible assets, excluding goodwill, amounted to 20,980 million 2008: 18,995 million and represented 13.7% 2008: 14.9% of the Groups total assets.
Estimation of useful life The useful life used to amortise intangible assets relates to the future performance of the assets acquired and managements judgement of the period over which economic benefit will be derived from the asset.
The basis for determining the useful life for the most significant categories of intangible assets is as follows: 72 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009
