Board of directors and Group management 1 2 3 4 5 6 Directors and senior management East Midlands Electricity Plc.
Andy holds a bachelors degree in Industrial Economics from Nottingham University and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants The business of the Company is managed by its Board of directors the Board.
Biographical details of the directors and senior management at 19 May 2009 are as follows: Deputy Chairman and senior independent director 4.
John Buchanan, aged 65, became Deputy Chairman and senior independent Board of directors director in July 2006 and has been a member of the Board since April 2003.
He retired Chairman from the board of directors of BP p. l. c. in 2002 after six years as Group Chief Financial 1.
Sir John Bond, aged 67, became Chairman of Vodafone Group Plc in July 2006, Officer and executive director, following a wide-ranging career with the company.
He having previously served as a non-executive director of the Board, and is Chairman was a member of the United Kingdom Accounting Standards Board from 1997 to of the Nominations and Governance Committee.
Sir John is a non-executive director 2001.
He is Chairman of Smith & Nephew plc, a non-executive director of AstraZeneca of A. P. Mller Mrsk A S and Shui On Land Limited Hong Kong SAR.
He retired PLC and senior independent director of BHP Billiton Plc.
from the position of Group Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc in May 2006, after 45 years of service.
Other previous roles include Chairman of HSBC Bank plc and director Non-executive directors of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and HSBC North America 5.
Alan Jebson, aged 59, joined the Board in December 2006.
He retired in May 2006 Holdings Inc.
Previous non-executive directorships include the London Stock from his role as Group Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Holdings plc, a position which Exchange plc, Orange plc, British Steel plc, the Court of the Bank of England and Ford included responsibility for IT and Global Resourcing.
During a long career with HSBC, Motor Company, USA.
Alan held various positions in IT, including the position of Group Chief Information Officer.
His roles included responsibility for the Groups international systems, Executive directors including the consolidation of HSBC and Midland systems following the acquisition 2.
Vittorio Colao, Chief Executive, aged 47, was appointed Chief Executive of of Midland Bank in 1993.
He originally joined HSBC as Head of IT Audit in 1978 where, Vodafone Group Plc after the AGM on 29 July 2008.
He joined the Board in October building upon his qualification as a chartered accountant, he built an international 2006 as Chief Executive, Europe and Deputy Chief Executive.
Vittorio spent the early audit team and implemented controls in the Groups application systems.
He is also part of his career as a partner in the Milan office of McKinsey & Co working on media, a non-executive director of Experian Group plc and MacDonald Dettwiler and telecommunications and industrial goods and was responsible for recruitment.
In Associates Ltd. in Canada.
1996, he joined Omnitel Pronto Italia, which subsequently became Vodafone Italy, and he was appointed Chief Executive in 1999.
He was then appointed Regional Chief 6.
Nick Land, aged 61, joined the Board in December 2006.
Solely for the purposes Executive Officer, Southern Europe for Vodafone Group Plc in 2001, became a of relevant legislation, he is the Boards appointed financial expert on the Audit member of the Board in 2002 and was appointed to the role of Regional Chief Committee.
In June 2006, he retired as Chairman of Ernst & Young LLP after a Executive Officer for Southern Europe, Middle East and Africa for Vodafone in 2003. distinguished career spanning 36 years with the firm.
He became an audit partner in In 2004, he left Vodafone to join RCS MediaGroup, the leading Italian publishing 1978 and held a number of management appointments before becoming Managing company, where he was Chief Executive until he rejoined Vodafone.
He was appointed Chairman and joined the Global Executive Board of Ernst & Young Global LLP in 1995.
He is a non-executive director of Royal Dutch 3.
Andy Halford, Chief Financial Officer, aged 50, joined the Board in July 2005.
Shell plc, Alliance Boots GmbH, BBA Aviation plc and the Ashmore Group plc.
He also Andy joined Vodafone in 1999 as Financial Director for Vodafone Limited, the UK sits on the Advisory Board of Three Delta, is Chairman of the Practices Advisory Board operating company, and in 2001 he became Financial Director for Vodafones of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and of the Board of Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa region.
In 2002, he was appointed Chief Trustees of Farnham Castle, and is a member of the Finance and Audit Committees Financial Officer of Verizon Wireless in the US and is currently a member of the Board of the National Gallery.
Nick is also a trustee of The Vodafone Foundation.
of Representatives of the Verizon Wireless partnership.
He is also a director of Vodafone Essar Limited.
Prior to joining Vodafone, he was Group Finance Director at 48 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 Governance 7 8 9 10 11 7.
Anne Lauvergeon, aged 49, joined the Board in November 2005.
Anthony Watson CBE, aged 64, was appointed to the Board in May 2006.
He Executive Officer of AREVA Group, the leading French energy company, having been is currently Chairman of Marks & Spencer Pension Trust Ltd and the Asian appointed to that role in July 2001.
She started her professional career in 1983 in the Infrastructure Fund.
He is also a non-executive director of Hammerson plc, Witan steel industry and in 1990 she was named Adviser for Economic International Affairs Investment Trust and Lloyds Banking Group plc and is on the Advisory Board of at the French Presidency and Deputy Chief of its Staff in 1991.
In 1995, she became Norges Bank Investment Management.
He became a member of the Advisory Group a Partner of Lazard Frres & Cie, subsequently joining Alcatel Telecom as Senior to the Shareholder Executive in April 2008.
Prior to joining the Vodafone Board, he Executive Vice President in March 1997.
She was responsible for international was Chief Executive of Hermes Pensions Management Limited, a position he had held activities and the Groups industrial shareholdings in the energy and nuclear fields.
Previously he was Hermes Chief Investment Officer, having been In 1999, she was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AREVA NC.
Anne Managing Director of AMP Asset Management plc and the Chief International is currently also a member of the Advisory Board of the Global Business Coalition on Investment Officer of Citicorp Investment Management from 1991 until joining HIV AIDS and a non-executive director of Total S. A. and GDF SUEZ.
Tony was Chairman of The Strategic Investment Board in Northern Ireland but retired in March 2009.
In January 2009, Tony was awarded a CBE for his 8.
Simon Murray CBE, aged 69, joined the Board in July 2007.
His career has been services to the economic redevelopment of Northern Ireland.
largely based in Asia, where he has held positions with Jardine Matheson Limited, Deutsche Bank and Hutchison Whampoa Limited where, as Group Managing Director, 11.
Philip Yea, aged 54, became a member of the Board in September 2005.
From he oversaw the development and launch of mobile telecommunications networks July 2004 until January 2009, he was Chief Executive Officer of 3i Group plc.
Prior to in many parts of the world.
He remains on the Boards of Cheung Kong Holdings joining 3i, he was Managing Director of Investcorp and, from 1997 to 1999, Group Limited, Compagnie Financire Richemont SA and Orient Overseas International Finance Director of Diageo plc following the merger of Guinness plc, where he was Limited and is an Advisory Board Member of the China National Offshore Oil Finance Director, and Grand Metropolitan plc.
He has previously held non-executive Corporation.
He also sits on the Advisory Board of Imperial College in London and is roles at HBOS plc and Manchester United plc.
He is the Chairman of the trustees of an advisor to Macquarie HK Limited.
Luc Vandevelde, aged 58, joined the Board in September 2003 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is a director of Socit Gnrale and the Founder and Managing Director of Change Capital Partners LLP, a private equity fund.
Luc was formerly Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Carrefour SA, Chairman of Marks & Spencer Group plc and Chief Executive Officer of Promods, and he has held senior European and international roles with Kraft General Foods.
Audit Committee Nominations and Governance Committee Remuneration Committee Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 49 Board of directors and Group management continued Appointed since 31 March 2009 telecommunications industry.
He also worked for 12 years at PacTel AirTouch 1.
Samuel Jonah, aged 59, joined the Board as a non-executive director on 1 April Communications in a variety of roles including President AirTouch Paging, Vice 2009.
He is Executive Chairman of Jonah Capital Pty Limited, an investment holding President Human Resources-AirTouch Communications, Vice President Business company in South Africa and serves on the boards of various public and private Development-AirTouch Europe and Vice President & General Manager-AirTouch companies, including The Standard Bank Group.
He previously worked for Ashanti Cellular Southwest Market.
Prior to that, he was an Associate with Booz Allen & Hamilton Goldfields Company Limited, becoming Chief Executive Officer in 1986, and was Inc, a management consulting firm.
Terry is a trustee of The Vodafone Foundation.
formerly President of AngloGold Ashanti Limited, a director of Lonmin Plc and a member of the Advisory Council of the President of the African Development Bank.
Morten Lundal, aged 44, Chief Executive Officer, Africa and Central Europe Region, He is an adviser to the Presidents of Ghana, South Africa and Nigeria.
An Honorary was appointed to his current position and joined the Executive Committee in Knighthood was conferred on him by Her Majesty the Queen in 2003 and in 2006 November 2008.
He joined Nordic mobile operator, Telenor, in 1997 and held several In December 2008, Governance Metrics International, a global corporate he was awarded Ghanas highest national award, the Companion of the Order of Chief Executive Officer positions, including for the Internet Division and Telenor governance ratings agency, ranked the Company amongst the top UK companies, the Star.
He was Executive Vice President for Corporate Strategy, after with an overall global corporate governance rating of ten, the highest score which he became the Chief Executive Officer of Telenors Malaysian subsidiary, assigned and achieved by only 1% of the 4,196 companies rated.
Michel Combes, aged 47, Chief Executive Officer, Europe Region, was appointed DiGi Telecommunications.
to the Board with effect from 1 June 2009.
He joined the Company in October 2008.
In the Companys profile report by Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.
ISS, Michel began his career at France Telecom in 1986 in the External Networks Division, Nick Read, aged 44, Chief Executive Officer, Asia Pacific and Middle East Region, was dated 1 May 2009, the Companys governance practices outperformed 98.6% and then moved to the Industrial and International Affairs Division.
After being appointed to this position and joined the Executive Committee in November 2008. of the companies in the ISS developed universe excluding US, 98.2% of technical advisor to the Minister of Transportation from 1991 to 1995, he served as Nick joined Vodafone in 2002 and has held a variety of senior roles including Chief companies in the telecommunications sector group and 98.1% of the companies Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of GlobeCast from 1995 to 1999.
He was Financial Officer and Chief Commercial Officer of Vodafone Limited, the UK operating in the UK.
Executive Vice President of Nouvelles Frontieres Group from December 1999 until company, and was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Vodafone Limited in early the end of 2001, when he moved to the position of Chief Executive Officer of 2006.
Prior to joining Vodafone, Nick held senior global finance positions with United Assystem-Brime, a company specialising in industrial engineering.
He returned to Business Media plc and Federal Express Worldwide.
Compliance with the Combined Code France Telecom Group in 2003 as Senior Vice President of Group Finance and Chief The Companys ordinary shares are listed in the UK on the London Stock Exchange.
Until January 2006, Michel was Senior Executive Vice President, in Frank Rovekamp, aged 54, Group Chief Marketing Officer, was appointed to this In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company charge of NExT Financial Balance & Value Creation and a member of the France position and joined the Executive Committee in May 2006.
He joined Vodafone in confirms that throughout the year ended 31 March 2009 and at the date of this Telecom Group Strategic Committee.
From 2006 to 2008, he was Chairman and Chief 2002 as Marketing Director and a member of the Management Board of Vodafone document, it was compliant with the provisions of, and applied the principles of, Executive Officer of TDF Group.
Netherlands and later moved to Vodafone Germany as Chief Marketing Officer and Section 1 of the 2006 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined a member of the Management Board.
Before joining Vodafone, he held roles as Code.
The following section, together with the Directors remuneration section 3.
Steve Pusey, aged 47, Group Chief Technology Officer, joined Vodafone in President and Chief Executive Officer of Beyoo and Chief Marketing Officer with on pages 57 to 67, provides details of how the Company applies the principles and September 2006 and was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 June 2009.
He KLM Royal Dutch Airlines.
He is a trustee of The Vodafone Foundation.
complies with the provisions of the Combined Code.
is responsible for all aspects of Vodafones networks, IT capability, research and development and supply chain management.
Prior to joining Vodafone, he held the Ronald Schellekens, aged 45, Group Human Resources Director, joined Vodafone Board organisation and structure positions of Executive Vice President and President, Nortel EMEA, having joined and the Executive Committee in January 2009.
Prior to joining Vodafone, Ronald was Nortel in 1982, gaining a wealth of international experience across both the wireline Executive Vice President Human Resources for Royal Dutch Shell plcs global The role of the Board and wireless industries and in business applications and solutions.
Prior to Nortel, he downstream business refining, retail, commercial, lubricants, chemicals and The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business and has the spent several years with British Telecom.
Canadian Oil Sands responsible for approximately 81,000 employees in 120 powers, authorities and duties vested in it by and pursuant to the relevant laws of countries.
Prior to working for Shell, he spent nine years working for PepsiCo in England and Wales and the articles of association.
The Board: various international senior Human Resources roles, including assignments in Executive Committee Switzerland, Spain, South Africa, the UK and Poland.
In his last role, he was responsible Chaired by Vittorio Colao, this committee focuses on the Groups strategy, financial has final responsibility for the management, direction and performance of the for the Europe, Middle East and Africa region for PepsiCo Foods International.
Prior to structure and planning, succession planning, organisational development and Group and its businesses: PepsiCo he worked for nine years for AT&T Network Systems in Human Resources Group-wide policies.
The Executive Committee membership comprises the executive is required to exercise objective judgement on all corporate matters independent roles in the Netherlands and Poland.
directors, details of whom are shown on pages 48 and above, and the senior managers from executive management: who are listed below.
is accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct of the business: and Stephen Scott, aged 55, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, was is responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of and reporting on the Groups appointed to this position in 1991, prior to which he was employed in the Racal Group Senior management system of corporate governance.
legal department, which he joined in 1980 from private law practice in London.
He is Members of the Executive Committee who are not also executive directors are a director of ShareGift the Orr Mackintosh Foundation Limited and is a director and regarded as senior managers of the Company.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision and trustee of LawWorks the Solicitors Pro Bono Group.
these include: Warren Finegold, aged 52, Chief Executive Officer, Global Business Development, was appointed to this position and joined the Executive Committee in April 2006.
He Other Board and Executive Committee members Group strategy: was previously a Managing Director of UBS Investment Bank and head of its The following members also served on the Board or the Executive Committee during major capital projects, acquisitions or divestments: technology team in Europe.
He is responsible for business development, mergers and the 2009 financial year: Arun Sarin was Chief Executive until the conclusion of the annual budget and operating plan: acquisitions and partner networks.
AGM on 29 July 2008: Dr Michael Boskin was a member of the Board and Chairman Group financial structure, including tax and treasury: of the Audit Committee until the conclusion of the AGM on 29 July 2008: Paul annual and half-year financial results and shareholder communications: Matthew Kirk, aged 48, Group External Affairs Director, was appointed to his current Donovan was Chief Executive Officer, EMAPA and a member of the Executive system of internal control and risk management: and position and joined the Executive Committee in March 2009.
Matthew joined Committee until 1 January 2009: Simon Lewis was Group Corporate Affairs Director senior management structure, responsibilities and succession plans.
Vodafone in 2006 as Group Director of External Relationships.
Prior to that, he was a and a member of the Executive Committee until 1 March 2009: and Professor member of the British Diplomatic Service for more than 20 years.
He also led the Jrgen Schrempp was a member of the Board, the Remuneration Committee and The schedule is reviewed periodically.
It was last formally reviewed by the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office programme of investment in IT and the Nominations and Governance Committee until the conclusion of the AGM on Nominations and Governance Committee in March 2009, at which time it was telecommunications for three years and before joining Vodafone served as British 29 July 2008. determined that no amendments were required.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board committees which operate Terry Kramer, aged 49, Group Strategy and Business Improvement Director, joined within clearly defined terms of reference.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to Vodafone in January 2005 as Chief of Staff and was appointed Group Human the Board committees are given on pages 53 and 54.
Terrys role was then expanded to include Vodafone Group Strategy and in September 2008, he was appointed to his current Board meetings role.
Prior to joining Vodafone, he was Chief Executive Officer of Q Comm International The Board meets at least eight times a year and the meetings are structured to allow Inc. a publicly traded provider of transaction processing services for the open discussion.
All directors participate in discussing the strategy, trading and financial 50 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009
