Technology and resources Vodafones key technologies and resources include the telecommunications licences it holds and the related network infrastructure, which enable the Group to operate telecommunications networks in 28 controlled and jointly controlled markets around the world.
Customer devices Access and transmission network As a total communications Vodafones access networks provide the means by which its company, Vodafones customers customers can connect to Vodafone.
The Group provides mobile can use a broad range of devices access through a network of base stations and fixed access to access its products and services.
through consumer DSL or corporate private wire.
These access networks connect back to Vodafones core network via its transmission network.
Fixed broadband The DSL access multiplexer provides fixed line telephony connections Handsets enabling customers to connect to the internet via Vodafone.
Netbooks Base station Transmission infrastructure and laptop Base stations manage the wireless radio The transmission infrastructure computers transmissions to and from Vodafones connects Vodafone access networks customers mobile devices.
They provide to the core network.
Vodafone uses coverage over an area known as a cell.
The a combination of fixed line and network of cells provides the wide area wireless microwave transmission coverage demanded by customers and infrastructure, which Vodafone both aims to provide seamless mobility as they owns and leases.
move from one cell to another.
Vodafone Fixed line uses both 2G and 3G mobile technologies.
devices Private wire corporate access Vodafone delivers private branch exchange services to its enterprise customers via dedicated private wire connections.
Desktop Through these the Group delivers the computers advanced voice and data management needed by corporate operations.
14 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 Business Core network Other networks The core network is responsible for setting up and Vodafone networks connect to a wide range of controlling the connection of Vodafones customers other networks to enable the Groups customers to the Groups voice and data services.
to reach customers of other operators and access services beyond Vodafone.
The core network comprises three control domains and a services domain.
The different domains and Fixed line infrastructure within them are connected together operators via a transmission network.
Circuit switched Packet switched IMS The circuit switched The packet switched The IP multimedia domain provides domain provides subsystem provides Mobile voice video calls Vodafones customers advanced control for and some basic access to data all internet protocol operators data services.
It infrastructure in the managing the delivery enables Vodafone to circuit switched of data between deliver rich internet domain manages the mobile devices and based multimedia set-up and routing of setting up data services and perform Vodafones customers connections to flexible blending of connections to their Vodafones advanced different services.
data services and Internet other external service networks.
providers Service platforms Vodafones service platforms deliver advanced customer services and Corporate applications such as Vodafone live!, multimedia messaging, email, mobile TV and other data related services.
networks Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 15 Technology and resources continued Network infrastructure Transmission network evolution Vodafones network infrastructure provides the means of delivering Vodafone continues to upgrade its access transmission infrastructure the Groups mobile and fixed voice, messaging and data services to its from the base stations to the core switching network to deal with the customers.
The Groups customers are linked via the access part of the increasing bandwidth demands in the access network and data network, which connects to the core network that manages the set-up dominated traffic mix, driven by HSDPA and fixed broadband.
The and routing of calls, transfer of messages and data connections, which Group has continued to pursue a strategy of implementing scaleable provide a wide variety of other services.
and cost effective self build solutions and is also leveraging its DSL interests by backhauling data traffic onto more cost effective DSL The Groups mobile network technologies transport connections.
In the core transmission network, the Group 2G has continued to expand its high capacity optical fibre infrastructure, Vodafone operates 2G networks in all of its mobile operating including technology enhancements, which enable the use of cost subsidiaries, through global system for mobile GSM networks, effective IP technology to achieve high quality carrier grade transport offering customers services such as voice, text messaging and basic of both voice and data traffic.
In addition, all of the Groups controlled networks operate general packet radio services GPRS, often referred to as Core network evolution 2.5G.
GPRS allows mobile devices to be used for sending and receiving The Group has now consolidated ten national IP networks into a single data over an IP based network and enabling data service offers such IP backbone, including the key European markets, centralising IP as internet and email access.
In a number of networks, Vodafone also operations to avoid duplication and achieve simplicity and flexibility provides an advanced version of GPRS called enhanced data rates for in the deployment of new services to serve multiple markets.
These networks provide download speeds of Group has continued to expand the deployments of IP multimedia over 200 kilobits per second kbps to Vodafones customers.
subsystem IMS infrastructure across its markets in order to serve the increasing demand for advanced internet based services 3G and applications.
Vodafones 3G networks operating the wideband code division multiple access W-CDMA standard, provide customers with an Licences optimised data access experience.
Vodafone has continued to expand The licences held across Vodafones operating companies enable the its service offering on 3G networks, now offering high speed internet Group to deliver its fixed and mobile communication services.
Further and email access, video telephony, full track music downloads, mobile detail on the issue and regulation of licences and a table summarising TV and other data services in addition to existing voice and basic data the most significant mobile licences held by the Groups operating connectivity services.
subsidiaries and the Groups joint ventures in Italy and Vodacom in South Africa at 31 March 2009 can be found in Regulation on page High speed packet access HSPA 137.
In addition, the Group also has licences to provide fixed line HSPA is a 3G wireless technology enhancement enabling significant services in many of the countries in which it operates.
increases in data transmission speeds.
It provides increased mobile data traffic capacity and improves the customer experience through Through its mobile licences, the Group continues to hold sufficient the availability of 3G broadband services and significantly shorter spectrum in all of its operating subsidiaries and joint ventures to meet data transfer times.
The Group has now deployed the 3.6 mega bits the medium term requirements for Vodafones expected voice and per second Mbps peak speed evolution of high speed downlink data growth.
Re-farming of the Groups existing spectrum to more packet access HSDPA across almost all of its 3G networks and also efficient technologies can also increase the voice and data capacity of completed the introduction of the 7.2 Mbps peak speed in key areas.
In circumstances where the acquisition of The figures are theoretical peak rates deliverable by the technology additional spectrum offers the most cost effective means to increase in ideal radio conditions with no customer contention for resources.
capacity, the Group will participate in auctions or other assignment While HSDPA focuses on the downlink network to mobile, high speed procedures on a case by case basis.
uplink packet access HSUPA focuses on the uplink mobile to network and peak speeds of up to 1.4 Mbps on the uplink have now Cost reduction and innovation been widely introduced across most of the Groups 3G networks.
While evolving the Groups infrastructure, it is also important that the Group continues to have a tight control over its cost base.
Vodafone Current developments in the infrastructure has been actively driving a variety of initiatives which enable it to As growth in data traffic accelerates with the proliferation in, and manage its network investments.
adoption of, web services, Vodafone is evolving its infrastructure through a range of initiatives.
Infrastructure sharing Significant effort has been placed in reducing the costs of deploying Access network evolution mobile network infrastructure.
During the 2009 financial year, Vodafone is actively driving additional 3G data technology Vodafone announced a number of significant European agreements, enhancements to further improve the customers experience, including those in Germany, Spain, Ireland and the UK, along with the including evolutions of HSPA technology to upgrade both the formation of a joint venture in India, Indus Towers, for the purposes of downlink and uplink speeds.
Vodafone has successfully trialled network sharing with other operators.
The Group is now conducting evolutions of mobile broadband technology achieving actual peak network sharing in all but one of its controlled markets.
data download rates of up to 16 Mbps and 21 Mbps, which corresponds to theoretical peak rates of 21.6 Mbps and 28.8 Mbps, respectively.
Power and energy savings Vodafone expects to deploy uplink speeds of around 2 Mbps in a Vodafone has been actively pursuing a number of initiatives to address limited number of areas in Europe during the 2010 financial year.
energy costs and deliver against its corporate responsibility CR commitment to reduce carbon emissions.
During the 2009 financial Vodafone has continued to expand its fixed broadband footprint in year, there has been wide scale adoption of free cooling systems accordance with the Groups total communications strategy, by across the Groups networks, which remove the need to air condition building its own network and or using wholesale arrangements in base station equipment.
In addition, the Group is pursuing the 12 countries at 31 March 2009. introduction of sustainable energy sources such as wind and solar power.
16 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 Business Transmission network evolution Quality of service for data applications Research and development Vodafone continues to upgrade its access transmission infrastructure The Group has been driving the development of innovative The Group R&D function comprises an international team for applied from the base stations to the core switching network to deal with the techniques in 3G, which enable it to carefully manage the assignment research in mobile and internet communications and their related increasing bandwidth demands in the access network and data of capacity in its networks.
With increasing bandwidth demands and applications.
It supports the strategic objectives of Vodafone by: dominated traffic mix, driven by HSDPA and fixed broadband.
The a data dominated traffic mix, driven by faster HSDPA and fixed Group has continued to pursue a strategy of implementing scaleable broadband, the ability to optimise the allocation of capacity contributing leading edge technical capabilities to Vodafones and cost effective self build solutions and is also leveraging its DSL according to the services and applications being used will be consumer offerings in the areas of internet, web and terminal interests by backhauling data traffic onto more cost effective DSL essential in managing costs.
platforms and by directing the standardisation of relevant cross transport connections.
In the core transmission network, the Group platform technologies: has continued to expand its high capacity optical fibre infrastructure, Femtocells identifying new and emerging business opportunities for fixed and including technology enhancements, which enable the use of cost During the 2009 financial year, the Group has been testing femtocells mobile services: and effective IP technology to achieve high quality carrier grade transport across a number of markets.
Femtocells are based on technology industry leadership in the development of future generation of both voice and data traffic.
which consists of a powered booster box connected to a small antenna network technology through specification of standards, that amplifies existing 3G signals from the wide area network to offer standardisation and systematic engineering trials.
Core network evolution enhanced reception over a range of up to nine metres.
The Group has now consolidated ten national IP networks into a single Group R&D work programme IP backbone, including the key European markets, centralising IP IT There have been several significant advances during the 2009 operations to avoid duplication and achieve simplicity and flexibility A wide ranging IT transformation programme was initiated in the 2008 financial year including: in the deployment of new services to serve multiple markets.
The financial year to deliver savings, such as the outsourcing of IT Group has continued to expand the deployments of IP multimedia application development and maintenance operations, and identify significant progress in long term evolution LTE trials, a global subsystem IMS infrastructure across its markets in order to serve new opportunities.
The data centre environment continues to be a radio access technology, with key partners Verizon Wireless and the increasing demand for advanced internet based services major focus area for cost savings, building on the success of the China Mobile, designed to deliver a range of customer benefits and applications.
consolidation programme by driving savings initiatives on server including higher speeds and enhanced throughput performance: virtualisation and storage optimisation.
Application simplification is trials conducted to boost backhaul capacity using new ethernet Licences another area of focus as the benefits of reducing the number and microwave technology, which is expected to quadruple backhaul The licences held across Vodafones operating companies enable the complexity of applications include improving time to market for new capacity in channelling voice and data traffic away from base Group to deliver its fixed and mobile communication services.
Further products and services and cost reduction.
Significant savings have stations, while enhancing network efficiency and service for detail on the issue and regulation of licences and a table summarising been made on Vodafones existing IT operations, which have been customers and offering cost efficiencies: the most significant mobile licences held by the Groups operating reinvested in new products and services.
launch of the Android powered HTC Magic Pioneer smartphone, subsidiaries and the Groups joint ventures in Italy and Vodacom in providing an improved mobile experience and offering scope for South Africa at 31 March 2009 can be found in Regulation on page Supply chain management personalisation via the application rich Android market.
In addition, the Group also has licences to provide fixed line Handsets, network equipment, marketing and IT services account for Vodafones membership of the Open Handset Alliance, established services in many of the countries in which it operates.
the majority of Vodafones purchases, with the bulk of these purchases by Google in 2007 to develop the Android operating system for being from global suppliers.
The Groups supply chain management mobile phones: Through its mobile licences, the Group continues to hold sufficient SCM team is responsible for managing the Groups relationships commercial development of near field communications enabled spectrum in all of its operating subsidiaries and joint ventures to meet with all suppliers, excluding those of handsets, providing cost benefits mobile phones and SIM cards to reach international standards.
the medium term requirements for Vodafones expected voice and to the Group through utilisation of scale and scope.
Vodafone and other key players drove the contactless technology data growth.
Re-farming of the Groups existing spectrum to more development with the SIM at the centre of the architecture and efficient technologies can also increase the voice and data capacity of SCM is a major contributor to the Vodafone cost reduction programme, have been trialling pre-standard implementations in Germany Vodafones networks.
In circumstances where the acquisition of achieved through a unified approach using global price books and and France: additional spectrum offers the most cost effective means to increase framework agreements, a standardised approach to e-auctions, the development and roll out of a framework for improving mobile capacity, the Group will participate in auctions or other assignment introduction of low cost network vendors and achieving best in class access to the internet through small, personalised applications procedures on a case by case basis.
pricing for IT storage and servers.
Vodafones SCM continues to known as widgets.
Vodafone has also played a pivotal role in transform itself and is operating across all Vodafones operating driving the standardisation of this technology across the mobile Cost reduction and innovation companies, delivering savings that are measured using a unified industry: and While evolving the Groups infrastructure, it is also important that the savings methodology, which are reported regularly to the Executive growth and expansion in Vodafones developer portal, Betavine, Group continues to have a tight control over its cost base.
Vodafones SCM was centralised in Luxembourg during which helps developers to transition their applications to operate has been actively driving a variety of initiatives which enable it to the 2008 financial year and is delivering further synergies for the on mobile devices.
Betavine is also being used as a launch pad for manage its network investments.
Group through the execution of global material strategies based on Vodafones engagement with the developer community to bring local market expertise.
Worldwide independent benchmarking studies innovation to the Groups customers and to meet needs in emerging Infrastructure sharing have shown Vodafone SCM as achieving significant cost advantages.
markets through the Betavine social exchange.
Significant effort has been placed in reducing the costs of deploying Vodafone also has a China Sourcing Centre, which has achieved mobile network infrastructure.
During the 2009 financial year, significant trading volumes, further improving the Groups cost base.
Vodafone announced a number of significant European agreements, including those in Germany, Spain, Ireland and the UK, along with the SCM won the Team of the Year award and was short listed for the formation of a joint venture in India, Indus Towers, for the purposes of Corporate Responsibility and Environment award in the 2008 network sharing with other operators.
The Group is now conducting European Supply Chain Excellence Awards.
network sharing in all but one of its controlled markets.
Suppliers to Vodafone are expected to comply with the Groups Code Power and energy savings of Ethical Purchasing.
Further detail on this can be found in Corporate Vodafone has been actively pursuing a number of initiatives to address responsibility on page 47. energy costs and deliver against its corporate responsibility CR commitment to reduce carbon emissions.
During the 2009 financial It is the Groups policy to agree terms of transactions, including year, there has been wide scale adoption of free cooling systems payment terms, with suppliers and it is the Groups normal practice across the Groups networks, which remove the need to air condition that payment is made accordingly.
In addition, the Group is pursuing the introduction of sustainable energy sources such as wind and solar power.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 17
