Customers, marketing and distribution Vodafone endeavours to ensure that customers needs are at the core of all products and services.
Understanding these needs and continuing to serve them is key to Vodafones customer strategy.
Customers Vodafone has 302.6 million proportionate mobile customers across the globe.
The Group seeks to use its understanding of customers to deliver relevance and value and communicate on an individual, household, community or business level.
In delivering solutions that meet customers changing needs in a manner that is easy to access and is available when required, Vodafone aims to build a longer and deeper customer relationship.
Vodafone continues to use a customer measurement system called customer delight to monitor and drive customer satisfaction in the Groups controlled markets at a local and global level.
This is a proprietary diagnostic system which tracks customer satisfaction Marketing and brand across all points of interaction with Vodafone and identifies the drivers Vodafone has continued to build brand value by delivering a superior, of customer delight and their relative impact.
This information is used consistent and differentiated customer experience.
Communication to identify any areas for improvement and focus.
activities are focused on delivering the promise of helping customers make the most of their time.
The Groups vision is to be the Customer segmentation communications leader in an increasingly connected world expanding Customer segments are targeted through many different tariffs and the Groups category from mobile only to total communications.
To propositions, which are adapted for any localised customer enable the consistent use of the Vodafone brand in all customer preferences and needs.
These often bundle together voice, messaging, interactions, a set of detailed guidelines has been developed in areas data and, increasingly, fixed line services.
such as advertising, retail, online and merchandising.
72.9 Vodafone regularly conducts brand health tracking, which is designed Customer delight index to measure the brand performance against a number of key metrics 2008: 73.1, 2007: 70.6 and generate insights to assist the management of the Vodafone brand across all Vodafone branded operating companies.
An external accredited and independent market research organisation provides global coordination of the methodology, reporting and analysis.
Vodafones global sponsorship strategy has delivered a strong set of results across all Vodafone markets, with central sponsorship agreements such as the title sponsorship of the Vodafone McLaren th Mercedes F1 team.
The winning performance of the Vodafone 9 McLaren Mercedes F1 team during the 2008 season enabled Vodafone in global BrandZ ranking to maintain a dominant presence in one of the worlds most popular Consumer th Up from 11 in 2008 sporting events.
Vodafone successfully integrated the sponsorship Customers are typically classified as prepaid or contract customers.
into a wide variety of business activities including communications, Prepaid customers pay in advance and are generally not bound to events, content and acquisition and retention promotions.
minimum contractual commitments, while contract customers usually sign up for a predetermined length of time and are invoiced for Distribution their services, typically on a monthly basis.
Increasingly, Vodafone Vodafone directly owns and manages over 1,800 stores selling offers SIM only tariffs allowing customers to benefit from the Vodafone services to customers and providing customer support.
The store network whilst keeping their existing handset.
footprint is constantly reviewed in response to market conditions.
The Group also has 5,200 Vodafone branded stores, which sell Vodafone Enterprise products and services exclusively through franchise and exclusive The Group continues to grow usage and penetration across all dealer arrangements.
Additionally, in most operating companies, sales business segments.
VGE manages the Groups relationship with forces are in place to sell directly to business customers.
The internet Vodafones 270 largest multinational corporate customers.
VGE is increasingly a key channel to promote and sell Vodafones products simplifies the provision of fixed, mobile and broadband services for and services and to provide customers with an easy, user friendly and MNCs who need a single operational and commercial relationship with accessible way to manage their services and access support, whilst Vodafone worldwide.
It provides a range of managed services such as reducing costs for the Group.
central ordering, customer self-serve web portals, telecommunications expense management tools and device management coupled with a The extent of indirect distribution varies between markets but may single contract and guaranteed service level agreements.
include using third party service providers, independent dealers, distributors and retailers.
The Group hosts MVNOs in a number of The Group continues to expand its portfolio of innovative solutions markets, selling access to the Vodafone network at a wholesale level.
offered to small office home office SoHo, SME and corporate Where appropriate, Vodafone seeks to enter mutually profitable customers.
Increasingly these combine fixed and mobile voice and relationships with MVNO partners as an additional route to market.
data services integrated with productivity tools.
20 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009
