Business overview This section explains how Vodafone operates, from the key assets it holds to the activities it carries out to enable the delivery of products and services to the Groups customers.
Technology and resources page 14 Network infrastructure Licences Connects all customers together and Vodafone has mobile licences in all of the enables the Group to provide mobile and countries in which it operates, as well as fixed voice, messaging and data services.
fixed licences in a number of markets.
Vodafone operates 2G networks in all of its mobile operating subsidiaries and Information technology an increasing number of 3G networks, providing customers with an enhanced data Provides the IT systems to deliver customer experience.
Vodafone also operates an service and the capability to charge increasing number of fixed access networks.
customers for use of Vodafones services.
Supply chain management Handsets, network equipment, marketing and IT services account for the majority of Vodafones purchases, with the bulk being sourced from global suppliers.
The Groups Customers page 20 supply chain management team is responsible for managing the Groups relationships with all suppliers, excluding handsets, providing cost benefits to the Group through utilisation of scale and scope.
Research and development R&D The emphasis of the Group R&D work programme is to contribute leading edge technical capabilities to Vodafones thought and leadership offerings and identify new and emerging opportunities.
Consumer Prepaid Customers pay in advance and are generally not bound by minimum contract terms.
People page 18 Contract Vodafone employed over 79,000 people Customers usually sign up for a predetermined length worldwide during the 2009 financial year of time and are invoiced for their services.
and aims to attract, develop and retain the best people by providing a stimulating and safe environment and offering attractive performance based incentives and rewarding career opportunities.
12 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 Business Marketing and distribution page 20 Marketing and brand Vodafone has continued to focus on delivering a superior, consistent and differentiated customer experience through its brand and communication activities.
Customer delight index Tracks customer satisfaction and identifies Distribution the drivers of customer delight.
Direct distribution Includes owned and franchise retail stores, Sponsorship sales forces selling to enterprise customers The Groups global sponsorship strategy, and, increasingly, the internet.
with central and local sponsorship agreements, has delivered strong results Indirect distribution across all Vodafone markets.
Includes third party service providers, independent dealers, distributors and retailers and mobile virtual network operators MVNOs.
Enterprise Small to medium enterprise SME and corporate The Groups strategy is to become the total communications provider of choice offering solutions Services and which bring together fixed and mobile voice and data services into an integrated offer to the customer.
devices page 21 Multinational Vodafone Global Enterprise VGE manages the Voice relationship with Vodafones 270 largest multinational Vodafones core service to customers is to corporate customers MNCs.
provide mobile voice communications and this continues to make up the largest proportion of the Groups revenue.
Messaging Handsets Allows customers to send and receive The Group has a wide ranging handset text, picture and video messages using portfolio covering different customer mobile devices.
segments, price points and an increasing variety of designs.
Data Vodafone Mobile Broadband The Group offers email, mobile connectivity and Internet on Your Mobile to enhance Provides simple and secure access to the customers access to data services.
internet and to business customers systems such as email, corporate applications and company intranets.
Fixed line Provides customers with fixed broadband Routers and fixed voice and data solutions to meet their total communication needs.
Vodafone offers broadband services through digital subscriber line DSL and supplies routers to enable customers to Other access these services, in some cases with Includes mobile advertising and business mobile broadband built in for fast managed services as well as incoming activation and as backup.
roaming and wholesale MVNO.. Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 13
