Business and financial review ESAB ESAB is a world-leading international welding and cutting company.
It formulates, develops, manufactures and supplies consumable products and equipment for use in the cutting and joining of steels, aluminium and metal alloys.
12 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 Our Ourbusinesses businesses Dir Directors ectorsand andother otherr reports eports Financial Financialstatements statements Other Otherinformation information AboutESAB ESABs comprehensive range of welding consumables Russia and is developing its position in Africa, China includes electrodes, cored and solid wires, and fluxes.
ESABs welding and cutting equipment ranges from standard equipment to large bespoke plant used in ESABs manufacturing facilities are located industrial applications.
predominantly in low cost locations, in particular in Central Europe, South America and Asia.
Following a In 2009, ESAB derived over 80 per cent of its sales from sharp reduction of demand in the fourth quarter of 2008, welding consumables and standard welding equipment.
restructuring measures saved over 50 million of The energy sector, including oil and gas, nuclear and operating costs: however, towards the end of 2009, renewables, is the largest user of ESAB products and is steps were taken to restore some manned capacity in estimated to account for around one-quarter of revenue.
anticipation of a recovery in demand in certain markets.
ESABs sales are split broadly evenly between During the downturn, ESAB has maintained its focus on developed and emerging economies.
ESAB is the clear customer service, as illustrated by it being named by market leader in Europe, South America and India.
Frost & Sullivan as best global partner in welding and It is the largest international welding company in cutting systems for energy generation.
2009highlights Restructuring measures reduced headcount by 17 per cent 2009 2008 Change m m % and led to cost savings in excess of 50 million Welding 846.7 1,042.2 18.8 Continued capital expenditure and investment in research Cutting and automation 184.7 217.6 15.1 and development expenditure Revenue 1,031.4 1,259.8 18.1 Welding 54.7 122.7 55.4 Revenue for the year of 1,031.4 million 2008: Cutting and automation 9.8 25.9 62.2 1,259.8 million and operating profit before exceptional  items of 64.5 million 2008: 148.6 million exceptionalitems 64.5 148.6 56.6  Operating margin of 6.3 per cent, with an improving posttax 3.5 3.1 12.9 performance in consumables offset by a progressive Operatingmargin 6.3% 11.8% deterioration in cutting Capital expenditure 39.8 49.7 The welding consumables and equipment businesses are Depreciation 20.1 16.1 well placed to recover during 2010 but further restructuring Research and development may be required in cutting.
expenditure 15.5 12.1 Average number of employees 8,581 9,372 ESABstrategy ESABs strategic objective is to generate significant growth in In relation to developing markets, ESAB is the market leader revenue and profit over the next five years through building upon in South America and India, and will continue to grow in its position as the worlds leading company in welding Russia where it is the leading international welding company.
consumables and its strong global positions in welding and ESAB has a new strategy to build a meaningful presence in cutting equipment.
In pursuit of this objective, ESAB will China, and will target other markets in Asia and elsewhere, undertake the following measures: such as Africa: ESAB will enhance its market leadership by leveraging its ESAB will target specifically those welding-intensive end-user broad product range in all its markets globally as well as by segments, such as nuclear, pipelines, wind energy, off-shore further investment in brand recognition and customer service.
and transport, which are seen as offering particular growth ESAB is recognised as the welding authority and, in support of opportunities: and this, will continue to develop initiatives such as its worldwide network of process centres: ESAB will look to act as a consolidator in the global welding industry, using acquisitions to strengthen market positions, ESAB will use its research and development facilities to enter new markets and improve its technology base.
develop highly customer-focused products to enhance its leading position in welding technology, in particular through ESABs physical manufacturing capacity is generally seen as the development of new welding materials and equipment being sufficient for its immediate requirements, but selective such as the telescopic boom and robotic friction stir welding: capacity increases may be required to meet specific product or geographic shortages.
Investment will also be made in ESAB will build upon its leading position in Europe and other increasing manufacturing efficiencies and in measures to developed markets to achieve growth at above market rates improve customer service.
through continued customer focus, improved supply infrastructure and new products, particularly for the energy sector: Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 13 Business and financial review ESAB continued ESAB revenue bridge m During 2009, ESABs revenues declined by 18.1 per cent.
Of this, welding consumables and standard equipment led to a decline of 22.9 per cent 1400 W elding and cutting and automation led to a decline of 4.8 per cent, offset by 1200 Cutting and a positive contribution from exchange movements of 9.6 per cent.
automation 1000 The decline in welding was primarily attributable to lower volumes of Exchange consumables which fell 24 per cent during the year.
Price movements and 800 mix in relation to welding consumables led to small positive variances.
600 400 200 0 2008 2009  The strength of demand from different end-user In a year of unprecedented declines in industrial segments varied with energy remaining reasonably production in virtually every economy, ESAB saw strong throughout the year, automotive being very reductions in revenue and profit, but, due to a weak in the first half of the year but showing some series of strong measures undertaken to reduce signs of recovery in the second half, and costs, remained profitable and cash generative.
shipbuilding, especially in Europe, declining markedly in the second half of the year.
In 2009, ESAB generated revenue of 1,031.4 million 2008: 1,259.8 million, a reduction of Volumes of standard equipment were generally 18.1 per cent.
Of this reduction, 22.9 per cent weak throughout the year, with revenues down came from the welding business consumables by about 40 per cent compared with 2008, in and standard equipment and 4.8 per cent from response to which manned capacity was cut by the cutting and automation businesses, whilst around one-half.
However, towards the end of currency movements, in particular the weakening the year, there were some signs of recovery in of sterling against the euro and the US dollar, South America, India and other emerging added 9.6 per cent.
The engineered automation business, which makes a significant proportion of its sales Operating profit before exceptional items was into the energy industry, maintained revenues 64.5 million 2008: 148.6 million, a reduction and, despite a dip in its order book at the of 56.6 per cent 64.9 per cent at constant year-end, has a reasonable outlook.
The operating margin for the year was 6.3 per cent 2008: 11.8 per cent.
The cutting business had increased revenue in the first half of the year, albeit with lower margins, Restructuring measures, which were as a consequence of the order book with which it progressively implemented from October 2008 started the year.
However, a significant onwards, reduced headcount by some 1,600 deterioration in the market for cutting equipment employees equivalent to 17 per cent of ESABs led to sharply lower order intake and to a fall in workforce at that time and saved in excess of revenue in the second half of the year which 50 million and led to a restructuring charge for severely impacted profitability.
With order intake the year of 24 million.
Towards the end of the remaining weak, the cutting business is likely to year, some headcount was selectively restored remain difficult throughout 2010 and further in response to the improving outlook in restructuring measures will be required.
ESABs overall margin performance, having been Volumes of welding consumables for the year as adequate in the first quarter, slipped during the a whole were down by around one-quarter second quarter as consumables volumes, compared with 2008.
After a sharp reversal in the especially in Europe, fell and there was some fourth quarter of 2008, volumes were generally short-term weakness in pricing.
In the second stable in the first quarter of 2009.
There were half of the year, margins recovered, led by the further general declines in volume during the consumables business, but offset by the second quarter, but thereafter volumes generally deterioration in the cutting business and, to a stabilised.
A number of customers in Europe lesser extent, the extended Christmas and North America took longer than usual shutdowns amongst customers in Europe and Christmas breaks which adversely impacted North America.
By the end of the year, most regions in which Whilst average net selling prices of consumables ESAB operates appeared to have been through trended downwards during the year, generally the bottom of the cycle, although the economies reflecting the pass through of lower steel costs, of some regions, such as Western and Southern ESABs pro-active product and brand Europe and the USA, continued to suffer varying management enabled it to maintain premium degrees of weakness.
Signs of recovery were pricing for its products in many markets in which patchy, with South America, India and Russia it operates and on average for the year as a amongst the more positive regions.
whole prices remained slightly ahead of 2008.
14 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 Ourbusinesses  Financialstatements Otherinformation  Advanced MIG MAG welding solutions for use with high power lasers.
By increasing the arc welding power it is possible to utilise high power lasers in industrial manufacturing processes.
The extra power facilitates higher welding speeds and increased weld penetration, opening up new potential such as the welding of thick steel structures.
Despite the economic conditions, ESAB has Customer service and marketing facilities for the continued to invest in its business.
Capital North American market are being retained locally.
expenditure amounted to 40 million, slightly below the level seen in 2008 but still well ahead Overall, the restructuring measures achieved cost of depreciation: significant expenditure during savings of over 50 million in 2009.
The extent to the year took place in relation to selective which these cost savings recur in 2010 will reequipping and additions to various factories, depend on how much manned capacity is a new warehouse in the Middle East, land restored during the year to meet higher levels of purchase and upgrades to IT systems.
demand, but it is expected that the measures will Research and development expenditure lead to permanent margin enhancement of increased to 15.5 million 2008: 12.1 million, around 1 per cent.
The restructuring measures representing 1.5 per cent of revenue.
resulted in an exceptional charge for the year of 24 million, together with a further 6 million of ESABrestructuring costs which have been carried over into 2010.
In the face of the economic downturn and significant reductions in the demand for welding ESAB management will continue to monitor consumables and equipment which first took capacity levels against demand and make further place in October 2008, ESAB took significant capacity adjustments where necessary.
Manned steps to restructure its business, in particular capacity can be restored quickly and at relatively through reductions in manned capacity, factory low cost, for example through overtime, new closures and mothballing, improved procurement shifts or the introduction of contract labour.
of materials and services, and reductions in On the basis that the worst of the recession has overheads, whilst protecting the longerterm passed, further general reductions in capacity are potential of the business.
not anticipated except in the cutting business which is expected to continue to face difficult Following the downturn of demand which started trading conditions.
in October 2008, some 1,600 employees representing 17 per cent of ESABs permanent During 2010, ESAB will take further steps to workforce at that time left the company.
By the ensure that it emerges from the downturn as a middle of the year, manned capacity had been stronger company, including a programme of reduced by around onethird in consumables capital expenditure and continued investment in and by around onehalf in equipment to bring it research and development.
ESAB will continue to into line with the levels of prevailing demand.
restructure its European supply chain and to take other measures to improve business efficiency.
As part of this process, three consumables Within the cutting business, certain additional factories in Finland, Sweden and Italy were restructuring is likely to be necessary as demand closed during the year.
Equipment from the conditions are expected to remain depressed, closed factories is being reinstalled in other and, as noted above, restructuring charges of ESAB factories, meaning that physical capacity 6 million have been carried over from 2009. will be little changed.
Two further factories an Taking all these into account, it is expected that equipment factory in China and a consumables there will be a total exceptional charge in 2010 of factory in Italy were mothballed.
However, by the end of the year, to reflect the Industryoverview improving outlook in certain markets, some Market size and end-user segments manned capacity had been restored and steps In 2009, the global welding and cutting industry had been taken to resume production at the had total revenue estimated at US$13 billion, mothballed Italian consumables factory.
divided approximately equally between welding consumables and welding and cutting The opportunity is also being taken to restructure equipment.
In addition, the total market for ESABs equipment factory in the USA, with welding robots and associated automation production being transferred to other ESAB products amounted to US$3 billion.
ThemanualMIG MAG factories where spare capacity can be utilised.
weldingprocess Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 15 Business and financial review ESAB continued In 2009, the energy segment, including oil and gas, Welding industry end-user segments power and pipelines, was the largest end-user segment Energy 25.5% accounting for an estimated 25.5 per cent of industry Oil, gas & processes 9.5% revenues.
Other major end-user segments were Power 4.2% infrastructure construction 18 per cent, automotive Petrochemicals 5.8% Pipelines and pipe mills 6.0% and mobile machinery 14 per cent and shipbuilding Infrastructure construction 18.0% 9 per cent.
All other users, including repair and Automotive mo bile machinery 14.0% maintenance, accounted for the remaining 33.5 per cent.
Shipbuilding 9.0% All other including repair and maintenance 33.5% Source: Frost & Sullivan The major global end-user segments are as The WSAs most recent forecast published in follows: October 2009 is that steel consumption in 2010 will recover but not by enough to offset the the energy sector, which includes the oil and reductions experienced during 2009, with gas industries and electricity generation from worldwide consumption excluding China conventional, nuclear and renewable sources expected to increase by 13.1 per cent.
and transmission, is estimated to account for Consumption in EU 27 and the USA is expected 25.5 per cent of industry revenue: to increase by 12 per cent and 19 per cent respectively compared to 2009.
By contrast, the infrastructure construction, such as the building growth of steel consumption in China is forecast of light rail networks, sewerage systems and to slow to 5 per cent.
other public works, is estimated to account for 18 per cent: ESAB expects that, as a general rule, any the transport segment, which includes original recovery in steel consumption would lead to a equipment manufacturers of cars and similar percentage increase in the demand for ESABRosioFSW commercial vehicles and related component welding consumables.
On the basis of the WSA By combining high payload suppliers, as well as off road vehicles such forecasts, ESAB would also expect that demand industrial robots with the as excavators, dumpers and agricultural for standard welding equipment would start to friction stir welding process equipment, and railway rolling stock show generalised signs of recovery during 2010. it is now possible to weld estimated to account for 14 per cent : and The market for cutting equipment is seen as complex 3-dimensional longer-cycle and is expected to remain weak shipyards, producing ships for commercial aluminium components for beyond 2010.
Demand for engineered and naval customers estimated to account for a wide range of industrial automation equipment from the oil and gas, 9 per cent.
nuclear and renewables segments of the energy industry will reflect the long-term dynamics of In addition, welding and cutting take place in rising energy demand.
many other industries where steel is used in the manufacture process: together these applications Competitive environment are estimated to account for 33.5 per cent of the Globally, ESAB is the leading supplier of welding industrys revenues.
It is the only worldwide, full service welding and cutting company and is also the Demand clear industry leader outside North America Demand for welding and cutting products is where it ranks behind the two market leaders.
determined largely by the consumption of steel ESAB operates in a competitive environment, and, to a lesser but growing extent, of other consisting of a relatively small number of metals, such as aluminium and advanced alloys.
companies that operate on a multinational basis China is the largest producer and consumer and a much larger number of smaller companies of steel but accounts for only around 3 per cent which operate in regional or product niches.
Accordingly, ESAB management typically considers the demand ESAB estimates that it has a 12 per cent share, environment for ESAB products by reviewing by value, of the available global welding and worldwide production and consumption of steel cutting market.
ESAB believes that, despite the excluding China.
turbulence seen in its Western European and North American markets in 2009, it at least The most recent estimate by the World Steel maintained its global market share due to its Association WSA is that, excluding China, continued efforts to enhance customer service, worldwide consumption of steel in 2009 was production facilities and product development, 577 mmt 2008: 764 mmt, a reduction of and as certain competitors were financially or 24 per cent which is unprecedented.
All major operationally less well positioned to respond to regions suffered significant falls, with EU 27 and the challenges presented by the economic and the USA down by 33 per cent and 39 per cent financial conditions prevailing during the year.
Apart from China, where consumption is estimated to have increased by 19 per cent to Over the longer term, ESAB expects to maintain 526 mmt representing 48 per cent of worldwide and progressively strengthen its global market steel consumption and India, no major country share, despite the potential threat of low cost recorded an increase in consumption.
16 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 Ourbusinesses  Financialstatements Otherinformation Windtowers ESAB has been involved with the wind tower industry for many years, designing and developing solutions to meet the consistently increasing demand for higher quality and productivity.
Today 80 per cent of all towers in service worldwide have been manufactured using ESAB technology.
Throughout the world, ESAB has partnered with manufacturers of wind towers, foundation piles and transition pieces, for land based, offshore or arctic service.
ESAB solutions range from the retrofitting of existing production facilities to turnkey equipment for greenfield installations.
manufacturers looking to increase their shares of chemicals and minerals.
Following rapid price markets in which ESAB has an established escalations during 2008, steel prices generally position, due to a number of factors including: eased throughout 2009. its brand: In the case of welding equipment, automation and cutting, the most significant items purchased its industry-leading technology: are electronic components, copper and its extensive product portfolio in both aluminium alloys.
consumables and equipment: Human resources the governmental and other certifications it A skilled and motivated management team and possesses for many different specialist and workforce are seen as key to ESAB achieving its demanding applications: strategic objectives.
The great majority of its manufacturing facilities which are generally personnel are employees, although periodic use modern and located in low cost areas: is made of temporary or contract workers, particularly to cope with periods of higher its well-established and wide-ranging demand.
As noted elsewhere, restructuring distribution network and supply chain: and measures have led to headcount reductions the financial strength of Charter.
ESAB aims to be a consolidator in the relatively Intellectual property fragmented worldwide welding industry and will ESAB has accumulated large amounts of look to make acquisitions which build its intellectual property which represents one of its geographic strength, increase its presence in principal competitive advantages and a major markets where it is currently under-represented barrier to competitors seeking to enter its markets.
or give access to new technologies, provided that the terms of the acquisition are expected to Intellectual property includes, in relation to be value accretive for Charter shareholders.
welding consumables, the formulation of the electrode coatings or cored wire fillings required ESABsupplychain for different welding applications and the Manufacturing locations manufacturing process knowledge which ESAB ESAB has manufacturing facilities in each of the has developed.
regions in which it operates.
With the principal exceptions of the USA and various specialist ESAB is continuing to develop all aspects of its units in Western Europe, the facilities are welding and cutting expertise through its generally located in low cost areas.
research facilities in Sweden and elsewhere in the world which together employ some 250 people.
ESABs global capacity for the manufacture of welding consumables amounts to approximately ESABs intellectual property also includes the 700,000 tonnes annually, after taking into account certifications which it holds from governmental the re-commissioning of equipment removed from and private sector bodies around the world factories which were closed during the year.
which are generally required for critical welding applications.
ESAB expects to continue to invest in its Telbo manufacturing facilities at a rate in excess of ESABs telescopic column and ESABs customers can access its accumulated the annual depreciation charge.
With existing boom requires significantly welding knowledge through a network of physical capacity likely to be sufficient for the less rear clearance due process centres throughout the world staffed foreseeable future, the emphasis will be on to the unique 3-section, by ESAB welding engineers who can assist in improving operational efficiencies and telescopic retraction facility developing the optimal welding solutions for customer service.
sections are synchronised to Raw materials ensure an even, stable motion Further information The principal raw material used in the throughout the entire reachFurther information on ESABs supply chain can manufacture of welding consumables is steel out of the boom.
be viewed on Charters website www.
and to a lesser extent, aluminium alloys, Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 17 Business and financial review ESAB continued  2009 2008  m m % exchangerates% Europe 424.6 594.7 28.6 35.4 North America 218.6 238.6 8.4 22.9 South America 171.9 198.0 13.2 19.4 China 27.1 36.4 25.5 45.9 Rest of world 189.2 192.1 1.5 14.7 Total 1,031.4 1,259.8 18.1 27.7  In response to the lower levels of demand seen Revenue by destination ESABs revenue by destination is summarised in during the year, steps were taken to reduce costs the table above.
Revenue is split broadly equally including the closure of three consumables between the developed economies of Western factories.
A further factory was mothballed, and Northern Europe and North America and the although by the end of the year steps had been developing economies of Central, Southern and taken to return this factory to production.
Eastern Europe, Asia and South America.
Reductions in workforce were made across Revenue fell in all regions due to the impact of the the business.
global recession, although the full impact of these falls on ESABs financial results was partly offset Margins in the second half of the year showed by exchange movements.
some recovery, despite further deteriorations in Europe 41.2% the cutting business.
North America 21.2% Regionalmarkets South America 16.7% Europe North America China 2.6% Europe remains ESABs most important region, ESAB recorded sales in North America of Rest of world 18.3% where it is the leading welding company.
Europe 218.6 million 2008: 238.6 million, a decrease as a region accounted for 41 per cent of ESABs of 8.4 per cent.
total revenue during the year.
The North American welding market moved into Following sharp reductions in volumes in the recession during 2008, ahead of Western fourth quarter of 2008, the first quarter of the Europe, and the further reductions in volumes of year saw generally stable trading conditions consumables and equipment seen during 2009 albeit at levels appreciably below those of the were less pronounced than in other regions.
The second quarter saw further During this time, ESAB has performed creditably slippages in both the consumables and and stayed profitable throughout the year, equipment businesses as industrial production albeit at lower margins.
ESABs performance in Europe continued to deteriorate, whilst benefited from its strong market positions in the ESABs margins were also impacted by energy and naval shipbuilding sectors, and the short-term price discounting.
measures which it took to reduce headcount and other costs.
During the second half of the year, overall trading conditions generally stabilised.
Summer As part of the restructuring of its welding and shutdowns were less severe than had been cutting equipment business, ESABs equipment feared, and there were some tentative signs of factory in the USA is being significantly recovery, for example in the automotive industry downsized with production of most equipment and in Russia, although generally these were being transferred to ESAB factories in China, patchy and the benefit of these was offset by Europe and South America.
Marketing, certain industries, particularly shipbuilding, aftermarket and other customer-facing functions declining markedly.
Christmas shutdowns will be retained in the USA.
amongst end-users were generally longer than usual.
18 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 Ourbusinesses  Financialstatements Otherinformation ESABAristoU82 The new ESAB Aristo U8 2 digital control pendant was designed to complement the Aristo range of power sources and wire feed units.
Providing enhanced levels of welding performance, the unit can be used for manual or mechanised MIG MAG welding and with the TIG and MMA welding processes.
By the end of the year, there was little evidence Rest of world that the economy or the welding market in the Asia-Pacific excluding China USA had commenced any meaningful recovery During the year, ESAB experienced mixed although ESAB believes that it is well placed to trading conditions in the region, with a stronger at least maintain its position in the market and it performance in Indonesia, but less strong in will also benefit from the launch of a new range Singapore, Malaysia and the Philippines.
of standard equipment which will take place during 2010.
India ESAB India, in which ESAB holds a 56 per cent South America shareholding, has seen reduced revenues as ESAB has a strong market presence in Brazil and lower selling prices for its welding consumables Argentina which goes back for over 50 years.
more than offset modestly higher sales volumes.
After a relatively quiet start to the year, trading performance improved in the second half of the Middle East and Africa year, reflecting a recovery in the export sectors There were mixed trading conditions in the of the Brazilian economy in particular.
Whilst Middle East during the year, reflecting continued volumes have fallen during the worldwide investment in the energy industry but lower levels recession, overall percentage reductions of activity in construction.
have been smaller than seen in Europe and North America.
ESABs sales in Africa, which has been targeted as an area where ESAB has previously been China under-represented, increased markedly, albeit ESABs sales to customers in China were from a low level.
Further progress is expected 27.1 million 2008: 36.4 million, a decrease in 2010. of 25.5 per cent.
Associated undertaking A new strategy has been formulated which will ESAB owns 50 per cent of ESAB SeAH see ESAB progressively increase volumes and Corporation, situated in South Korea.
ESABs generate a margin consistent with those being share of the post-tax profits of that company earned elsewhere in ESAB.
During the year, ESAB made progress towards its objective of increasing sales of welding consumables to domestic Chinese customers.
Production is being increased at the consumables factory in Weihai with the energy and shipbuilding industries being targeted.
Falling levels of demand in Europe and North America during the early part of the year meant that the amount of product exported by ESAB factories in China reduced considerably, although there were marked improvements later in the year.
Equipment sales were low in the early months of the year, leading to the mothballing of the equipment factory at Zhangjiagang.
Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 19
