Ourbusinesses  Financialstatements Otherinformation Directors report The Directors present their report, together with the audited year amounted to 2.3 million 2008: 2.7 million.
The amount financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009. payable to Unipart Logistics as at 31 December 2009 was 0.2 million 2008: 0.6 million.
 A review of the activities and operations of Charter International plc Hoeganaes Corporation Hoeganaes, a wholly-owned subsidiary and its subsidiaries is given in the Chairmans statement on page 5, of GKN plc, supplied powdered metal to two subsidiaries of the the Chief Executives statement on pages 6 to 9 and the Business Company, being the ESAB Group Inc. and ESAB Mexico SA and financial review on pages 12 to 35.
These sections, together fide CV, with a total sales value of US$2.1 million 2008: US$2.8 with the other sections of the annual report referred to in the million.
The amount payable to Hoeganaes at 31 December 2009 Directors report are incorporated, by reference, into and form part was US$0.3 million 2008: US$0.1 million.
The relationship of the Directors report.
between Hoeganaes and the Companys subsidiaries is on an arms length basis and in the ordinary course of trade.
Grey  Denham, a Non-Executive Director of the Company, was The Business and financial review is a review of the development, Company Secretary and Group Director Legal and Compliance of the operational and financial performance of and key trends and GKN plc until retirement on 7 May 2009.
He had no day-to-day factors within the business during the year ended 31 December involvement in the management of Hoeganaes.
2009 and contains a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
No other Directors had any interest in contracts with the Company or its subsidiaries at any time during the period other than service Profits contracts and indemnity agreements.
Directors interests in the The profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2009 was ordinary shares of the Company as well as details of their 74.8 million 2008: 158.7 million.
remuneration and service contracts can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 55 to 61.
Dividends On 23 March 2010 the Directors declared a second interim  dividend of 14.5 pence per ordinary share 2008: 14 pence per In May 2009 City Index discontinued the pursuit of its claims for ordinary share to be paid on 7 May 2010 to holders of ordinary contribution against certain current and former Directors of the shares registered on 16 April 2010.
An interim dividend of 7 pence Company and against the Companys Auditors.
per ordinary share was paid in respect of the six months ended 30 June 2009 2008: 7 pence.
Corporategovernance A review of the Companys application of the principles and provisions Directors of the 2008 Combined Code can be found on pages 49 to 52.
The names and brief biographical details of the Directors and key management of the Company appear on pages 42 to 44.
Manfred Directorsindemnities Wennemer was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on Each of the Directors has been granted an indemnity by the 26 March 2009 and the Hon.
James Bruce retired from the Board Company, to the extent permitted by applicable law, in respect of on 29 April 2009, whereupon Grey Denham became Senior certain liabilities that may arise as a result of the Director acting as a Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Director or employee of the Company or an associated company.
Under the terms of each indemnity, the relevant Director is indemnified against liability to third parties excluding the liability to At the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM John Neill will pay criminal fines and regulatory penalties and certain other offer himself for re-election, in accordance with provision A.
In relation to any third-party claim, the Company may loan the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial funds to a Director to allow him to fund his legal costs.
Any such Reporting Council Combined Code as he has served as a loan must be repaid by the Director if the Director is convicted of an Non-Executive Director of Charter plc and Charter International plc offence, judgment is given against the Director or the Directors in aggregate for more than nine years.
application for relief is refused by the court.
Further details regarding the Companys procedures for the Financialinstruments appointment of Directors can be found on page 50 Nominations The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Committee and Board balance and independence and on page 51 Company including interest rate, currency and credit risk are Re-appointment.
The Board of Directors, which is responsible for outlined in note 21 to the Companys consolidated financial the management of the business, may exercise all the powers of statements.
the Company subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association and any AnnualGeneralMeeting special resolution of the Company passed at a general meeting.
The Companys AGM will take place at 2.00 pm on 29 April 2010 The Directors have the power to issue and buy back shares in the at 27 Northwood House, Northwood Park, Santry, Dublin 9, Company, as well as to grant options over or otherwise dispose of Ireland.
The notice of AGM the Notice can be found in a unissued shares in the Company, to such persons, at such times separate circular to shareholders.
The Notice sets out details of the and on such terms as they think proper.
resolutions that will be proposed at the AGM as well as explanatory notes giving the background and reasons for such resolutions.
ESAB Holdings Limited, Howden Group Limited and The ESAB Group Inc. subsidiaries of the Company, are party to arms length In particular, the Notice contains a resolution proposing certain consultancy agreements with Unipart Logistics Limited Unipart amendments to the Companys Articles of Association the Logistics for the provision of lean manufacturing and other Articles.
The proposed amendments are intended to ensure that consultancy services to ESAB, Howden and Anderson Group Inc. the Company retains a corporate governance framework respectively.
John Neill, a Non-Executive Director of the Company, equivalent to that of a UK incorporated listed company to the is currently Group Chief Executive of the Unipart Group of extent practicable.
The proposed amendments reflect the final Companies.
The total charges paid to Unipart Logistics during the Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 45 Directors report continued phase implementation of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Rights and obligations attaching to shares introduction of the Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 in the The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are UK effective on 3 August 2009 and certain miscellaneous updates.
contained in the Articles of Association, a copy of which can be obtained upon request to the Company Secretary.
The Articles The Notice also contains a resolution proposing an amendment to may only be changed by a special resolution passed at a general the Charter International plc Long-Term Incentive Plan in respect of meeting of the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to the maximum annual award which may be made to an employee receive notice of, attend, speak and vote at any general meeting of of the Company.
the Company, except as described below.
Employees Voting The Companys policy is to encourage effective communication On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present has one and consultation between employees and management.
vote and on a poll every member who is present has one vote for Subsidiaries develop their own consultation and communication every 0.02 in nominal amount of his shares.
Where shares are procedures as part of their employment practices.
Further details held jointly, the vote of the shareholder who first appears on the can be found in the corporate responsibility report on pages 36 to register of members in respect of the share shall be conclusive.
41 of the Business and financial review.
The Company and its At any general meeting, a poll may be demanded by shareholders subsidiaries are equal opportunities employers and seek to attract, who are present and entitled to vote when i not less than five such develop, deploy and reward prospective and present employees shareholders make such a demand: ii any shareholders represent solely on the basis of merit, regardless of gender, race, colour, not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders nationality, ethnic or racial origins, marital status, sexual orientation, having the right to vote at the meeting: or iii any shareholders age, religion or disability.
In addition, the Company and its represent not less than one-tenth of the total paid-up share capital.
subsidiaries give full and fair consideration to applications for Holders of ordinary shares also have various rights to appoint a employment made by disabled people, having regard to their proxy or proxies who need not be members of the Company or, aptitudes and abilities.
Should employees become disabled during where appropriate, a corporate representative, to attend and vote employment, they would be considered for any necessary on their behalf.
Further details about the right to appoint a proxy or retraining and available work within their capabilities.
For the a corporate representative are set out in the Notice.
The Directors purposes of training, career development and promotion, disabled may make calls on shareholders in respect of monies unpaid on employees are treated in the same way as other employees.
If any call is not complied with, the Directors may serve a notice requiring payment with interest and expenses.
 Failure to comply with this may result in forfeiture of any share the The Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and subject of the notice.
The Company has a lien on any share which conditions with their suppliers.
The creditor payment policy of the Company and its subsidiaries Voting restrictions is to settle amounts due to creditors in accordance with agreed No member shall, unless the Directors otherwise determine, be terms.
The policy provides that local practice must be observed entitled to vote at a general meeting either personally or by proxy, in the countries in which they operate and that standard payment or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation terms in each country may also be varied by negotiation with to meetings of the Company, if any call or other sum presently individual suppliers.
The Company had no trade creditors at the payable by him to the Company in respect of such shares remains year end.
Further, a shareholder is not, unless the Directors otherwise determine, entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting if the  shareholder has failed to comply with a notice under the Articles During the year the Company and its subsidiaries donated an Article 16 notice to investigate interests in the Companys 113,000 2008: 121,000 to charities of which 9,000 shares within 14 days.
2008: 13,000 was to charities in the United Kingdom.
Within the United Kingdom, donations were made in the year to support Dividends and other distributions charities working in medical research support 6,000 2008: Subject to the provisions of Jersey Companies Law, the Company 10,350 and community support 3,000 2008: 2,650.
There may by ordinary resolution declare dividends up to the amount were no political donations made during the year 2008: nil.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the Company, offer any holder of shares  excluding treasury shares the right to elect to receive a dividend in The Company and its subsidiaries continue to place strong the form of fully-paid ordinary shares.
Subject to the provisions of emphasis on research and development to meet the changing Jersey Companies Law, the Board may authorise the payment of needs of the markets they serve.
Research and development dividends of such amount and on such dates as it thinks justified expenditure, which excludes engineering and production support by the financial position of the Company.
costs, totalled 17.1 million 2008: 13.2 million for the year of which 11.4 million 2008: 8.8 million has been charged to the If a shareholder who holds at least 0.25 per cent in nominal value of income statement for the year and 5.7 million 2008: 4.4 million the ordinary shares is in default of an Article 16 notice, then the has been capitalised as intangible assets.
Directors may also withhold the payment of any dividend to and restrict the transfer of shares held by that shareholder.
 Share capital Payments of dividends As at 23 March 2010, the Company had 166,955,167 fully The Companys Income Access Share Arrangements IAS mean paid ordinary shares of 0.02 each in issue which are listed on that shareholders are able to elect whether they receive their the London Stock Exchange.
The Company has a single class dividends from a company resident for tax purposes in the of shares.
Republic of Ireland or, instead, under the IAS arrangements from a company resident for tax purposes in the UK.
46 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 Ourbusinesses  Financialstatements Otherinformation Where no election has been made to receive dividends under the be not less than two in number.
The Company may by ordinary IAS, dividends paid by the Company will be treated as having an resolution vary the minimum and or maximum number of Directors.
Irish source and may, subject to the availability of exemptions, be A Director shall not be required to hold any shares in the Company.
paid subject to Irish Dividend Withholding Tax.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office Where an election has been made to receive dividends under the only until the next following AGM of the Company and is then IAS, dividends will instead be paid from a UK tax resident company eligible for re-appointment.
The Board or any committee authorised Charter Limited and will be treated as having a UK source.
by the Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors Dividends paid under the IAS will not be subject to UK to hold any employment or executive office for such period and on Withholding Tax.
such terms as they may determine and may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Copies of the IAS election form are available on the Companys website at www.
At every AGM of the Company, any Director who has been appointed by the Board since the last AGM, or who held office at For a general summary of some of the tax implications of receiving the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at dividends with an Irish source from the Company, or dividends with either of them, or who has held office with the Company, other a UK source under the IAS, please see the section on the than employment or executive office, for a continuous period of Companys website at: www.
nine years or more at the date of the AGM, shall retire from office and may offer himself for re-appointment by the members.
The Transfer restrictions Company may by ordinary resolution remove any Director before The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share which the expiration of his period of office.
The office of a Director shall be is not a fully paid-up share and refuse to register any transfer in vacated if: i he resigns or offers to resign and the Board resolves favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Directors may also to accept such offer: ii his resignation is requested by all of the refuse to recognise any instrument of transfer unless it is in respect other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than three of any one class of share, is lodged at such place as they may in number: iii he is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill determine and, where appropriate, is accompanied by any relevant health and the Board resolves that his office be vacated: iv he is share certificates and such other evidence as they may reasonably absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of the require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer.
Board whether or not an alternate director appointed by him The Directors may also suspend transfers where a shareholder attends for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his has failed to comply with an Article 16 notice, in the manner office is vacated: v he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his noted above.
creditors generally: vi he is prohibited by law from being a Director: vii he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the provisions of Jersey Certain restrictions on transfers of shares may from time to time be Companies Law: or viii he is removed from office pursuant to the imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws Companys Articles.
and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of Powers of the Directors the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
The Subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of Association, the Jersey Companies Law and any directions given securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the Securities carrying special rights powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of Without prejudice to any special rights which have been conferred the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may on any shareholders, any share of the Company may be issued exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, to with such preferred, deferred or other special rights or subject to guarantee, to indemnify, to mortgage or charge any of its such restrictions as the Directors or the shareholders may undertaking, property, assets present and future and uncalled determine.
No shares have been issued that carry any special capital and subject to the Jersey Companies Law to issue rights with regard to the control of the Company.
debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
Variation of rights Subject to the provisions of Jersey Companies Law and to any Powers in relation to the Company issuing or buying back its rights attached to existing shares and except in the case where own shares there is only one holder of the issued shares of a class of shares, At the AGM shareholders will be asked to grant a further authority in which case any and all of the rights attached to that class of to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for shares may be varied only with the consent in writing of that or convert any security into shares in the Company i up to a holder, rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with nominal amount of 1,113,034, and ii comprising equity securities the written consent of the holders of not less than two-thirds in as defined in the Articles up to a nominal amount of 2,226,068 nominal value of the issued shares of that class calculated after deducting from such limit any allotments or grants made excluding any shares held as treasury shares, or with the sanction under i in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue the of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the allotment authority, such allotment authority to apply until the end holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting of next years AGM or, if earlier, until 30 June 2011. except an adjourned meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any power to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash in connection with shares held as treasury shares.
rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal amount of 166,955.
Appointment and replacement of Directors No market purchases were made by the Company during the year Shareholders may, by special resolution, set out regulations or ended 31 December 2009. provisions by which the Directors must abide.
The Directors shall Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 47 Directors report continued A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors Corporate responsibility CR authority to repurchase the Companys ordinary shares in the The Companys report on CR, including its approach to health market.
The authority will be limited to a maximum of 16,695,516 and safety, social, environmental and other related environmental ordinary shares and sets the minimum and maximum prices which issues, can be found on pages 36 to 41 of the Business and may be paid.
Major shareholders Statement of disclosure of information to Auditors As at 23 March 2010, the Company had received the following So far as the Directors each are aware, there is no relevant audit notifications pursuant to DTR 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency information that is, information needed by the Companys Auditors Rules of the FSA the DTR.
in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all reasonable Direct %ofissued steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make Dateof indirect No.
ofshares sharecapital notification Shareholder interest votingrights votingrights himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that 19 03 10 Ignis Investment Indirect 5,088,564 3.05% the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Services Limited Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and 21 12 09 AXA S. A.
Direct 2,284,274 1.37% Transparency Rules Indirect 6,597,416 3.95% The Directors whose names and functions are set out on Total 8,881,690 5.32% pages 42 and 43 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge, 07 12 09 Blackrock Inc.
Indirect 10,941,558 6.55% the financial statements are prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of 11 11 09 Standard Life Direct 4,984,872 2.98% the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Investments Company and the Group taken as a whole: and the Directors Limited report includes a fair review of the development and performance Indirect 1,499,491 0.89% of the business and the position of the Company and the Group Total 6,484,363 3.87% taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks 05 11 09 Lloyds Banking Direct 1,868,623 1.11% and uncertainties that they face.
Group plc Auditors Indirect 8,020,015 4.8% A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as Total 9,888,638 5.91% Auditors to the Company and a further resolution to authorise 20 08 09 Legal & General Direct 6,571,031 3.93% the Board to fix the Auditors remuneration will be proposed at Group plc the AGM.
By order of the Board Significant agreements MichaelHampson The Company acts as guarantor in respect of a 75 million Company Secretary and General Counsel Multi-Currency Revolving Facility Agreement dated 3 September 23 March 2010 2008 between HSBC Bank HSBC and Charter Central Finance Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
This contains a change of Registered office: control provision which, if triggered, could restrict further utilisations 22 Grenville Street and or require the repayment of all outstanding utilisations.
In such St Helier circumstances HSBC may also call for cash collateral for Jersey JE4 8PX outstanding utilisations under separate documentary credit Registered in Jersey Number 100249 facilities, totalling US$130 million provided to two subsidiaries of the Company.
Similar change of control provisions are contained in other credit facilities that Charter Central Finance Limited has entered into with Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, Bank of China UK Limited, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Barclays Bank plc.
The Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan contains provisions that allow outstanding awards to vest in certain circumstances upon a change of control of the Company.
Conditional awards made pursuant to the Charter International plc Deferred Bonus Plan will automatically vest on a change of control of the Company.
Further details concerning the above can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 61.
Rights under the employee share schemes Under the rules of the Charter International Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Charter International Deferred Bonus Plan eligible employees are awarded shares in the Company.
As at 23 March 2010, Appleby Trust Jersey Limited as trustee of the Charter Employee Trust holds 0.044 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company on trust for the benefit of the Executive Directors, senior executives and managers of the Group.
The voting rights in relation to these shares have been waived by the Trustee.
48 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009
