Business and financial review Howden Howden is a world-leading international applications engineer.
It designs, manufactures, installs and maintains various types of air and gas handling equipment for use in the power, oil and gas, petrochemical and other industries.
20 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 Our Ourbusinesses businesses Dir Directors ectorsand andother otherr reports eports Financial Financialstatements statements Other Otherinformation information AboutHowden Howdens principal products are centrifugal and axial In 2009, Howden derived 30 per cent of its revenues fans, air and gas rotary heat exchangers and from its aftermarket business which benefits from the compressors.
Howdens fans and heat exchangers are extensive installed base of Howden equipment.
integral parts of the coal-fired boiler and emission control systems used by the power industry.
Howden also Howden has developed a flexible business model makes significant sales to the oil and gas, petrochemical, with its own manufacturing concentrated on higher mining, iron and steel and other process industries.
value-added or performance critical components, with the manufacture of other components Howdens sales are split broadly equally between outsourced to sub-contractors in low cost locations.
Europe, China and North America, and other emerging economies, including the rest of Asia-Pacific, the Middle East and South Africa.
Howden is investing in its presence in South America which is seen as an important growth market.
2009highlights Howdens result for 2009 demonstrates the resilience of its order 2009 2008 Change m m % book and the flexibility of its operating model New equipment 438.6 465.0 5.7 Revenue of 627.8 million 2008: 627.2 million and operating Aftermarket 189.2 162.2 16.6 profit before exceptional items of 70.5 million 2008: 73.1 million Revenue 627.8 627.2 0.1 Operating margin remained in excess of 11 per cent.
 exceptionalitems 70.5 73.1 3.6 Strong performances in respect of compressors and aftermarket revenues offset relative weakness in sales of fans to the power Operatingmargin 11.2% 11.7% industry Orderbook 441.1 499.3 11.7 Capital expenditure 18.4 14.1 Headcount reduction in anticipation of a slowdown in new equipment sales will result in cost savings of over 8 million in 2010 Depreciation 5.9 4.6 Research and development Howdens year-end order book was 441 million expenditure 1.6 1.1 2008: 499 million, including 340 million for delivery in 2010.
Average number of employees 3,819 3,856 Enquiry levels are encouraging and suggest a pick-up in bookings in 2010.
Howdenstrategy Howdens strategic objective is to generate significant growth in Howden will continue to develop its aftermarket business, in revenue and profit over the next five years though building upon particular in China, with the objective of consistently its current world-leading position as an applications engineer generating one-third of its annual revenue through aftermarket which designs, manufactures, installs and maintains sales: and performance critical components for air and gas handling.
In pursuit of this objective, Howden will pursue the following Howden will consider growing the business through initiatives: acquisitions that will strengthen its market position and improve its technology base.
Howden will maintain and enhance its position in all those regions where there is expected to be significant new build of To achieve this uplift in revenue will require continued coal-fired generating capacity and emission control development of Howdens supply chain which will be achieved equipment: Howden already has strong market positions in through increased plant utilisation, moderate amounts of Europe, China, North America and South Africa, and will look targeted capital expenditure on plant expansion and IT, to build its presence in India, Russia and South America: continued initiatives to ensure that Howden has access to sufficient trained engineers, and continued use of Lean Howden will develop further its position in the oil and gas and techniques across all aspects of its business.
A critical part of petrochemicals industries, in particular through enhancing its Howdens supply chain is its global network of sub-contractors position in the compressor industry which it will do through an which Howden will continue to monitor and develop.
increased range of products and exploitation of market niches: Howden will look to enhance its presence in other industries where its technology and expertise can be used to advantage: these include bio-fuels and waste-water treatment: Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 21 Business and financial review Howden continued During 2009, Howdens revenues increased by 0.1 per cent.
Of this, new Howden revenue bridge m build revenues at constant currency led to a decline of 14.2 per cent, 800 New build offset by positive contributions from aftermarket revenues at constant 700 Aftermarket currency of 1.3 per cent and exchange movements of 13.0 per cent.
600 Exchange Within new equipment, strength in the sale of compressors offset lower 500 sales of fans, particularly to the power industry.
400 300 200 100 0 2008 2009  Orders booked in the year were 513.6 million Against a difficult economic and financial 2008: 659.0 million, a reduction of 23 per cent.
backdrop, Howden achieved another strong set There was a marked weakening in the ordering of results in 2009 with almost unchanged of power generation and emission control revenue of 627.8 million 2008: 627.2 million, equipment by customers in China and the USA representing a decrease of 12.9 per cent at due to economic and financial conditions and, constant exchange rates.
specifically in the USA, uncertainty over energy policy and emission control legislation.
Orders Operating profit before exceptional items was from customers in the metals and cement 70.5 million 2008: 73.1 million, a decrease of industries continued to be weak, reflecting the 3.6 per cent 18.7 per cent decrease at constant impact of the global recession on the steel and exchange rates.
The operating margin was construction sectors.
Orders for compressors 11.2 per cent 2008: 11.7 per cent.
from customers in the oil and gas industry remained strong.
The outstanding feature of the results was the HowdenCoolingFan growth in the aftermarket business, where In recent months, new enquiries from the Howden SX-Series low-noise revenues increased by 17 per cent to 189 million, power industry in particular have shown some cooling fans are used in a representing 30 per cent of Howdens total improvement and some longer-term prospects wide range of cooling and revenues for the year.
Revenue from new appear to be reaching the point at which orders ventilation systems that must equipment sales fell by 6 per cent, with continued should be placed.
In addition, the placing of meet strict environmental strength in the sales of Howden compressors certain orders may have been deferred from late noise levels.
partly offsetting weaker sales of fans to customers 2009 into 2010 and financing constraints, which in the power, steel and cement industries.
were a feature of certain markets during 2009, have also generally eased.
On this basis, Orderbook Howden management expects that order The strength of Howdens order book at the start bookings in 2010 should increase compared of the year meant that Howdens trading results with 2009. in 2009 were comparatively unaffected by the difficult economic and financial conditions Restructuring prevailing during the year.
Total order cancellations An important feature of Howdens growth in during the year were 11 million, out of an order recent years has been the flexibility which it has book of 499 million on 1 January 2009. built into its supply chains, including the extensive use of sub-contractors and relatively low levels of As at 31 December 2009, the order book fixed cost.
stood at 441 million 31 December 2008: 499 million, a decrease of 11.7 per cent During 2009, Howden management took steps 22.0 per cent at constant exchange rates, to adjust the manned capacity of its new spread broadly equally between Europe, China, equipment business.
Certain potentially surplus North America and other emerging economies.
capacity has been re-deployed, with engineering The order book at 31 December 2009 included resource and expertise being transferred from some 340 million for delivery in 2010 and new equipment businesses to focus on the 101 million for delivery in 2011 or beyond.
aftermarket, certain work being retained in-house as opposed to being passed to sub-contractors, and workload being shared between factories.
Overtime working and the use of external contractors has been reduced at Howden facilities, and short-time working was introduced at four factories, although full-time working was subsequently re-introduced at two of these units.
22 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 Ourbusinesses  Financialstatements Otherinformation As at 31 December 2009, the order book stood at 441 million: of this Howden order book m amount, 340 million was for delivery in 2010.
During 2009, each of 600 Rest of world Europe, North America and China experienced a fall in outstanding 499m 500 China orders, and overall the order book declined by 58 million, with a 441m 417m North America book-to-bill ratio of 0.82.
Orders with a combined value of 2 per cent 400 Europ e of the opening order book were cancelled during the year.
300 200 100 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2007 2008 2009 Nevertheless, it was necessary during the year Howdens order book at any time gives it to take steps to terminate the employment of reasonable visibility over new equipment revenue around 270 employees, representing about over the next 12 to 18 months, although in any 8 per cent of the workforce, at a cost of financial year there is an element of book and 2 million: these measures are expected to bill, that is, orders which are booked and result in cost savings of over 8 million in 2010. delivered in the same year.
 Over the longer term, Howden continues to Howden designs, manufactures, installs and believe that demand for its products from the maintains heavy-duty fans, heat exchangers and power generation industry, its largest end-user compressors.
The fans and heat exchangers are segment, will provide a basis for its future growth.
used mainly in the generation of electricity by Overall, the demand for electricity is expected to coal-fired power stations, both in combustion continue to grow at a rate at least in line with and the control of emissions.
Other applications global GDP, and coal is generally expected to for heavy-duty fans are in the steel and cement maintain or increase the percentage of electricity industries.
Howden ventilation fans are used in generation for which it accounts.
Demand for Howden products will arise from the Howden compressors are mainly used by the oil construction of new generating plant and the and gas and petrochemical industries: other replacement of life-expired generating plant.
applications are in refrigeration, the nuclear According to the International Energy Authority industry and the treatment of waste water.
IEA, construction of new coal-fired generating plant will average 53 GW per annum for at least The great majority of Howdens products the next 20 years, of which more than half will be are bespoke to an individual customers built in China, where Howden has a leading specifications.
Order lead times are typically 9 to market position.
It is estimated that around 18 months, generally being shorter in China and 750 GW of coal-fired generating capacity, longer in Europe and North America.
Design primarily in the developed world, is currently over work is carried out by Howdens engineers 30 years old and will progressively fall due for in its locations around the world.
Amongst its replacement over the next decade or so.
achievements during the year, Howden developed an axial fan blade profile that delivers As noted above, orders booked during 2009 higher pressure and flow, together with a higher from customers in the power industry, especially strength hub, which is seen as having particular in China and the USA, were below those booked advantages in the retrofit market.
There is some evidence that, during 2009, the placing of new orders for Howden Industryoverview equipment was delayed by the general economic Demand new equipment conditions and the shortage of credit: this Demand for new Howden equipment is strongly includes various power generation projects in influenced by the construction of new coal-fired China, where demand for power fell in the final power stations, environmental legislation which quarter of 2008 and early 2009.
However, power impacts demand for emission control equipment usage in China increased towards the end of the for coal-fired power stations and other heavy year leading to higher enquiry levels which should industrial plant and the construction of new be reflected in order bookings during 2010. refineries, steel plant and cement factories.
As with many capital goods industries, the aftermarket represents an important part of the total market.
 Flexible supply chains allow fabrication to be carried out in-house or at quality approved sub-contractors.
Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 23 Business and financial review Howden continued Howden order intake m Total orders booked during 2009 were 514 million, compared with 659 million in 2008.
The principal part of this shortfall occurred in the 80 2 0 08 first four months of the year which in 2008 were very busy, partly due to 70 2009 orders for axial fans from customers in North America.
Towards the end 60 of 2009, there was a pick-up in the level of enquiries which should be 50 reflected in higher bookings in 2010.
40 30 20 10 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Howden also supplies equipment for use in Demand aftermarket processes which reduce atmospheric pollution The aftermarket is Howdens single biggest generated by coal-fired power stations and opportunity for growth.
Governments generally recognise aftermarket accounted for 30 per cent of the need to limit the environmental impact of Howdens total revenues.
With the opportunity to generating plant, although uncertainty over the increase this further in future years, Howden has strategies to be followed and the nature and allocated increased resources internally to timing of legislation is somewhat slowing this pursuing aftermarket opportunities globally.
In the EU, legislation on NOx delivery of new equipment creates a potential reduction from large power plants to meet a aftermarket revenue stream over the operating life 2016 deadline is creating a market for Howden of the equipment which is typically 30 to 40 emission control products, whilst in the USA, years.
Aftermarket services are provided by continued uncertainty over legislation to replace Howden to the equipment operator usually an the Clean Air Interstate Rules has led to a deferral electricity utility in the case of the power industry, in the placing of orders for such equipment.
as opposed to one of the lead contractors in the construction process usually the boiler maker in Howden compressors are mainly sold into the oil relation to fans supplied to the power industry and gas and petrochemicals industries, in who is normally the customer for new equipment.
particular for use in refineries and related Whilst there is no contractual obligation on the applications, and also into other industries, operator to employ Howden to provide including refrigeration and waste-water treatment.
aftermarket services on equipment which it In recent years, notable sales have been made originally supplied, Howden believes that it is able to customers in Europe, the Middle East and to optimise the long-term performance of any South America.
Order bookings and sales such equipment which it continues to service.
are influenced by the amount of exploration and refinery construction in progress which Competitive environment themselves are influenced by the strength of Howdens strong global positions in the demand for petroleum products and also the specialised markets that it supplies, particularly availability of finance.
in heavy-duty fans, are based on the cost-effectiveness of its product offering, its technology and customer service.
Contracts are generally won after a competitive tendering process.
Howdens position in the compressor industry is built around strong positions in a number of specialised niches, including being one of the five leading worldwide suppliers of process gas screw compressors for use in the oil and gas industry.
Howdens share of the aftermarket varies between regions.
In some locations, such as the United Kingdom and Africa, where Howden supplied a high proportion of the original equipment, and Australia, where recent new build activity has been low, its share is relatively high.
Her Royal Highness the Princess Royal visited the Howden Compressor factory in Glasgow following completion of its 4 million investment programme.
24 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 Ourbusinesses  Financialstatements Otherinformation  Howden designs, engineers, assembles and tests complete compressor packages in addition to building the compressors themselves.
Throughout the world, Howden compressor packages are used in the oil and gas, petrochemical, energy and other sectors where absolute reliability is paramount.
Each compressor package is custom designed for its environment and its duties, incorporating as much additional plant as appropriate.
Howden ensures that the complete installation meets all operational safety standards and matches the size and weight criteria and environmental guidelines of its site.
By creating and testing an integrated system, Howden is able to apply high standards of reliability and efficiency to the whole package.
Howdensupplychain  Manufacturing See overleaf Howdens principal manufacturing facilities are located in Europe, China and North America.
Other facilities exist principally to serve local markets, such as South Africa.
During the year, Howden has constructed a new manufacturing facility in South America.
Howden makes extensive use of a global network of sub-contractors to manufacture non-performance critical components.
In 2009, the number of man-hours sub-contracted is estimated to have slightly exceeded in-house man-hours.
Human resources A key component in Howdens supply chain is the quality and quantity of its engineers who are predominantly located in Europe, China and North America.
The Howden Academy, a partnership with Glasgow Caledonian University, has so far introduced 200 new engineers from Howdens businesses around the world to its range of products.
Intellectual property Howdens technology and brand are key parts of its competitive advantage.
Using their extensive applications and product knowledge, Howden engineers undertake product development work focused on meeting the specific requirements of its customers.
During 2009, particular effort has been applied to developing Howdens ranges of axial fans and compressors.
Further information Further information on Howdens supply chain can be viewed on Charters website www.
Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 25 Business and financial review Howden continued  2009 2008  m m % exchangerates% Europe 171.1 165.3 3.5 4.2 North America 149.0 181.5 17.9 34.0 China 123.1 136.6 9.9 28.1 South America 31.7 30.3 4.6 1.0 Rest of world 152.9 113.5 34.7 23.5 Total 627.8 627.2 0.1 12.9  During the year, order intake from customers in Revenue by destination Howdens revenue by destination is summarised North America showed a marked reduction in the table above.
As in previous years, compared with 2008, reflecting uncertainty over Howden has maintained a general balance environmental protection legislation, continued between sales to customers in developed weakness in the US economy generally and and emerging economies.
This led to outstanding orders to customers in North America falling Regionalmarkets to 88 million as at 31 December 2009 Europe 2008: 122 million.
Revenue in Europe was 171.1 million 2008: 165.3 million, an increase of 3.5 per China Europe 27.3% cent, reflecting robust sales of Howden new Sales to customers in China amounted to North America 23.7% equipment to customers in the power, oil and gas 123.1 million 2008: 136.6 million, a reduction China 19.6% and other industrial sectors and also growth in of 9.9 per cent.
This primarily reflected reduced South America 5.0% revenues from aftermarket services.
A particular demand from the power industry as electricity Rest of world 24.4% feature of Howdens performance was continued usage contracted sharply towards the end of high levels of order intake and sales at Howden 2008 and in the early part of 2009.
BC Compressors in France which supplies new equipment to customers in Europe, the Middle Order intake during the year was much reduced, East and South America.
although in the latter parts of the year, as the Chinese economy resumed growth, enquiry Howden continues to build a presence in the levels picked up and this is expected to be important Russian market with further orders reflected in some recovery in bookings in 2010. being booked despite the difficult financial conditions in the Russian economy for much The aftermarket in China is seen as offering of the year.
significant opportunities for Howden, as equipment delivered during the last few years North America reaches the point where major servicing is Sales to customers in North America were required.
During 2009, Howdens aftermarket 149.0 million, a decrease of 17.9 per cent.
revenues in China showed considerable growth, This reflected the strong order book with which albeit from relatively modest levels, and the Howden started the year, primarily for emission business remains on track to achieve its control equipment, but orders placed for longer-term objectives.
shipment during the year were relatively weak.
The aftermarket business made further progress.
The compressor factory in Weihai has continued to develop, with increasing sales to the water treatment and petrochemical industries in China and elsewhere in the region.
26 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 Ourbusinesses  Financialstatements Otherinformation  The Variax variable pitch axial fan is the proven, reliable and robust choice for a wide range of applications particularly in power generation where high volumes, high pressures and precise flow control are required.
The principle of adjusting the pitch of the blades to govern aerodynamic performance is the proven route to optimum efficiency, enabling the fan performance to be accurately matched to its duties in real time, allowing the drive motor to run constantly at its recommended speed and power consumption.
These critical components are assembled in-house at our technically sophisticated facilities in Belfast, UK and Weihai, China.
South America Following the acquisition in 2008 of Aeolus Industra e Comercio, one of the regions leading designers and manufacturers of industrial fans, Howden has taken further steps to increase its presence in the South American market, including the construction of a new and much enhanced facility, due to be completed in mid-2010, which will enable an increased range of Howden products to be manufactured locally.
Revenue for the year was 31.7 million 2008: 30.3 million, an increase of 4.6 per cent which also reflected the supply of new equipment to a major customer in the oil industry in Brazil.
Rest of the world Africa Howden Africa Holdings Limited, in which Howden has a holding of some 55 per cent, achieved increased revenue driven by new equipment sales to the power and the mining sectors in South Africa.
Aftermarket revenues also increased as Eskom accelerated programmes ahead of the 2010 FIFA world cup.
Bookings during the year remained reasonably strong, reflecting the companys participation in the Eskom new build and refurbishment programmes and general strength in the mining sector.
Middle East Howdens sales of compressors in the MiddleEast benefited from continued high levels of investment in the oil and gas and petrochemical sectors.
In recognition of its long-term potential of the region, Howden has recently opened a sales office in Dubai.
Asia-Pacific Howdens presence in India continues to strengthen with a current focus on the petrochemical and power industries.
In Australia, Howden performed well with the industries served generally avoiding the global economic downturn.
Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 27
