14 Business overview Pyrotechnics Revenue from our pyrotechnics businesses grew by 81% year-on-year, with significant growth in a number of areas, driven primarily by our NATO customers.
Chemring Australia increased its revenue Strategy Highlights in 2009 from the sale of pyrotechnics by 50% during Our strategy is to become the world leader Revenue increased by 81% to the year, with the restart of production in pyrotechnics, through focused investment 173.2 million of ASCEND signal smokes and trip flares.
in new products that displace existing The ASCEND products are currently under Record production of 81mm mortar incumbents and better meet our customers evaluation by the US Marine Corps, and the and 40mm illumination rounds requirements.
We also intend to consolidate initial feedback is that they perform very well.
the market through carefully selected Significant growth in pyromechanisms acquisitions in both Europe and the USA.
Chemring Defence also had a good for aircraft egress systems year, with an increase in revenue from Strong demand for training Activities during the year pyrotechnics of 12%.
Production of products from US Army Revenue from our pyrotechnics businesses screening smoke grenades increased in grew by 81% year-on-year, with significant volume by 58%, and signals and flares Acquisition of Hi-Shear growth in a number of areas, driven increased by 40%, driven by increased Technology Corporation primarily by our NATO customers.
Our Italian demand from NATO countries involved in Key information subsidiary, Simmel Difesa, had another heavy peacekeeping duties and training.
excellent year, delivering over 50 million A new lightweight smoke grenade has New orders of pyrotechnic products.
This was an recently been designed, and will start increase of 96% on the previous year, and qualification shortly.
With soldiers being 145.2m included 70% growth in the supply of 81mm asked to carry more and more equipment, illuminating rounds, particularly to our UK the provision of a lighter, more compact 4% customers.
Orders for a further 42 million product will be attractive to growing have been received this year, and underpin Revenue numbers of countries around the world.
production of our 81mm pyrotechnic mortar Our commercial maritime business, rounds until the end of 2011.
173.2m Chemring Marine, had a good year with Chemring Ordnance also had an excellent revenue growth of 7%, well ahead of first year with the Group, with revenue 81% inflation.
Sales to the North American from pyrotechnic products at over market showed strong volume growth Operating profit 45 million, an increase of 400% on last during the year, aided by sales in the year.
Over four million M228 training Gulf Region arising out of renewed oil rig grenade fuzes were manufactured in the 43.8m business activity post Hurricane Katrina.
In September 2009, we were awarded Sales to the Middle and Far East were a five year Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite 95% also strong.
This was a reflection of the Quantity IDIQ contract, with a maximum repositioning of many commercial fleets Operating margin value of $107.3 million, which included a from European trading routes to those less first production order worth $5.5 million affected by the global recession.
Production of our 25% The demand for aircraft pyromechanisms gun-fire and target-hit battlefield effect is governed by the three year simulation BES cartridges reached a total replacement cycle required to meet of 750,000 units, an increase of 130%, reliability and aircraft safety standards.
reflecting the growing number of launchers Chemring Energetics benefitted from installed at US Army training ranges.
significant year-on-year growth in the A new multi-year IDIQ contract, worth up to market during 2009, with revenue up nearly $48 million, is currently under negotiation 100%, driven by an increased demand for with the US Army and is expected to be components associated with aircraft egress received before the end of April.
Part of this growth was derived also a significant increase in sales of marine from the commencement of production location markers used by the US Navy, of canopy cutting charges, following the following a number of upgrades and transfer of the production line to Ardeer in modifications to the technical data package.
However, demand for our metron A new modification, to generate a particular actuators also increased significantly, orange smoke, has also attracted increased with 30% more products delivered for interest from the US Coast Guard for search incorporation within a variety of fire and rescue missions, and we expect to suppression systems.
qualify the new product in early 2010.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 15 Battlefield training Troops practice their urban warfare skills.
Chemring produces a wide range of smokes as well as distraction and screening grenades for training purposes.
Photograph by Stuart Bingham: Crown Copyright MOD, image from www.
uk In the USA, Chemring Energetic Devices Our business units and companies Our products also increased its pyrotechnics revenue Chemring Australia Pty Ltd Military pyrotechnics by 110% more than the previous year.
Supplies a range of pyrotechnics, military Smokes and flares However, some of this growth was training and marine safety products.
attributable to the first full years Distraction and screening grenades contribution from Scot, Inc. which was Chemring Defence Europe Markers acquired by the Group in May 2008.
Centre-of-excellence for the design, On a pro-rated comparison of Scots full Smoke payloads development and production of materials annual revenue, the business has delivered Battlefield simulation products and sub-systems for military, OEM and a 50% year-on-year improvement, safety customers.
which is a significant increase in its Impulse cartridges market penetration.
The volume of Chemring Defence UK Ltd Marine pyrotechnics pyromechanisms sold into the US space Chemring Defence Germany GmbH market doubled year-on-year, driven by Smokes and flares booster sales for the Atlas V heavy launch Chemring Defence Spain S. L. Rockets vehicle and continuing sales of separation Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Line throwers devices for the Delta II IV launch vehicles.
Sales of impulse cartridges were also strong A leading supplier of rocket motors, high Aircrew egress in 2009, with a contract to refurbish large explosive filling and pyromechanical Rocket propellant numbers of B-2 ejector impulse cartridges.
Sales of cartridge actuated devices for the Canopy cutting charges Chemring Energetic Devices USA F-15 F-16 FA-18 and Boeing 767 aircraft Linear explosives continued to reflect the robust demand Two Group companies with a significant for our products.
During the year, we share of the pyromechanisms Cartridge actuated devices also qualified our first product on the market and strong component sales Space and satellite launch C-17 aircraft, and we anticipate that we will to missiles, munitions, space and Initiators continue to supply these products in 2010 ammunition prime contractors.
Scot, Inc. USA Separation sub-systems Thrusters and actuators Acquisitions Technical Ordnance, Inc. USA In September 2009, we announced Chemring Marine Ltd UK the conditional acquisition of HiShear Technology Corporation The worlds leading supplier of marine for a cash consideration of $132 million.
distress signals to commercial and The acquisition was successfully completed leisure markets, under the brand names: just after the year end in November.
Hi-Shear, based in Los Angeles, USA, is a Chemring Ordnance USA leading manufacturer of high reliability Three Group businesses that develop and energetic solutions that perform critical supply ammunition and pyrotechnically functions in key US space and defence programmes, including satellites, space activated devices to US and international governments and to munitions launch vehicles, missile defence and aircrew egress.
Its products include low shock prime contractors.
pyrotechnic satellite separation systems, Kilgore Defense USA space-qualified initiators, electronic missile Martin Electronics, Inc. USA safe arm devices and acoustic initiators for underwater explosive ordnance disposal Titan Dynamics Systems, Inc. USA applications.
Its product range, technology HiShear Technology Corporation USA and lead market position provides the Group with a solid platform for growth in the Develops and produces advanced space market and will augment our existing systems and products used in space capabilities in a number of other sectors exploration vehicles, satellites, launch as well.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
