34 Corporate governance Directors and professional advisers Kenneth C Scobie Dr David J Price CBE Paul A Rayner FCA David R Evans NonExecutive Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director NonExecutive Director Joined the Group as Joined the Group in Joined the Group in June 1994 Joined the Group in 1987 Non-Executive Chairman in April 2005 as Chief Executive.
and acted as Finance Director to as Managing Director of the June 1997.
Former Chairman Formerly Managing Director, several Group companies before Countermeasures business and of Allied Leisure plc.
Naval Marine at Rolls-Royce plc.
being appointed to the Board in appointed to the Board in 1988.
Chairman, Chief Executive and Previous appointments August 1999.
Formerly a Senior He took up his current position non-executive director of a wide in the aerospace sector Audit Manager with Deloitte LLP.
as a non-executive director in range of industrial companies include Managing Director of April 2005, after stepping down Aged 48. since 1972.
Thomson UK Holdings Ltd as Chief Executive, a position he and Chief Executive of had held since January 1999.
Thomson-Thorn Missile Managing Director of the Electronics Ltd both now Marconi torpedo business prior part of the Thales Group.
Currently Fellow of the Institute of a non-executive director of Electrical Engineers and the Avon Rubber plc.
Previously Institute of Marine Engineering, a non-executive director of Science & Technology.
Professional advisers Auditors Headquarters and Registrars Deloitte LLP, Southampton Computershare Investor registered office Services PLC Chemring House, 1500 Parkway, Bankers The Pavilions Whiteley, Fareham, Hampshire, Bank of Scotland, London Bridgwater Road PO15 7AF, United Kingdom Bristol BS13 8AE Tel: 44 1489 881880 Stockbrokers Fax: 44 1489 881123 Investec Henderson Website: www.
co. uk Crosthwaite, London Registration number 86662 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 35 The Rt Hon Ian F R Much Air Marshal Sarah Ellard FCIS Lord Freeman Sir Peter Norriss KBE CB AFC MA FRAeS NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director Company Secretary Joined the Group as a Joined the Group as a Joined the Group as a non-executive director in non-executive director non-executive director May 2006.
Chairman of the in December 2004. in May 2004.
Currently a Senior Independent Director non-executive director of consultant formerly Partner and Chairman of the Turbomeca UK Limited, to , Remuneration Committee.
Senior Military Adviser of Chairman of Thales UK plc and Previous appointments Selex Systems Integration a non-executive director of include Chief Executive of Limited and consultant within Savile Group PLC.
He is also on fide La Rue plc and T&N plc, the aerospace and defence the main Board of Thales S. A. and non-executive director sectors.
Chairman of Cambridge of Admiral plc, Camelot plc Chief of Defence Procurement Enterprise the University and Manchester United plc.
Operations and Controller Technology Transfer Office.
Past President Partner with Lehman Brothers director of Senior plc and of the Royal Aeronautical Investment Bankers between Simplyhealth Group Ltd. Society and Chairman of 1969 and 1985.
Member of Turbomeca UK Limited.
Membership of Board committees during year: Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
