12 Business overview International reach Our operational structure has been expanded into three regional divisions: USA, Europe and International: formed to better meet the needs of our growing customer base in over 80 countries around the world.
Worldwide customers Customer countries Regional balance International sales Advanced manufacturing Delivering global protection Growth potential in international markets Increasing productivity and safety 49% of our Group revenue is derived Chemrings European operations serve We aim to transfer best practices from our US operations where we are their home markets and have strong and replicate our state-of-the-art involved with major programmes including sales networks in the Middle East, the manufacturing facilities in local the F-22 and F-35 aircraft as well as the Indian sub-continent and the Far East.
We export from the USA Significant opportunities exist in applying in Salisbury, UK and Lara, Australia will to its natural allies including Canada, modern technologies to legacy platforms deliver faster and safer production for South America and the Middle East.
in India and the new NATO countries.
customers in Europe and the Far East.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 13 Our largest customers are the US Department of Defense and the UK Ministry of Defence but we have significant customers within other NATO countries and a growing presence in Middle Eastern and Far Eastern markets.
Business by regional division USA Europe International Supplies US Department of Defense Markets to all NATO and non-NATO Drives our expansion to countries and national prime contractors.
countries in western and eastern Europe.
outside Europe and the USA.
Divisional revenue Divisional revenue Divisional revenue 249.0m 187.6m 67.3m Proportion of Proportion of Proportion of Group revenue Group revenue Group revenue 49% 37% 14% Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. Chemring Defence Chemring Australia Pty Ltd Pennsylvania Chemring Defence Germany GmbH Chemring Countermeasures Ltd, UK Chemring Defence Spain S. L. Chemring Energetic Devices CIRRA SA, France Associate company Chemring Defence UK Ltd Scot, Inc. Illinois Technical Ordnance, Inc. South Dakota Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Chemring Ordnance Chemring EOD Ltd, UK Kilgore Defense, Tennessee Chemring Marine Ltd, UK Martin Electronics, Inc. Florida Chemring Nobel AS, Norway Titan Dynamics Systems, Inc. Texas Simmel Difesa S. p. A, Italy Hi-Shear Technology Corporation, California Kilgore Flares Company LLC, Tennessee Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. NIITEK, Virginia acquired after 31 October 2009 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
