36 Corporate governance Directors Report The directors present their annual report, together with the Employees audited financial statements of the Group and the Company, for Details of the Groups employment policies are set out in the the year ended 31 October 2009.
Corporate Responsibility Review on page 31.
Principal activities Charitable and political donations The principal activities of the Group are the design, manufacture Charitable donations amounting to 61,166 2008: 29,306 were and sale of energetic material products and countermeasures.
No political donations were made during the year 2008: nil.
Business review The Statement by the Chairman, the Review by the Chief Executive, Contractual arrangements the sections of the annual report on each of the business segments, The Group contracts with a wide range of customers, comprising and the Review by the Finance Director, together with the section governments, armed forces, prime contractors and OEMs across the on key performance indicators and principal risks and the globe.
The US Department of Defense is the largest single customer, Corporate Responsibility Review, on pages 4 to 33, provide a review and procures the Groups products under a significant number of of the Groups business development, performance and position separate contracts placed with individual Group businesses.
during and at the end of the financial year: its strategy and likely The Groups businesses utilise many suppliers across the world, and future development: key performance indicators: and a description arrangements are in place to ensure that businesses are not totally of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
reliant on single suppliers for key raw materials or components.
Further information regarding financial risk management policies and financial instruments is given in Note 24 of the financial Policy on payment of suppliers statements.
Details of significant events since the balance sheet It is the policy of the Group that each of the Group companies date are contained in Note 37 of the financial statements.
should agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions with suppliers.
These will range from standard written terms to Results and dividends individually negotiated contracts.
Creditor days of the Group as The profit attributable to the Groups shareholders for the year was at 31 October 2009 amounted to 59 days 2008: 60 days.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 36p per ordinary share, which together with the interim The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan dividend of 14p per ordinary share paid in August 2009 gives a the PSP total for the year of 50p 2008: 35p.
The final dividend is subject The following conditional awards were made under the PSP during to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on the year: 17 March 2010, and accordingly has not been included as a liability Total number of Number of participants in these financial statements.
Date of award shares awarded receiving awards Directors and their interests 21 January 2009 150,404 31 The present directors are shown on page 34 and 35.
24 June 2009 12,653 3 The Rt Hon Lord Freeman and Mr K C Scobie will be retiring by Total 163,057 34 rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will be offering themselves for re-election.
Details of the service contract The Chemring 1998 Executive Share Option between the Company and Mr Scobie are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 44.
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman does Scheme the 1998 ESOS not have a service contract with the Company.
No options were granted during the year.
Options over 50,000 ordinary shares were exercised during the year.
None of the directors had a beneficial interest in any contract of Additional information is set out in Note 32. significance to which the Group was a party during the year ended 31 October 2009.
The Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan Information required as to directors shareholdings is set out in the the UK Sharesave Plan Directors Remuneration Report.
On 31 July 2009 options were granted over 33,512 ordinary shares.
Options over 133 ordinary shares were exercised during Substantial shareholdings the year.
During the year options on 6,518 shares lapsed.
At 19 January 2010 the following substantial holdings in the Additional information is set out in Note 32. ordinary share capital of the Company had been notified to the Company in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority: Plan the US Stock Purchase Plan Name % Interest On 31 July 2009 options were granted over 10,461 ordinary shares.
During the year options on 575 shares lapsed.
No options were Standard Life Investments Ltd 8.99 exercised during the year.
Additional information is set out in Note 32.
Old Mutual Asset Managers 5.13 JP Morgan Chase & Co. 4.94 AXA S. A and its group of companies 4.84 Legal & General Group PLC 3.97 BT Pension Scheme Trustees Ltd as Trustees of the BT Pension Scheme 3.96 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 37 Issue of shares The Chemring Group PLC Share Based Under the provisions of section 551 of the Act, the Board is prevented Incentive Scheme the ESOP from exercising its powers under the Articles to allot shares without No options were granted during the year and there were no options an authority in terms of the Act contained either in the Articles or outstanding under the ESOP at 31 October 2009. in a resolution of the shareholders in general meeting Approach to share ownership The authority, when given, can last for a maximum period of five The Group actively encourages its employees to share in the years, but the Board proposes that renewal should be sought future success of the Group.
A second grant of options under at each Annual General Meeting.
Such proposal is set out as the UK Sharesave Plan and the US Stock Purchase Plan, which resolution 8 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
were launched in 2008, took place during the year.
The Board is Section 561 of the Act requires that an allotment of shares for cash currently considering the establishment of similar schemes for may not be made unless the shares are first offered to existing employees in Group companies outside of the UK and the USA.
shareholders on a pre-emptive basis in accordance with the terms of the Act.
In accordance with general practice, to ensure that small Share capital and shareholder rights issues of shares can be made without the necessity of convening General a general meeting, the Board proposes that advantage be taken The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares of 5p of the provisions of section 570 of the Act to not apply the Acts each and preference shares of 1 each, which are fully paid up pre-emptive requirements.
Accordingly, a special resolution set and quoted on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
out as resolution 9 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will Full details of the movements in the authorised and issued share be proposed which, if passed, will have the effect of granting the capital of the Company during the financial year are provided in directors the power to allot not more than 5% of the present issued Note 27 of the financial statements.
ordinary share capital free of the requirements of section 561 All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and of the Act.
No issue of these shares will be made which would vote at any general meeting of the Company and to appoint a effectively alter the control of the Company without prior approval proxy or proxies to exercise these rights.
At a general meeting, of the shareholders in general meeting.
every shareholder present in person, by proxy or in the case of a Purchase of own shares corporate member by corporate representative has one vote on a During the year the Company purchased 78,301 2008: 160,000 show of hands, and on a poll has one vote for every share held.
of its ordinary shares, and 115,170 2008: nil ordinary shares were To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting, the notice distributed following vesting of awards under the Chemring Group of meeting can give a time, which must not be more than 48 hours Performance Share Plan.
At 31 October 2009, the Company held a before the meeting, by which shareholders must have been entered total of 273,131 ordinary shares in treasury representing 0.8% of on the register in order to have the right to attend or vote at the ordinary shares in issue on 1 November 2009.
All purchases of the meeting.
ordinary shares were by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
Further details can be found in Note 30 of If a shareholder has been properly served with notice under the financial statements.
section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act requiring information about interests in shares, and has failed to supply A special resolution set out as resolution 10 in the Notice of Annual such information within 14 days after the service of the notice, General Meeting will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual then the shareholder is not entitled to attend and vote at a General Meeting, to renew the Companys authority to purchase its shareholder meeting.
own shares in the market up to a limit of 10% of its issued ordinary share capital.
The maximum and minimum prices are stated in the There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the resolution.
The directors believe that it is advantageous for the capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by law, for example insider trading Company to have this flexibility to make market purchases of its own shares.
The directors of the Company will consider holding law.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services repurchased shares pursuant to the authority conferred by this Authority, certain employees are required to seek the approval of resolution as treasury shares.
This will give the Company the ability the Company to deal in its shares.
to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively and will The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to a provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management dividend at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal of its capital base.
Any issues of treasury shares for the purposes instalments on 30 April and 31 October each year.
Holders of of the Companys employee share schemes will be made within the the preference shares have the right on winding-up to receive, 10% anti-dilution limit set by the Association of British Insurers.
in priority to any other classes of shares, the sum of 1 per share The directors will only exercise this authority if they are satisfied together with any arrears of dividends.
that a purchase would result in an increase in expected earnings The Company is not aware of any agreements between per share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
The Companys Articles of Association the Articles may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 38 Corporate governance Directors Report continued Statement of Directors Responsibilities Directors Responsibility Statement The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report We confirm to the best of our knowledge that: and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws the financial statements, prepared in accordance with and regulations.
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required financial position, and profit and loss of the Company and the to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted the Statement by the Chairman, the Review by the by the European Union, and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Chief Executive, the sections of the annual report on each of The directors have also chosen to prepare the parent company the business segments and the Review by the Finance Director, financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally together with the section on key performance indicators and Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting principal risks and the Corporate Responsibility Review, which are Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors cross-referred from the Directors Report, include a fair review must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they of the development and performance of the business and the give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and position of the Company and the undertakings included in the of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of these financial statements, the directors are also required to: the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
properly select and apply accounting policies: Provision of information to auditors present information, including accounting policies, in a Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and confirms that: understandable information: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit provide additional disclosures when compliance with the information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors performance: and are aware of that information.
make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance a going concern.
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Close company provisions transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any As far as the directors are aware, the close company provisions of time the financial position of the Company and enable them to the Taxes Acts do not apply to the Group nor has there been any ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies change in that respect since 31 October 2009.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Auditors prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Annual General Meeting Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may to be held on 17 March 2010, together with explanatory notes, differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to all shareholders.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 19 January 2010 Signed on behalf of the Board S L Ellard Company Secretary Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
