10 Business overview Our strategy Leafield BDL Nobel High Nobel Energetics Engineering Systems Energy Materials UK UK UK Norway 2005 2006 2007 Comet Technical Simmel Difesa Richmond EEI Germany Ordnance Italy UK USA Group strategy Vision The Group strategy remains focused on our two core sectors of operations Energetics Our vision is to be the leading producer and Countermeasures.
of energetic material products and countermeasures Our core strategy over the next five years looks for the development of excellence for the global defence market within our key three core competencies: Energetic materials We will focus the Pyrotechnics Explosive ordnance disposal EOD business on products where we can exploit our extensive knowledge and expertise Displace weak competitors Establish technological leadership in explosive, pyrotechnic and pyrophoric Consolidate the market through Become the world leader in IED materials.
We will address niche, highly acquisition and unexploded ordnance UXO profitable markets with significant neutralisation value-added manufacture assembly Extend lead in niche technologies where barriers to entry are strong.
and applications Become a major European supplier of demilitarisation services High reliability and integrity The nature Develop capability in space applications of our products requires the highest Develop a world-leading position levels of safety in manufacture and in counter-mine and counter-IED use, and reliability, particularly when technologies their correct operation is life critical.
Manufacturing and product safety must Munitions Countermeasures be one of our highest priorities.
Partner major prime contractors Maintain market share High volume manufacturing We currently manufacture many of our products in Develop position as preferred supplier Grow our business in line with the market of energetic materials to key prime significant quantities and have built Exploit lead in special material, contractors up strong expertise in automated spectral and thrusted flares manufacturing.
Our strategy is to Develop role as niche prime contractor Invest in new fully automated consolidate manufacturing centres, where Maintain position as the world market production facilities possible, to give high volumes.
Expertise leader in naval ammunition in automation and flexible manufacture Maintain lead position in all will drive down our cost base and maintain new platforms competitive advantage.
Geographic strategy Displace Our geographic strategy has five components: weak Partner competitors major prime Maintain our US operations as 50% contractors Establish of the Group.
technology leadership Manufacture in the USA for the US market Maintain and in Europe for the European market.
market share Use our excellent worldwide sales network to export both the Groups and third parties products to global markets from both Europe and the USA.
Establish local manufacturing facilities in countries where we need to do so in order to access certain key national markets.
Increase our regional marketing presence in the Far East and the Middle East.
Pyrotechnics EOD Munitions Countermeasures Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 11 Titan Dynamics Martin Acquisition timeline 20052009 Systems Electronics USA USA 2008 2009 Scot NIITEK HiShear USA USA USA Strengths and resources Acquisition strategy The Group has core competencies in Acquisitions have been an important element of the recent growth of the business.
the design and manufacture of energetic The successful completion of thirteen acquisitions over the last five years has contributed materials: the development of highly directly to the overall growth of the Group, and has broadened our capabilities.
reliable and safe products: and high Components of Group revenue growth 20052009 volume manufacturing.
Market position and reputation 600 The Group is the worlds leading 47m 504m manufacturer of countermeasure 500 197m decoys, with over 50% market share.
We are currently leading the field in 400 the development and manufacture of advanced countermeasures.
300 139m In our growing Energetics business, we are an expert manufacturer of products 200 containing energetic materials, and we 2009 121m are developing a prominent position in 100 2008 several niche market areas, including 2007 screening and illumination pyrotechnics, 0 2006 satellite separation systems, aircrew egress 2005 Organic Acquisitive Foreign 2009 components, explosive ordnance disposal exchange equipment, fuzing and naval ammunition.
Our strategy for acquisitions is to continue to target opportunities which add capability, Customer relationships technology and market access.
We will exploit synergies from such acquisitions by creating The Group has an extensive customer base, centres of excellence, investing in new products and promoting our products though our comprising governments, armed forces, worldwide channels to market.
prime contractors and OEMs across the We intend to maintain a balance of acquisition investment across pyrotechnics, EOD and globe.
We have an extensive distribution munitions, and between Europe and the USA.
network and our businesses currently supply to over eighty countries worldwide.
Our acquisition investments over the last five years can be analysed as follows: Manufacturing operations Percentage of total investment in acquisitions 20052009 The Group continues to benefit from efficiency improvements achieved through automation and rationalisation of Geographical spread Business activity manufacturing across the Group, and we UK 15% Pyrotechnics 57% have an ongoing investment plan for new Europe 20% EOD 14% plants and technologies.
USA 65% Munitions 29% Solid financial base The Group enjoys healthy operating margins across its businesses.
Our focus on working capital management in recent years has manifested itself in excellent cash conversion and produced a sound balance sheet for the Group.
Management Management resource and expertise have been strengthened at all levels across the Group during the last four years, and we continue to develop our operational skills to ensure that we remain a world class manufacturer.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 million
