20 Business overview Countermeasures Chemring Countermeasures, our UK subsidiary, had an excellent year with revenue up 17% to a new record.
This was driven principally by demand from NATO forces for our conventional magnesium decoys.
Good progress is being made with the Strategy Highlights in 2009 construction of our new advanced flare The core strategy for the Countermeasures Revenue increased by 17% to facilities at Salisbury.
There is one facility for business is to maintain our share of the 183.5 million conventional magnesium flares and one for expendable countermeasures market and spectral flares.
Each facility will have fully Record levels of production at expand the business in line with the size automated flow-line production from mixing Chemring Countermeasures and of that market, which is expected to grow to final packaging, in which all steps in the Alloy Surfaces steadily over the next five years.
We will process are remotely operated.
This will increase our investment in new products Demand for Typhoon flares increased be a major improvement in safety within and technologies, and will build on our by 200% the production process, and will result in current leadership in special material, a 100% increase in capacity to provide a Kilgore awarded its largest ever IDIQ spectral and thrusted flare technologies.
surge capability to support our customers contract, with a potential maximum We will continue to invest in new fully operational needs.
The two facilities are value of $804 million automated production facilities that will expected to be completed over the next six improve operator safety, significantly Naval countermeasures up 24% months, in order that commissioning and enhance our operational efficiency, and New automated manufacturing low-rate production can commence towards maintain our lead role in the development facilities under construction in the the end of the calendar year.
of new products for the next generation of UK and Australia fixed wing and rotary aircraft.
Chemring Australia also had a record year, Key information with a 45% increase in revenue following Activities during the year the signature of a long-term framework New orders Chemring Countermeasures, our UK agreement with the Australian Government.
subsidiary, had an excellent year with As part of our commitment to the contract, revenue up 17% to a new record.
This was 281.7m construction of a new countermeasures driven principally by demand from NATO facility is underway at our site in Lara, which forces for our conventional magnesium 81% is near Melbourne.
The new facility will be decoys, where annual production hit a new a duplicate of the UK facility, providing Revenue record of 380,000 flares during the year.
the Australian Government with a local However, the 200% increase in demand for responsive capability and the Group with Typhoon flares and the 130% increase in 183.5m additional global manufacturing capability demand for advanced kinematic flares also to meet the rapidly changing demands of made a significant contribution.
With the 17% some of our customers.
scheduled delivery of additional Typhoon Operating profit Alloy Surfaces also had an excellent year, aircraft to NATO and Middle East customers with revenue up 25% to over 85 million over the next few years, there is ample and a record level of production of in opportunity for further expansion.
53.5m excess of two million special material There was also strong growth in our naval decoys.
This growth was driven by 18% countermeasures activities, with revenue increased demand from the US Air Force up 24% from deliveries of various products Operating margin for protection of transport aircraft and the to Spain, Turkey and Romania.
The UK UK Ministry of Defence for protection of Ministry of Defence placed a multi-year combat aircraft.
Production of helicopter 29% contract for infra-red decoy rounds, decoys M211s and MJU-64s reduced during and we expect a multi-year contract for the year, from 60,000 per month to 40,000 radio-frequency decoy rounds to be placed per month, in line with the US plans for over the next few months once the current withdrawal from Iraq.
However, the spare upgrade programme has been successfully capacity was transferred over to MJU-50 completed.
The growing threat to ships in decoy production, where strong demand littoral waters, where weapon protection from the US Air Force increased production may endanger adjacent shipping or civilians to over 60,000 units per month.
A further on-shore, is driving demand for more $74 million contract for MJU-50 decoys was sophisticated variable range products and placed by the US Air Force in the second half a more effective delivery launch system.
of the year, providing firm order coverage for the next two years production.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 21 Dispensing flares A US Navy F-18E F Super Hornet deploys flares whilst on patrol over Afghanistan.
Shoulder-launched, IR-guided missiles are the main threat to aircraft in the region.
UK demand for BOL IR decoys also remained Our business units and companies Our products strong, and production remained steady Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. USA Air countermeasures at 40,000 units per month throughout Based in Philadelphia, the worlds only Conventional MTV flares the year.
The Australian Government manufacturer of covert multi-spectral successfully completed flight trials of the Advanced decoys IR decoys fielded today.
A major supplier BOL system on its F-18 aircraft and there Special material decoys to the US Department of Defense and is considerable demand from the F-18 community regarding the early availability of militaries world wide, Alloys patented, Chaff proprietary technology employs the system.
The US Navy is starting to show Naval countermeasures pyrophoric materials that radiate in-band interest as it should provide a considerable IR energy to decoy the guidance systems enhancement to the mission duration.
RF decoys of attacking enemy missiles.
The UK also completed qualification of IR decoys the BOL system on the Typhoon, and Chemring Australia Pty Ltd export demand for the special material Based in Victoria, Australias leading decoys should grow as aircraft gradually manufacturer and supplier of military become operational.
Our other US subsidiary, Kilgore, also had a good year, with revenue similar to last Chemring Countermeasures Ltd UK year but production volumes reduced to Based in Salisbury, a world leader in the 1.1 million flares as some fairly significant design, development and manufacture of product mix changes took place.
Delays in advanced expendable countermeasures for the placement of new orders by the air and sea platforms.
With more than forty US Department of Defense also had an years experience and combined with its impact, and led to a cessation of production in-house technology centre with extensive on both sets of flares for the B-52 and facilities and equipment, it provides F-22 aircraft.
Production approval of both effective and reliable solutions to counter the B-52 and C-17 flares was completed at increasingly sophisticated threats.
the beginning of the year.
Initial production Kilgore Flares Company LLC USA of the flares has gone extremely well, with monthly production steadily breaking new Based in Toone, Tennessee, Kilgore records.
The re-design of the M212 spectral Flares develops and produces airborne flare was also completed during the year, expendable IR countermeasure decoys and we have now satisfactorily completed and IR naval decoys.
the factory acceptance testing in order that full production can commence in 2010.
In September, Kilgore was awarded its largest ever Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity IDIQ contract, potentially worth up to a maximum of $804 million, for the multi-year supply of M206 helicopter flares, and MJU-7 and MJU-10 combat aircraft flares.
The initial production order for 2010 was $42 million, which was higher than expected.
This was subsequently followed by a four-year IDIQ contract from the US Air Force for flares for the F-22 aircraft.
This contract has a maximum value of $54 million and the initial production order of $24 million covers production until 2011.
The order book for Kilgore at the year end had increased to a record level of 59.4 million, 95% higher than the previous year, and lays a solid foundation for substantial growth in 2010.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
