16 Business overview Explosive ordnance disposal EOD In January 2009, the US Army placed a contract, worth up to $51 million, for thirty of NIITEKs Husky Mounted Detection Systems HMDS for high reliability route clearance operations in support of US peacekeeping activities around the world.
The chief of Strategy Highlights in 2009 the counter-IED branch of the NATO-led We aim to become the world leader in Revenue increased by 304% to International Security Assistance Force demolition stores, and significantly expand 61.2 million ISAF in Afghanistan has commented that our expertise in EOD.
We will become a major the HMDS is a great system that is making US Army order for 80 NIITEK Husky European competitor in the demilitarisation a real difference in the counter-IED fight.
Mounted Detection Systems HMDS of unwanted ammunition and munitions, and contract value $125 million we will develop a world-leading position in In July 2009, NIITEK was awarded a counter-mine and counter-IED technologies.
second production contract, worth up to Highly successful start to production at $75 million, for the supply of fifty further new HMDS facility Activities during the year HMDS and spares and support to maintain New IM-variant demolition stores In December 2008, we completed them in the field.
As a consequence, the developed and undergoing qualification the acquisition of NIITEK, a leading business has deployed a number of staff and developer of robot and vehicle-mounted Key information contractors at forward operating bases to improvised explosive device IED detection provide training, maintenance and support New orders systems, incorporating advanced ground in order to ensure that the equipment is penetrating radar GPR and metal available for the maximum amount of time.
In January 2009, In December, the US Army announced its the US Army placed a contract, worth up intention to procure twenty one additional 515% to $51 million, for thirty of NIITEKs Husky systems, and has since placed a contract Mounted Detection Systems HMDS for worth up to $34 million with NIITEK.
The Revenue high reliability route clearance operations strong demand for HMDS and the hard work in support of US peacekeeping activities and dedication of the production team at 61.2m around the world.
A new production NIITEK resulted in increased revenue for the facility was established in Charlottesville, year of 45.6 million, which is some 250% 304% Virginia, and manufacture and assembly higher than its pre-acquisition performance.
of these advanced detection systems was Furthermore, the US Army has indicated its Operating profit gradually increased.
All thirty systems interest in procuring a further fifty systems were delivered to the US Army on schedule in the next few months, and may consider a 15.6m and are now being successfully used in larger multi-year procurement.
280% Threat detection Operating margin The Husky Mounted Detection System with VISOR 2500 excels at detecting 25% anti-vehicle mines and other explosive hazards especially on main supply routes.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 17 IED neutralisation An IED is remotely neutralised using a disrupter mounted on a Wheelbarrow Mk8b bomb disposal robot.
Our UK business, Chemring EOD, supplies Our business units and companies Our products another advanced detection system that Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Detection is used to identify IED packages under Based in the Ardeer Peninsula in Scotland Vehicle-mounted detection systems vehicles and trains.
The system is currently and in Corsham, England, specialises in in operation at many high threat locations Stand-off IED detectors the design and manufacture of energetic around the world.
It is used to monitor all Remote IED inspection equipment materials, detonators, actuated devices vehicles using the Channel Tunnel between the UK and France, at the White House in and demolition stores.
Under-vehicle surveillance systems Washington, and in many embassies around Chemring EOD Ltd UK Neutralisation the world.
We have also been working with Comprising the former BDL Systems John Hopkins University in the USA on trials Radio, acoustic and hard-wired and Richmond businesses, the company of the system in the New York City subway remote initiators is based in Dorset and Norfolk, and and its security application to railways Percussion initiators manufactures a range of products for and subways across the country.
In the detection, assessment and neutralisation Detonators UK, we are working with the Vehicle and of explosive threats for improvised Operator Services Agency VOSA and the Explosive charges explosive device disposal IEDD and Highways Agency to adapt the system for Minefield clearance systems unexploded ordnance UXO clearance.
the inspection of suspect vehicles.
Recoilless fide-armers disrupters NonIntrusive Inspection Technology, Chemring EOD has also experienced Inc. USA growing demand for its BREACH ROV weapon carriers secure-coding RF initiation system, NIITEK, based in Virginia, is a leading particularly from US police departments.
developer of robot and vehicle-mounted The business is working with a number of mine detection systems incorporating its US and European robot manufacturers to advanced ground penetrating radar GPR integrate the BREACH technology into the and metal detection technologies.
initiation sequencer for demolition and weapon control during EOD operations.
Demolition stores, which are used to destroy suspect packages and unwanted ordnance and for forced building entry, are another important product range for the Group.
Chemring Energetics in Scotland has just completed development of a flexible linear cutting charge with insensitive munitions IM explosive characteristics.
This product, called SABRE, has been selected by the UK Ministry of Defence and qualification trials will take place in 2010.
An IM-compliant design for the Bangalore torpedo, which is used to cut barbed-wire and remove obstacles, has also been completed and will follow a similar qualification programme.
The growing interest from France and other NATO countries in IM-compliant explosives, capable of withstanding direct impact from a bullet or ignition from a fuel fire, will provide a strong export opportunity in the future.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 18 Business overview Munitions The munitions businesses had a steady year with revenue stable at 86.0 million, with just over 50% of the revenue arising out of sales of sub-systems or components.
and the Anglo-Italian Horizon frigates, Strategy Highlights in 2009 was successfully completed.
Full production Our strategy is to develop a position as the Revenue increased by 0.2% to commenced and in excess of two hundred preferred supplier of energetic materials to 86.0 million warheads were delivered to schedule.
the key prime contractors for ammunition Production of the motor safety initiator Sales of naval and tank ammunition and missiles in Europe and the USA.
This will for the IRIS-T air-to-air missile was also continue to be strong be achieved through investment in new successfully increased to its full rate, with products, by targeted competition against Warhead for Principal Anti-Air Missile over five hundred units delivered during existing sole source suppliers, and by further System PAAMS entered production the year.
Export potential for the missile, complementary acquisitions.
We will maintain NLAW rocket motors in full production particularly in the Middle East, is looking good our position as the world market leader in and we should maintain production volumes naval ammunition, and we will develop our New primary explosives facilities under for years to come.
focus as a prime contractor in certain special construction in the UK and USA niche markets that are complementary to The recent acquisition of HiShear Key information those of our principal customers.
Technology Corporation has significantly New orders enhanced our electronic safety and arming Activities during the year capability and given us a much larger The munitions businesses had a steady presence in the ballistic missile defence 119.8m year with revenue stable at 86.0 million, market.
Hi-Shear is the current supplier of with just over 50% of the revenue arising the Electronic Safe Arm Fuze ESAF for 24% out of sales of sub-systems or components.
the Patriot PAC-3 missile that forms the The profitability of this part of the business Revenue short-range component in the US ballistic was, however, affected by the increased missile defence structure.
The US costs incurred because of poor availability requirements for Patriot appear firm, 86.0m of high quality lead azide within the US and a number of other nations are spending industrial base and a reduction in exports significant sums of money in procuring 0.2% to the Middle East due to extended delays in the system.
Over the next five years, the the placement of follow-on contracts.
Operating profit number of missiles required is expected to double and this will have a positive impact Simmel had a good year in this segment, with revenue up 14% driven by increased on our future revenues.
13.4m sales of 120mm HEAT ammunition to the Chemring Ordnance also made good NATO procurement organisation, NAMSA.
30% progress with the development of a A follow-on contract, worth over 8 million number of 40mm HE grenade variants.
Operating margin was placed by NAMSA in the middle of The Hellhound stand-off breaching round, the year.
Our strong position in naval which is used to open doors during forced ammunition was also maintained, with 16% entry situations, has completed qualification 11 million of revenue generated by sales and production for US special forces has now of 40mm and 76mm ammunition to the commenced.
Our 40mm medium velocity navies of Italy, France, India, Singapore and HEDP round, which offers longer range and Columbia.
Simmel is currently qualifying a higher accuracy than a conventional low new generation of 76mm naval ammunition velocity round, is under test with US forces that incorporates a new warhead with and has been demonstrated to a number of insensitive munitions characteristics and an European countries, including the UK and advanced multi-function microwave fuze.
In August 2009, the Australian The performance enhancement offered by the Government placed an initial contract with us new product will ensure the Group maintains for the supply of both low and high velocity its lead position in the years to come.
These new contracts and the Simmel had a number of other notable opportunities developing to load, assemble and pack LAP products to satisfy future successes in the supply of complex sub-systems to other prime contractors.
US Army requirements demonstrate the During the early part of the year, qualification growing importance of the 40mm grenade family within the Groups future strategy.
of the dual mode warhead for the Principal Anti-Air Missile System PAAMS, which will be fitted to the UK Type 45 destroyers Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 19 Anti-armour capability A soldier aiming a Next Generation Light Anti-Tank Weapon NLAW.
Chemring produces several energetic components including the boost and sustain rocket motors.
Chemring Energetics, in the UK, continues The second new capability under Our products to expand its component and sub-system development at Ardeer is the high explosives Energetics subsystems business, and revenue in 2009 was 15% press and assembly facility that will be used Propellants and rocket motors higher than last year.
The majority of this to manufacture 40mm grenades, pressable growth was generated by a 53% increase warheads and to assemble demolition Fuze and safe arm units in revenue from rocket motors, the most stores, such as our new Bangalore torpedo.
Flight termination systems important of which are the two motors The construction will be completed in supplied for the next-generation anti-tank June 2010, and will provide a flexible facility Pyromechanisms and actuators missile, NLAW.
These two motors, one for a number of products that can be readily Warheads and charges for launch and the other for flight, were adapted to new products and technologies manufactured consistently throughout as they are developed or acquired.
Primers the year at more than three hundred units Our business units and companies Ammunition and components per month.
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Medium and large calibre ammunition Our Norwegian subsidiary, Chemring Nobel, Based in the Ardeer Peninsula in Scotland Fuzes also had a satisfactory year, with revenue up and in Corsham, England, a leading 15% on last year as a result of increased sales Propellants supplier of detonators, actuators, of HMX explosive to the commercial market.
Manufacture of base high explosives rocket motors, high explosive filling and Chemring Energetic Devices had a pyromechanical sub-assemblies for Insensitive high explosive compositions satisfactory performance during the military applications.
year, although the lack of availability of one primary explosive used in many of Chemring Energetic Devices USA our detonators had a significant impact Comprising two Group companies on production in the second half of the with significant component sales to year and on its margins.
Consequently, missiles, munitions and ammunition the business saw a 7% growth in demand prime contractors.
for high explosive initiation pellets, which Scot, Inc. USA was offset by the reduction in detonator production for fuzing systems due to a Technical Ordnance, Inc. USA national shortage of lead azide.
Given the Chemring Nobel AS Norway serious impact this shortage has had on our US business and other parts of the Based in Saetre, manufactures and US defence industry, the Board took the supplies RDX and HMX, and other niche decision to invest in the construction of energetic materials for explosives and our own primary explosives plant in South propellant applications.
Significant progress has been HiShear Technology Corporation, USA made to date, and we are looking to qualify production of lead azide and other primary Develops and produces advanced systems explosives during the first part of 2010. and products that are used in ballistic missile defence systems, tactical weapons Two major new facilities are also being and frontline fighter aircraft.
constructed at the Chemring Energetics site in Ardeer, Scotland.
Construction of a new Simmel Difesa S. p. A Italy primary explosives facility for Europe started Based in Colleferro, a leading supplier in June 2009, and will be completed by the of naval, medium and large calibre end of the 2010 calendar year.
This facility ammunition and components including will provide a fully automated manufacturing fuzes, safety and arming devices, process, with remote operation, from warheads and modular charges.
precipitation to dispatch for our eighteen primary explosives.
Primary explosives are highly sensitive energetic materials that can be easily initiated by static, friction, impact or heat.
The new facility with its automated, remote operation capability will significantly improve production safety and the yield achieved from fairly difficult processes.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
