Business Review The British Land Company PLC 15 Retail parks Asset Management At Queens Retail Park in Stafford, we created a new fashion line up in Proactively meeting customers requirements units that were vacant on our acquisition of the park in March 2008.
Concentrating on our customers requirements and focusing The sub-division and refurbishment of these units has resulted in five our asset management on providing accommodation to best suit new lettings to Next, Brantano, Peacocks, New Look and Mothercare.
their business needs, we seek to capture occupational demand, The park is now fully let and trading well.
maintaining high occupancy and rental income cash flow.
This is achieved through appropriate tenancy changes, lease restructuring, The refurbishment of units at Springfield Retail Park, Elgin, following initiating improvements by better design or configuration or planning achievement of a revised planning consent to Open A1, has enabled use, refurbishments and redevelopment.
Our deliberate focus on new lettings to Next, Peacocks and New Look with our efforts prime rather than secondary property has stood us in good stead achieving a near doubling of the rents.
and enabled us to respond flexibly to market circumstances.
Over 1 million sq ft of retail park lettings included in the data above Since 31 March 2008 we have exchanged agreements for 395 new have been concluded at 4% ahead of ERV, and rent reviews have lettings and lease renewals at overall 2.4% above the applicable ERV, taken place on 1.5 million sq ft of retail park space.
New lettings are generating increased rent of 26.1 million per annum.
predominantly to household names, with major lettings or renewals to Arcadia Bhs, Asda, Birthdays, Boots, Carpetright, Homestore & New lettings and lease renewals More, Mothercare and Toys R Us, in addition to those tenants including Funds and Joint Ventures Rent, m pa mentioned above.
Sq ft BL share Number 000 New total of increase Shopping centres Retail warehouses 146 1,002 26.0 8.7 At Meadowhall overall retailer performance continues to be good.
Shopping centres 133 202 11.2 3.1 High street 19 168 3.5 0.3 New tenants at the Centre include Blue Inc, Molton Brown, Yo!
Sushi, Offices, including developments 20 751 19.5 13.7 Hollister and Kurt Geiger.
The former Namco Family Entertainment Other ancillary areas 77 11 0.6 0.3 facility has now been reconfigured to create space for new Total 395 2,134 60.8 26.1 restaurants in the Meadowhall Oasis including Zizzi, Coal and Headline rents, before tenants incentives and including unconditional contracts Frankie & Bennys.
Included above are lettings of less than two years to first break contributing 1.1 million pa to the BL share of increase above previous At Bon Accord and St Nicholas Shopping Centre, Aberdeen, we passing rent have instigated a number of lease surrenders and reconfigured There has also been much activity on rent reviews, with 215 rent space to improve the retail mix.
An improved fashion line-up has reviews settled during the year at overall 3.1% above the applicable been achieved through a programme of asset management and ERV and 20% above the previously passing rent, generating an leasing activity.
At Bon Accord a new 50,000 sq ft unit has been increase in rental income of 11.2 million per annum.
developed for Next, alongside enlarged stores for River Island and Topshop.
A 2 million refurbishment of St Nicholas has resulted in Rent reviews a reinvigoration of retailer interest, particularly fashion.
including Funds and Joint Ventures Rent, m pa BL share The recently completed St Stephens Shopping Centre in Hull is Number New total Increase of increase now established as one of the main shopping and leisure destinations Retail warehouses 114 36.8 9.2 5.0 for the area.
The recent opening of a large 20,000 sq ft Argos store Superstores 11 14.4 2.7 1.4 together with earlier lettings including to Tesco, H&M, Next, Topshop, Shopping centres 43 13.3 2.2 1.7 River Island, TK Maxx, Nandos and Reel Cinemas, have attracted High street 19 3.7 0.4 0.4 increased numbers of shoppers.
We continue to focus our asset Offices 14 34.5 2.5 2.5 management on further lettings and realising new commercialisation Other 14 1.9 0.2 0.2 Total 215 104.6 17.2 11.2 opportunities on the malls.
The progress with lettings and rent reviews, together with some Superstores specific examples of our asset management activities, are Four extensions completed during the year of stores let to Tesco, commented on below.
creating an additional area of 50,300 sq ft and generating additional income of 1.1 million per annum.
During the year, we have also undertaken 11 reviews increasing rents by 2.7 million per annum.
This represents a 23% increase on the previous passing rent, equivalent to 4.2% per annum.
16 Business Review The British Land Company PLC The Estate is also being improved through selective surrenders and London offices refurbishments such as at 6 Broadgate where 60,000 sq ft 23% has We are continuing to invest in improving our major assets, preserving been taken back and is planned to be refurbished: a further 112,000 and enhancing income growth and potential.
sq ft 43% is similarly to be taken back from Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International plc when they move together with The Bank The 12 million refurbishment at 338 Euston Road, Regents Place of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd to our new development Ropemaker of 20,000 sq ft of the offices over three floors, plus the common after their fit-out of those offices.
services and reception areas, was completed during the year.
Two of the three floors have already been let at increased rents, the most We have completed works which have improved the links between recent at 58.50 per sq ft, emphasising the success of this project.
the developments at 201 Bishopsgate and the Broadgate Tower so as to incorporate them fully into the existing Broadgate Estate.
Paving The scheme to improve and extend the entrance and circulation and lighting improvements have been carried out on the principal areas at 4 Triton Square, Regents Place has also been completed.
pedestrian routes on the Estate from Liverpool Street Station.
Also at Regents Place, 47,000 sq ft of rent reviews were agreed at The Broadgate Plaza has also been completed, creating a fourth 350 Euston Road at an average of 56 per sq ft, 10% above ERV.
landscaped public space in the area between 201 Bishopsgate and the Broadgate Tower and a new amenity for our occupiers Public spaces across the Regents Place estate are being upgraded, in Broadgate.
to be completed this year in conjunction with the Osnaburgh Street phase of development on the Estate.
These works will provide More than 80,000 sq ft of lettings and rent reviews of retail leisure improved pedestrian links, including a crossing over Euston Road to accommodation in the London offices portfolio also completed more easily connect with public transport.
The improvements also in the year, increasing rent by 630,000 per annum.
Retail is an include the creation of a new western entrance to the Estate, a important element of our office investments, providing services community theatre, the planting of nearly 200 trees, new public to occupiers and enhancing our investment.
seating, art installations and a re-branding for marketing and management of the Estate all of which go towards improving the local environment, attracting occupiers and maintaining or improving rental values.
At Broadgate, 88% of the offices developed at 201 Bishopsgate have now been let.
Lettings this year include 36,000 sq ft representing the entire 7th floor to Landesbank Baden-Wrttemberg and 15,500 sq ft to Alpari UK Ltd.
In the Broadgate Tower, 48% of the offices completed earlier this year have now been let, with a further 16% 63,000 sq ft under offer.
Lettings have been concluded to serviced offices operator Regus who have taken 26,000 sq ft and will provide a useful facility for business at Broadgate.
Reed Smith have taken up both 13,000 sq ft under an option plus a further 13,000 sq ft to reach total accommodation for them in the Tower of 168,000 sq ft, where they have fitted out the accommodation and moved in their 600 staff.
At 1 & 2 Broadgate, we took direct tenancies with UBS, ICAP and KBW in respect of the offices they occupy originally under sub-lettings from Lehman Brothers, representing 78% of the 15.8 million rental income from the accommodation formerly let by us to Lehman.
At 4 Broadgate we have let a total of 55,000 sq ft of offices on flexible short term leases, pending our consideration of the redevelopment or refurbishment of this building.
This gives us as landlord the ability to preserve our options and time to review the project while having the benefit of receiving significant contributions to the holding costs of the building.
Also at Broadgate the rent review was settled with Deutsche Bank in respect of 185,000 sq ft at 1 Appold Street in line with ERV at 49 per sq ft. Broadgate Plaza Business Review The British Land Company PLC 17 We combine cost reductions with being at the forefront of the Residential industry in providing an open and customer focused property British Land also creates value from the residential elements of management service.
We were pleased to win recognition of our mixed use properties and developments, for example at Osnaburgh efforts by being awarded Best Service Charge Provider for 2008 Street, Regents Place, NW1.
Our small team of residential asset by the Property Managers Association nominated by the major managers deals with projects including the preparation and sale of UK retailers.
assets acquired as part of wider commercial portfolios, refurbishment of central London residential elements of new developments, mixed In this difficult economic climate, the sector overall has seen a use blocks, negotiation of leasehold extensions, and rent reviews on number of tenants falling into administration but, to date, we have a small number of residential units that British Land retain.
Similar not been materially adversely affected.
This is due to a number asset management services are undertaken for third parties: at the of factors: our occupier-led strategy and good relationships year end residential assets valued at some 325 million were under with tenants: focus on owning prime assets in profitable trading management on behalf of external clients.
destinations which are likely to be in most demand throughout the cycle: the earlier disposal of weaker trading properties: and, where Customer Focus possible, our anticipation of difficulties and adoption of contingency Our ongoing focus on customer needs during the year has involved plans to re-let as quickly as possible space that becomes available.
increased contact with occupiers on property management issues, proactive management of the performance of our managing agents, At 31 March 2009 occupiers in administration represented only and identification of ways to provide better value for money from the 1.8% of rents, including 1.4% from leases under negotiations for service charge.
In March 2009 we completed our third Occupier assignment or re-letting, or where the rent is guaranteed by a third Survey.
These bi-annual surveys act as an indicator to validate party.
During April 2009, two further retailers have gone into feedback we receive from our occupiers from our contact or regular administration, with minimal impact on our portfolio, and total meetings.
We are pleased that we continue to make progress, exposure remains at 1.8% of rents.
building on earlier reports and improving occupier satisfaction, while recognising that there are areas where we need to make further Occasionally tenant difficulties will provide an opportunity.
For efforts: 82% of our tenants rated British Land good or excellent example, we had planned to take back a lease at a retail park from as landlord.
MFI to enable us to reconfigure the space and re-let to other retailers at higher rents.
The failure of MFI hastened our plans but avoided the Cost reduction is a major issue for our occupiers.
In our retail need for a compensatory payment to release the space.
Part of the portfolio we have been working with retailers to identify and achieve area involved has already been re-let to New Look.
In conjunction with other owners we have developed a 10 point plan to help find savings across all our retail investments.
As a result we have already identified reductions in annual service charges of 15% on average across the retail portfolio, including a budgeted 20% service charge reduction at Meadowhall.
In our office portfolio we have also embarked upon a service charge cost reduction programme, collaborating with occupiers to consult and plan how to achieve further savings.
