44 Portfolio Description The British Land Company PLC Meadowhall, Sheffield British Lands share 573 million Total value 1,145 million 1.
5 million sq ft retail and leisure Site area 191 acres of which 74 acres undeveloped 213 shop units, 11 anchor stores, 11 screen Warner Village cinema, 24 speciality kiosks, 30 mall kiosks 33 restaurants and cafes including Oasis food court seating for some 3,300 25 million visitors per annum 800,000 per week at peak time Direct access to junction 34 of M1 motorway Free parking for over 12,000 vehicles On-site transport interchange with bus, train and supertram services Meadowhall Website www.
co. uk Working with other landlords and retailers, Meadowhall has also pioneered a service charge saving initiative to deliver budgeted Anchor stores: savings of some 20% per annum, reducing service charge Bhs, Boots, Debenhams, H&M, House of Fraser, Marks & Spencer, operational costs by over 2 million per annum.
New Look, Next, Primark, Topshop Topman, WH Smith Meadowhall continues to build on its range of environmental Freehold initiatives: following on from the installation of rainwater harvesting 50% owned tanks, a bore hole has now been established to replenish the tanks Rent passing, British Lands share 36 million pa during periods of low rainfall.
It is estimated that this will result in a Average rent 56.90 per sq ft saving in water consumption of 75%.
Weighted average lease term including breaks 12.0 years Building on the success of the centre, a number of awards have been won this year: The Sheffield Telegraph Environment Awards 2008 in Meadowhall continues to be one of the largest and most successful recognition of the energy and waste management systems: shopping centres in the UK a prime super-regional centre in a Business in the Community Big Tick Awards 2008 for energy densely populated catchment area.
efficiency and waste management: Business in the Community Awards 2008 for the employability The two level, fully enclosed mall with excellent transport links is programme run by The Source: attractive to both retailers and customers, with 19 retailers new to Business in the Community Active Communities Award 2009 Meadowhall having taken space over the last year.
for The Source: Business in the Community Education Award 2009 for the Existing retailers are also performing strongly with New Look joining schools programme at The Source: Next and Topshop in relocating their stores to double their space CIPD Learning and Development Award Finalist 2008 to 34,000 sq ft.
Elsewhere in the scheme Abercrombie and Fitch for The Source: trading as Hollister, Yo!
Sushi and Kurt Geiger have taken new BCSC Purple Apple Marketing Award 2008 for the Wow leases further enhancing the retail mix.
campaign: and Act Travelwise Commuter Friendly Workplace of the Year 2008.
The redevelopment of the upper level food court is also now complete with the addition of five new full service restaurants all Meadowhall has also been put forward for a Pan-European award of which are let or under offer.
This has enabled Meadowhall to for workplace mobility, recognising the unrivalled choice and improve its quality catering offer with the addition of the likes commitment to public transport at the centre.
The multi award winning Source at Meadowhall which provides In keeping with the new retailers, the Centre has completed a training, developments and conference services has now comprehensive re-branding process to inject a fresh, contemporary established itself as a regional Skills Academy for retail, linking up and more aspirational creative identity, giving Meadowhall even more with a national network.
The Source has also been recognised in customer appeal.
the Sunday Times top 100 companies to work for, achieving 17th position in the rankings.
