36 Business Review The British Land Company PLC On the valuation measure of total shareholder return we were ranked Key Performance Indicators first among our peers across each period.
For total return, the higher The leading indicators measuring our performance against the key level of gearing compared with our peers has worked to the detriment elements of our objectives and strategy are: of performance over recent years and this in turn is reflected in a lower relative ranking on such returns over a five year horizon.
British IPD Year to March 2009 Land Benchmark On the income measure of earnings per share growth, we retain 1 Occupancy rate 94.9% 90.6% strong leadership over a three time horizon and we were ranked third Average lease term, remaining to expiry 14.8 years 9.9 years over a one year view.
Rent subject to break expiry over next three years 6% 18% Like-for-like rental income growth 2.7% 2.1% Risk Management Like-for-like rental value growth ERV 5.9% 4.6% Portfolio capital return, per IPD 30.2% 29.7% The prolonged effects of the recent financial market turmoil across Rent review settlements versus ERV 3.1% above all markets has continued to be the headline risk event, impacting Customer satisfaction survey 82% of tenants rated British Land good or property values, borrowing covenants and increasing the risk of excellent as a landlord failure of occupiers businesses.
1 9 6.4% underlying, including accommodation subject to asset management initiatives and under offer Management actions over the past 12 months including the recent Rights Issue and selected asset sales, have improved the Groups The table above shows a fall in value for our portfolio comparable gearing, significantly reducing the risk of breaching borrowing with IPD in a year where all property has been repriced in a thin covenant limits and better positioning the Group to take advantage market.
Income security will be a key determinant of value going of a market upswing in the future.
forward and we would expect our prime properties with long leases to see better relative performance prospectively.
The high levels of Awareness and anticipation of tenants experiencing trading or occupancy and rental income growth are strong indicators of our financial difficulty and reshaping the portfolio where possible, helps continued selection of properties that are in demand, and that this to manage the increased risk of tenant default and administration.
converts over time into growing rents.
The Group expects prolonged difficult trading conditions for some retailers and continues to closely monitor and manage this We successfully achieved an improved position for customer portfolio accordingly.
satisfaction, an important feedback from our many tenants.
We maintain relationships with a spread of banks and have a policy Financial Performance Indicator One year Three Years Five Years to deposit any cash arising across a range of accounts.
1 Total shareholder return British Land 48.6 % 26.6 % 4.8 % 2 The decision to pause development of major projects not already Peer group 65.4 % 33.2 % 12.2 % under construction has mitigated construction costs and timing FTSE Real Estate Index 62.2 % 32.4 % 10.4 % risks, with all other committed developments near completion.
Ranking in peer group 1 1 1 3 Active negotiation of pre-lets to potential new tenants of good Total Return covenant reduces residual letting risk on the Groups developments British Land 61.6 % 22.8 % 4.6 % Peer group 40.8 % 7.9 % 3.5% nearing completion.
Ranking 4 5 4 4 Earnings per share growth Management continues to identify, assess and manage the Groups British Land 6.6 % 11.7% 7.5% risk profile.
The principal risks, which are predominantly external, Peer group 8.8 % 4.1% 4.7% are detailed in the following table.
These and other risks identified Ranking 3 1 2 within the Groups formal risk management process are subject to All data in the table has been restated for share issues prioritisation and analysis based on the likelihood of occurrence 1 T otal shareholder return represents growth in share price plus dividends per share and potential impact on the Group.
Risks identified as potentially assuming reinvested 2 A verage of major peers Land Securities, Hammerson, Liberty and SEGRO having significant impacts are managed through the design and some differences in year ends implementation of mitigation strategies.
Assurance on these is the 3 T otal return pre-exceptional represents growth in adjusted, diluted net prime focus of the Groups Internal Audit team.
The principal risks asset value per share plus dividends per share 4 A djusted diluted earnings per share excluding exceptional items, profits on are considered, reviewed and discussed periodically by the asset disposals and revaluation gains Executive Directors, the Audit Committee and the Board.
Source: Datastream, company reports Business Review The British Land Company PLC 37 Risk Impact Areas Key Mitigants Financial market turmoil leads to Property values.
Property continued low investor demand and Market liquidity.
Selective asset sales and Joint Ventures pursued.
Financial market turmoil leads to Rents and increased cost of tenant Long upward only leases provide income underpinning.
Tenant incentives offered on pre-lets for long leases Property values.
Letting income and cash flow.
Tenant covenants reviewed before new leases signed.
Good relationship and contact with tenants.
Selective asset sales to reduce exposure.
Prime sites easier to re-let.
Development contractor solvency Cost over-runs.
Contractor financial covenant review process before contract agreed.
Inability to meet financial obligations Significant committed undrawn financing facilities with interest, loan, repayments, expenses, a range of lenders.
Regular monitoring of covenant headroom and leverage.
Inability to capitalise on expected market upswing.
Spread of sources and maturity of facilities.
Incremental changes in financing rate.
Deposits placed across a range of accounts.
Operational Poor management of Cost over-runs.
Close monitoring of market conditions driving development programme.
Development of unsustainable Reputational damage.
New developments built in line with Sustainability Brief.
Access controls, segregation of duties and dual Financial loss.
Conservative policies and transparent procedures.
Occupational and Construction Criminal prosecution of responsible Specialised advice.
Audit visits and risk assessments.
