24 Business Review The British Land Company PLC valued on the basis of net equivalent yield of 7.3% gross top-up Property Sectoral Outlook initial yield 7.3% : only 4% of current rents up for renewal in the next three years: and Retail Sector 14 million per annum of further contracted income over the next Leadership in Retail five years.
4.9 billion invested BL share 8.2 billion total property under management Out-of-town 82% of the retail portfolio, 4.0 billion: 205 retail schemes, including the Superstores and Meadowhall shopping centre: providing a total of 22 million sq ft: and with an average lease length to first break of over 13 years.
The retail portfolio has a particular bias to out-of-town with emphasis on retail warehousing with Open A1 non-food planning use, applicable to 85% of our investments in this sub-sector.
Such use Andrew Jones classification permits a wide range of retail operations and enables Head of Retail us to be flexible in offering asset management initiatives to deliver the size and configuration of trading space required.
We also aim to Following significant reshaping, the retail portfolio is now firmly be responsive to changes in those requirements as the retailers focused on prime out-of-town shopping parks with Open A1 amend their formats to meet their own customers preferences.
For planning use, superstores and Meadowhall our 50% share, offering example, where there is retailer demand for larger or smaller units at the best scope for our ongoing asset management initiatives.
out-of-town shopping parks, we have been active in changing unit sizes extending or subdividing and providing imaginative new Our strategy for the retail portfolio is customer-led.
We have built formats, including new and varied catering outlets.
good relationships with the larger retailers and aim to continue to provide them with the right space in the locations they prefer.
This It is important to note that not all out-of-town retail parks fall into is being achieved through ongoing rigorous shaping of our retail a single sub-sector.
Open A1 parks are expected to outperform assets to take account of occupier trends and drive rental growth.
due to their favourable supply and demand characteristics: retailers continue to migrate to these parks from the high street, seeking and We have commented on our active management of the retail realising lower occupational costs and flexible accommodation.
By portfolio earlier in this report, aimed at delivering the best portfolio contrast, bulky goods retail warehouses, which account for around performance through high occupier contentment.
Like-for-like 75% of the UK retail warehouses market are more restricted in their income growth was 2.9% for the year.
During the last three years we trading and retailer mix, currently experiencing difficult market have sold 4.5 billion gross of retail assets, including 1.3 billion in conditions and have more limited prospects.
the year to March 2009 BL share 1.1 billion where we anticipated weaker potential for growth in rental value or had fewer asset We are the largest owner of UK superstores, other than the management prospects to enable us to create growth.
The operators are gaining an increasing discriminating between individual assets: for example, not all share of consumer expenditure through broadening product ranges, out-of-town is expected to perform well and in-town shopping especially non food, while maintaining their customer appeal of centres and high streets have widely differing appeal.
We expect convenience and accessibility.
In an increasingly restrictive planning to continue with our portfolio shaping and planning through further and regulatory environment, which is limiting new supply of these disposals, although probably not at the rate seen over the last few assets, the retailers are committed to full lease lengths.
We will be alert to opportunities arising across the market.
Superstore investment profile of rental growth with secure income flow continues to be an attractive element of the portfolio.
Actions taken over the last three years have enabled us to weather the current market storms better than would otherwise have been During the year through the creation of a new joint venture, we sold a the case and ahead of our competitors.
Our prime portfolio now 50% share in the 1.5 million sq ft Meadowhall shopping centre one has strong defensive qualities: of the best schemes of its kind in the UK with exceptionally strong high occupancy of 98%: ongoing customer appeal, and our continuing investment remains a long average lease length of over 15 years to first break: an important component of our out-of-town portfolio.
low voids from tenants in administration at only 2.2% of rents including 1.5% in negotiations or guaranteed : 27% of current retail rents from food retailers and Marks & Spencer: Business Review The British Land Company PLC 25 In-town 18% of the retail portfolio, 880 million: Six shopping centres, in total 2.5 million sq ft: 29 department stores, in total 4.6 million sq ft: and Three high street shops.
Our in-town shopping centres are located within large catchment populations, well anchored and generally the dominant retail scheme in the area, and of sufficient size to enable proactive asset management, including new income generating customer facilities and possible future development.
The department stores are fully let to Debenhams or House of Fraser with an average lease term of some 30 years.
Income growth from these assets is underpinned by provisions in the leases for guaranteed increases in rent: gross rents will increase by some 5.7 million 16% over the next five years.
As part of our refinement of the portfolio, we are continuing to sell stores where appropriate.
Meadowhall Investment market The investment market for retail has been adversely affected by the Occupier market economic conditions.
The lack of liquidity, with limited availability of Current market conditions are challenging: while total retail sales debt and equity waiting on the sidelines for price levels to become seem to be holding up better than most had feared, in a competitive compelling, resulted in low levels of investment activity for much of trading environment like-for-like sales for most retailers are down the year.
As yields have continued to move out, the similar level of and continue under pressure.
There continues to be real possibility yield shift which has been applied in the market to both prime and of rental value declines particularly where voids, lease expiries and secondary assets does not, in our view, reflect their different corporate failures are creating a demand supply imbalance and prospects.
While we expect some further degree of outward yield pushing down rents.
Much will depend on the impact on consumers movement in the market overall, this should apply less to prime from wider economic outcomes.
Home related DIY, furniture and where pricing should stabilise due to long and more secure income.
carpets and electrical goods retailers are bearing the brunt of the Investors will focus on income and recognise the relative prospects downturn in consumer confidence, which will adversely affect the for growth and the downside risks of secondary assets, such as bulky goods parks.
Clothing sales are mixed, entertainment is faring re-letting concerns.
better and food is trading more strongly.
As a result, demand for new stores is thin as retailers preserve their positions.
At current market pricing, we are now seeing the return to the market of potential investors seeking investment opportunities, primarily Our occupier led strategy has been based on owning retail property high net worth individuals, overseas buyers and UK pension funds, in locations where our customers trade profitably and our portfolio is and the beginnings in some instances of competition for the right positioned accordingly.
Prime retail, while not immune from ongoing assets.
While debt is still thin, it is available to purchasers with a market uncertainties, is better placed, with stronger occupational reasonable level of equity for a sound transaction, although large demand, better retailer trading and tenant covenants, higher lot sizes are still much more difficult to transact if debt is required.
We will be alert to acquisition opportunities and continue to be involved in the market on a selective individual asset basis.
