56 Directors and Ofcers The British Land Company PLC Directors and Ofcers Kate Swann 44 Non-executive Director Kate Swann was appointed a non-executive director of British Land in The British Land Company PLC April 2006.
She is Chief Executive of WH Smith PLC.
Before joining WH Smith she had been Managing Director of Argos Ltd, within GUS plc, l Chris Gibson-Smith 63 BSc, PhD, MS from 2000 and before that Managing Director of Homebase, within Non-executive Chairman J Sainsbury plc.
She began her career in marketing at Tesco and went Chris Gibson-Smith joined British Land as a non-executive director in on to hold senior marketing roles with Homepride Foods, Coca-Cola January 2003 and was appointed Non-executive Chairman in January and Dixons.
She will not be standing for re-election at the 2009 Annual 2007.
He is Chairman of the London Stock Exchange, a Trustee of Arts General Meeting.
and Business, a Governor of London Business School and a non-executive director of Qatar Financial Centre Authority.
Formerly he was a Group l Robert Swannell 58 FCA Managing Director of BP p. l. c. and until 2005 he was Chairman of National Non-executive Director Air Traffic Services Limited and a non-executive director of Lloyds TSB Robert Swannell was appointed a non-executive director of British Land Group plc, and is a past Trustee of the Institute of Public Policy Research.
He is a Senior Adviser of Citi Europe, Chairman of HMV Group plc, a non-executive director of 3i Group PLC and a member of the n Chris Grigg 49 Takeover Appeal Board.
Chief Executive Chris Grigg joined British Land as Chief Executive on 12 January 2009. l Lord Turnbull 64 KCB, CVO He was Chief Executive of Barclays Commercial Bank until November Non-executive Director 2008, having joined the bank in 2005 as Group Treasurer.
Prior to Andrew Turnbull was appointed a non-executive director of the Company Barclays, he held a broad range of leadership positions at Goldman in April 2006.
He retired in July 2005 as Secretary of the Cabinet and Head Sachs, where his career spanned 20 years.
He rose to partner of of the Home Civil Service, 2002-05.
He was Permanent Secretary of Goldman Sachs, working principally in its capital markets and HM Treasury, 1998-2004: and before that Permanent Secretary at the derivatives business.
He entered the House of Lords in 2005.
He is a non-executive director of Prudential PLC, Frontier n Andrew Jones 40 BSc Hons, MRICS Economics Ltd and a Council Member of the National Institute of Economic Head of Retail and Social Research.
He is Chairman of Brevan Howard Global Limited.
Andrew Jones joined British Land in July 2005 after the Companys He is also a part-time Adviser to the London Partners of Booz & Co. acquisition of Pillar Property PLC.
He was appointed to the Executive Committee in August 2005 and elected as an executive director in July Aubrey Adams 59 2006.
He joined Pillar in 1995, becoming an executive director in 2002 Non-executive Director with responsibilities for shopping centres, retail park investment and Aubrey Adams was appointed a non-executive director in September asset management.
At British Land he is Head of Retail and is also 2008.
He was until May 2008 Chief Executive of Savills PLC.
He is responsible for the Retail Fund advisory roles.
Non-executive Chairman of Air Partner and was formerly Senior Non-executive Director, Associated British Ports.
He is a non-executive n Graham Roberts 50 BA, FCA director of Unitech Corporate Parks which is a business focused on Finance Director Indian Real Estate Investment.
He is Chairman of Adventis Group plc Graham Roberts joined British Land in January 2002 as an executive and Chairman of Max Property Group plc.
He is also a Trustee of the director and was appointed Finance Director in March 2002.
joining British Land in 2002, he spent eight years at Andersen, latterly as a partner specialising in real estate.
He is a non-executive director John Gildersleeve 64 of Balfour Beatty plc and is a member of the Management Board of Non-executive Director EPRA, the European Public Real Estate Association.
John Gildersleeve was appointed a non-executive director in September 2008.
He is Chairman of Carphone Warehouse Group where he has been n Tim Roberts 44 BSc Hons, MRICS a non-executive director since 2000.
He joined the Board of EMI Group in Head of Offices February 2004 when he also became Deputy Chairman and Senior Tim Roberts joined British Land in 1997, was appointed to the Executive Independent Non-executive Director.
In January 2007 he was appointed Committee in August 2005 and elected as an executive director in July Non-executive Chairman of EMI Group which position he held until the UK 2006.
At British Land he was appointed Joint Head of Asset Management music groups purchase by private equity in 2007.
Until February 2004, he in 2002 with responsibilities including investment sales and purchases.
was the Commercial & Trading Director of Tesco Plc.
He joined Tesco in He has responsibility for the Office and Other sectors of the Companys 1965 and became an Executive Director in 1984.
He was formerly Chairman portfolio.
Before joining British Land he was a partner at Drivers Jonas, of Gallaher Group and a non-executive Director of Lloyds TSB Bank Plc in the Investment Agency team.
Clive Cowdery 46 Secretary Non-executive Director Anthony Braine LLB, FCIS Clive Cowdery was appointed a non-executive director of the Company in May 2007.
He is the founder of Resolution, a company formed in 2003.
Honorary President He was previously Chairman and Chief Executive of GEs European Sir John Ritblat FRICS, Hon FRIBA primary insurance operations.
Before joining GE in 1998 he co-founded Sir John became Managing Director of British Land in 1970 and Chairman Scottish Amicable J. Rothschild International Assurance.
He retired from the Board in December 2006 and was appointed Chairman of the charity, The Resolution Foundation.
n Member of the Executive Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit Committee l Member of the Nomination Committee
