50 Portfolio Description The British Land Company PLC Developments Committed projects Ropemaker, London EC2 Practical completion was achieved in early May 2009 on this 586,000 sq ft office development, situated on a prominent City island site close to Moorgate and Liverpool Street.
The 20-storey building, designed by Arup Associates for both professional and financial services occupiers, provides two trading floors at the lower level, with a variety of floor plates above.
In April 2009 The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd and Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International plc signed a pre-letting agreement to take 186,500 sq ft accommodation in the building across nine floors on a lease term of 20.5 years plus an option until June 2009 over Green roof at Ropemaker a further 21,630 sq ft.
The rest of the building is being actively marketed and has received much positive comment from the occupational market.
This improvement to the environment is being further enhanced through substantial planting and re-landscaping throughout the The building has impressive sustainability credentials, including estate, including the creation of a new public square and outside expansive roof terraces with stunning City views, rainwater courtyard, remodelling of the existing public space and the harvesting, and use of a double glazed tilting faade to reduce heat installation of various commissioned works of public art.
In late 2008 Ropemaker was named as the Estates Gazette Green Awards Office Development of the Year.
Contracts for sale have been exchanged on all the residential accommodation representing a sale value in excess of 58 million.
The entrance at Ropemaker features a moving art installation by The office space is attracting an encouraging level of occupier world renowned UK artist, Jason Bruges.
The piece uses highly interest as it nears completion.
innovative technology which harnesses energy from the air flow within the buildings ventilation system to illuminate numerous LEDs to Puerto Venecia, Zaragoza, Spain varying degrees of brightness according to the speed of the air flow.
The retail park element 900,000 sq ft of the Puerto Venecia development has been completed.
Sales, signed leases and Heads Osnaburgh Street, Regents Place, London NW1 of Terms at the retail park now total close to 90% with the latest Construction is well progressed on three new buildings lettings being at rental levels amongst the highest achieved in Spain.
One Osnaburgh Street and Regents Place One and Two over a In light of the current economic conditions in Spain the opening 2.5 acre site on the west side of Regents Place.
The 490,000 sq ft of the shopping and leisure elements of the Puerto Venecia mixed use development will include 110,000 sq ft of residential development has been rescheduled to 2011 12.
We will continue to accommodation.
Designed by Terry Farrell and Partners the monitor the situation in order to target an opening date that will give development will significantly extend and enhance Regents Place, us greater flexibility in our ongoing letting strategy and enable us already a successful 13 acre West End office campus.
The to launch the shopping and leisure centre into a more positive development will include a community theatre and additional retail retailing environment.
provision around the new public square.
Practical completion is programmed for later this year.
Development Prospects An important part of the masterplan for Regents Place has been to The Leadenhall Building, London EC3 increase the permeability of the estate through the creation of new Designed by Rogers Stirk Harbour Partners, the new 47-storey or improved east west and north south links, and a new western building will rise to a height of 736 ft and provide 610,000 sq ft of the entrance onto Osnaburgh Street.
This gives improved pedestrian highest quality office space in the City.
The spectacular scale of the access within the estate and through to the transport links of Great public space at the base of the building, featuring mature trees Portland Street and Warren Street underground stations.
and a range of retail and amenity provision, will be unprecedented in London.
The developments tapering shape delivers varied sizes of floor plates, all with spectacular views over London.
In addition, locating the core to the rear of the building allows for adaptable, clear floors at each level.
Portfolio Description The British Land Company PLC 51 With a development of this scale in such a prominent location, Meadowhall additional land The Lower Don Valley, Sheffield great care has been taken to ensure it sits well with the surrounding The development is set to transform the area situated around the architecture.
In particular, with regard to the viewing corridors Meadowhall Shopping Centre in Sheffield.
Outline planning consent looking towards St Pauls Cathedral from the west, The Leadenhall was received in May 2009 for up to 2.2 million sq ft of mixed use Building will appear to lean away from that historic monument.
The scheme will include residential, office and mixed use accommodation, a new riverside park and a range of Demolition and preliminary basement works are near completion.
measures to enhance the biodiversity of the area and is intended to We are reviewing the design and construction proposals alongside act as a catalyst for the wider regeneration of the Lower Don Valley.
a reassessment of the timing of the delivery of these offices into Development will be brought forward on a phased basis.
Euston Station North East Quadrant NEQ, Regents Place, London NW1 In partnership with Network Rail, we have been working up proposals Detailed planning consent was received in March 2009 for the North for the redevelopment of Euston Station.
The 15 acre site has East Quadrant of the estate to provide a 500,000 sq ft mixed use potential for more than 3 million sq ft of mixed use development, scheme including 120,000 sq ft of residential accommodation.
including office, retail, residential and a new station.
The office design incorporates three glass elements of 8, 10, and 16 storeys, with floor to ceiling glazed external cladding, linked by Canada Water two atria.
The office element is designed by Wilkinson Eyre, with the At Canada Water, in joint venture with Canada Quays Limited, the apartments by Stephen Marshall Architects.
The development will Company has entered into a Development Agreement with the complete the Regents Place Estate, which is set to double in size to London Borough of Southwark for the development of a major some 2 million sq ft of office, retail and residential space, providing mixed use scheme, which includes master planning 40 acres of accommodation for 14,000 workers and residents.
Planning consent for the first phase, comprising 828 residential units, was secured in May 2007.
The first 4 Broadgate, London EC2 three parcels have been sold to Barratt Homes where construction Following the relocation of Henderson Group plc into our completed continues.
The Company retains a share in future returns over an 201 Bishopsgate development various proposals are being agreed threshold.
progressed which will lead to the redevelopment or refurbishment of the existing building.
Theale Working with Countryside Properties, we have residential planning Colmore Row, Birmingham consent for 350 units at Theale.
Following the purchase of the site in 2007, planning consent was secured in September 2008 for a landmark 35-storey tower to New Century Park, Coventry provide 280,000 sq ft of office space in central Birminghams prime The site remains substantially let to Ericsson, but has potential for office location.
The team, with Hamilton Associates as architect, are 580,000 sq ft of business space together with a further 12 acres of working closely with Birmingham City Council and other stakeholders residential development land.
Development will be brought forward to deliver a high quality building that will be an asset to the city.
The site is held in a joint venture with Goodman Real Estate UK Limited.
The building will incorporate a range of sustainable measures and will provide a 30% overall reduction in energy use compared with current standards.
It will also accommodate biodiversity enhancement measures such as green brown roofs and wildlife boxes.
An artists impression of Regents Place NEQ Synchronicity Matching customer expectations is the secret of a successful retail strategy.
