54 Valuation Report The British Land Company PLC The valuers, on behalf of Knight Frank LLP, with the responsibility Valuation Report for this report are Rupert Johnson BSc Hons MRICS and Roger Norman BSc Hons MRICS.
Parts of the valuation have been undertaken by additional valuers.
We confirm that the valuers and additional valuers collectively meet the requirements of RICS Valuation Standards PS1.5 having sufficient current knowledge of the particular market and the skills and understanding to undertake the valuations competently.
The Directors The British Land Company PLC Valuation York House The Properties have been valued on the basis of Market Value 45 Seymour Street in accordance with the RICS Valuation Standards.
This is an London internationally recognised basis and is defined as: W1H 7LX The estimated amount for which a property should exchange 9 April 2009 on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms-length transaction after proper marketing Dear Sirs wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
The British Land Company PLC Valuation as at 31 March 2009 No allowance has been made for expenses of realisation or for any taxation which might arise, and our valuations are expressed Basis of Instruction exclusive of any Value Added Tax that may become chargeable.
In accordance with the terms of our appointment as External Valuers to The British Land Company PLC, we have valued the freehold and Our valuations reflect usual deductions in respect of purchasers leasehold properties detailed below, as at 31 March 2009, for costs and, in particular, full liability for UK Stamp Duty as applicable balance sheet purposes and inclusion in your financial accounts.
The properties are predominantly held for investment and in some instances held for development or in the course of development The properties have been valued individually and not as part of or occupied by the company.
We have excluded from this Report those properties held by way We are of the opinion that the aggregate Market Value of your of Joint Ventures or through Limited Partnership arrangements.
interests in the properties, as at 31 March 2009, was 5,792,855,820 Five Billion, Seven Hundred and Ninety Two Million, Eight Hundred These valuations have been prepared in accordance with the RICS and Fifty Five Thousand, Eight Hundred and Twenty Pounds.
Valuation Standards, 6th Edition, issued by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
The valuations are categorised as follows: Long Short Total Compliance and Independence Freehold leasehold leasehold value We can confirm that: A Held as investments Knight Frank LLP is appointed by The British Land Company PLC owner-occupied 5,073,120,820 236,595,000 2,250,000 5,311,965,820 as External Valuers, as defined by the RICS Valuation Standards.
B Held for Knight Frank LLP was appointed in the role as valuer in development 143,390,000 143,390,000 September 2005.
These valuations have been undertaken under C In the course of the overall supervision of the joint signatories, who have been development 337,500,000 337,500,000 responsible for this instruction since that time.
Total value 5,554,010,820 236,595,000 2,250,000 5,792,855,820 In relation to Knight Frank LLPs preceding financial year, the proportion of the total fees paid by The British Land Company Certain properties are held on very long leases, for terms of PLC the Company and its joint venture partners to the total approximately 999 years at fixed peppercorn or nominal rents.
For fee income of Knight Frank LLP was substantially less than 5%.
categorisation purposes these have been included in the freehold We recognise and support the RICS Rules of Conduct and have categories.
Short leasehold properties are classified as having less established procedures for identifying conflicts of interest.
Valuation Report The British Land Company PLC 55 Valuation Procedures and Assumptions Our valuations assume that the properties would, in all respects, be insurable against all usual risks including terrorism, flooding and The properties were inspected during the last 12 months.
rising water table at normal, commercially acceptable premiums.
As agreed, our valuations are based on measurements which have been provided by the Company and which were carried out in For properties in the course of development, we have reflected the stage reached in construction and the costs remaining to be spent at accordance with The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Code of Measuring Practice.
In some cases the areas provided are as the date of valuation.
We have had regard to the contractual liabilities of the parties involved in the developments and any cost estimates agreed with the tenants following rent review or letting.
that have been provided by professional advisers to the projects.
For recently completed developments we have taken no account of any Our valuations assume that the properties have good and marketable titles and are free of any undisclosed onerous burdens, retentions, nor made allowance for any outstanding development costs, fees, or other expenditure for which there may be a liability.
We have not seen planning consents and, except where advised to the contrary, have assumed that the General Conditions properties have been erected and are being occupied and used in accordance with all requisite consents and that there are no This Report and our valuations therein have been prepared on the basis that there has been full disclosure of all relevant information outstanding statutory notices.
and facts which may affect them.
We have not read all documents of title or leases and, for the purpose of our valuations, have accepted the details of tenure, tenancies and Our report and valuation is for the use only of the party to whom it is addressed and no responsibility is accepted to any third party for the all other relevant information with which we have been supplied by the Company.
When considering the covenant strength of individual whole or any part of its contents.
If our opinion of value is disclosed to persons other than the addressees of this report, the basis of tenants we have not carried out credit enquiries but have reflected in our valuations our general understanding of purchasers likely valuation should be stated.
If it is proposed to publish the figure, the form and context in which the figure is to appear should be approved perceptions of tenants financial status.
We have, in addition, discussed with the Company any bad debts or material arrears of rent and have by us beforehand.
considered this information in arriving at our valuations.
Yours faithfully We were not instructed to carry out structural surveys of the properties, nor to test the services, but have reflected in our valuations, where necessary, any defects, items of disrepair or outstanding works of alteration or improvement which we noted R J S Johnson BSc, MRICS R D Norman MRICS during the course of our inspections or of which we have been advised.
Our valuations assume the buildings contain no deleterious Partner Partner Commercial Valuations Commercial Valuations materials and that the sites are unaffected by adverse soil conditions, except where we have been notified to the contrary.
For and on behalf of Knight Frank LLP We have not carried out any investigation into past or present uses of either the properties or any neighbouring land to establish whether there is any potential for contamination from these uses or sites to the subject properties.
We understand that the Company has established procedures for the inspection of newly acquired properties to be carried out with particular reference to environmental matters, and that any such matters identified receive appropriate attention.
Unless we have been provided with information to the contrary, we have assumed that the properties are not, nor are likely to be, affected by land contamination and that there are no ground conditions which would affect the present or future uses of the properties.
