12 Business Review The British Land Company PLC The Development section reviews another distinctive area of Business Review expertise, by creating new buildings at the forefront of modern business needs.
We continued implementation In Portfolio Valuation we detail the principal property valuation movements in the year.
of our activist customer led strategy, producing rental Our Property Sectoral Outlook includes market commentaries income growth in our portfolio.
and explains the implementation of our strategy and its rationale.
In the Financial Performance and Financing and Cash Flow British Lands Activity in 2008 9 sections, we explain the financial results and summarise the ways we have added value to supplement our property activity.
Our In another year dominated by the global financial markets turmoil balance sheet and debt management continue to be distinctive and economic uncertainty we continued implementation of our strengths, particularly relevant in these stressed financial market activist customer led strategy, producing rental income growth in times.
We also set out our Key Performance Indicators.
The Risk our portfolio and property performance in line with IPD.
We again Management section sets out the principal business risks we face mitigated market-driven damage to our business by asset disposals and how we mitigate them.
ahead of further price falls, and by strong balance sheet and debt structuring, including the recent Rights Issue.
By working with others, inter alia through Joint Ventures and Unit Trusts as described in the Partnerships section, we earn valuable The commentary in this Review highlights the actions we have taken extra income, leverage our skills and capital and increase over the year.
manoeuvrability in the property markets.
Under Sector and Asset Selection we report on 1.9 billion gross We also highlight, in our Corporate Responsibility Report, our actions property sales, reducing our total exposure to a falling property on sustainability including the commitment to lead our industry and market.
We also adjusted holdings in market sectors and individual become carbon neutral.
We are a business of the built environment.
assets where we forecast weaker customer demand, reinforcing Our careful use of scarce resources and our buildings impact in our market leadership positions where prospects are stronger.
improving our communities and facilitating growth remain integral to our business success.
The Corporate Responsibility Report may be Under Asset Management we show the range of work we undertake viewed in full on our website www.
com crReport 2009 to better tailor our existing buildings to areas of greatest customer demand, and to capture the growth in rents we achieved again this year.
