26 Business Review The British Land Company PLC We have a relatively well positioned prime London office portfolio Office Sector with strong income: Leadership in London Offices 4.4 million sq ft in the City: 3.6 billion invested 1.4 million sq ft in the West End: investments over 94% occupied: 93% of vacant accommodation is brand new Grade A: weighted average lease length of over nine years to first break 11 years to expiry : valued on the basis of a net equivalent yield of 7.2% gross top-up initial yield of 7.8% : only 9% of current rents up for renewal over the next three years: 23 million per annum further contracted income over the next Tim Roberts five years: and Head of Offices an average rent of 46 per sq ft. We have continued to manage the office portfolio by taking Our continued active management of the office portfolio is set out opportunities to sell a total of 1.8 billion gross of offices over the in detail earlier in this report.
The 616 million of sales in this year, last three years to take advantage of higher market prices, having achieved in a difficult market with falling values and limited liquidity, recognised that London offices had been in a cyclical upswing.
have been overall accretive to our performance for the year.
New These sales were primarily in the City 78%.
income has been generated of 2.5 million per annum from settlement of rent reviews and of 13.7 million per annum from new Our strategy for the offices portfolio is to concentrate on prime lettings, including 300,000 sq ft at our London developments, with assets in the City and West End of London.
Despite recent credit more under offer.
The completed developments at 201 Bishopsgate market turbulence, Londons global position as a business centre and the Broadgate Tower continue to attract new tenants: including is well established and we consider London is the right place to be areas currently under offer, the Tower is 64% let and we have only over the medium term.
On the investment portfolio, like-for-like income growth of 2.5% for our offices has been Our customer focus is on providing modern, high quality and well achieved over this year 1.3% in the City and 7.6% in the West End.
located accommodation to meet the requirements of the financial and business services based in the capital.
We build on this by offering Completion of these development projects and deferral of best in class property management, from estate services through Leadenhall has reduced our committed office schemes from to development of new buildings.
Proactive asset management aims 2 million sq ft last year to less than 1 million sq ft, now representing to tailor what we offer to customers changing needs.
less than 4% of the total portfolio value.
Included in this is Ropemaker where we are pleased to have reached agreement with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd and Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International plc for a major pre-let of 186,500 sq ft. Tenant interest is also being seen in the Regents Place office development, although large pre-lets in the West End are relatively unusual and we have always believed that significant progress in lettings will be achieved after the buildings are completed and available to view.
The residential units at Osnaburgh Street part of Regents Place have all contracted for sale, fide-risking the project, with completion due later this year.
Business Review The British Land Company PLC 27 Investment market Occupier market The London office market, along with all other sectors, has been London offices continue to have relatively low vacancy rates, affected by the financial markets and economic conditions.
Given although the current level of 7.3% being below the long term the lower levels of debt available and the uncertain investment 20 year average of 8.1% is expected to rise, due to completion climate, a significant downturn in transaction volumes has been of development projects in progress without pre-lets, together seen this year.
However, during our financial year some 3.5 billion with the release of tenant controlled accommodation.
Many of London office property has been traded, indicating that there forecasters currently believe the vacancy rate in London will rise continues to be a degree of liquidity from equity investors even in this no higher than that seen in previous downturns, primarily since the difficult market and the level of sales we have achieved from our total level of new development has not been as high in comparison portfolio at over 600 million is a good result.
The reduced relative liquidity has resulted in significant adjustment The most important factor in the current significant slowdown in of yields since mid 2007, with the City having moved out by 320bps take up is that business confidence has been severely dented and with prime now at 7.2% and the West End by 270bps prime 6.0%.
Even occupiers who have requirements are In a low interest rate environment, these current yields are starting to reluctant to make decisions on their accommodation in these look attractive to income-hungry funds and there are now early signs uncertain times.
We are aware that many businesses would like of investor demand returning to London.
The relative devaluation of to improve, consolidate or expand their offices but are reluctant to Sterling is also attracting growing interest from overseas purchasers, commit at this stage.
Financial and business services are unlikely notably the German funds.
These factors together are generating to generate employment growth this year.
It will require a return of more positive sentiment and there are early indications that yields confidence in the economic outlook to restore take up and release on prime, well let buildings have started to stabilise.
a degree of pent up demand in the occupational market.
Secondary assets, which lack occupier appeal and security of British Lands office portfolio is modern, high quality, well located income and have little prospect of raising new transaction debt and let with good income security.
Our development exposure is remain most vulnerable to further falls in value.
At this stage it seems limited and the committed projects, spread between the City and that the banks are unwilling to call in loans which are under pressure, the West End, will produce prime offices attractive to new occupiers.
so there is very little evidence of an impending wave of distressed sales coming to the market.
Nevertheless, the gap between prime and secondary yields is likely to continue to grow.
Broadgate Mirroring tenants needs The success of our business strategy reflects our willingness to listen to what our customers want.
Where possible we will tailor our properties to match their needs.
