Arup Current rental income: 7.3m pa Our tenants As a pre-existing tenant in the middle of a major redevelopment initiative with our landlord, the transition to the new Derwent London entity was much We strive to be the smoother than we could have hoped.
The plans were well advanced and Derwent did not look to disturb the landlord of choice status quo.
In practice, we found them forward looking and interested in our view of the building as a tenant and as within our marketplace a place for our occupation over the next decades.
They preach partnership and that has been the practice.
We have worked with Derwent as landlords on a number of fronts related to our estate.
We have sold to them and bought from them: we have leased new space from them and released space back to them as our own business demands have changed and the redevelopment project completed.
Over this relatively short period we have developed a partnering arrangement which allows us to discuss issues openly and derive mutual benefit.
We have never had a problem we have not been able to resolve with them by straightforward conversation and I would From the start of our relationship with We initiated a tenant forum in 2009, which hope they feel the same.
Compared to our tenants, we work hard to understand was attended by tenants from across the some of our previous experiences, their requirements.
 portfolio together with a number of our its like stepping into the light!
negotiations are carried out as soon as consultants.
The event enabled tenants to an introduction is made.
This enables us share their views on a wide range of issues Cancer Research UK 2 to meet each potential tenant early in the from service charge, via post-building Angel Building 13,000m pre-let We selected the Angel Building because process, which leads to deeper mutual completion reviews, to sustainability topics.
Following the success of this venture, we it is an efficient and welcoming building in an amenity-rich area.
It supports our brand If the letting is part of a project, we take are rolling out a series of quarterly forums account of the tenants views in the build throughout 2010, which will reach a and represents value for our supporters.
Derwent Londons reputation provided process, where possible, working together wider audience.
to help realise their vision for their space.
added comfort that the building would be delivered on time.
Our experience of Whether the tenant is upsizing or downsizing We also hold regular engineering forums we work closely with them to ensure that at a number of our larger buildings.
These working with Derwent London has been a very positive one.
They have been open, we meet their future needs.
enable us to discuss with tenants whether a particular property can be operated honest and professional throughout all our We are helping to change the face of the more efficiently.
In addition, there are dealings with them.
They have responded West End with the acceptance by tenants tenant-focused interactive websites at with sensitivity and flexibility to the needs of new and improving locations.
We appeal 43% of our managed properties with a of the charity.
to tenants in the middle market, where rental further 15% planned for 2010.
Our property levels are in the region of 30 50 per sq ft management function, which was previously Unanimis 2 325 540 per m. Occupiers have a mostly outsourced, was brought wholly One of Londons largest digital advertising 2 at the Charlotte desire to stay in the West End at affordable in-house during 2009, in order to get even companies took 1,200m rents without compromising quality and closer to the asset management function Building for 0.6m pa Unanimis has been a tenant of Derwent we have helped numerous tenants in of our properties and our tenants.
All these recent years to achieve this.
Examples initiatives are part of our strategy for giving London for several years.
This latest deal is evidence of our strong relationship and include: tenants the freedom to focus on their business rather than worrying about is testament to Derwents commitment to providing quality space to meet the Grey Advertising their premises.
from Noho to Hatton Garden needs of a cutting-edge communications group.
We are a loud, busy company During 2009, we introduced standardised Burberry green leases.
These plain English but this gives us the space and calm we from St. Jamess to Victoria need to balance that.
The building is in a documents contain clear and simple Rio Tinto revised terms covering issues such genuinely peaceful part of central London.
from St. Jamess to Paddington as service charges, uninsured risk and tenant protection.
Our new leases also Cancer Research UK include clauses to formalise the intention from Holborn to Islington and co-operation of both parties to reduce energy use and improve recycling.
The introduction of these new lease documents has led to a substantial reduction in transaction time and costs for both the tenant and ourselves.
see page 38 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 17 Strategy Building value Our over-riding aim is to deliver space that maximises quality as well as quantity.
We want to provide enjoyable and efficient space for our tenants offices that are bright and comfortable, cost-effective in use and energy efficient.
We have always strived to do better and think smarter, learning from the past, looking to be progressive and to challenge conventions.
Over the years weve developed better ways of allowing design to evolve.
Each new working relationship is unique.
We do not commission practices to reproduce archetypal work: we are willing to be revolutionary and often find that the resulting collaboration produces more exciting and innovative architecture.
By cultivating relationships with smaller architectural, design and engineering practices whose skill, tenacity and vision we value just as much as those of more established firms we are able to work closely throughout a project, and develop a strong creative understanding.
Through innovative planning solutions we look to add floorspace and, therefore, value to our buildings.
We dont build run-of-theThe Johnson Building EC1 Arup Phases II & III W1 mill properties, we create exciting spaces, 2 2 From 8,700m From 9,300m focused on strong design and high quality 2 2 To 15,900m 83% To 13,700m 47% construction but, most importantly, good value for tenants.
We draw on our extensive Utilising a previous courtyard to create critical The demolition of two redundant 1960s mass for a mixed-use redevelopment scheme, buildings and the construction of new offices experience and expertise to select the right team from the right firm for each job whether we used a generous approach to space at 8 Fitzroy Street formed phases II and III of a standards and a parallel commitment to development agreement between ourselves contractors, architects or designers.
Daylight is brought and Arup.
The result is a high specification, 2 into the building through double height superior quality office building of 13,700m spaces and mezzanines while a new private occupied by Arup as headquarters for their courtyard provides tenants with a peaceful global engineering consultancy service.
This striking coloured glass-clad building provides seven levels of offices around a central atrium, along with associated meeting rooms, a reception, caf and library, plus conference and exhibition space.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 18 Strategy Angel Building: 50 per sq ft saving on refurbished space by retaining existing frame Angel Building EC1 2 From 15,100m 2 To 24,400m 62% The Angel Building redesign is set to bring a much-needed transformation to the area directly south of Angel station.
By summer 2010, the building will boast a sleek new glass faade.
The entrance to the contemporary urban office space is a 2 substantial 1,200m reception area.
Its a radical change from the buildings previous incarnation, which was modern in its time: 2 a concrete structure housing 15,100m of office space built around an open internal courtyard.
The building was set back from the roadside, in anticipation of a roadwidening scheme that never materialised.
A tree-lined area filled the gap between the building and the pavement but had become a repository for shopping trolleys, beer cans and fast food packaging.
Our architectural vision for this part of Islington was to reconnect the building with the street.
We saw the opportunity to gain substantially more space that previously wasnt utilised.
The regeneration strategy is focused on re-using the existing building structure to fulfil its potential, with the existing tired skin being removed and the floor plates increased.
We are introducing amenities, including a restaurant and lounge area, that will prove attractive and useful for occupiers.
The reception area is designed to be a hub Tea Building E1 Qube W1 for the entire building, rather than merely a corridor to walk through on the way to Originally a Liptons Tea warehouse, the Replacing a 1960s office building that a meeting.
interior was stripped back to its bare essentials had reached the end of its useful life, the to emphasise the buildings industrial Qube development which completed at The historically problematic public space 2 character transforming it into 23,000m of will be re-landscaped, with several of the the end of 2007 has transformed the area exciting office space that now plays host to around Tottenham Court Road and Whitfield existing mature trees remaining and new a variety of creative businesses as well as trees planted.
This new public realm will Street in the heart of our Fitzrovia holdings.
2 the Shoreditch House club and boutique Comprising 9,300m of office space, provide opportunities for outside restaurant hotel.
The building has become a focal point and caf dining and, most importantly, six retail units and a prestigious private for the regeneration of the area and has apartment block, this iconic glass building informal use by the tenants.
We hope that encouraged other businesses to follow suit.
these newly landscaped areas and the with a large central atrium and generous reception incorporating stunning artwork by building as a whole will help to breathe fresh life into this corner of north Clerkenwell.
renowned artists Ian Davenport and David Tremlett provides a sense of space and a level of specification unrivalled in the area.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 19 Strategy Tenants are increasingly citing sustainability as a key factor in rental discussions, while Building value investors, bound by their own corporate social responsibility policies, are asking continued searching questions about carbon footprint and a buildings ability to adapt to climate change.
We have always tried to stay one step ahead and energy use and sustainability are in the forefront of our minds when we consider our schemes.
In 2003, we completed the Davidson Building in Covent Garden, one of the first speculative properties in London to use a displacement cooling heating system employing underfloor air and exposed thermal mass as a means of reducing air conditioning energy use.
Fast on its heels came the Johnson Building in Hatton Garden which features a similar low energy approach.
This building introduced DALI lighting into our portfolio: microprocessor technology which switches Tenants are increasingly lights between full, dimmed and off mode in response to both natural lighting conditions citing sustainability and the movement of people.
These systems have also been installed in our schemes at Horseferry House, the Charlotte Building as a key factor in and the Angel Building.
This approach not only appeals to the tenants green credentials but also, practically, reduces the running rental discussions costs of the building.
Historically, we have primarily relied upon the regeneration of existing buildings rather than outright redevelopment to achieve our objectives.
The vast majority of our larger schemes contain inherent sustainability in terms of their adaptive re-use of existing structures.
This approach saves management time as well as reducing the planning process.
We also save on new materials by re-using The vast majority of instead of demolishing.
For example, by retaining the existing frame at the Angel our schemes contain Building, we were able to generate a cost saving of approximately 50 per sq ft for the refurbished space.
inherent sustainability Additional information about our sustainable activity is detailed in the sustainability section.
in terms of their see page 38 adaptive re-use of Over the past 10 years, capital expenditure totalled over 400m and, excluding Arup phases II & III and Qube, which we existing structures inherited from the acquisition of LMS, only 13% of our capital expenditure was incurred on new-build development.
The remainder was invested in more than 200 schemes ranging from large refurbishments such as Horseferry House, to adding new floors or upgrades of space.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 20 Strategy Horseferry House SW1 Greencoat and Gordon House SW1 A magnificent nine-storey brick building We continually review our buildings and, with large internal light wells, just off Millbank where appropriate, refurbish and upgrade in Victoria occupied by a government space on a phased basis over time.
department and featuring outdated office Greencoat and Gordon House in Victoria accommodation.
A major refurbishment is a typical example.
Acquired in 1995 for was undertaken to relocate the lift cores, 10m, this building produced rental income toilets and escape stairs into the nowof 1.1m pa at the time of purchase.
We have enclosed lightwells, with a new rooftop since added space by completing two roof extension, creating superior and modern extensions and converting loading bays space.
New fenestration, a full building and storage areas into office space.
c lean and repair and reconfigured entrances In addition, we have upgraded various improved street presence and repositioned office suites and transformed the reception the building in the market.
The entire area: what was previously an understated transformed building was pre-let to Burberry and underutilised space now features as the world-renowned fashion retailers new colour, texture and striking contemporary global headquarters office and showroom.
The upgraded, streamlined and modernised reception is a positive and welcoming introduction to the building.
In total, 12 schemes have been carried out contributing to a rental value of over 4m pa and a property value in excess of 50m.
Our most recent scheme was the refurbishment of the top floors of Gordon House, a refined red-brick building, and the addition of a rooftop extension to create a new floor.
Now complete, this project appears at first glance to be a signature Derwent London space a tasteful, minimal, We continually review white-walled environment with generously proportioned, timber-framed windows overlooking an historic part of the capital.
our buildings and, But the real story lies in its construction, which points the way to a greener future.
where appropriate, The new rooftop extension is built out of structural timber, while the prefabricated walls are also structural and help to support refurbish and upgrade the ceiling, meaning fewer columns and, therefore, less steel.
Steel is particularly environmentally unfriendly, because it is space on a phased energy-intensive to produce.
This construction method was chosen because it was fast basis over time as well as green.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 21 Strategy
