Variation of rights Subject to the Companies Acts, rights Directors attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-quarters of the issued report shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate class meeting of the holders of the relevant class of shares.
At every such separate class meeting except an adjourned meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in amount of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
The directors present their report and the Voting No person holds securities in the company financial statements for the year ended Every member and every duly appointed carrying special rights with regard to control 31st December 2009. proxy present at a general meeting or class of the company.
meeting has, upon a show of hands, one Business review vote and every member present in person or Powers in relation to the company The information required by section 417 of by proxy has, upon a poll, one vote for every issuing or buying back its own shares the Companies Act 2006 and by rules 4.1.
In the case of joint holders The directors were granted authority at to 4.1.
11 of the Disclosure and Transparency of a share the vote of the senior shareholder the last annual general meeting AGM Rules is given on pages 6 to 43.
These who tenders a vote, whether in person or by held in 2009 to allot relevant securities sections should be read in conjunction proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of up to a nominal amount of 1,680,119. with this report and are incorporated into the votes of the other joint holders and, for That authority will apply until the conclusion the directors report by reference.
this purpose, seniority shall be determined of this years AGM.
At this years AGM, by the order in which the names stand in shareholders will be asked to grant an The disclosures in respect of the use of the register in respect of the joint holding.
authority to allot relevant securities financial instruments are given in notes i up to a nominal amount of 1,686,346, 26 and 27 of the financial statements.
Restrictions on voting and ii comprising equity securities up No member shall be entitled to vote at any to a nominal amount of 3,372,693 after Share capital general meeting or class meeting in respect deducting from such limit any relevant As at 17th March 2010, the companys of any share held by him if any call or other securities allotted under i, in connection issued share capital comprised a single sum then payable by him in respect of that with an offer by way of a rights issue, class of 5p ordinary shares.
Details of the share remains unpaid or if a member has the section 551 authority, such section ordinary share capital and shares issued been served with a restriction notice as 551 authority to apply until the end of during the year can be found in note 29 defined in the articles of association after next years AGM.
failure to provide the company with information concerning interests in those shares required A special resolution will also be proposed to Rights and restrictions to be provided under the Companies Acts.
renew the directors power to make non-preattaching to shares The company is not aware of any agreements emptive issues for cash in connection with Subject to applicable statutes, any between shareholders that may result in rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal resolution passed by the company and restrictions on voting rights.
amount of 252,951. other shareholders rights, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as Restrictions on transfer of A special resolution will also be proposed to the company may by ordinary resolution securities in the company renew the directors authority to repurchase decide, or if there is no such resolution or There are no restrictions on the transfer the companys ordinary shares in the market.
so far as it does not make specific provision of securities in the company, except: The authority will be limited to a maximum as the board may decide.
Subject to the of 10,118,080 ordinary shares and sets that certain restrictions may from time to articles, the Companies Acts and other the minimum and maximum prices which time be imposed by laws and regulations shareholders rights, unissued shares may be paid.
for example, insider trading laws : and are at the disposal of the board.
p ursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the company require the approval of the company to deal in the companys ordinary shares.
The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 48 Governance Substantial shareholders Fixed assets In addition to those of the directors disclosed The groups freehold and leasehold on page 52, the company has been notified investment properties were professionally of the following interests in the issued revalued at 31st December 2009, resulting ordinary share capital as at 17th March 2010. in a deficit of 72.5m, before deducting the lease incentive adjustment of 8.6m.
Percentage The freehold and leasehold investment Number of issued properties are included in the group balance of shares share capital sheet at a carrying value of 1,888.6m.
Withers Trust Corporation 6,217,444 6.16 Further details are given in note 17 of the Withers Trust Corporation Ltd financial statements.
and James McCarthy 5,548,731 5.50 Blackrock Investment Management UK Ltd 5,183,709 5.13 Post balance sheet events Cohen & Steers Capital Management Inc 4,970,225 4.92 Details of post balance sheet events are given in note 39 of the financial statements.
Standard Life Investment Ltd 4,284,390 4.24 Third Avenue Management LLC 3,944,764 3.91 Corporate Governance Lady Jane Rayne 3,593,838 3.56 Compliance Legal & General Investment Management 3,482,391 3.45 The board supports the principles of good governance and believes that the company has, except as noted, complied with the main Amendment of articles of association and supporting principle of the Combined Unless expressly specified to the contrary Code on Corporate Governance published in the articles of association of the company, by the Financial Reporting Council.
the companys articles of association may The company has not complied with be amended by a special resolution of code provision A.
2.2, concerning the the companys shareholders.
A special independence of the chairman on resolution will be proposed at this years appointment.
The companys position AGM making a number of changes to is described in the following section.
the companys articles arising from the A number of other code provisions were Companies Act 2006 and the Companies not applicable in the current year.
The board Significant agreements At the start of the year, the board comprised There are no agreements between the Mr Rayne, the non-executive chairman, six company and its directors or employees executive directors, Messrs Burns, Silver, providing for compensation for loss of office Odom, George, Williams and Silverman, or employment that occurs because of a and six non-executive directors, Mrs fide Moller takeover bid, except that, under the rules and Messrs Ivey, Neathercoat, Farnes, of the groups share-based remuneration Corbyn and Newell.
On 1st February 2010, schemes some awards may vest following Mr Odom resigned as a director and was a change of control.
Some of the groups replaced as finance director by Mr Wisniewski.
banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the company.
As a REIT, a tax charge may be levied on the company if it makes a distribution to another company which is beneficially entitled to 10% or more of the shares or dividends in the company or controls 10% or more of the voting rights in the company, a substantial shareholder, unless the company has taken reasonable steps to avoid such a distribution being made.
The companys articles of association give the directors power to take such steps, including the power: to identify a substantial shareholder: to withhold the payment of dividends to a substantial shareholder: and to require the disposal of shares forming part of a substantial shareholding.
There is no person with whom the group has a contractual or other arrangement which is essential to the business of the company.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 49 Governance The board assesses the independence of The board is responsible for setting the the non-executive directors with regard to companys strategic aims, ensuring that the guidance on independence contained adequate resources are available to meet in code provision A.
3.1, and notes that its objectives and reviewing management Messrs Rayne, Ivey and Neathercoat performance.
The formal list of matters cannot automatically be deemed reserved for the full boards approval is independent.
The board is also aware maintained and reviewed periodically.
2.2 requires a new The full board met six times during the year chairman to be independent on appointment.
and six meetings are scheduled for 2010.
6 of the Extra meetings will be arranged if necessary.
code, the board has carried out the annual Additionally, the executive board, which review of the roles and performance of all consists of the executive directors met 10 directors which included reconsidering the times in 2009.
The board is provided with independence of the non-executive directors.
comprehensive papers in a timely manner to ensure that the directors are fully briefed on Mr Rayne served in an executive capacity matters to be discussed at these meetings.
at London Merchant Securities plc prior to the acquisition and consequently is not Since 1993, the board has maintained a deemed independent.
However, in view number of board committees.
The terms of of his significant contribution as chairman reference of each committee are available of the board, the board continues to on the groups website.
Set out below are consider that his position is justified.
details of the membership and duties of the three principal committees: Mr Ivey has served on the board for more than nine years and is therefore not deemed Remuneration committee independent.
Having considered his expertise The committee comprises of Mrs fide Moller and the manner in which he carried out his and Messrs Neathercoat, Corbyn and duties during the year, the board has no Newell under the chairmanship of concern that his independent judgement Mr Farnes.
It is responsible for establishing is in any way impaired.
Mr Neathercoat is the companys remuneration policy and also not deemed independent, having individual remuneration packages for served as a non-executive director for more the executive directors.
There were four than nine years.
The board has reviewed meetings of the committee in 2009. his independence and concluded that he The report on directors remuneration continues to show strong independence is set out on pages 55 to 62. in both judgement and in the performance of his duties as a director.
Neither director Audit committee has any association with management that This committee is chaired by Mr Neathercoat might compromise his independence.
and is served by Messrs Corbyn, Farnes and Newell and Mrs fide Moller.
The The directors also considered the composition committee is responsible for considering of the board and continue to believe that it is the application of financial reporting and suitably structured to satisfy the requirements internal control principles and for maintaining of good corporate governance.
In addition, an appropriate relationship with the during the year the nominations committee companys auditors.
The committee met reviewed the timing and other issues relating four times during 2009.
The report of the to potential changes to the composition of audit committee is on page 63. the board and its committees with a view to ensuring an orderly change process.
Nominations committee As a result of this review, on 1st January Mr Ivey chaired this committee until 2010, Mr Corbyn became chairman of 1 st January 2010 when Mr Corbyn took the nominations committee replacing over this role.
The committee consists Mr Ivey and Mr Farnes took over as senior of all of the non-executive directors, independent director from Mr Neathercoat.
Its responsibilities In addition, the committee agreed to include identifying external candidates commence a process of refreshment.
for appointment as directors and, This is likely to run for three years and will subsequently, recommending their commence by recruiting a new, independent appointment to the board and, if requested, non-executive director during 2010 who, making a recommendation concerning an in due course, will take over as chairman appointment to the board from within the of the audit committee.
The committee also carries out 2011, one of the groups long-serving the annual appraisal of the performance non-executive directors will retire.
and effectiveness of the board and its three committees.
The committee met A formal schedule, which has been only once during the period under review.
approved by the board, sets out the division The nominations committee report is of responsibilities between the Chairman, on page 64. who is responsible for the effectiveness of the board, and the chief executive officer, who is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the business.
Biographies of the directors are given on page 46.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 50 Governance The directors attendance at board and committee meetings during the year was as follows: Full Executive Remuneration Audit Nominations board board committee committee committee No.
of meetings 6 10 4 4 1 Executive directors J. D. Burns 6 10 S. P. Silver 6 8 C. J. Odom 6 9 P. M. Williams 6 10 N. Q. George 6 9 D. G. Silverman 6 9 Non-executive directors R. A. Rayne 6 J. C. Ivey 6 1 S. J. Neathercoat 6 4 3 1 R. A. Farnes 6 4 4 1 S. A. Corbyn 6 4 4 1 D. Newell 6 4 4 1 J. fide Moller 6 3 4 1 Performance evaluation At every AGM of the company any director During the year, the nominations who has been appointed by the board committee carried out a formal appraisal since the last AGM, or who held office at of the performance of the board and its the time of the two preceding AGMs and committees.
The remuneration committee who did not retire at either of them, or who performed appraisals of each of the executive has held office with the company, other directors, as part of the salary review process.
than employment or executive office, The performance of the chairman was for a continuous period of nine years evaluated by the non-executive directors or more at the date of the meeting, shall under the chairmanship of the senior retire from office and may offer himself independent director.
All of the appraisals for re-appointment by the members.
were conducted internally based on the The company may by special resolution guidance contained in the Higgs Report.
remove any director before the expiration of his period of office.
The office of a Directors director shall be vacated if: The appointment of a director from outside he resigns or offers to resign and the the company is on the recommendation of board resolve to accept such offer: the nominations committee, whilst internal promotion is a matter decided by the board his resignation is requested by all of the unless it is considered appropriate for a other directors and all of the other directors recommendation to be requested from are not less than three in number: the nominations committee.
he is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the board resolves Appointment and replacement of directors that his office be vacated: The directors shall be not less than two and not more than 15 in number.
The he is absent without the permission of the company may by ordinary resolution vary board from meetings of the board whether the minimum and or maximum number or not an alternate director appointed by him of directors.
Other than as required by the attends for six consecutive months and remuneration committee, a director shall the board resolves that his office is vacated: not be required to hold any shares in the he becomes bankrupt or compounds with company.
Directors may be appointed his creditors generally: by the company by ordinary resolution or by the board.
A director appointed by the he is prohibited by law from being a director: board holds office only until the next AGM he ceases to be a director by virtue of the of the company and is then eligible for Companies Acts: or re-appointment.
The board or any committee authorised by the board may from time to he is removed from office pursuant to the time appoint one or more directors to hold companys articles.
any employment or executive office for such period and on such terms as they may If considered appropriate, new directors are determine and may also revoke or terminate sent on an external training course addressing any such appointment.
their role and duties as a director of a quoted public company.
Existing directors monitor their own continued professional development and are encouraged to attend those courses that keep their market and regulatory knowledge current.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 51 Governance All directors have access to the services During the year, directors exercised options of the company secretary and any director over 105,250 shares.
The exercise prices may instigate an agreed procedure whereby were as follows: 13,000 shares at 5.015: independent professional advice may be 8,750 shares at 5.53: 39,000 at 6.725 sought at the companys expense.
No new options were and officers liability insurance is maintained granted to directors under the Executive by the company.
A conditional grant of 405,100 shares was made to directors Powers of the directors under the Performance Share Plan whilst Subject to the companys memorandum 34,713 shares vested to the directors from of association, its articles, the Companies an earlier conditional award at a zero exercise Acts and any directions given by the company price.
The remaining 60,387 shares of this by special resolution, the business of the award lapsed.
company will be managed by the board who may exercise all the powers of the company, In accordance with the articles of association, whether relating to the management of the at the next AGM Messrs Rayne, George, business of the company or not.
In particular, Corbyn and Newell retire by rotation the board may exercise all the powers of the and, being eligible, offer themselves for company to borrow money, to guarantee, re-election.
In addition, having been to indemnify, to mortgage or charge any of appointed since the last AGM and being its undertaking, property, assets present eligible, Mr Wisniewski offers himself for and future and uncalled capital and to issue re-election.
In accordance with the debentures and other securities and to give principles of good corporate governance, security for any debt, liability or obligation Messrs Neathercoat and Ivey retire, both of the company or of any third party.
having served on the board for more than nine years and, being eligible, offer Directors themselves for re-election.
Biographies The directors of the company during the of all the directors are given on page 46. year and their interests in the share capital of the company, including shares over which Other than as disclosed in note 41, the options have been granted, either under directors have no interest in any material the executive share option scheme or the contracts of the company.
performance share plan, are shown below.
All of these interests are held beneficially.
There have been no other changes in any of the directors interests between the year-end and 17th March 2010.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 52 Governance Communication with shareholders Auditors BDO LLP have expressed their willingness The company has always recognised the importance of clear communication to continue in office and accordingly, resolutions to re-appoint them and to with shareholders.
Regular contact with institutional shareholders and fund managers authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
is maintained, principally by the executive directors, through the giving of presentations These are resolutions 11 and 12 set out in the notice of meeting that accompanies and organising visits to the groups property assets.
The board receives regular reports the report and accounts.
The annual report, which is available to all shareholders, reinforces Annual general meeting The notice of meeting contained in the this communication.
The AGM provides an opportunity for shareholders to question circular to shareholders that accompanies the report and accounts includes five the directors and, in particular, the chairman of each of the board committees.
An special resolutions to be considered.
alternative channel of communication to the board is available through the senior Resolution 13 will renew the authority independent director.
of the directors under Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares.
Risk management and internal control Paragraph A of the resolution gives the The principal risks and uncertainties facing directors authority to allot ordinary shares the group in 2010, together with the controls up to an aggregate nominal amount of and mitigating factors are set out on pages 1,686,346 which represents about one- 42 and 43.
The systems that control the third of the issued ordinary share capital risks form the groups system of internal excluding treasury shares of the company control.
The key elements of the groups as at the latest practicable date prior to financial control framework are: the publication of this document.
an approved schedule of matters reserved for decision by the board In line with guidance issued by the supported by defined responsibilities Association of British Insurers, paragraph B and levels of authority: of the resolution gives the directors authority the day-to-day involvement of the to allot ordinary shares in connection with a executive directors in all aspects of rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders the groups business: up to an aggregate nominal amount of a comprehensive system of financial 3,372,693, as reduced by the nominal reporting and forecasting including both amount of any shares issued under paragraph sensitivity and variance analysis: A of the resolution.
This amount before maintenance and regular review and any reduction represents approximately updating of the groups risk register: and two-thirds of the issued ordinary share a formal whistleblowing policy.
capital excluding treasury shares of the company as at the latest practicable date The effectiveness of this system and the prior to the publication of this document.
operation of the key components thereof have been reviewed for the accounting year The directors have no present intention of and the period to the date of approval of issuing shares except on the exercise of the financial statements.
options under the companys share option scheme or on the vesting of shares under The board has considered the need for the companys performance share plan.
an internal audit function but continues The authority will expire at the conclusion to believe that this is unnecessary given of the next AGM after the passing of the the size and complexity of the group.
resolution or, if earlier, the close of business on 25th August 2011.
Going concern Having made due enquiries, the directors Resolution 14 is a special resolution, have reasonable expectation that the proposed annually, and will renew the company has adequate resources to directors authority under section 571 continue in operational existence for the of the Companies Act 2006.
Therefore, the board empowers the directors to allot or, now continues to adopt the going concern that the company may hold shares as basis in preparing the accounts.
treasury shares as further described below, sell shares for cash in connection Disclosure of information to auditors with pre-emptive offers with modifications The directors who held office at the date to the requirements set out in section 561 of approval of this directors report confirm of the Companies Act 2006.
The resolution that, so far as they are each aware, there further empowers the directors to allot or, is no relevant audit information of which in the case of treasury shares, sell shares the companys auditors are unaware: and for cash, otherwise than on a pre-emptive each director has taken all the steps that basis, up to an aggregate nominal value they ought to have taken as a director to of 252,951 which is equivalent to make themselves aware of any relevant approximately 5% of the issued share audit information.
capital as at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 53 Governance In respect of this aggregate nominal amount, pursuant to resolution 15, the company the directors confirm their intention to follow may cancel those shares or hold them the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups in treasury.
Such a decision will be made statement of principles regarding cumulative by the directors at the time of purchase usage of authorities within a rolling three-year on the basis of the companys and period where the principles provide that usage shareholders best interests.
As at in excess of 7.5% should not take place the date of the notice of meeting, without prior consultation with shareholders.
the company held no treasury shares.
Allotments made under the authorisation The total number of options to subscribe in paragraph B of resolution 13 would be for ordinary shares outstanding at limited to allotments by way of a rights issue 17th March 2010 was 1,374,166, which only subject to the right of the board to represented 1.36% of the issued share impose necessary or appropriate limitations capital excluding treasury shares at that to deal with, for example, fractional date.
If the company were to purchase entitlements and regulatory matters.
the maximum number of ordinary shares permitted by this resolution, the options The authority will expire at the conclusion outstanding at 17th March 2010 would of the next AGM after the passing of the represent 1.68% of the issued share capital resolution or, if earlier, the close of business excluding treasury shares.
Resolution 16 is proposed to adopt Resolution 15 is proposed to renew the new articles of association in order to authority enabling the company to purchase update the companys current articles of its own shares.
This authority enables association primarily to take account of the directors to act quickly, if, having taken the coming into force of the Companies account of all major factors such as the Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 effect on earnings and net asset value and the implementation of the last parts per share, gearing levels and alternative of the Companies Act 2006. investment opportunities, such purchases are considered to be in the companys Resolution 17 is required to reflect the and shareholders best interest while implementation of the Shareholder Rights maintaining an efficient capital structure.
Directive, which increased the notice period The special resolution gives the directors for general meetings of the company to authority to purchase up to 10% of the 21 days.
The company is currently able to companys ordinary shares and specifies call general meetings other than an AGM the maximum and minimum prices at on 14 clear days notice and would like to which shares may be bought.
The approval will be effective until the companys next AGM The Companies Act 2006 permits the when it is intended that a similar resolution company to hold any such repurchased will be proposed.
shares as treasury shares with a view to possible re-issue at a future date, as an By order of the board alternative to immediately cancelling them as had previously been required under the relevant legislation.
Accordingly, if the T. J. Kite ACA company purchases any of its shares Secretary 17th March 2010 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 54 Governance
