Looking forward White Collar Factory Stale, warm air out Cooling from the slab Simple, passive facade Even light Concrete structure distribution Glazing where it counts Thermal mass night time cooling Natural ventilation when you want it Durable and aesthetically pleasing Solar shading where Taller its needed ceilings c3.5m Underoor heating from the slab Power and data cables in the oor Fresh air in Part section through the building facade We are pursuing a fresh idea for office space: The White Collar Factory offers a rich mix: a new type of building that learns from the a city sandwich packed with different best warehouses and factories but one users whilst fulfilling that most sensible that is designed for the 21st century office maxim of enduring architectural quality worker rather than the 20th century long-life, loose fit.
We call it the White Collar Factory.
The quality we admire and The logic of the White Collar Factory has pursue is one of simplicity, generosity, already influenced our thinking as we look to volume and light: a particular proven spatial extend and re-invent Hampstead Road and characteristic that we have discovered in so embark on an ambitious mix of large and many buildings originally constructed for small office spaces at our City Road Estate.
Typically, the White Collar Factory is an office building that has big, flexible floor plates, large opening windows, generous volumes and robust concrete construction.
It is light, open and connected because its dimensions are being defined by the potential of natural light and ventilation.
It is smart because it is simple and does not rely on the air conditioning and other technological add-ons that too often confuse choice with excess.
That said, it uses the physics of thermal mass and cool water cast pipes to ensure that it is cool in summer and warm in winter.
Its generous volumes also ensure that it is future-proofed by allowing tenants to add any extra services they believe they might require.
132-142 Hampstead Road W1 CGI Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 22 Strategy Fitzrovia Partnership Fitzrovia The Fitzrovia Partnership is a businessOur Fitzrovia portfolio consists of led initiative bringing together local approximately 30 buildings covering over businesses to add value and deliver one million sq ft ranging from large, brand a tangible improvement to the new office blocks to small older pubs.
Set in management of Fitzrovia.
It seeks: quieter streets full of history and character, Fitzrovia is enjoying a renaissance and we to embrace business and work with local are helping to shape the future thanks to amenity groups and the statutory authorities exciting new architecture such as the to help preserve and enhance a vibrant Charlotte Building, Qube and Arups commercial and residential district: headquarters.
to introduce itself to a wider audience and attract members, the aim being This was a core holding of London to involve the business community in Merchant Securities and we are now a shared vision of maintaining Fitzrovia evolving a strategy for the next few years.
as a location of choice: and Many of the buildings can simply be refurbished a process that we have to deliver pro-active business management, already started with small refurbishment improved standards, a destination of 80 Charlotte Street W1 schemes completed at 43 and 45 choice for living and visiting, a sense of Whitfield Street and 75 Wells Street.
place and return on investment.
Makes design for the 80 Charlotte Street Derwent London is leading this initiative and block aims to retain and rationalise the has been formally joined on the partnerships majority of the buildings, breathing new board by Arup, The Doctors Laboratory, life into the existing spaces and creating Make, City of London and Camden council.
a positive and cohesive new identity with a strong sense of place.
Its integrated management plan incorporates eight key components, each of which aims The retained sections of the buildings will be to deliver added value activities: refurbished internally and, together with new clean: additional floors, provide a range of flexible safe: and highly efficient office spaces to satisfy promoted: the requirements of the modern occupier.
accessible: In addition, a self-contained residential friendly: element will be introduced as well as further identity: floors at roof level to provide fantastic skyline information: and offices, set back from the street frontage communication.
Examples of these activities are to: Retaining a large amount of the existing building is environmentally and socially focus on enhancing the quality of sustainable, reducing the quality of materials the street environment in partnership and energy required and minimising with Camden council and Transport pollution and disruption for local residents for London: and businesses.
Long-term sustainability introduce ambassadors to provide strategies will be developed to incorporate customer service to businesses, workers opening windows, natural ventilation and and residents alike and help to reduce heat recovery systems.
crime in partnership with the police: The development will harmonise with its enhance connectivity with neighbouring setting in Fitzrovia: enhancing activity and areas as well as within Fitzrovia: interest at street level by offering an enriched help upgrade, in partnership with Camden mix of uses across all of the sites frontages council, the quality of the public realm by and offering the local community a new area improving the range of street furniture, of public realm.
trees and landscaping: embrace more businesses and focus on promoting the area as a destination Fitzrovia: of choice for business: help create an environment conducive to approximately quality retailing to support the business and residential community and add value to the 30 buildings retail hub of Tottenham Court Road: and increase the dining and eating offer to add covering over value to the vibrancy of Charlotte Street and its surroundings.
one million sq ft see page 41 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 23 Strategy
