Despite the recent challenging economic climate, we have maintained a steady flow Distinctively of new tenants, many of them household names.
This is not the result of reacting with a short-term masterplan to beat the Derwent recession: rather it is the fruit of our longterm vision to create inspiring buildings.
Our ethos has always been designfocused and value driven and we still strive to create exciting spaces for tenants that are distinctive and one step ahead of our competition.
Our continuing goal is to provide arenas for new ideas and new communities to thrive in.
Design focused We work in a number of ways to understand our tenants requirements and maintain communication from the very start of and value their interest in a property and throughout their occupation, building extremely close relationships.
see page 17 In combination driven ethos with a skilled lease management team, this translates into a high percentage of tenant retention following breaks and expiries as well as a historically low void rate.
Coupled All property companies are not the same.
with these factors is our extensive use of The difference with Derwent London is fresh architectural, design and artistic talent.
our resolute concentration on our particular We build strong enduring relationships markets accompanied by a painstaking across multiple projects in order to obtain attention to detail.
This is allied with our the highest levels of creative input.
The dedication to finding opportunities, communities we help to shape see the transforming properties, increasing benefit along with our shareholders.
floorspace, adding value and attracting, and looking after our tenants.
Our current portfolio is balanced from a number of different aspects: Since our formation, we have always an emphasis on income producing concentrated our activities in central Each building buildings that offer refurbishment London, with a particular focus on the and development opportunities: West End.
It is rare for us to venture outside treated as London.
We not only know London, we a variety of types, sizes and locations have an intimate knowledge of each of of buildings: our 17 different villages within the capital, a unique exposure to a wide variety of see page 102 and the people who work tenant sectors: and and live in them.
We appreciate the different characters and cultures of Londons villages, a focus on letting at mid-market rents, opportunity and we can map a distinctive future for which provide value for tenants and each of them.
growth opportunities for the group.
We treat each building as a unique We are highly innovative not only in terms opportunity.
While our approach to every of plans for our buildings but also in respect property is consistent the solution for each of lease management solutions.
see page 18 Our business the past three years, we have negotiated model has been proven and refined over surrenders and changes in lease terms with time: it concentrates on refurbishment and several of our tenants at buildings including regeneration and, only when appropriate, the Angel Building, 1-5 Grosvenor Place, outright redevelopment.
The only aspect the Charlotte Building and 71-81 Whitfield that has changed over the years is that Street.
All of these negotiations have provided today we are able to work with larger us with increased control to progress our properties, while maintaining our focus future plans for these buildings and their on the detail.
Not only do the directors have a wealth Our long-term financing approach has been of experience within the property industry, keep it simple, keep it flexible, maintaining they also have the detailed knowledge a straightforward loan structure with our of our focused market gained from an core lenders backed by a sensible hedging average of 17 years with the company.
We have also maintained sustainable see page 46 In combination with a highly levels of gearing which have typically been skilled management team, we have a very lower than those of our peers.
strong track record in helping reshape central London through inspirational design backed with sound business sense.
Previous page: The Angel Building, EC1 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 12 Strategy of our management team, the consistency 1 Gearing of our message and an approach to risk % that rewards our shareholders without 120 endangering the business have all contributed to our reputation.
We have put in place 100 flexible and affordable finance that works with our portfolio matched by hedging and financial covenants that provide us with 80 resilience.
It is testament to the strength of our banking relationships and to the banks 60 support for the group and its covenant position that, during the challenging 40 economic climate of 2008 and 2009, we refinanced three facilities totalling 253m 20 including 125m renewed in April 2009.
Whether it is building design or delivery, lease management or stable financing, putting in place the right resources is crucial for the Derwent London balance sheet gearing effective and efficient execution of our strategy.
Derwent London property gearing LTV We have the right resources, we employ the Peer group balance sheet gearing right people and we listen to the right advisers.
Peer group property gearing LTV We cultivate strong working relationships 1 Peer group figures calculated as a weighted average with all our external consultants.
With each of FTSE 350 property companies new project, these relationships evolve This approach has contributed to the fact and strengthen.
We are always receptive that, during a year when the majority of to new ideas, believing that it is essential to K eep it simple, other listed property companies went to nurture, encourage and embrace the next the market for additional funding through generation of talent.
Once we have forged keep it flexible deeply discounted rights issues, we were new relationships, they often grow in tandem the only major REIT not to raise equity in with each new project.
The average discount across the balanced in a multitude of ways and is approach to listed property sector for these cash calls characterised by a plethora of opportunities was 64%.
This has contributed to our for development and value growth.
shareholder return of 86.7% during 2009, Underpinning the whole of our operation is financing a significant outperformance versus the our stable and flexible approach to financing.
FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment Trust Index of 11.4%.
It is a combination of these resources and our robust strategy that has enabled Over the years, we have cultivated strong us to weather the recent downturn so well relationships with institutional investors and delivering 82 lettings during 2008 and more banks, which have provided us with equity than 100 lettings right across the portfolio and loan finance.
The experience and stability during 2009.
People Relationships Experienced board Tenants Skilled leasing and External consultants development team The right team for In-house property the right job management team Banks and financial Dedicated and institutions committed staff Concentration The right formula on 17 London villages Portfolio Finance Low average rent Keep it simple, keep Balanced portfolio it flexible approach Mix of tenants Sufficient headroom Flexible pipeline with Sustainable a range of exciting gearing levels possibilities Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 13 Strategy 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
