Bo ard o f directors R. A. Rayne, 61 J. D. Burns, 65 R. A. Farnes, 64 Chief executive officer Non-executive chairman Senior independent director The Hon R. A. Rayne joined the board Mr Burns has been a director of the Mr Farnes is a chartered surveyor.
He was company since 1984 and has overall in February 2007.
He has been on the previously the chairman of CB Hillier Parker boards of a number of public companies, responsibility for group strategy, business and joined the board in 2003.
He chairs the development and day-to-day operations.
including First Leisure Corporation plc remuneration committee and is a member and Crown Sports plc and is currently He is a non-executive director of The of the audit and nominations committees.
Davis Service Group plc and a partner chief executive officer of LMS Capital plc, a company listed on the London Stock in The Pilcher Hershman Partnership, S. J. Neathercoat, 61 estate agents.
He is also a non-executive Non-executive director director of Weatherford International Inc. Mr Neathercoat is a chartered accountant.
S. P. Silver, 59 an international oil services company He joined the board in 1999 and chairs quoted on the New York Stock Exchange, Head of development the audit committee whilst serving Mr Silver has overall responsibility for the and was chief executive officer of on the remuneration and nominations London Merchant Securities plc.
He is chairman of London He became a director in 1986 and is an Medical Technologies plc and was J. C. Ivey, 68 honorary fellow of the Royal Institute of previously a managing director of British Architects.
He is also a partner in Non-executive deputy chairman Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
A chartered accountant, Mr Ivey was a The Pilcher Hershman Partnership.
director of RWS Holdings plc until January S. A. Corbyn, 65 2010 and was formerly chief executive D. M. A. Wisniewski, 48 Non-executive director Finance director of The Davis Service Group plc.
He has Mr Corbyn is a charted surveyor.
served on the board since 1984 and is Mr Wisniewski joined the board on He was appointed to the board in 2006.
He is a chartered a member of the nominations committee.
Until December 2008, he was chief accountant and has overall responsibility executive of Cadogan Estates, one of the for financial strategy, treasury, taxation principal private estates in London, and is and financial reporting.
Previously, a former president of the British Property he was finance director of Treveria Asset Federation.
He chairs the nominations Management.
Prior to that, he was chief committee and is a member of the audit operating officer of the Wood Wharf Limited and remuneration committees.
Partnership and group finance director of Chelsfield plc.
J. fide Moller, 62 Non-executive director N. Q. George, 46 Mrs fide Moller joined the board in Executive director February 2007.
She is a non-executive A chartered surveyor, Mr George director of Temple Bar Investment was appointed to the board in 1998.
Trust plc and Archant Limited.
Previously, He has responsibility for acquisitions she was managing director of Carlton and investment analysis.
Communications Plc and a non-executive director of Cookson Group plc, BT plc, P. M. Williams, 49 AWG plc, J Sainsbury plc and London Executive director Merchant Securities plc.
She is a Mr Williams is a chartered surveyor and member of the audit, remuneration was appointed to the board in 1998. and nominations committees.
His responsibilities include portfolio management, supervision of refurbishment D. Newell, 67 and development projects and sustainability.
Non-executive director Mr Newell is a charted surveyor.
He joined D. G. Silverman, 40 the board in February 2007.
Previously, Executive director he was senior partner of Hillier Parker May Mr Silverman joined the board in January & Rowden, chairman of the Europe, Middle 2008.
He is a chartered surveyor and is East and Africa division of CB Richard Ellis responsible for investment acquisitions Services Inc. a non-executive director of and disposals.
London Merchant Securities plc and a past president of the British Council of Offices.
He is a member of the audit, remuneration Previous page: The Angel Building, EC1 and nominations committees.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 46 Governance
