10 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Quality thinking Development A high quality building satisfies demand and Building case studies: generates improved cash flow.
Wells & More, 45 Mortimer Street, W1 Understanding our tenants needs has helped to produce an outstanding result for our 112,800 sq ft mixed use development at Wells & More, 45 Mortimer Street, W1.
At Wells & More we sought to considerably improve the quality of building stock in the centre of a key GPE holding and attract major new occupiers to the area.
We commenced the development in October 2006, increasing the previous area on the site by 52%, with completion in January 2009.
Even before construction had started our development and leasing experts were focused on maximising the letting potential of the building to reduce our development risk and help reduce the void period post completion.
In the same week the building completed we let 60,900 sq ft of office space to fashion retailer New Look with the quality of the building greatly contributing to this early letting success.
An under utilised site We think about the potential occupiers of our buildings well before we Poor quality space begin construction.
After all, tenants are key to our success and we Low rental value endeavour to understand their needs and aspirations during the planning Limited letting prospects application and building design stages.
This allows us to produce high quality buildings which are in tune with potential occupiers, and combined with our detailed knowledge of the West End leasing market, ultimately leads to key lettings such as New Look.
Marc Wilder Leasing Manager Construction Pre-construction Start thinking about the occupier Know who potential occupiers are Understanding occupier needs Identify potential occupiers early Analyse the target market Design the building accordingly Build up market awareness Letting briefing to the agents Monitor demand, understand the market 11 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials 54% let at completion Sq ft increased to 112,800 We needed a new headquarters which supported our objective: Landmark building to seek and retain the highest quality staff but at a competitive cost.
Rental income 49 per sq ft Wells & More fitted this brief perfectly and we worked with GPE to High spec interior Quickly occupied create this opportunity within a financial framework acceptable to both parties.
GPE were flexible and supportive and we looking forward to working in this first class office environment Carl McPhail, New Look Chief Executive move in sign Completion Engage with occupiers In-house leasing expertise gives invaluable insight Direct discussions with occupier Exemplary attention to detail Customer focused leasing Advise on building fit out Up to the minute market knowledge Pragmatic leasing policy
