35 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials Property industry Directors and senior management are encouraged to represent the Companys views and contribute towards the development of the property industry.
Toby Courtauld is a member of the Management Board of the Investment Property Forum and a member of the Policy Committee of the British Property Federation BPF.
Robert Noel is Chairman of the Westminster Property Association WPA, an association of property owners and their advisers in the City of Westminster and is on the Board of the New West End Company, a formal Business Improvement District encompassing Bond Street, Oxford Street and Regent Street.
During the course of the year WPA was actively involved in lobbying Westminster City Council, through a series of workshops, on the development of its Core Strategy as part of the Local Development Scheme, the key planning framework under which the Group will have to operate over the next decade.
In addition, it has had ongoing discussions with EDF on power supply and the Mayors office on planning policy as well as hosting a number of seminars on topical property issues for its members.
In June 2008 we joined the Considerate Constructors Client Partnership and have taken an active part in debating the direction of the Scheme.
Objectives and targets Great Portland Estates set a total of 43 CR targets at the beginning of 2008 covering the key areas of: our people: environment and the portfolio: tenants and the community: health and safety: suppliers: and investors.
81% of these were fully achieved.
If targets have not been achieved, where relevant, these have been included again for 2009 to emphasise our commitment.
Details of the Groups 2008 2009 and 2009 2010 objectives and targets can be found on the Companys website at www.
To ensure the highest level of achievement, where 81 % appropriate, elements of the Groups objectives and targets are also included within individual of CR objectives and targets employees objectives and targets.
were fully achieved Progress against CR objectives and targets C D B A A 100% met 35 C Less than 50% met 4 B 80% to 90% met 3 D Energy figures still to be verified 1 Environment and the portfolio The Group is committed to effective environmental management to ensure that appropriate environmental policies are set to assist in future proofing the Groups portfolio to meet rapidly changing legislation requirements and resulting tenant demands.
We regard regulatory compliance as a minimum standard.
The Groups Environmental Policy Statement is reviewed annually by the Board and may be viewed on the Companys website at www.
co. uk corporate responsibility environmental
