44 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Directors Martin Scicluna B. Com, FCA Chairman, Non-Executive Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2008 and became Chairman on 16 March 2009.
Non-Executive Director of Lloyds Banking Group and previously Chairman of Deloitte from 1995 to 2007.
Member of the Nomination Committee.
Toby Courtauld MA, MRICS Chief Executive With MEPC from 1991 to 2002, joined the Group and appointed to the Board in 2002.
A Non-Executive Director of Liv-ex and of the London Board of Royal & Sun Alliance, a member of the Management Board of the Investment Property Forum and of the Policy Committee of the British Property Federation.
Timon Drakesmith BSc, FCA Finance Director Formerly Group Director of Financial Operations at Novar plc, previously with Credit Suisse and Barclays.
Joined the Group and appointed to the Board in 2005.
Member of the Finance Committee of the British Property Federation.
Robert Noel BSc, MRICS Property Director A director of Nelson Bakewell from 1992 to 2002, joined the Group and appointed to the Board in 2002.
Chairman of the Westminster Property Association and a director of New West End Company.
Neil Thompson BSc Hons, MRICS Development Director With Derwent Valley from 1996 to 2002 and previously with Legal & General.
Joined the Group in 2002 and appointed to the Board in 2006.
45 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials Kathleen ODonovan BSc Econ, FCA Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committees of Prudential and Trinity Mirror, member of the Audit Committee of Arm Holdings and Chairman of the Invensys Pension Fund Trustee Board.
Previously a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Court of the Bank of England and EMI Group and a Non-Executive Director of O.
Appointed to the Board in 2003.
Chairman of the Nomination and Audit Committees and Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Charles Irby FCA Non-Executive Director A Non-Executive Director of North Atlantic Smaller Companies Investment Trust and QBE Insurance Group.
Appointed to the Board in 2004.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Member of the Audit Committee.
Phillip Rose MA, FFin, FSI Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer of Alpha Real Capital and a Non-Executive Director of Hermes Property Unit Trust.
Head of Real Estate for ABN Amro from 2002 to 2005 and formerly Chief Operating Officer of TrizecHahn Europe and Managing Director of Lend Lease Global Investments.
Appointed to the Board in 2005.
Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Jonathan Short BSc, ACIB Non-Executive Director Founding Partner and Chief Investment Officer of Internos Real Investors LLP, a pan European real estate investment management business.
Non-Executive Director of Big Yellow Group plc, and Trustee and UK Chairman of the Urban Land Institute.
Appointed to the Board in 2007.
Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
