50 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Corporate governance Statement by the directors on compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code A summary of the system of governance adopted by the Company is set out below.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2009, the Company complied with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006.
The Board of directors The Board comprises the Chairman, four Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board, and the Chief Executive for the day-to-day management of the Company, with the division of responsibilities approved by the Board.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the management and control of the Groups activities and good corporate governance.
The Board meets for scheduled Board meetings at least five times a year.
Key matters reserved for the Board include: the setting and monitoring of strategy, including dividend policy: reviewing performance and implementation of the strategy by the Executive Directors: reviewing the Groups property valuation: significant financing arrangements: examining major potential acquisitions and disposals: approval of major developments: interim, half year and annual reporting to shareholders: approving policy on key areas including sustainability objectives and targets, health and safety and the environment: Board appointments and the appointment of the Company Secretary: and corporate governance and Board evaluation.
At least once a year the Board reviews the nature and scale of matters reserved for its decision.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executives meet regularly without the Executive Directors, and at least twice a year the Non-Executives meet without the Chairman.
In addition, individual directors meet regularly outside the formal Board meetings as part of each directors contribution to the delivery of the Companys strategy and review of operations.
The Executive Directors meet weekly as the Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, to deal with the ongoing management of the Group with copies of the minutes of these meetings distributed to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
The biographies of all members of the Board are set out on pages 44 and 45.
Richard Peskin who was Managing Director until March 2000, was Non-Executive Chairman of the Board until his retirement on 16 March 2009.
Martin Scicluna, who was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2008, became Non-Executive Chairman of the Board on 16 March 2009, Toby Courtauld is Chief Executive and Kathleen ODonovan is the Senior Independent Director.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered to be independent of the executive management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information, including briefing papers distributed in advance of Board meetings and regular property tours.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Chairman on matters of corporate governance.
The directors may, at the Companys expense, take independent professional advice and are offered formal training in specific areas relevant to either their speciality or Committee roles or to the Board as a whole.
On appointment, new Non-Executive Directors, who are expected to provide a time commitment to the Company of at least 24 days a year, are provided with a detailed induction programme on the Companys operations, including social, ethical and environmental matters, and meet with senior management as part of a guided tour of the Groups main properties.
As part of his induction for becoming Chairman, Martin Scicluna, as a Non-Executive Director, attended Audit Committee meetings reviewing the half year results and the year end planning and Remuneration Committee meetings reviewing bonuses, long-term incentive awards and remuneration levels for the forthcoming year.
Conflicts of interest In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association were amended at the 2008 Annual General Meeting to allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by non-conflicted directors those who have no interest in the matter being considered and in making such a decision the directors must act in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Company has established a procedure whereby actual and potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed by the Board and for proper authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment of any new director and the Board consider these procedures to be working effectively.
