29 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials Cash collection and tenant delinquencies For the first three quarters of the year our cash collection profile was in line with our experience over recent years and we exceeded our target of collecting 96% of quarterly rent after seven working days.
As anticipated, the March 2009 quarter saw a worsening of the collection rates to 94% 94% after seven working days.
During the final quarter of our financial year four of our tenants March 2009 quarter rent went into administration, generating arrears of around 0.01% of rent roll December 2008 four collected in seven days tenants, 0.1% of rent roll, the largest being a retailer in Regent Street.
Less than 1% of our rent roll is subject to monthly payments.
At year end 20.6% of the Groups rent roll including share of joint ventures was covered by bank guarantees or rent deposits amounting to 14.4 million.
The segmentation of our tenant base is shown on page 4.
Taxation The current tax credit in the income statement for the year is 0.1 million 2008 charge: 0.1 million as a result of the tax free nature of much of the Groups income and other allowances being available to set against non-REIT profits.
The low level of taxable profits for the year meant the Groups underlying effective tax rate was around minus 1% 2008: 5%.
The Group complied with all relevant REIT tests for the financial year.
Dividend The Board has declared a final dividend of 8 pence per share 2008: 8 pence per share which will be paid on 14 July 2009.
This brings the total dividend for the year to 12 pence per share, an increase of 0.8% over last year.
Of the final dividend 6 pence per share is a REIT Property Income Distribution PID in respect of the Groups tax exempt property rental business.
Further information on the tax treatment of dividends can be found on the Groups website.
Outlook We believe that UK economic conditions are unlikely to return to growth before the second half Our operational of 2010.
Rising unemployment and business contraction will put downward pressure on rental priorities remain values during this period, although the rate of decline will differ across central London sub-sectors.
However, we expect Londons commercial property values to recover earlier than its occupational cash generation markets as investors pre-empt the return to rental growth.
We anticipate that valuation falls over and tenant retention the next six months are likely, albeit at a lower run rate than that seen recently.
Since the peak of the property market in the summer of 2007, the current economic downturn has produced one of the most severe asset value corrections ever recorded.
The Rights Issue announced on 19 May 2009 substantially increases the resources we will have available to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities which are emerging as a result.
For this year, our operational priorities remain cash generation, tenant retention and targeted investment in fundamentally cheap assets in our core central London markets.
We expect that a combination of our intense focus on local markets, the central West End location of many of our buildings and the value for money offered by our properties will support rental income levels.
We remain confident that our disciplined approach and flexible capital structure will underpin the long-term prospects of the Group.
