37 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials Resource management Target Actual % 2008 2009 achieved achieved To ensure 25% of energy purchased for our aggregate portfolio, based on the available electricity capacity for a building supply provided by the distribution network Very Good AVCAP, is on green energy tariffs 25% 32% 128% BREEAM rating achieved To introduce long life light bulbs throughout individual at Tooley Street, SE1 and buildings in 70% of landlord managed areas 70% 70% 100% 60 Great Portland Street, W1 To engage 20% of tenants in multi-let buildings over three years in a programme of target and monitoring energy usage 7% 8% 114% To ensure appropriate actions are implemented for all buildings where energy audits are completed 100% 82% 82% To set up new recycling schemes in 20% of portfolio 20% 26% 130% Development All our major developments are subject to BREEAM rating with a target to achieve a rating of Very Good on major refurbishments and Excellent on all new build properties, with renewable energy considered at the design phase.
Each development is continually reviewed throughout the project to identify ways to maximise energy efficiency and promote sustainable resource use.
In 2008 we achieved a Very Good rating on our developments at Tooley Street, SE1 and 60 Great Portland Street, W1.
Our in-house Project Management Team undertakes an environmental compliance audit on selected projects to further understand and report on our performance achievements.
Details of the Groups 2008 2009 and 2009 2010 environmental objectives and targets can be found on the Company website at www.
co. uk corporate responsibility environmental Tenants and the community The Group recognises that local initiatives are important in enhancing various aspects which serve to improve and promote central London, and supports a number of groups including the Westminster Property Association, Westminster City Council, Transport for London and the New West End Company in their work to address issues such as planning, transport and security.
In respect of the New West End Company, the Group has made voluntary contributions to match those of the Groups tenants to support its activities to ensure Londons West End continues to be unsurpassed as a leading destination around the globe.
Key activities include marketing, traffic free shopping days, way finding, street cleansing, crime prevention and public realm improvements on Oxford Street, Regent Street and Bond Street all in W1.
In addition, in partnership with the Westminster City Council and various retailer associations, we have provided sponsorship for activities such as West End Live and decorations at Christmas as well providing contributions to the W1W Tree initiative for the planting of trees along Great Portland Street, W1 to enhance the local environment close to our properties.
Mindful of supporting communities local to our portfolio we have also provided sponsorship of the Bermondsey Street festival and an open day at the Unicorn Theatre in Southwark.
