Key PerfOrmAnCe inDiCAtOrs How we measure our performance we monitor the performance of our business by measuring three principal indicators against appropriate benchmarks.
set against the background of our strategy, these Key Performance indicators, or KPis, demonstrate the extent to which earnings and valuation growth drive returns.
Growth in portfolio and equity returns should, over time, be reflected in improved shareholder returns.
the sources of the information used to calculate KPis are management reporting systems and iPD.
Return on shareholders Portfolio returns 3 equity ROE relative to IPD Occupancy ROE represents the income and The Group compares the total The ERV of the space in the portfolio Description capital returns in a year expressed as returns it achieves from its portfolio which is currently let, as a 1 4 a percentage of shareholders equity against the relevant IPD index.
percentage of the total portfolio.
It is a measure of how effective It enables the Group to monitor the The Group aims to maximise the Why it is important Hammerson is in generating a returns it achieves from its portfolio occupancy of its properties as return on the equity invested by against a recognised benchmark.
income lost through vacancy has shareholders in the business.
Benchmark 8.5% IPD Universe 1.0% 97.0% estimated cost of equity 2 2008 actual -32.5% -16.2% 95.2% IPD Universe: -13.6% 2009 actual -16.9% -0.5% 95.2% IPD Universe: 2.8% Financial and property returns Financial and property returns Business Review Commentary p23 p23 p29 notes 1 Please refer to the glossary on page 126 for a full definition.
2 excluding deferred tax and the uK reit entry charge.
3 2009 data refers to uK data only, based on the iPD quarterly index, as the uK annual index was unavailable at the time of publication.
there is no french quarterly index and the french annual iPD index was unavailable at the time of publication.
the figures will be updated when the annual indices are available.
4 ePrA has issued revised guidance for the calculation of vacancy.
Previously, vacancy was reported as a percentage of the total erv of a property or portfolio.
the revised definition expresses vacancy as a percentage of rents passing plus the erv of vacant space.
we have adopted this new definition and restated our 2008 comparatives for vacancy and occupancy data.
Five-year record for key performance indicators 97 Cost of equity IPD Universe 1% Return on equity Portfolio total return The chart above shows returns and indices for 2005 to Occupancy 2008 for the UK and French portfolios weighted by value.
Target The data for 2009 is for the UK only as the IPD index for France was not available at the time of publication.
