BOArD Of DireCtOrs 1 3 5 4 2 8 7 6 9 On behalf of the Board, I would like to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders for their continued support during 2009.
John Nelson Chairman 6 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2009 Overview 1.
Jacques Espinasse Chairman non-executive Director John Nelson, a Chartered Accountant, Jacques Espinasse was appointed was appointed Chairman in 2005 and is a Non-Executive Director and member a member of the Remuneration Committee of the Audit Committee in 2007.
He is a and Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
non-executive director of AXA Belgium, He is deputy chairman and the senior Maroc Telecom, SES and LBPAM.
independent director of Kingfisher plc and senior advisor to Charterhouse 7.
John Hirst Capital Partners LLP.
non-executive Director John Hirst, a Chartered Accountant, 2.
David Atkins joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director Chief executive in 2004 and is Chairman of the Audit David Atkins, a Chartered Surveyor, joined the Committee.
He is chief executive of the Met Company in 1998 and was appointed to the Office, a director of Epilepsy Research UK Board of the Companys UK business in 2003. and a trustee of Epilepsy Bereaved.
He was appointed an Executive Director of Hammerson in 2007 and Chief Executive 8.
He is also a board Chief financial Officer member of the European Public Real Estate Simon Melliss, a Chartered Accountant, joined Association and member of the British Council the Company in 1991 as group financial of Shopping Centres advisory committee.
controller, having worked in various financial positions for other companies, and was 3.
Peter Cole appointed Chief Financial Officer in 1995.
Chief investment Officer He is a non-executive director and chairman Peter Cole, a Chartered Surveyor, joined the of the audit committee of Whitbread PLC and Company in 1989 as a senior development a member of the committee of management surveyor and was appointed to the Board of Hermes Property Unit Trust.
of the Companys UK business in 1992.
He was appointed an Executive Director 9.
Anthony Watson CBe of Hammerson in 1999.
He is a general non-executive Director council member and past president of Tony Watson was appointed a Non-Executive the City Property Association.
He is the Senior Independent Director, Chairman 4.
Terry Duddy of the Remuneration Committee and is non-executive Director a member of the Audit and Nomination Terry Duddy was appointed a Non-Executive Committees.
He is chairman of Marks & Director of Hammerson on 3 December 2009 Spencer Pension Trust Limited and the Asian and is a member of the Audit and Nomination Infrastructure Fund Limited and a member Committees.
He is chief executive of Home of the Shareholder Executive Advisory Group.
He is also a non-executive director of Lloyds Banking Group plc, Witan Investment Trust PLC and Vodafone Group plc and is on the advisory 5.
David Edmonds CBe board of Norges Bank Investment Management.
non-executive Director David Edmonds was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Hammerson in 2003 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He acts as Chairman to the Hammerson Pension Scheme Trustees.
He is chairman of Wincanton plc, the Legal Services Board and NHS Shared Business Services Limited.
He is also a non-executive director of William Hill plc and the Olympic Park Legacy Company.
