Business AnD finAnCiAl review PrOPerty mArKets AnD OutlOOK investment mArKet In France, consumer confidence remained low throughout 2009, The commercial property markets in the UK saw a notable improvement resulting in falling retail sales.
However, with the French economy during the second half of 2009, whilst the French markets stabilised.
returning to growth in the second quarter, consumer confidence has Following systemic failures within the international financial system, the shown a gradual improvement and retail sales grew throughout much global economy fell into the deepest post-war recession on record during of the second half of the year.
Unlike the UK, the downturn in sales did early 2009.
The extent of the downturn prompted coordinated action by not result in a large number of retailers entering administration.
central banks and governments, providing extensive support for financial Although a difficult retail environment precluded an expansion of markets and economic activity.
This in turn led to an improvement in real operations in France, fewer administrations and the payment of key estate investor sentiment during the second half of 2009 and saw money by retailers prevented a significant increase in the level of demand for commercial property investment increase, supporting lower vacancies and supported rental values, particularly in the most prime yields and higher property valuations.
For existing leases, the rate of indexation under the In the UK, the volume of property transactions increased in 2009 by ILC index fell to 0.84% at 1 January 2010, down from 3.85% in the around 6%, compared with 2008, reflecting a rapid increase in sales previous year, following lower inflation and weaker retail sales.
activity during the second half of the year.
The quarterly IPD all-property OffiCe PrOPerty equivalent yield moved out 80 basis points during the first half of the The Central London office market closely mirrored the fall and recovery year, before falling back 100 basis points in the second half to 8.0%.
experienced across global financial markets.
Having fallen to its lowest As a result, both retail properties and offices recorded total returns level on record in the first quarter of the year, the take-up of office space of more than 10% in the last six months of 2009. in Central London progressively improved throughout the rest of 2009, In France, where the Group has 34% of its portfolio, sales volumes 2 ending the year strongly with 0.3 million m of space leased in the reached a ten year quarterly low during the first three months of 2009. fourth quarter.
Transaction levels steadily improved throughout the year but the Despite the pick-up in leasing activity in the latter part of the year, take-up weakness of the first half meant that the volume of transactions was was down 23% on 2008, and coincided with the completion of an 40% below that seen in 2008.
The latest market analysis shows shopping 2 additional 0.6 million m of new space.
The Central London vacancy rate centre and office yields stabilising and moving in for the best assets.
increased from 5.3% at the start of the year to 7.2% by the end of 2009, Shopping centre values fell during 2009 by an estimated 8.0%.
with the highest rates in the City at 8.5%.
City rents fell by around 20% Property yields are still above their long-term average and greater than 2 in the year to 43.50 ft, whilst incentive packages increased to the many other investment classes.
As such the investment market in 2010 equivalent of a 30 month rent free period on a ten year lease.
should improve further, provided investor demand is sustained.
The level City office vacancy rates, which fell in the second half of 2009, are of improvement will remain dependent upon the strength of economic expected to continue to decline in 2010 as sustained take-up and fewer recovery and sustained policy support.
Outstanding bank loans to UK developments erode availability, providing a firm base for rental commercial property remain very high at around 250 billion and stabilisation and subsequent growth.
Following delays and cancellations around 160 billion of this debt is due to be refinanced before the end over the past two years, new completions are set to fall further of 2013.
The need for banks to reduce their lending to commercial throughout the early part of this decade, increasing the probability property and the refinancing requirement are likely to dampen the of a medium-term recovery in net rents as demand returns.
retAil PrOPerty In the UK, non-food retail sales values fell by around 2% in 2009, significantly less than forecast at the start of the year.
The higher than expected level of sales came in the face of rising unemployment and low consumer confidence and has been attributed in part to the impact of lower interest rates on mortgages.
Whilst sales were better than expected, trading conditions for retailers remained difficult throughout the year, reducing the demand for new stores.
Looking ahead, the recovery in retail is likely to be fragile as improved confidence is set to be tempered by rising taxation, the potential for rising interest rates and the level of unemployment.
Following a rise in new retail space in 2008, the level of development completions fell by around half in 2009, and is expected to fall again in 2010.
With demand for new space remaining low and some retailers closing stores, UK retail vacancy rates were higher in the year, weighing negatively upon rental levels.
According to the IPD Quarterly Index, retail rents fell by 6.1% in 2009, the largest annual fall on record.
In Hammersons experience, the rise in vacancies has been less severe in prime locations, with retailers in some cases deciding to use the opportunity to open new stores in the best retail centres.
