Business AnD finAnCiAl review finAnCiAl AnD PrOPerty returns returns The table below provides information on the financial returns achieved Our objective is to achieve a return on equity in excess of our cost in 2009 and compares them with appropriate benchmark indices.
To achieve this, we set hurdle rates for investment.
The hurdle The returns include those from joint ventures.
rates are based on a minimum five-year internal rate of return and are The IPD annual return was not available at the time of publication, adjusted according to the risk associated with each project and to reflect so the IPD benchmarks shown for the UK portfolio are based on the the cost of borrowing in euros where appropriate.
There is no benchmark for total portfolio returns which When appropriate, the returns that would be generated by buying in the is comparable with Hammersons geographical portfolio allocation.
Companys own shares are evaluated against the potential returns from IPD data relating to the returns of the French property sector in 2009 property investment and development.
will be available only after this Annual Report has been published.
Returns data for 2009 Return % Benchmark % UK portfolio capital return -5.9 UK IPD Universe capital -4.1 UK portfolio income return 5.7 UK IPD Universe income 7.1 UK portfolio total return -0.5 UK IPD Universe total 2.8 Total portfolio capital return -9.2 n a Total portfolio income return 5.6 n a Total portfolio total return -4.1 n a Return on shareholders equity -16.9 Estimated cost of equity 8.5 Total shareholder return over one year 24.2 FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK index over one year 14.9 Total shareholder return over three years p. a.
-23.9 FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK index over three years p. a.
-26.6 Total shareholder return over five years p. a.
-3.6 FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK index over five years p. a.
-7.0 An analysis of capital and total returns by business segment is provided Hammersons return on shareholders equity for the year ended on pages 25 and 26 of the Business Review.
The income element of the return on shareholders equity will tend to be relatively low given the high quality The IPD Universe includes retail, office and industrial returns for all of the property portfolio, as described above.
In 2009 the capital element grades of property in the UK, although Hammerson does not invest of the return on equity was negative due to the decline in value of the in the industrial sector.
The underperformance of the IPD Universe capital portfolio during the first half of the year, reflecting market conditions.
return index arose because Hammersons portfolio is weighted towards Total shareholder return for 2009 outperformed the FTSE EPRA NAREIT shopping centres, which recovered less strongly than other sectors UK index by more than nine percentage points.
Over the last five years, in the second half of the year.
Prime shopping centres and offices provide Hammersons average annual total shareholder return has been -3.6% low initial yields reflecting the high quality of these assets.
Consequently, compared with -7.0% for the EPRA NAREIT index.
the income returns for our portfolio are lower than the index.
