Business frAmewOrK leGAl AnD reGulAtOry frAmewOrK strAteGy AnD risK mAnAGement Hammerson operates in the UK and France where planning regimes The Groups strategy, which is covered in the interview with the impose restrictions on new property developments.
These restrictions Chief Executive on pages 8 to 10 and on pages 11 to 17, is set by the are particularly onerous in the case of large retail schemes, limiting the Board and documented in the Groups annual business plan for supply of new space and thereby benefiting owners of existing retail the following three years.
The strategy and associated action plans properties.
By contrast, it is generally easier to gain permission to create take into account the current and anticipated conditions in property new office buildings, which can lead to more marked imbalances markets.
A review of the property markets in 2009 and the outlook between supply and demand, resulting in greater fluctuations in rents is set out opposite.
From a developers perspective, the planning process can The Groups real estate strategy is supported by operational and financial sometimes be uncertain and protracted.
strategies implemented within a risk management framework designed In the UK, contracts to lease property are governed principally by the to identify and manage risk.
More details of these strategies are provided Landlord and Tenant Act 1954.
The duration of a typical lease is 10-15 in the Business and Financial Reviews on pages 24, 32 and 37 respectively.
years, with rent payable quarterly in advance and with rent reviews at A summary of the principal risks faced by Hammerson and how these the end of each five year period.
Rent reviews are generally upward only are managed is set out on pages 20 and 21. whereby the rent will be increased to the market rent, unless the market Key PerfOrmAnCe inDiCAtOrs rent is lower than the passing rent, in which case it will remain unchanged.
We use financial and operational measures to monitor the performance Occupiers bear the responsibility for repairing and insuring the property.
The Key Performance Indicators KPIs which we believe The trend in the UK is for a more flexible approach by property owners, are most important to the Groups performance are shown on page 22 which may include shorter leases, rent which is related to an occupiers and details of our financial and property returns are on page 23. turnover and rents being paid monthly.
Leases in France are governed by the Code du Commerce and a typical COrPOrAte resPOnsiBility lease is of around ten years duration, with the occupier often having the The impact of our business on the environment and our stakeholders, right to break the lease every three years.
Rent for the majority of leases is including employees and the communities in which we operate, revised annually according to one of two official indices which are related is discussed on pages 38 and 39 and pages 42 to 47. to retail prices, retail sales and construction costs.
Rents may go up or down depending on changes in the index.
Occupiers have the right COntrACtuAl relAtiOnsHiPs to renew their leases for a further term at the end of the lease.
Our principal contractual relationships are with occupiers, joint venture partners, managing agents and building contractors.
However, due Hammerson is subject to various environmental laws and regulations in to the number and diversity of the businesses with whom we deal, the UK and France.
In particular, our office and retail portfolio investment there are no individual contractual arrangements which are essential activities are subject to: to the Groups business.
As part of our discussion of the security of Energy efficiency objectives Hammersons income stream, details of our largest occupiers by Carbon emission reduction commitments rental income are provided in the Business Review on page 29.
Landfill regulations We also have important relationships with our banks and bondholders who, together with shareholders, finance the Group.
We use a number of banks and our bonds are widely held by a diverse range of investors.
Accordingly our financing risk is not concentrated with any particular lender.
