HumAn resOurCes Our people are key to building and enhancing our reputation.
Hammerson invests in its people, enabling them to maximise their potential and their contribution to the business.
Our objective is to provide a working environment that motivates and OrGAnisAtiOn develops people to achieve their maximum potential and achieve an In the UK we reviewed the organisational structure and certain business alignment between the Companys strategy and the individuals talents.
We do this through performance appraisal, personal development We decided to employ directly the property managers at our UK shopping reviews and appropriate reward and recognition policies.
There are numerous advantages to this, not least the ability to Hammerson in the UK is recognised as an Investor in People IIP, having create synergies in areas such as marketing and facilities management first achieved this status in 1997.
IIP is a national UK quality standard for and the ability to offer specialist shopping centre management professionals effective investment in people, showing the importance an organisation the opportunity for career development.
The transfer of employment was places on the development of its staff.
well received by staff and we are already benefiting from these employees greater involvement and integration into Hammersons business.
The number of people employed directly by Hammerson has grown in recent years.
Formerly a company which outsourced much of its property We also redesigned our approach to leasing, reorganising our sales and management, Hammerson now employs around 240 people in the UK marketing functions to provide each customer with a single point of and 100 in France, of whom 125 are employed at our properties.
contact, and to give employees greater clarity over their responsibilities.
We are streamlining the arrangements for approval of tenant shop Hammerson reports on a number of performance indicators relating fittings, reducing both timescales and costs.
to employees as part of the Global Reporting Initiative.
During the year, the Company spent 338,400 on external staff training.
More data Finally, our legal services review was similarly designed to improve risk is available in the online CR report at www.
We already carry out much of our legal work on leases in-house in France, and have appointed a General enGAGement Counsel for the UK business.
Towards the end of 2009, all employees were invited to complete the Great Place to Work survey.
The response rate was 79% and the results provide a picture of staff attitudes across all areas of the business.
Encouragingly, the survey shows that the overwhelming majority of people at Hammerson take great pride in their jobs and their association with Hammerson and find it a friendly place to work.
We share the results with staff, discussing with them how areas for development will be addressed.
We will run the survey every year so we can track our progress over time.
Sally Learoyd Director, Human resources 38 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2009 Business AnD finAnCiAl review PersOnAl DevelOPment In 2009 we reviewed how individuals contribute to, and are supported by the organisation.
We looked at specific areas including: job descriptions: team responsibilities: the appraisal process: and career development.
Our aim is for employees to clearly understand: how they fit into the organisation: how their work contributes to Hammersons aims: how they are performing: and what opportunities they have to develop and progress.
We are making improvements to the appraisal systems we use in the Company.
Through these changes we will assess not only what people do, but also how they do it, encouraging adherence to corporate values and effective deployment of skills and knowledge.
We already train managers to review the performance of their staff.
In 2010 we will introduce devleopment programmes in the UK and France, to enhance managers leadership skills.
Across the Group in 2009, 34 people or 10% of staff moved into new roles.
Of these, 15 moves represented promotions and the remainder were to similar-level positions to broaden their experience and skills either in a different department or geographical location.
rewArD We aim to ensure that our employee reward policies encourage the Our aim is for employees highest levels of employee performance and enable us to attract and retain talented people.
In 2010 we will undertake some refinements to clearly understand how to improve the links between performance and reward, and to achieve the right balance between group and individual reward.
they fit into the organisation.
The remuneration of Directors is set out on pages 56 to 63.
It is intended that staff are provided with the opportunity to build a shareholding in the Company.
At 31 December 2009, 218 employees owned shares or participated in one of the Groups share plans.
Challenge solution we recognised a need to improve internal improving internal communications following feedback from employees communications.
in late 2009 we therefore held a workshop with people from across the business to identify potential improvements.
following an analysis of the results we adopted a number of new measures, including introducing quarterly strategy briefing sessions for staff: running informal knowledge-sharing sessions on projects and making internal communications more interactive.
