| Corporate governance Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited Group and parent a person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an company financial statements of Cobham plc for the year ended additional Director.
The Articles require Directors who have been appointed by the Board Business review since the previous AGM or who have held office for three years or more The Chairmans statement on page 6 of the Annual Report together since their previous appointment by shareholders or who, being with the Chief Executives review on pages 7 to 8, the Business review on non-executive, have held office for nine years or more since their first pages 14 to 21, the Financial review on pages 22 to 27, the Principal risks appointment by shareholders, to retire from office.
Accordingly, Marcus section on pages 28 to 29, the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Beresford, Mark Ronald, Andy Stevens and Warren Tucker will retire from office at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves section on pages 30 to 31 and the Corporate governance section on for election.
Both Andy Stevens and Warren Tucker have service pages 38 to 41 contain information that fulfils the requirements of the contracts with the Company, summary details of which can be found statutory business review and are incorporated in this Directors report in the Directors remuneration report on pages 42 to 49. by reference.
The statutory business review is addressed only to shareholders and its purpose is to provide a review of the business Subject to the Companys Articles, UK legislation and any directions and to explain the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
given by resolutions of the Company, the business of the Company is managed by the Board.
The Directors have been authorised to allot and Principal activities issue Ordinary Shares and to make market purchases of Ordinary Shares.
Providing a suite of end-to-end avionics products, law enforcement These powers are exercised under authority of resolutions passed at and national security solutions, and satellite communication the Companys AGM.
equipment for land, sea and air applications: Critical technology for network centric operations, moving Directors indemnity arrangements information around the digital battlefield, with customised and The Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity off-the-shelf solutions for people and systems to communicate arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope on land, sea and air: which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Providing safety and survival systems for extreme environments, 34 nose-to-tail refuelling systems and wing-tip to wing-tip mission Directors interests systems for fast jets, transport aircraft and rotor craft: None of the Directors is or was materially interested in any significant Delivering outsourced aviation services for military and civil customers contract during or at the end of the financial year, particulars of worldwide through military training, special mission flight operations, which are required to be disclosed by the Listing Rules of the UK outsourced commercial aviation and aircraft engineering.
Dividends Details of Directors share interests and of their rights to subscribe An interim dividend of 1.48p per ordinary share of 2.5p each in the for shares are shown in the Directors remuneration report on capital of the Company Ordinary Shares 2008: 1.345p was paid in pages 42 to 49.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 3.97p per Ordinary Share 2008: 3.61p payable on 5 July 2010 to ordinary Corporate governance shareholders on the register as at 28 May 2010, making a total ordinary The Companys statement on corporate governance is set out on dividend for the year of 5.45p 2008: 4.955p.
Board of Directors Share capital The current Directors are listed, together with short biographical notes, Details of movements in the share capital of the Company during the on page 32 to 33.
They all held office throughout the year except John year are given in note 29 to the Group financial statements and note 13 Devaney, who joined the Board on 1 February 2010.
Allan Cook retired to the parent company financial statements respectively.
as Chief Executive and as a Director on 31 December 2009, whereupon Andy Stevens took up the role of Chief Executive Officer.
David Turner At the AGM held on 6 May 2009, the Company was authorised to will stand down as Chairman at the conclusion of the Annual General purchase up to 114,182,538 Ordinary Shares.
This authority will expire Meeting AGM on 6 May 2010 and John Devaney will assume the Chair at the conclusion of the 2010 AGM.
Although no Ordinary Shares have at that time.
been purchased by the Company during the period from 6 May 2009 to the date of this report, a special resolution will be put to shareholders The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set at the AGM to renew the authority to make market purchases of out in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles copies of the Companys shares up to a maximum of 10% of the share capital which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by of the Company.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders passing a special resolution.
The Directors and the Company in the latter case by ordinary resolution may appoint www.
com | Corporate governance The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares and 6% Under the private placement of senior notes of 2009 whereby second cumulative preference shares of 1 each in the capital of the US$350m was raised, the Company must, in the event of a change Company are set out in the Articles.
of control, offer to repay the notes at 100% of the principal amount of the notes: Subject to applicable statutes, and to the rights conferred on the Under the 50m facility entered into with Abbey in November 2008, holders of any other shares, shares may be issued with such rights and the Company must, in the event of a change of control, repay within restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide or if 30 days all drawings, accrued interest, fees and other sums owing: there is no such resolution or so far as the resolution does not make Under the US$75m facility entered into with RBS in December 2008, specific provision as the Board may decide.
Holders of Ordinary Shares the Company must, in the event of a change of control, repay within are entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, 30 days all drawings, accrued interest, fees and other sums owing: to appoint one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate Under the US$75m facility entered into with BNP Paribas in June 2009, representatives and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of Ordinary Shares the Company must, in the event of a change of control, repay within 30 days all drawings, accrued interest, fees and other sums owing may receive a dividend and, on a liquidation, may share in the assets of Under the US$75m facility entered into with Bank of America in the Company.
Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive the January 2009, the Company must, in the event of a change of control, Companys annual reports.
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, repay within 30 days all drawings, accrued interest, fees and other holders of Ordinary Shares may requisition a general meeting of the sums owing: Company or the proposal of a resolution at an AGM.
Under the US$50m facility entered into with UBS in January 2009, the Company must, in the event of a change of control, repay within Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares 30 days all drawings.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote Post-balance sheet events include a US$105m private placement of and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and entitled senior notes entered into in January 2010.
This new facility has a change to vote has one vote for every 1 in nominal value of the shares of which of control repayment clause.
None of the Ordinary Shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
35 Under the FB Heliservices FBH shareholders agreement entered into in November 2004, change of control of either the Company or There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than: its subsidiary holding shares in FBH, without the prior written consent of that other FBH shareholder, entitles the other FBH shareholder Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by to purchase all of the Cobham Groups shareholding in FBH.
laws or regulations: Pursuant to the Companys code for securities transactions including Under the Sentinel contract, entered into in March 2006, the Company the requirement on the Directors and designated employees to must seek approval for any material change in the shareholding of the obtain approval to deal in the Companys shares: Company.
There is an ancillary Lease Agreement under which a change Where a person with an interest in the Companys shares has been of control may result in the termination of the lease if such event is likely served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company to have a material adverse effect on the Companys ability to perform with information concerning interests in those shares.
its obligations under the lease.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders Under the FSTA shareholders agreement entered into in June 2008, that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
a change of control of the Company may result in a required sale of the Companys shares in FSTA to the other shareholders.
Significant arrangements change of control The Company is party to the following significant agreements which Further information relating to change of control appears in the contain provisions which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change Directors remuneration report on pages 43 and 44 under the headings of control of the Company: Bonus Co-investment Plan, Performance Share Plan and Executive Share Option Scheme.
Under the 300m seven year multi-currency credit agreement entered into in July 2005, the Company must, in the event of a change Employee share schemes rights of control of control, repay within 30 days all drawings, accrued interest, fees If required to do so by the Company, the trustee of the Cobham Share and other sums owing.
Information relating to drawings at the year Incentive Plan the Plan will, on receipt of notice from the Company of end is contained on page 26 of the Financial Review: any offer, compromise, arrangement or scheme which affects shares Under the private placement of senior notes of 2002 whereby held in the Plan, invite participants to direct the trustee on the exercise US$225m was raised, of which US$170m is outstanding, the Company of any voting rights attaching to the shares held by the trustee on their must, in the event of a change of control, offer to repay the notes.
behalf and or direct how the trustee shall act in relation to those shares.
Any prepayment shall be at 100% of the principal amount of the notes plus, save in certain cases, a modified make-whole amount with respect to such principal amount together with accrued interest: Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | Corporate governance Directors report continued The trustee will not vote in respect of any shares held in the Plan in The importance of employee development and training is recognised respect of which it has received no directions nor will the trustee vote and Group businesses are required to encourage employees to take in respect of any shares which are unallocated under the Plan.
advantage of available and relevant training programmes and opportunities for advancement.
Research and development The Group continues to invest in the important area of Research and The Group encourages employee participation and consultation at all Development.
During the year the Group expended 88.3m 2008: levels and also the sharing of relevant business information.
Such an 70.5m on non-customer funded Research and Development.
The approach facilitates the development of new ideas and practices that management of each Group business is responsible for identifying and add value to the business, promotes team member commitment and carrying out suitable research and development programmes having helps to focus Company and employee expectations.
In-house regard to particular market and product needs.
newsletters, intranet, extranet and internet communications, Company announcements, team meetings and suggestion schemes all play a part Further information on research and development appears on pages in this process.
UK employees are given the opportunity to become 8, 11 and 25. shareholders in the Company through the Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme and the Cobham Share Incentive Plan.
Under the Major interests in shares former, employees can acquire shares through the exercise of options As at 2 March 2010, being a date not more than a month prior to the granted at a 20% discount to market value with savings made over three, date of the AGM notice, the Company had been notified of the following five or seven years.
Under the latter, shares may be purchased out of interests of 3% or more in the Ordinary Shares: pre-tax income.
Number of shares Percentage Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability at the date of at date of notification notification Information in relation to the Groups commitment to Corporate Legal & General Investment Responsibility and Sustainability including additional information Management Limited 79,659,748 6.96 in relation to employment matters is set out on pages 30 to 31.
Newton Investment Management Limited 69,095,823 6.05 36 Creditors payment policy Sprucegrove Investment Payment is generally made by Group companies to their creditors in Management Limited 57,730,347 5.00 accordance with agreed terms of business provided that those terms Invesco Limited 57,287,405 5.00 have been met.
It is the policy of the Company that all invoices are paid Barclays plc 38,994,753 3.43 within 30 days following the end of the month in which the invoices are approved.
The total amount of the Companys trade creditors falling Financial instruments due within one year at 31 December 2009 represents 44 days Notes 26, 27 and 28 to the Group financial statements and note 12 to 2008: 46 days worth as a proportion of the total amount invoiced the parent company financial statements contain disclosures relating by suppliers during the year ended on that date.
to the use of financial instruments.
Events after the balance sheet date People Note 36 to the Group financial statements contains information At the end of 2009, Cobham employed 12,077 people including in respect of post-balance sheet events.
contractors on five continents with major population centres in the UK, France, North America and Australia.
Political and charitable gifts No contributions were made to political organisations.
The amount Across Cobham, implementation of organisational structures designed donated during the year for charitable purposes was 85,423 2008: to support the Groups declared strategy of building its capabilities across 84,594.
Of this sum, individual donations in excess of 2,000 to all functions continued with an emphasis on collaboration to better UK charities were made to the value of 10,000 to armed services utilise resources and succession planning to increase opportunities for charities and 6,350 to business enterprise charities.
Land and buildings Cobham is committed to equal opportunities for all of its employees.
Details of the carrying amount and market values of the Groups The Group aims to ensure that the workplace is free from discrimination: investment properties are as disclosed in note 16 to the Group recruitment, selection and career development are based on financial statements.
competence and job requirements, irrespective of race, sex, sexual preference, religion or disability.
Cobham continues to monitor and Auditors improve its policies and practices to reflect the requirements of age The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their discrimination legislation.
With regard to employees who become willingness to continue in office and a resolution to re-appoint them disabled, the policy is to take all reasonable steps, including retraining, will be proposed at the AGM.
to ensure that they can remain in employment wherever practicable.
com | Corporate governance Annual General Meeting The Companys AGM will be held at 12 noon on Thursday, 6 May 2010 at the offices of UBS Investment Bank, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London EC2M 2PP.
The Company arranges for the notice of AGM and related papers to be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
By order of the Board Eleanor Evans Chief Legal Officer & Company Secretary, 3 March 2010 37 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009
