| Business overview Chief Executives review We delivered double digit earnings defence priorities, and by the US Department of Defense budgets, as the investment growth in 2009, with good growth priorities set out in these documents are from our defence and security well aligned with Cobhams capabilities.
businesses, despite weakness in the Mission Systems Division.
During 2010 the Group will seek to build on its Commercial markets, representing significant achievements to date, which will around one fifth of technology position it for the next stage of growth and Andy Stevens Chief Executive Officer evolution.
This will include consideration of: revenue, were difficult.
Highlights Strategy and prospects How further technology synergies and Strong performance from defence and The Groups strategy since 2005 has been cost efficiencies can be extracted by security business with organic growth to supply high growth, specialist aerospace adopting more integrated and standardised operating procedures via Centres of of 7%: although decline in commercial and defence markets with leading edge Excellence, to draw on best practice from activities resulted in 1% organic growth technologies.
This strategy will continue to be across the Group: overall for Technology Divisions.
pursued as it has been successful in delivering How future integration and standardisation strong revenue and earnings growth, excellent Integration of 2008 acquisitions savings should be invested to better cash generation and significant revenue successfully completed: strong results optimise the Groups competitive advantage: synergies from technology based acquisitions.
from Lansdale, SPARTA and M A-COM How to further refine Cobhams portfolio and non-core M A-COM Technology towards the areas of greatest competitive The long term success of Cobhams strategy Solutions business divested.
advantage: and has been recognised in a recent study by Bain Solid 2.4bn order book does not include The appropriate focus of acquisitions in & Co, the management consultancy, on more significant US$1.2bn VIS-X award.
The study was reported in The Times and measured 07 Overview of the year revenue and profit growth and return on capital 2009 was a strong year for Cobhams defence over the period 1998 to 2008.
It identified and security end markets but, as a result of 1939 Cobham as one of only 14 British companies the market downturn, the year has been that it described as sustained value creators.
difficult for Cobhams commercial businesses.
The large Lansdale, SPARTA and M A-COM Looking forward, the Group has technology acquisitions, completed in 2008 for some advantages, a solid order book and multi-year US$1.1bn in aggregate, have been successfully platform positions that afford excellent integrated and have delivered strong results revenue visibility.
With some three quarters and the non-core M A-COM Technology of Cobhams revenue derived from Defence Solutions MTS business has been divested.
and Security markets, the Groups activities Costs have been rapidly removed in the are concentrated in areas that are key defence commercial businesses impacted by the priorities, including the need to transmit and market downturn with other efficiency benefits receive increasing amounts of voice, data and achieved, to deliver further double digit growth video communications and the need to keep in Group earnings.
people safe in extreme environments.
Cobham is also well positioned in the national security The Group has a solid order book with a market and in faster growing geographies book-to-bill ratio in the year of 0.93 times, Flight Refuelling Ltd now part of Cobham Mission such as India and the Middle East.
Equipment operated four Harrow tankers.
One, reflecting in part the difficult conditions in shown here, tops up an Imperial Airways C Class commercial markets.
The large US Army As a result of these long term positions, flying-boat over Southamptons dock area prior to Vehicular Intercommunication System technology advantages and high barriers to the non-stop transatlantic air mail service in 1939.
Expanded VIS-X award, which was made entry, a review of the Groups prospects has during the year and which is worth up to concluded that, despite pressure on the US US$1.2bn to Cobham, is an unfunded Indefinite defence budget, these advantages and growth Delivery Indefinite Quantity IDIQ award and, in its specific markets support its target of apart from some small orders received, is not high single digit revenue and earnings growth reflected in the order intake or in the order over the medium term.
Cobham remains well placed in its supported by the February 2010 US markets and will be agile and responsive to Quadrennial Defence Review QDR, which procurement fluctuations.
sets out the US governments medium term Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | Business overview Chief Executives review continued Investment in leading Headline revenue growth was 28%, although schedule, included the separation of M A-COMs edge technologies organic revenue growth has been slower than information technology IT systems and back Cobham develops and brings to market anticipated at 1% for the three Technology office functions from its former owner and the products that are in high demand and at Divisions, due to the extended trough in the establishment of standalone IT and back office the leading edge of technology.
This is general aviation, business and regional jets infrastructure.
In addition, M A-COMs wave fundamental to the Groups strategy of markets.
In the Mission Systems Division a guide and cable systems activities have been achieving organic growth over a sustained number of air refuelling deliveries have been transferred to the existing Cobham facility at period in its chosen markets.
A number of delayed due to qualification of the next Exeter, New Hampshire, entailing a significant products that have been developed using PV generation air refuelling pods with supply expansion of operations on the site.
The Private Venture or company funded Research chain issues on weapons carriage and release integration of the February 2008 Lansdale and Development R&D investment in the products.
There have been order slippages at acquisition was also successfully completed, past have delivered significant revenue growth the St. Petersburg, USA Conax facility due with the establishment of all new back office in the year.
These include tracking systems: to the ongoing US Government investigation, functions and IT systems.
Design and audio surveillance products and although the business continues to operate as manufacture of spiral antennas and certain communication links including for use in usual in all other respects.
Conax is cooperating microelectronics modules within the Group unmanned vehicles.
There has also been fully with the authorities and is encouraged have been consolidated at the Lansdale facility.
significant revenue from land based SATCOM by the progress to date.
products in demand for use in remote and Facility integration developing parts of the world and in Organic revenue from commercial activities, The Group has continued to extract emergency and disaster relief situations: representing 21% of technology revenue, efficiencies from its businesses during the year and microclimate cooling suits for helicopter declined 16%.
Defence and security revenue, through the rationalisation and integration of and ground vehicle crews, which enable them representing 79% of technology revenue, grew a number of operating sites.
to remain operational for longer.
As anticipated, the Defence Systems Division and the surveillance business, There was further integration of business In 2009, the Group increased its investment part of the Avionics and Surveillance Division, units in the Avionics and Surveillance Division, 08 in PV by 25% to 88m 2008: 71m, which as achieved double digit organic growth, as these with a manufacturing Centre of Excellence a proportion of the Technology Divisions continue to be priority areas for defence and created in Prescott, Arizona from three existing revenue was 5.3% 2008: 5.3%, adjusted for the security customers.
In the four years since businesses based in Washington State and impact of Cobham Analytic Solutions, with the announcement of Cobhams strategy in Arizona, USA and Kelowna, Canada.
Transition the medium term target being to increase PV 2005, the Groups Technology Divisions have of a further business based in Oregon, USA to 6%.
There was also significant customer delivered average compound organic revenue is expected to complete during 2010. funded R&D invested in the year.
Within Cobham Mission Systems, the transfer Corporate Responsibility In 2009 the Group successfully completed its and integration of the product lines from and Sustainability transition to a single Cobham brand, with all California to an existing facility in New York The focus in 2009 has been on integrating businesses adopting the Cobham name and State, USA has been completed.
The transfer Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability corporate format.
In this report, former and integration of the remaining product lines CR&S into everyday business with a businesses names are only used when referring to an existing facility in Iowa, USA is expected sustainable foundation.
This has included to acquisitions to aid understanding.
Cobham to be completed in 2010.
The Wimborne, UK developing the Groups human resource was ranked tenth out of 235 companies on site rationalisation is progressing with full infrastructure, standardising management the 2009 list of Britains Most Admired planning permission granted for a new factory, approaches and improving data gathering.
Companies, an improvement of 37 places.
which will have a reduced footprint and lower Highlights include the appointments of Ethics overhead costs.
Construction work is under Officers in business units: development of Management way with the site anticipated to be fully a standardised approach to Safety, Health I was appointed Chief Executive Officer with operational in early 2011. and Environment SHE : and the launch of effect from 1 January 2010 on the retirement the Sir Alan Cobham Award programme of Allan Cook.
The Groups internal management for rewarding outstanding employee committees, which provide oversight of the contributions, including a category Groups day-to-day activities, have been for CR&S.
reconstituted and the organisation delayered Andy Stevens through a number of refinements to certain Acquisition integration Chief Executive Officer, 3 March 2010 senior management responsibilities.
A decision The Group has successfully completed the has been made not to appoint a Chief complex integration of the M A-COM business, Operating Officer.
These changes will enhance collaboration across the Group and increase the which was acquired in September 2008. speed of decision making and change execution.
The integration, which was completed on www.
