| Business overview Cobham Defence Systems Division Cobham provides the Low Band Transmitters Principal locations Employees for the AN ALQ-99 jamming pod which is flown on the US Navy and Marine Corps EA-6B USA, UK, Mexico, Finland, aircraft.
It is designed to protect strike aircraft, Sweden 5,325 ships, and ground troops by disrupting enemy radar and communications.
2008: 5,285 Image courtesy of the US Department of Defense 16 Total revenue increased 65% to Revenue 873m, driven by the full year 873.0m contribution from the 2008 2008: 529.3m acquisitions, favourable currency 46% translation exchange rates and 46% organic growth of 10%.
As 2008: 36% anticipated, revenue from vehicle intercoms improved on the first Trading profit half performance.
The 2008 acquisitions of Lansdale, SPARTA 164.4m and M A-COM all achieved 2008: 105.2m strong growth.
The organic trading margin of trading profit 2008: 41% increased by 2.7% points, partly offsetting At year end.
the expected margin decline from the full Includes inter divisional trading.
year impact of the 2008 acquisitions.
The organic margin improvement was driven by operational efficiencies and the Divisions strong operating performance.
For Britains armed forces, Cobham provides the all important and distinctive radome for the AH-64 Apache Longbow attack helicopter, which is mounted above the rotor blades.
Image courtesy of Boeing www.
com | Business overview 1976 The US ABC television networks first remote location broadcast took place during the world famous Patty Hearst trial in 1976, using equipment designed by Cobham.
Cobham provides digital vehicle intercom systems to more than 18 armies worldwide.
Image courtesy of the US Department of Defense 17 Initial funding for the above deck electronics Areas of growth included: In addition, there were a number of important unit for the US Navy SEWIP Block 2.
Cobham business developments in the period which it is also received a multiyear contract from the Multiple full rate production contracts anticipated will benefit future results: US Navy on the InTop program, which is to received for the Low Band Transmitter with standardise and combine the independent a total value of US$65m.
These awards bring In June, a Cobham-Northrop Grumman systems crowding ship decks: the total number ordered by the US Navy team was selected for the Vehicular Receipt of a contract worth up to US$25m to 157, out of a total anticipated order Intercommunication System Expanded from Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation to quantity of 292, of which 57 systems have VIS-X contract for the U. S. Army, a contract manufacture advanced composite been delivered: which could be worth up to US$1.2bn components and assemblies for the main Orders and deliveries to the Middle East to Cobham over 10 years.
Cobham will rotor blades of the US Marine Corps CH-53K increased for the ROVIS AN VIC-3 digital continue to support AN VIC-3 systems on Heavy Lift Replacement Helicopter.
vehicular intercom systems and the Eagle the existing installed base on more than Close Combat radio, which was developed 85,000 vehicles: with PV funding: Initial trial unit orders from Lockheed Martin The provision of advanced land and airborne for the mINCAN interference cancellation system to be fitted to the US Joint Light antennas across multiple US vehicle Tactical Vehicle JLTV and production unit platforms, upgrades to unmanned ground orders from Lockheed Martin for Light vehicles for disarming improvised explosive Armoured Vehicle Command & Control devices, airborne antennas, land based LAVC2 platform: antennas for the Indian army, fire control An initial production contract for a radio system radomes for the Apache Longbow frequency processor for advanced US helicopter and a number of European missile programmes including AARGM helicopter upgrades: and AMRAAM and a US$40m order for Revenue from the next generation antenna the Standard Missile, following successful programme for Turkey, to provide an completion of the second lot antenna backbone for network centric production deliveries: communication, and the US Marine Corps Tactical Elevated Antenna Mast TEAM.
For more information view the results webcast www.
com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009
