| Business overview Cobham Avionics and Surveillance Division For the last three years Cobham has been supporting University of Central Floridas interactive distance learning with its satellite equipment.
In 2009 broadcasts were made from six different locations in India.
14 Total revenue increased by 13% the commercial downturn and the Divisions In addition, there were a number of important facility integration programme, with close business developments in the year which it is to 487m with revenue growth monitoring of outstanding customer balances.
anticipated will benefit future results: driven by favourable currency translation exchange rates and a Areas of growth included: In the law enforcement sector, further modest contribution from the full contracts were received from US federal year impact of the smaller 2008 Demand for surveillance equipment across government agencies and multiple state and acquisitions.
Although the Divisions the intelligence, military and national local law enforcement agencies, as well as security and law enforcement markets, from the London Metropolitan Police and organic revenue declined by including tracking systems, video capabilities several major agencies in the UK, Europe 3%, organic revenue growth in for unmanned aerial UAV and ground and Asia: surveillance, whose main markets UGV vehicles, delivery of public safety A contract for the retrofit of the Audio are intelligence, national security systems to the UK police, communication Management System on the C130 fleet and law enforcement, was double links and audio surveillance products: operated by the French Air Force and a digit.
However, this was offset Sales of tactical radios and aircraft Middle East customer: digital intercom systems driven by Supply to the Iraqi Army of an advanced by the difficult conditions in interoperability requirements across Cobham cockpit for a 30-ship fleet of commercial markets, from which public safety organisations: modified Bell 407 helicopters: the majority of the Divisions Growth in sales of land based SATCOM and Selection by Airbus Industries to supply revenue is derived.
on the move products, coupled with initial SATCOM antennas for long range deliveries of aircraft based Broadband communications on the flight deck and The margin increased to 17.4% 2008: 16.6%.
Global Area Network BGAN satellite to support the latest Inmarsat services for There was pressure on the operating margin communication products following cabin applications.
This is expected to be in many of the businesses focused on selection by Airbus Industries to supply worth up to US$70m over the life of the commercial markets but this was mitigated SATCOM antennas on single aisle and long platform.
Airbus also selected Cobhams by the rapid removal of costs in response to range aircraft.
communication and navigation antennas for the A350, further consolidating the Groups position on that aircraft.
com | Business overview 2005 In 2005 the late Steve Fossett completed a record breaking round the world flight using many items of Cobham equipment, including navigation and communications radios and Cobhams innovative synthetic vision Electronic Flight Instrument System.
Principal locations Employees USA, UK, Canada, Denmark, France, South Africa 2,947 Cobham provides surveillance solutions to law 2008: 3,280 enforcement, military, national security and border patrol agencies in more than 80 countries.
Cobhams capabilities enhance the performance For more information view the results of many of the worlds leading unmanned platforms, including bomb disposal vehicles.
com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009
