| Corporate governance Board of Directors 1 2 3 5 4 6 32 1.
M Beresford CBE, Independent Non-executive CEng, FRAeS FIET, FRAeS MAMechSc, FIET Chairman Former Chief Executive Chief Executive Officer Independent Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board as NonAppointed to the Board in 2001, Allan Appointed to the Board in 2003, Andy Appointed to the Board as a Nonexecutive Deputy Chairman in Cook, age 60, retired on 31 December Stevens, age 53, joined the Group as executive Director in 2004, Marcus December 2007 and Chairman on 2009.
He joined the Group from Managing Director of the Aerospace Beresford, age 67, was Chairman of 7 May 2008, David Turner, age 65, BAE Systems where he was Group Systems Group.
He was appointed Ricardo plc until November 2009 and is a chartered accountant.
He Managing Director of programmes Chief Operating Officer of the was a Nonexecutive Director of was appointed Chairman of the and Managing Director of Eurofighter.
Technology Divisions in September Spirent PLC until late 2006.
He was Commonwealth Bank of Australia in He was formerly Group Managing 2005 and in March 2007 assumed an Executive Director of GKN plc February 2010 and will be standing Director of GEC-Marconi Avionics and responsibility for operational from 1992-2002 and Chief Executive down as Chairman of Cobham at the Chief Executive of Hughes Aircraft management, performance and profit from 2001-2002.
He is the Senior conclusion of the Annual General Europe.
He is also President of and loss accountability for the Group.
Independent Director and is a Meeting on 6 May 2010.
He has been AeroSpace & Defence Industries of He became Chief Executive Officer member of the nomination, audit a Non-executive Director of the Europe, Chair of the National Skills on 1 January 2010.
Prior to joining and remuneration committees.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia Academy for Manufacturing, board he qualified as a chartered engineer since August 2006.
He was previously member of the Industrial Forum and at Dowty Group and subsequently 6.
P Hooley FCA, MSc Chief Executive at Brambles Industries board member of the UK Ministerial became Chief Operating Officer of Independent Non-executive Director Limited between 2003 and 2007 and Advisory Group for Manufacturing.
Messier Dowty International before Appointed to the Board as a NonFinance Director at the same company He is the immediate past president joining Rolls-Royce as Managing executive Director in 2002, Peter between 2001 and 2003.
Prior to that of the Society of British Aerospace Director, Defence Aerospace.
Hooley, age 63, is a chartered he was Group Finance Director at GKN Companies Ltd.
In September 2009, accountant, and was Group Finance plc from 1994.
He was a Non-executive he was appointed as a Non-executive 4.
W G Tucker BSc, ACA, MBA Director of Smith & Nephew plc Director of Whitbread plc until 2006.
Director and Chairman-elect of WS Chief Financial Officer until mid-2006.
In July 2006, he was He is a member of the remuneration Atkins plc and he became NonAppointed to the Board in 2003, appointed Non-executive Chairman committee and Chairman of the executive Chairman on 1 February Warren Tucker, age 47, joined the of BSN Medical Luxembourg Holdings nomination committee.
He was a member of the Group as Chief Financial Officer and Sarl, a group engaged in medical nomination committee until is a chartered accountant.
In May 2009, he August 2009. joining, he worked at Arthur Andersen, was appointed as an independent Lazard, held senior finance positions at Non-executive Director of Xstrata plc.
British Airways plc, Euro Disney and Previously he was a Non-executive was Deputy Group Financial Director Director of Powell Duffryn plc from of Cable and Wireless plc.
He is Chairman of appointed as a Non-executive Director the audit committee and also a of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc on member of the nomination and 24 February 2010. remuneration committees.
J F Devaney, BEng, CEng, FRCP, Fmed Sci BScEE, MScEE Independent Non-executive Director FIMechE, FIEE Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board as a Independent Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board as a Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director in December and Chairman designate Non-executive Director in 2005, Non-executive Director in 2007, 2008, Mike Hagee, age 65, was, until Appointed to the Board as a NonJohn Patterson, age 62, qualified in Mark Ronald, age 68, was, until his his retirement in January 2007, a executive Director and Chairman medicine in 1971 and obtained a retirement at the end of 2006, Chief member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff designate in February 2010, John Membership now Fellowship of the Operating Officer of BAE Systems plc as the 33rd Commandant of the Devaney, age 62, is currently Royal College of Physicians in 1974. and Chief Executive Officer of BAE United States Marine Corps.
Prior Non-executive Chairman of National He was appointed as a Non-executive Systems Inc, its wholly-owned US to that, he was the Commanding Express plc, the passenger transport Director of Ferring Holding SA in subsidiary.
Previously he was General of the 1st Marine group, and Non-executive Chairman April 2009.
He joined ICI now Vice-President, program management Expeditionary Force.
In total, he of NATS, the National Air Traffic AstraZeneca in 1975 and in with Litton Industries and Chief served in the US military for more Services.
He has previously served as December 2004 was appointed to Operating Officer of AEL Industries.
than 44 years and holds numerous Non-executive Director of Northern the main Board as Executive Director He is currently a Non-executive military, civilian and foreign Rock and Chairman of Marconi plc, responsible for development.
He Director of ATK Inc and DynCorp decorations, including the Bronze Star later renamed Telent.
His executive retired as a Director of that firm in International Inc.
He is a senior with Valor, National Intelligence career was built in engineering March 2009.
He is a former President adviser of Veritas Capital LLC and Distinguished Service Medal, and companies within the Varity Group.
of the Association of the British a management consultant.
He is Defense Distinguished Service Medal.
He was President of Perkins Engines Pharmaceutical Industry, a former a member of the nomination and He is currently a Non-executive in the mid-1980s, and he went on Non-executive Director of Amersham remuneration committees.
Director of Rackable Systems, to be President of Kelsey-Hayes, PLC and a former member of the IAP Worldwide Services Inc, and the automotive components supervisory board of the UK Freedom Group, Inc.
He was subsequently Medicines Control Agency.
He is of the audit, nomination and Chief Executive of Eastern Electricity, Chairman of the remuneration remuneration committees.
the largest regional electricity committee and a member of the company in the UK at the time.
Following its acquisition by Hanson he was appointed Executive Chairman.
He is a member of the nomination and remuneration committees.
Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009
