06 All you need to know Land Securities Group Our strategy Our strategy is simple: we manage our Retail Portfolio and London Portfolio businesses through the property markets cycles, adjusting key investment and development activities ahead of changing conditions to maximise return and minimise risk.
In property investment, we add value through active management of assets and the timing of acquisitions and disposals.
In development, we create the right product at the right point in the cycle while keeping a tight focus on cost and timing.
The Groups Board of Directors directs strategy.
It also monitors the balance sheet and financial performance to ensure capital is allocated appropriately both across the two businesses and between investment and development activity.
Each business benefits from the Groups ability to provide operating efficiencies, debt and other shared resources.
Retail Portfolio London Portfolio Our strategy Our strategy Using our ability to unlock the potential within properties and Using our knowledge, understanding and scale, we develop and places, we provide new and better ways for retailers to connect invest to create high quality space for world-class businesses and with customers.
The environments we create and manage aim brands.
The spaces we provide enable organisations to enhance to enable occupiers to increase footfall, grow sales and offer their performance and improve day-to-day life for employees, a great leisure experience.
We work to spot, unlock and maximise the potential of We focus on developing and managing prime London shopping centres and retail parks throughout the UK.
We look assets, creating a balanced portfolio that blends strong investment for opportunities to move assets up the retail hierarchy through assets with mediumand long-term development opportunities.
proactive asset management improvements such as refurbishment To meet demand and mitigate risk, we put emphasis on mixed-use and reconfiguration.
And we look for opportunities to develop new schemes providing office, retail and leisure accommodation.
retail locations and urban regeneration projects, with a focus on We operate in a cyclical market and take early, decisive mixed-use destinations with the potential to perform well over action on the timing and scope of key portfolio decisions.
increase the return on our development activities by clustering Our aim is to be the provider and partner of choice for assets in key areas, so our work to create or enhance a new asset retailers and local authorities.
We want to be recognised as a increases the attraction and value of our other assets nearby.
market leader in terms of customer focus, design and innovation.
Land Securities Annual Report 2009 Report of the Directors P0180 Financial statements P81130 Investor resource P131144 All you need to know 07 About the Group Who we are Our vision Land Securities is a FTSE 100 company and the largest Real Estate Our vision is bringing property to life.
We will go beyond bricks and Investment Trust REIT in the UK on the basis of equity market mortar, through design, community engagement and customer service capitalisation.
We were founded by Harold Samuel in 1944 when he to create places where people choose to shop, are proud to work and acquired Land Securities Investment Trust Limited, which at the time want to live.
owned three houses in Kensington, London together with some We judge our progress towards this vision by measuring returns government stock.
By 1969 Land Securities had established itself as the generated for shareholders, customer retention and satisfaction levels, countrys leading property business.
In 2007 we converted to REIT status.
employee satisfaction and third party recognition of our achievements.
2 We now own and manage more than 2.7 million m of commercial property, from London offices to major shopping centres and out-of-town retail parks.
In January 2009 we sold our Trillium property outsourcing business and now focus our activities on the London and Retail businesses.
Our values Our landmark properties Certain core values form the foundation of Land Securities.
These We own more than 200 properties across the UK.
These include many embody the way in which we work together to deliver effective customer well-known buildings and places, such as: relationships.
By putting these values into action we strengthen our ability Piccadilly Lights, London to deliver high levels of customer service and business performance over the long term.
New Street Square, London Bankside 2&3, London Our values: Cardinal Place, London Queen Annes Gate Ministry of Justice, London Portland House, London White Rose, Leeds Cabot Circus, Bristol St Davids Centre, Cardiff Princesshay, Exeter Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth Bullring, Birmingham Retail World Retail Park, Gateshead Land Securities Annual Report 2009
