Corporate responsibility We regard CR as a long-term, sustainable approach to business that seeks benefits for all our stakeholders, be they customers, employees, communities, suppliers, the environment or the Company and its Acting shareholders.
We support sound CR policies and practices for good business reasons.
Our commitment to CR is not simply a response to increased market attention to this area, but acts as a reinforcement of the way that our business operates on a daily basis.
The Board believes that the progressive integration of CR across the Group and responsibly the inclusion of broader social and environmental issues into our decision making will help us to achieve our business goals, act as a building block for growth in shareholder value and benefit the communities in which we operate.
Over the past year, we have continued to build on our Corporate Corporate culture Responsibility CR strategy.
Overall, Our values Our strong set of values define, collectively, what we believe in and are we have made good progress on our the basis of everything we do: CR journey and continue to drive Openness, trust and integrity further improvement across our Passion for quality Win through teamwork business, particularly in the areas Can-do of supply chain and environmental Responsibility performance.
In addition, and in Governance and ethics response to feedback from our Our structure is underpinned by the highest levels of corporate governance.
This empowers our local management teams to manage stakeholders, we have enhanced the their businesses to be competitive in their marketplace while operating scope of our performance reporting within a strict corporate framework with clearly defined parameters.
Our Code of Ethics sets out our social, ethical and environmental relating to people metrics.
commitment towards each of our stakeholders and the communities in which we operate.
We have a whistle-blowing programme called Speak Up which is managed by an independent company, so that our employees Online access can raise, in confidence, any concerns they may have about how we See our full Corporate Responsibility report conduct our business.
Following the successful roll-out programme, including the status of our CR performance at: Speak Up is now available to all of our employees on a global basis.
com CR09 Work continues throughout the business to raise employee awareness and regular progress reports are also provided to the Audit Committee of the Board.
Corporate Responsibility Committee As part of our overall commitment to good corporate governance, we operate a Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board.
Established in 2007, the CR Committee continues to provide direction and guidance on all aspects of business practice and responsibility ensuring consistent application everywhere we operate.
The Committee comprises Susan Murray Chairman from 1 November 2008, Sir Roy Gardner Chairman until 31 October 2008, Steve Lucas, Richard Cousins, Andrew Martin, Jane Kingston Group Human Resources Director and Mark White.
The Committees primary responsibilities include: endorsement of CR policies, overseeing occupational health and food safety performance, environmental practices, business conduct, the positive promotion of employee engagement as well as diversity and community investment.
A key focus of the Committee has been to improve the scope of our CR commitments and overall performance measurement.
A commitment to develop performance indicators We are making good progress along our CR journey and we want to update our stakeholders on the progress we are making.
As reported in 2008, we made a commitment to further develop our existing set of key CR related Key Performance Indicators KPIs and targets to our stakeholders.
This year, following consultation with key stakeholders, we have increased the scope of our CR metrics to include an additional People KPI, which we believe is relevant to our business model and will help drive our sustainability performance.
Our 2009-2010 commitments are set out on page 35.
See full details of our CR metrics and performance in our latest online CR report at www.
34 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Our CR commitments and progress We measure and report internally on our performance against each Key Performance 2008-2009 target 2008-2009 target Indicator KPI and performance is reviewed by the CR Committee quarterly.
achieved remains as work in progress KPI Target Our Target Comment 2008-2009 performance 2009-2010 Energy Reduce energy consumption 3% reduction 3% reduction against For full details of efficiency gas & electricity of our 2008-2009 baseline greenhouse gas emissions corporate offices of our Top for the year 2008-2009, Ten countries by 3% against please look online at a baseline of 2007-2008 www.
com CR09 Vehicle Achieve a 3% reduction in 3% reduction 3% reduction against For full details of efficiency the annual company vehicle 2008-2009 baseline greenhouse gas emissions fuel direct fuel purchased for the year 2008-2009, consumption of the Top Ten please look online at countries against a baseline www.
of 2007-2008 com CR09 Waste Achieve 100% compliance in 100% compliance 100% compliance We continue to work reporting environmental performance against 2008-2009 with our waste collection reporting of the Top Ten baseline contractors to improve the countries against a baseline accuracy of data relating of 2007-2008 to our waste consumption Water Reduce water consumption 3% reduction 3% reduction against For full details of our consumption of our corporate offices of 2008-2009 baseline performance for the year our Top Ten countries by 2008-2009, please look 3% against a baseline of online at www.
com CR09 Occupational Reduce our Lost Time Injury Assign target Reduced LTIR and 2008-2009 performance health & safety Rate LTIR and Food Safety FSIR compared to represents our baseline and food safety Incident Rate FSIR across 2008-2009 baseline data against which we our Top Ten countries will measure our future performance Health and Achieve a 5% improvement in 5% increase 5% increase against We are making good wellness the total number of operating 2008-2009 baseline progress with our units providing Balanced or be running implementation of healthy Choices or equivalent healthy Balanced Choices or eating programmes, to eating programme to their a similar programme help our customers customers by October 2009 in at least 75% of choose healthy food across our Top Ten countries eligible businesses Employee Achieve a 63% participation 63% participation N A We will conduct the next engagement rating in the 2009 Your Voice Your Voice survey globally survey in 2011 Achieve a 65% employee 65% engagement N A We will conduct the next engagement rating in the 2009 Your Voice survey globally Your Voice survey in 2011 Diversity Measure and report the Increase against Increase against Our talent management number of women appointed 2007-2008 2008-2009 baseline programmes continue to to our Global Leadership Team baseline have a positive impact in compared to 2007-2008 the workplace Responsible Implement the Compass 100% compliance N A We continue to make good supply chain Sustainable Purchasing with Guidelines progress in ensuring that Guidelines globally by October our supply partners 2009 operate their businesses responsibly Business Measure and report the total 100% compliance 100% compliance ethics number of concerns reported by employees globally, via Speak Up New KPIs KPI People Measure and report the global labour turnover rate for above unit and in-unit employees, across our Top Ten countries Supply chain Implement the new Compass Supplier Assurance Standard including Corporate Responsibility elements across our Top Ten countries by October 2010 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 35 Corporate responsibility Indices Like many listed companies, Compass CR performance is rated by independent organisations that assess the extent to which companies effectively manage social, environmental and ethical matters.
As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we are also committed to taking action to support and uphold each of the principles it describes in relation to business integrity, human rights and the environment.
The Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI assesses companies corporate responsibility strategies in terms of corporate governance, economic performance and impact on the environment.
The results of the 2009 DJSI assessment praised Compass for an improvement in the scope of our quantitative reporting in such areas as environmental reporting.
Since 2005, we have continued to meet the criteria for inclusion in the UKs FTSE4Good Index.
The FTSE4Good Index aims to measure the performance of companies that meet globally recognised CR standards and to facilitate investment in those companies where such issues are a deciding factor for investors.
Our people We employ more than 386,000 people in over 50 countries.
As a Our Guiding Principles service organisation, our success is linked to having an engaged workforce and giving people the opportunity to voice their opinion Health, safety and environment first on the business, our processes and practices.
Delivering for clients and consumers Developing our people and valuing diversity Over the last five years, we have conducted a number of employee Profitable growth surveys to help us better understand how we can maximise employee Constant focus on performance and efficiency commitment, retention and discretionary effort, in other words engagement.
In May 2009, we conducted our Your Voice survey, which gave over 120,000 employees from 39 of our largest businesses representing over 95% of total Group revenue the opportunity to participate.
As part of our 2008-2009 CR commitments, we set specific improvement targets regarding employee participation and engagement rates in our Your Voice survey.
The results of this years survey were very encouraging and we achieved a participation rate Big Tick re-accreditation of 71% published target 63% and an engagement rate of 69% published target 65%, both significantly ahead of our performance since the last survey which was conducted in 2007.
Employees reported a substantial increase in confidence regarding our corporate reputation, and an improved view of the learning and development 9 10 opportunities offered by the organisation.
Managers feel the Group is making the right changes to be successful, has a clear sense of direction and is successfully focusing on both long-term strategies and short-term results.
Our positive can-do attitude means our people are motivated to go the extra mile and the results show that our Guiding Principles feature as a part of everyday life at Compass.
Our next global Your Voice survey is planned for 2011 and we will set specific improvement targets as part of our CR metrics, which will be communicated to stakeholders.
Developing our people Through our global employment brand, talent management and various learning and development programmes, helping our people develop their skills and further their careers within the business has been an area of focus during 2009.
Training and development programmes for all employees are important both for our employees to fulfil their potential and to the ability of our business to achieve its goals.
The development of leadership skills of senior managers is also a key objective and, during 2009, we fully implemented a global learning and development programme called Mapping for Value, designed to embed our MAP operating framework deeper into the organisation.
This highly interactive programme enables our business leaders to equip themselves with the knowledge and 36 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 tools to help them accelerate the development and delivery of their Seiyo Food Compass Group, our business in Japan, has been MAP plans.
About 2,000 senior employees have now attended the awarded an Excellent Lifesaving Certification by the Tokyo Fire Mapping for Value programme.
Following on from the success of this Department in recognition of our commitment to health and safety.
programme, we have developed an additional initiative called Mapping Excellent Lifesaving Certification is an initiative set up by the Japanese for Action, to be rolled out to around 4,000 site level employees across government to establish an effective emergency help system within the Compass globe.
Seiyo Food Compass Group has been actively encouraging employees to take the basic lifesaving certification and, Equal opportunities to date, more than 730 employees have received the certification.
We value the diversity of our people and strongly believe that a more diverse workforce is a more creative workforce, and one better able Health and safety have always had a special focus in our business to adapt to change.
We expect all of our employees to be treated and particularly for our Offshore & Remote site workplaces, where our with respect and dignity.
Our equal opportunity policy is designed customers demand the very highest operational standards.
A good to ensure that both current and potential employees are offered the example of our success was receiving an award at the European same opportunity to do a job regardless of sex, race, colour, religion, FM Awards in June 2009, when our Eurest Services team won the nationality, ethnic origin, age, sexual orientation, marital status or Partners Across Borders category with international client, Shell.
The more our employees reflect the diversity of our clients In arriving at their decision, the judges took into consideration the and consumers, the better equipped we are to service their needs.
strength of the partnership between Eurest Services and Shell and the We believe we have the right policies in place to meet or exceed joint commitment to achieve the clients goals of health and safety legal requirements in this area and, as an example of our ongoing excellence, consistent service quality and sustainable cost reduction.
commitment, we have seen a 3.5% increase in the number of women appointed to leadership team positions in the last 12 months and At the Porto Trombetas bauxite mine in the state of Par, the Amazon women now hold 18.5% of global leadership team roles.
Rainforest region, GR SA, our business in Brazil, reached an important safety milestone at their site when they achieved more than six million Reward man-hours worked with no lost-time injuries.
At this site, we serve more Our remuneration policy seeks to deliver improved performance than 4,000 meals and provide support services to over 6,500 workers throughout the business, balancing short-term success with the every day.
attainment of our longer-term business goals and shareholder return.
We work hard to attract and retain people of proven ability, Diet and nutrition experience and skills.
Under our pay and reward programme, in the As a global foodservice company, we recognise that we have an year to 30 September 2009, the Group paid gross salary costs of enormous impact on what our 20 million daily consumers choose to 5,968 million for the continuing business.
Within this figure, social eat and drink.
Our positive contribution to their diet and nutrition is security contributions, pensions and other employee costs amounted our most significant impact and we are proud of the role we play in to 925 million, 50 million and 4 million respectively.
promoting health, wellness and nutrition, particularly as in many of the markets where we operate, the meal we provide may be the only A safe and healthy workplace nutritious meal eaten by our consumers that day.
Our number one operational priority remains health, safety and the environment for the 20 million consumers who eat and drink with us We are working closely with our clients and through them with our every day.
consumers, suppliers, governments and regulators across the globe to respond to public health issues such as those associated with obesity All management and board meetings throughout the Group feature a and diet.
Our consumers are becoming increasingly sophisticated health and safety update as one of their first agenda items.
The Board about the nutritional content of their food choices and during 2009 reviews the Occupational Health & Safety and Food Safety policies we have continued to roll out our healthy eating framework, Balanced annually to ensure that they each continue to reflect our aims and Choices, to enhance nutritional labelling across our food product aspirations and to meet with current legislation.
Supporting the Board range, providing consumers with the information that they need to is our internal Health, Safety & Environment Forum, made up of make informed choices.
More than 830 units 2008: 750 units in the technical specialists from around the Compass globe, responsible for UK and over 2,000 units 2008: over 1,750 units in the US are now promoting policy, setting standards, measuring compliance and sharing qualified to operate Balanced Choices.
best practice across the Group.
Compass is already committed to lead the way in the foodservice We believe that everyone at Compass has a moral obligation to industry in understanding the needs of consumers and is at the safeguard each other, our customers and the environment by operating forefront of providing nutritional information.
This year, our UK business a safe, injury free and healthy workplace, serving food that is always has pledged support for the UK Food Standard Agencys programme safe to eat, nutritional and which minimises our impact on the of introducing calorie labelling at the point of consumer choice.
To ensure best practice, we developed a set of policies, January 2009, point of sale material for our Core Concepts menu minimum operating standards and behaviours in 2007, which have range has provided calorific values per meal, as well as information on been steadily rolled out across our business.
We are pleased to report sugar, fat, saturates and salt in an easy to understand Guideline Daily that this year the first phase of the programme has been successfully Amounts GDA traffic light combination, in over 1,300 workplaces.
In implemented across 95% of our countries.
Our standards are based on addition, the UK business has developed its own range of sandwiches the strictest regulatory requirements and industry best practice.
Indeed, and other bakery products with levels of saturated fat and salt that world-class performance continues to be our aim, seeking over the meet the UK Food Standard Agencys targets.
By working with shortto medium-term to set the benchmark for our industry.
suppliers, our UK business has reduced the amount of saturated fats in its own label cooking sauces by 80%, and has also sourced a new This year, in line with our published 2008 commitment, we have worked cooking oil which is virtually free of trans fatty acids.
hard with our internal stakeholders to measure, collate and report on our Lost Time Injury Rate LTIR in a consistent way across all of our countries.
This data forms the baseline from which to benchmark our 2009-2010 performance and we will update stakeholders on our progress in our 2010 CR Report.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 37 Corporate responsibility Responsible supply chain The provenance and origin of the food we purchase is a key consideration for us.
We require that food is purchased only from authorised suppliers.
In 2009, we were awarded four more Good Egg Awards, which are given by the leading farm animal welfare charity, Compassion in World Farming, to companies who source cage-free eggs, or are committed to do so by 2012.
Our UK business uses 39 million eggs a year and, although the move to barn or free-range eggs is a complex process, we are actively working to encourage more sites to use only cage-free eggs and to increase our current participation rate of 27%.
Increasingly, we work with our suppliers to support national, regional and local sourcing initiatives and our UK business will source all of its fresh beef from Britain.
They currently purchase more than 2,000 tonnes of fresh beef every year and spend in the region of 6 million per annum supplying their 7,000 sites.
In our 2008 CR Report, we reported details of the sustainable fish and seafood sourcing initiative led by our US team in partnership with the Monterey Bay Aquarium.
The team has made significant progress during the course of 2009 and has exceeded its target by eliminating 1.5 million pounds of unsustainable seafood from our supply chain, with an overall purchasing rate of 70% sustainable products.
In addition, it has removed nearly 300,000 pounds of Atlantic cod from Worldwide charitable the supply chain, decreased shrimp purchases by 835,000 pounds and unsustainable salmon by 49%, and increased sustainable seafood donations in the year purchases by 5.5 million pounds.
As part of their own sustainable fish 5.6m to 30 September 2009 programme, our Canadian business is in the process of moving over to wild salmon, thereby removing approximately 50,000 pounds of unsustainable farmed salmon from their menus each year.
Finally, our UK and other European businesses have all made marked improvements in their drive to move to more sustainable sources of fish and seafood.
In 2009, in conjunction with key UK clients, we participated in the Supply Chain module of the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, which is designed to measure carbon risks and liabilities through the supply chain.
Feedback from this programme will be used to refine our environmental strategy in relation to the supply chain and further collaborate with our suppliers to achieve environmental efficiencies in our day-to-day operations.
Environment A key driver towards our success is the degree of autonomy which is afforded to local management teams, allowing them to serve local markets in the most appropriate manner.
To support their activities, we have developed an environmental policy supported by a minimum operating standard and a set of behaviours that are being introduced into all our operations.
2009 represented our second year of implementation of a web-based reporting tool to track and report globally in a consistent manner, on our greenhouse gas emissions in our Top Ten countries.
Overall, we are delighted to report an improvement in our environmental performance this year and achievement of our 2008-2009 environmental targets.
However, whilst our ability to report our performance accurately has improved, this continues to be a challenging data collection exercise for us and we still have more work to do in terms of improving the quality of data provided by our suppliers, particularly in the area of waste.
This year, we will continue to work with our Top Ten countries to optimise the quality of information available, to enable us to report our progress.
38 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 In the majority of our locations where we are not directly responsible for the procurement of utilities, equipment, fuel etc.
we are working closely with our clients to consider how best to improve the environmental performance of our operations.
Initiatives to support this activity include the launch of an e-learning tool in the UK to educate our employees on practical steps that they can take to reduce the impact on the environment in their day-to-day operations.
This year, our Australian business achieved internationally recognised ISO certifications for the environment, safety and quality across the whole business, becoming the first company in Australia to achieve this recognition.
Across all of our countries, we are working hard to reduce the impact of food waste.
In many countries, food waste accounts for more than 15% of the materials being sent to landfill sites and the food degradation process produces methane, a greenhouse gas that is more potent than carbon dioxide.
In addition, there is also a significant economic impact in the disposal of food waste.
Compass has created a sustainable programme for building awareness and minimising the impact of food waste called Trim Trax.
An important element of the programme is to track, measure and minimise food waste at site level, giving our front line employees the tools, perspective and ownership that they need to trim and track food waste during the production process.
Implementing Trim Trax can reduce the cost and footprint of food waste disposal and has lead to improvements in the way we We value our membership of Business in the Community BITC, work and a more sustainable future.
The Trim Trax programme a UK based organisation which seeks to inspire, engage, support and has been successfully implemented in our North American business, challenge companies to continually improve the impact they have on with phased roll-outs planned into our other regions such as the UK, society and the environment.
Continental Europe and South America.
We were delighted that our UK based Junior Chefs Academy Reducing the amount of food miles within our business makes sense programme has retained its Big Tick in the education category for from both a commercial and environmental perspective.
This year, 2009, awarded by BITC.
The award recognises businesses that have we have successfully implemented improved logistics models to demonstrated significant impact and high quality management of their reduce the number of deliveries required to each site on a daily basis responsible business practices and who can demonstrate a positive by consolidating all the volume into a one stop shop.
For example, impact on both society and the business.
The highly successful Junior in Ireland, we have removed about 2.2 million kilometres from our Chefs Academy, which attracts, develops and trains new talent for the deliveries, saving 2,000 tonnes of CO per annum.
In France, we have 2 hospitality industry, has been in operation since 2003 and now includes reduced delivery kilometres by 20% since 2002 and, in the United Arab 47 courses run in 20 colleges across the UK and Ireland.
In 2009, Emirates, the new logistics platform is expected to reduce deliveries by Compass expanded the Academy to focus on three different skill around 600,000 kilometres this year.
levels, linked the Academy to its apprenticeship scheme and started on the path to NVQ accreditation.
By the end of 2009, more than 3,600 In 2009, we were pleased to participate in the Carbon Disclosure young people will have experienced a flavour of the hospitality industry.
Project CDP which operates in 66 countries around the world, enabling companies to measure and disclose their greenhouse gas As a result of the combined efforts of our UK based employees, emissions and climate change strategies in order that they can set this year we are proud to have raised over 250,000 for our partner reduction targets and make performance improvements.
We are Cancer Research UK.
Fundraising initiatives have included a charity using the feedback from the CDP to help shape our future cricket match at The Brit Oval cricket ground in London, supported by environmental strategy.
clients and suppliers, as well as employee sponsorship as part of the J P Morgan Challenge sponsored run held in London.
We will continue Compass in the community to support Cancer Research UK with fundraising initiatives during 2010.
We have a strong track record in community engagement and investment, operating the best community-based initiatives that Donations promote healthy lifestyles, tackle social exclusion, improve employment During the year to 30 September 2009 charitable donations were chances and promote sustainability and diversity.
Whilst it is not 5.6 million 2008: 1.5 million.
possible to list here all the projects with which Compass has been involved, outlined below are just a few of the many good news stories from 2009.
Further examples can be viewed online at www.
Our Canadian business and Hydro Quebec have entered into a partnership agreement which offers the local indigenous peoples of the Innu Pakua Shipi and Unamen Shipu the opportunity to work alongside the culinary and facilities management teams of Compass Canada.
The programme provides practical vocational training, experience and mentorship in areas such as foodservice, housekeeping and facilities management, which will serve to maximise employment opportunities with Hydro Quebec and projects underway on their traditional lands.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 39
