Governance Directors remuneration report including the statement of remuneration policy for the year ended 30 September 2009 The Board presents its Remuneration report, which has been Advisors to the committee prepared on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee The committee has access to detailed external information and the committee and in accordance with the requirements of the research on market data and trends from independent consultants.
Shareholders will be invited to During the year  LLP who also provide approve the Report at the Annual General Meeting on 5 February expatriate assignment advice was engaged by the committee to 2010.
The Report covers the following matters: advise on the design of incentive arrangements and general human resource and compensation related matters.
Alithos Limited provided executive remuneration policy for the year ended 30 September information for the testing of the total shareholder return performance 2009 and the intended policy for the year ending 30 September conditions for the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
2010: and directors remuneration, incentive plan participation and pension The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive together with Jane provision.
Kingston, the Group Human Resources Director, and David Walker, Director of Group Reward, are normally invited to attend each With the exception of the annual performance-related award, service committee meeting and provide advice and guidance to the agreement details, the first shareholder return graph on page 56, committee other than in respect of their own remuneration.
disclosure of remuneration to other senior executives and external directorships, the information set out on pages 52 to 58 of this Report represents the auditable disclosures referred to in the Summary of activity during the year Auditors report on page 60 as specified by the UK Listing Authority During the year the committee conducted its annual review of and under Regulation 11 of and Schedule 8 to the Large and remuneration philosophy and reviewed the Companys remuneration Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports practice to ensure that the overall remuneration structure continues Regulations 2008. to promote the Companys business strategy.
The performance targets of all the Companys share plans were reviewed, as was the Role of the committee headroom available in issued share capital before each grant was made.
The committee also reconfirmed that no bonus matching The Board sets the Companys remuneration policy and the awards or share option grants would be made to executive directors committee is responsible, within the authority delegated by without seeking shareholder approval.
the Board, for determining specific remuneration packages and the terms and conditions of employment for the members of the During the year, the committee formally reviewed the LTIP and Executive Committee, which comprises the executive directors and Management Share Option Plan MSOP which are due to end in other senior executives.
The committee ensures that the members July 2010 and February 2012 respectively.
The Company proposes of the Executive Committee are provided with the appropriate to replace the LTIP and MSOP and details of the principal terms and incentives to enhance the Groups performance and to reward conditions of the replacement plans can be found in the Notice of them for their personal contribution to the success of the business.
Annual General Meeting on pages 131 to 133.
The structure, shape The committee reviews the remuneration arrangements for Group and quantum of any future awards under the proposed new rules employees whose salaries exceed a specified level and administers will remain broadly similar to those under the existing rules.
Any the Companys share incentive plans.
The committee also proposed amendments have been drafted to take account of current determines the Chairmans remuneration although the Board itself governance and shareholder guidelines.
determines the level of fees paid to the non-executive directors.
No directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
Directors are not eligible to receive grants under the current MSOP and this principle will also apply to the proposed new plan.
The committee also maintains an active dialogue with shareholder representatives and its full terms of reference are set out on the Companys website at www.
Remuneration policy and components The committee reviews the Companys remuneration philosophy Membership of the committee and structure each year to ensure that the remuneration framework remains effective in supporting the Companys business objectives, The committee consists entirely of independent non-executive in line with best practice, and fairly rewards individuals for the directors as defined in the Code.
During the year the committee contribution that they make to the business, having regard to the size comprised the following non-executive directors: and complexity of the Groups operations and the need to motivate and attract employees of the highest calibre.
Sir James Crosby Chairman, senior independent non-executive director The committee intends that base salary and total remuneration of Sven Kado to 5 February 2009 executive directors should be in line with the market.
Remuneration Steve Lucas is benchmarked against rewards available for equivalent roles in a Susan Murray from 21 July 2009 suitable comparator group with the aim of paying neither significantly Tim Parker from 1 November 2008 above nor below the median for each element of remuneration.
The committee also considers general pay and employment conditions of Biographical details of the current members of the committee are all employees within the Group and is sensitive to these, to prevailing set out on page 42.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary market conditions, and to governance trends when assessing the acts as the secretary to the committee.
The committee met on four level of salaries and remuneration packages of executive directors occasions during the year.
Attendance details are shown on page 49. and other members of the Executive Committee.
Percentage increases to basic salary awards for executive directors and other Non-executive directors who are not members of the committee members of the Executive Committee during the year ended are entitled to receive the papers discussed at meetings and 30 September 2009 were in line with those awarded to other the minutes.
employees in the Group working in the same country in that period.
52 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Governance The total remuneration package links corporate and individual Pensions performance with an appropriate balance between shortand longThe Groups policy is not to offer defined benefit arrangements term elements, and fixed and variable components.
The policy to new employees at any level save where required by applicable is designed to incentivise executives to meet the Companys key legislation.
Incoming executive directors are invited either to join the objectives, such that a significant portion of total remuneration is Companys money purchase arrangement or to take a fixed salary performance related, based on a mixture of internal targets linked supplement, calculated as a percentage of base salary, which is to the Companys key business drivers which can be appropriately excluded from any bonus calculation.
measured, understood and accepted by both executives and shareholders and appropriate external comparator groups.
The At 30 September 2009 there were no executive directors actively committee considers that the targets set for the different elements participating in any Compass Group defined benefit pension of performance related remuneration are both appropriate and arrangements and none of the executive directors is accruing demanding in the context of the business environment and the additional entitlement to benefit under any arrangements that challenges with which the Group is faced.
existed prior to their appointment as executive directors.
The following chart shows the average proportions of salary, target Richard Cousins and Gary Green receive a salary supplement or par bonus, pension, benefits and the expected value of long-term equal to 35% of their basic salaries in lieu of pension as reported in incentives granted to each of the executive directors during the year previous years.
As reported in 2006, Andrew Martin has received a ended 30 September 2009.
This is the same for each executive director.
salary supplement from 6 April 2006, equal to 35% of basic salary and has waived all rights to his final salary pension, money purchase pension and unfunded unapproved pension relating to his Executive directors remuneration employment prior to that date.
package elements Year ended 30 September 2009 Annual bonus Salary 33% The annual bonus is earned by the achievement of performance Annual bonus 25% targets set by the committee at the start of each financial year and Pension 12% is delivered in cash.
The target or par award for the year ended Benefits 3% 30 September 2009 was 75% of base salary, with a further maximum LTIP 27% of 75% of base salary available for superior performance.
For the year ended 30 September 2009, the bonus measures for Details of each individual element of the remuneration package are Messrs Cousins and Martin were Group profit before interest and tax given below.
PBIT 60%, Group free cash flow GFCF 20% and a personal target PT 20%, with a supplementary financial underpin such Salary that the amount payable pursuant to the achievement of the GFCF Base salaries are appropriately benchmarked and reflect the role, and PT measures would be halved unless the threshold PBIT job size and responsibility as well as individual performance and measure was achieved.
In addition to Mr Greens personal target effectiveness.
Consideration is also given to prevailing market and representing 20% of bonus, his targets of PBIT 60%, and free cash economic conditions and to governance trends, as well as to salary flow 20% are split between Group and his area of responsibility in levels throughout the organisation.
The Group Chief Executives the USA, Canada and Mexico as follows: PBIT 20% Group 40% salary is reviewed annually by the committee with any increase taking local, and 5% GFCF 15% local operating cash.
Bonus measures effect on 1 July of each year.
Other executives salaries are subject dependent on GFCF are subject to the caveat that GFCF should not to annual review with any increases taking effect on 1 January be affected by Board approved strategic capital expenditure.
It is not envisaged that remuneration elements for Group directors for the year ending 30 September 2010 will be The percentages of base salary shown below were paid to the directors, substantially different to those in place in the financial year ended by way of annual bonus, for the year ended 30 September 2009: 30 September 2009.
Actual bonus paid % of base salary The annual base salaries of the executive directors are: Richard Cousins 127.5% Richard Cousins 892,500 effective 1 July 2009, Gary Green 126.0% increased by 2% from 875,000 Andrew Martin 129.0% Gary Green US$1,071,000 effective 1 January 2009, increased by 2% from $1,050,000 The Committee continues to be satisfied that the performance Andrew Martin 535,500 effective 1 January 2009, targets are challenging and promote the Companys business strategy.
increased by 2% from 525,000 The Committee has agreed that, for the year ending 30 September Benefits 2010, to more closely align performance conditions with current These comprise healthcare insurance for executive directors and strategy, a revenue growth RG performance target be incorporated their dependents, limited financial advice, life assurance and car in the annual bonus, to the extent that personal targets and RG benefit.
Benefits for executive directors and their dependents for targets each represent 15% of the bonus measures and that the PBIT the year ending 30 September 2010 will not be substantially different and free cash flow measures represent 55% and 15% respectively.
to those offered in the financial year ended 30 September 2009.
Achievement of the free cash flow, PT and RG measures may not exceed on-target par payment unless the threshold PBIT measure is achieved.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 53
