Board of directors 1, 2 A | Sir Roy Gardner | Chairman Age 64 Appointed Chairman in July 2006 having been appointed to the Board as senior Our Board independent non-executive director in October 2005.
He is a senior advisor to Credit Suisse, Chairman of Plymouth Argyle Football Club, a non-executive director of Willis Group Holdings Limited and Mainstream Renewable Power Limited, Chairman of the Advisory Board of the Energy Futures Lab of Imperial College London, a member of the International Advisory Board of the IESE Business School at the University of Navarra, President of Carers UK, and Chairman of the Apprenticeship Ambassadors Network.
He is a former Chief Executive of Centrica plc, Chairman of Manchester United plc, Finance Director of British Gas plc, Managing Director of GEC-Marconi Ltd and a Director of GEC plc and a former non-executive director of Laporte plc.
He was also Chairman of the British Olympics Appeal Committee for the Beijing Games 2008.
Sir Roy received his Knighthood in 2002 for services to the gas and electricity industries.
2, 3, 4, 11 B | Richard Cousins | Group Chief Executive Age 50 A B Appointed Group Chief Executive in 2006.
Richard had previously spent six years as CEO of BPB plc, having held a number of positions with that company.
His earlier career was with Cadbury Schweppes plc and BTR plc.
He is a non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and is a former non-executive director of P & O plc and HBOS plc.
2, 4, 5, 11 C | Andrew Martin | Group Finance Director Age 49 Appointed to the Board in March 2004.
He was previously a partner with Arthur Andersen and held senior financial positions with Forte Plc and Granada Group PLC.
Following the disposal of the Hotels Division in 2001, Andrew joined First Choice Holidays PLC as Finance Director.
He is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants C D in England and Wales and an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
4, 11 D | Gary Green | Group Managing Director USA, Canada & Mexico Age 52 Appointed to the Board in January 2007.
Joined the Group in 1986 in a senior finance role in the UK and became a UK director in 1992.
Gary relocated to the USA in 1994 as Chief Finance Officer of the Groups North American business and in 1999 became Chief Executive Officer.
He is a chartered accountant and in 2001 received an honorary doctorate from Johnson & Wales University in the USA.
3, 7 E | Sir James Crosby | Senior independent non-executive director Age 53 Appointed to the Board in February 2007.
He is Chairman of Misys plc, a nonexecutive director of ITV plc and a trustee of Cancer Research UK.
He was formerly E F Chief Executive of HBOS plc and Deputy Chairman of the Financial Services Authority.
He is a Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries.
2, 8, 9 F | Steve Lucas | Non-executive director Age 55 Appointed to the Board in July 2004.
He is Finance Director of National Grid plc having been previously Executive Director, Finance of Lattice Group plc.
He is a chartered accountant and has held a number of senior finance positions with Shell International Petroleum Company and British Gas.
More recently, he was Treasurer at BG Group.
3, 8, 10 G | Susan Murray | Non-executive director Age 52 Appointed to the Board in October 2007.
She is non-executive Chairman of Farrow & Ball and a non-executive director of Enterprise Inns Plc, Wm Morrison Supermarkets G H PLC and Imperial Tobacco PLC.
She is a former non-executive director of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC and SSL International PLC, a former Chief Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited and former Worldwide President and Chief Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff Company, part of Diageo plc, and a former council member of the Advertising Standards Authority.
Susan is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
6, 8 H | Tim Parker | Non-executive director Age 54 Re-appointed to the Board in November 2008 having been a non-executive director of the Company from February 2007 to May 2008, when he was appointed as First Deputy Mayor of London, a position from which he retired in August 2008.
Tim is Executive Chairman of The Samsonite Corporation, non-executive Chairman I J of PBL Media Holdings Pty Ltd and a director of British Pathe Limited.
He was formerly Chief Executive of the AA and a non-executive director of Boots Group plc until its merger to become Alliance Boots plc.
3, 6 I | Don Robert | Non-executive director Age 50 Appointed to the Board in May 2009.
He is Chief Executive Officer of Experian plc, having joined the Board of Experian in July 2006 as part of the demerger of GUS plc.
Don is a director of First Advantage Corporation and is former Chairman of the Consumer Data Industry Association and previously held positions with First American Corporation, Credco, Inc. and US Bancorp.
3, 6 J | Sir Ian Robinson | Non-executive director Age 67 K Appointed to the Board in December 2006.
He was a former Chairman of Ladbrokes plc formerly Hilton Group plc and of Amey plc, and a former Chief Executive of 1 Chairman of the Nomination 8 M ember of the Remuneration Scottish Power plc and non-executive director of ASDA plc, RMC plc, Scottish & Committee Committee Newcastle plc and Siemens Holdings plc where he remains a member of the Advisory 2 Member of the Corporate Responsibility 9 Chairman of the Audit Committee Board.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineers, a Fellow of the Institution Committee 10 C hairman of the Corporate of Chemical Engineers and a member of the Takeover Panel.
Sir Ian received his 3 Member of the Nomination Committee Responsibility Committee Knighthood in 2000 for services to the electricity industry.
4 Member of the General Business 11 Member of the Executive Committee Committee 12 Trustee of the Compass Pension Company Secretary 2, 5, 11, 12 5 Member of the Disclosure Committee Scheme, the Compass Group K | Mark White | General Counsel & Company Secretary Age 49 6 Member of the Audit Committee Pension Plan and the Compass A solicitor who joined Compass Group on 1 June 2007.
He is secretary to the Audit, 7 Chairman of the Remuneration Retirement Income Savings Plan General Business, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Mark was previously Committee Group Company Secretary and Counsel of Wolseley plc and Company Secretary of Enterprise Oil plc and Rotork plc.
42 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009
