Chief Executives statement continued Regional performance North America Our North American business has delivered an excellent performance 44% Our North American business which includes our operations in the USA, Canada and Mexico has delivered an excellent performance.
Revenues North America contributes 44% were 5.9 billion 2008: 4.6 billion, with organic growth of 1.6%.
towards Group revenue Operating profit increased by 49 million, or 12.5% on a constant 2008: 40% currency basis, to 441 million 2008: 392 million on a constant currency basis.
A focus on driving efficiencies, particularly through the purchasing, logistics and production processes and initiatives to reduce overheads, contributed to a full year margin improvement of 60 basis 5,871m 7.5% points on a constant currency basis.
Revenue Operating margin 2008: 4,553m 2008: 6.8% The Business & Industry sector has had another year of strong new business gains, including the World Bank Group.
Despite the like for like pressures on volume, consumer demand for value offers and grab and go increased.
This, together with more focused promotions, has helped 441m 1.6% drive participation and spend.
Tight cost management and further efficiency gains have enabled the sector to deliver another year of strong profit Operating profit Organic revenue and margin growth.
The acquisition of Kimco earlier in the year has 2008: 311m growth enhanced our support services capability in this sector, enabling us to 2008: 7.1% better serve our existing clients by offering a combined food and support services package.
In Healthcare, the ongoing integration of our recent acquisitions of Revenue by sector Professional Services and Medi-Dyn, both specialist healthcare support Business service providers, has strengthened our support services offers and & Industry 37% contributed to the delivery of strong revenue growth and excellent Education 22% retention rates.
For example, we have recently been appointed to Healthcare provide support services to The Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan, & Seniors 26% one of the USAs oldest and largest teaching hospitals.
Sports & Leisure 12% Defence, Offshore We have seen good like for like volume growth in Education, driven by & Remote 3% increasing enrolments and take up of board plans throughout the year.
New business also remained very strong and we have delivered double digit organic revenue growth.
We have recently won a contract with The University of North Carolina at Greensboro to provide both dining and vending services as well as contracts with Duval County Public Schools, the University of Pennsylvania and Bowling Green University.
In Levy, our Sports & Leisure business, our ability to quickly flex costs in line with demand and the delivery of further efficiencies have enabled us to improve margins.
We continue to see a strong pipeline for new business opportunities and have had some exciting wins including significant contracts with the Palace of Auburn Hills home to the Detroit Pistons of the NBA and the United Center home to the Chicago Bulls and Chicago Blackhawks.
In Canada, we have recently entered into an agreement with Suncor Energy to provide catering and support services to the new Firebag Village site.
We have been partnered with Suncor Energy since 1967, when they started their first operations in the Oil Sands.
18 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Continental Europe Managing the flexible cost base and further efficiency gains have resulted 25% in a robust performance Continental Europe contributes 25% Revenue in Continental Europe totalled 3.4 billion 2008: 3.0 billion, towards Group revenue with organic revenue 1.1% lower than last year.
However, management 2008: 26% of the flexible cost base and further efficiency gains resulted in a robust operating profit performance of 232 million, an increase of 4% on a constant currency basis, and margin improvement of 30 basis points to 6.8%.
3,429m 6.8% Across the geography, we have seen a consistent and encouraging Revenue Operating margin rate of new contract wins.
For example, we have extended our 2008: 3,021m 2008: 6.5% relationship with Shell and now provide a wide variety of services across many countries.
In Continental Europe, this now includes Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Italy amongst others.
232m 1.1 % In Germany, we have successfully integrated the recent acquisitions Operating profit Organic revenue of Plural, a support services specialist, and LPS, and we are already 2008: 197m growth seeing the benefits of new business opportunities through crossselling.
The Education sector has developed significantly this year 2008: 5.4% with our largest ever contract win for public schools in Offenberg, Baden-Wuerttemberg, as well as other exciting new wins in both the public and private sectors.
Revenue by sector The Nordic region, where high levels of organic growth have been Business maintained through the year, has seen strong new business wins in & Industry 62% both food and multi services, including AstraZeneca, Sweco and Volvo Education 12% in Sweden and Statoil in Norway.
Healthcare & Seniors 17% The turnaround plan in Italy continues to deliver good results, with solid Sports & Leisure 5% margin improvement.
Following recent wins in support services, such Defence, Offshore as the large contract with Trenitalia Italian Railways, we are seeing & Remote 4% encouraging signs regarding the cross-selling potential.
Our Education business is continuing to generate good levels of new business and like for like growth, with contract wins across the country including Rome and Turin.
The Spanish business has also performed extremely well and had a particularly strong year in Healthcare, driven by new business gains, with both public and private hospitals for example, Pius Hospital fide Valls as well as in the senior living market.
The management team has simplified the structure to increase efficiency and has improved purchasing and logistics processes, providing a solid base for future growth.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 19 Chief Executives statement continued Regional performance UK & Ireland In the UK & Ireland we have significantly increased our margins by 60 basis points 14% Revenues were 1.8 billion 2008: 1.9 billion.
We have continued to work hard in the UK & Ireland, streamlining the back office and improving UK & Ireland contributes 14% productivity.
This has enabled us to significantly improve our margins by towards Group revenue 60 basis points, despite the difficult economic conditions, with a good 2008: 17% increase in operating profit to 114 million 2008: 108 million.
In the Business & Industry sector we continue to win high quality new business in both food and support services.
Notably, Compass has been 1,829m 6.2% awarded a contract with the Lloyds Banking Group to provide foodservice Revenue Operating margin to the Groups 78 UK sites for the next five years.
The new Royal Institute 2008: 1,926m 2008: 5.6% of Chartered Surveyors contract requires us to provide staff dining, reception services and hospitality catering.
During the year we have also won important new business with BSkyB and National Grid as well as renewing contracts with Heinz and JohnsonDiversey.
Continued flexing 114m 5.4 % of labour costs in line with demand and tight control of discretionary spend has enabled us to move the margin forward strongly.
Operating profit Organic revenue 2008: 108m growth Growth in the Healthcare sector has been driven by new business and 2008: 0.3 % good like for like volume growth.
The newly acquired food and retail outlets from McColls have contributed to the good progress we continue to make in extending our retail offer, with over 55 new outlets opened since the start of the year, taking the total to over 100.
We have secured Revenue by sector good quality new business such as the Southend NHS Foundation Trust Business where we have extended our relationship to feed 1,000 patients and & Industry 53% 4,000 employees using our advanced Steamplicity concept.
Education 12% Healthcare We are making good progress in the Education sector and are really & Seniors 11% starting to see the benefits of our work over the last few years.
We believe Sports & Leisure 13% we now have the right offer for primary and secondary school meals and Defence, Offshore are in a strong position to grow this part of the business.
We have also & Remote 11% recently won new contracts in higher education with Warwick University, the largest university campus in the UK, as well as extending our existing contracts with Oxford Brookes University, Roehampton University and fide Montfort University.
We have made excellent progress on productivity, where a focus on labour hours and unit overheads has driven margin growth of over 100 basis points compared to the previous year.
We have had success in winning new business in the Sports & Leisure sector.
For example, we have won contracts with Hampshire Cricket Clubs Rose Bowl and the 2010 Ryder Cup, where we will again provide the hospitality and catering for officials, guests and spectators, as well as our landmark deal with the Jockey Club where we now provide foodservice to all of their 14 racecourses.
A focus on flexing labour and other costs has minimised the impact on profit of the decline in hospitality revenues in the sector.
20 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Rest of the World Our Rest of the World businesses have delivered solid organic revenue growth 17% of 2.3% Rest of the World contributes 17% Operating profit increased by 27 million, or 22% on a constant currency towards Group revenue basis, to 148 million 2008: 121 million on a constant currency basis.
2008: 17% The acquisition of the remaining 50% of the shares of GR SA in Brazil, completed in March 2008, contributed strongly to this growth.
The margin has increased by 100 basis points overall on a constant currency basis to 6.4%.
2,315m 6.4% We are continuing to see good levels of new business wins across most Revenue Operating margin countries in the region, including new contracts with HSBC in both China 2008: 1,940m 2008: 5.4% and Argentina and Coca-Cola in China.
In Brazil, we have won Monsanto and Cia Mller fide Bebidas, a leading beverage manufacturer.
The drive for overhead efficiencies, coupled with restructuring programmes, has contributed to the excellent margin progression.
148m 2.3% Operating profit Organic revenue In Australia, we have seen good organic revenue growth driven by the 2008: 104m growth Defence, Offshore & Remote site sector which comprises the majority of the business.
Chevron recently awarded us a very significant contract 2008: 10.6% to provide food and a full range of support services at its facilities in Western Australia.
The Healthcare sector grew by nearly 20% in the year and continues to provide excellent opportunities for future growth.
Revenue by sector Already one of the more efficient businesses in the Group, Australia has delivered further margin improvement by focusing on all areas of cost.
Business & Industry 38% The large Business & Industry and Sports & Leisure sectors in Japan Education 5% mean that organic revenue growth has been a challenge.
However, Healthcare excellent progress on overhead control and driving efficiencies in the & Seniors 11% supply chain have delivered a further 100 basis points improvement in Sports & Leisure 13% the margin, moving Japan a step closer to the Group average.
Defence, Offshore & Remote 33% In Brazil, new business wins have been very strong.
They include contracts with Petrobras, Brazils largest energy company, and Noble, marking our entry into the offshore market there.
The management team has been quick to react to market changes by managing the cost base and continuing to deliver cost efficiencies.
The margins have increased and the recently strengthened management team is now well placed to grow our business across all sectors in this exciting market.
Our UAE based joint venture has seen strong organic revenue growth and excellent like for like volumes in our Remote site business.
We have seen particularly strong growth in support services and the pipeline of new business looks encouraging.
Our businesses serving the energy and extraction sectors have delivered solid double digit organic revenue growth and have excellent retention rates.
We continue to benefit from the very high levels of activity in these sectors, particularly the construction of liquid natural gas production, storage and export facilities worldwide.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 21 Every day we create millions of individual experiences through the food we serve and the services we provide.
Our extensive research into consumer eating trends of steam cooking restaurant quality, fresh, hot meals.
enables us to understand what people eat as their This has revolutionised patient feeding in hospitals needs change during the day, the week, the year for example, offering a greater choice of nutritious and throughout life.
Our development teams of chefs meals, cooked to order from an extensive personal and nutritionists, working with growers and worldmenu selection that is specially designed to meet leading food producers, use these insights to develop individual medical dietary needs.
menus, dishes and products to meet all tastes.
Above all, its the warm smile, the explanation of This has also led to the introduction of new cooking the menu, knowing what you like and what you methods such as Steamplicity, our patented system dont that make every meal we serve personal.
22 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Individually Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 23
