Our sectors Sector diversity Business Education & Industry Group revenue 2009 Group revenue 2009 46% 15% 2008: 47% 2008: 14% Delivering world-class foodservice and From kindergarten to college, we provide We believe that the sectors we support services to people at work.
fun, healthy dining options that help boost operate in have specific requirements Our renowned customer first hospitality concentration and knowledge retention.
and that responding to these and mindset and reputation for great food are Our food and nutrition specialists are driving innovation and operating combined with the industrial efficiency committed to building strong bodies, sharp efficiency are best addressed by of our Compass Service Framework to minds and establishing the foundation for a building sector expertise.
For our consistently manage and deliver multiple long, healthier life.
customers this means access to services to the highest standard, at the unrivalled experience, global best best value, on a global scale.
practice and market-leading Major sector brands Major sector brands innovation, and the specialist skills of our people from award-winning chefs to service practice experts.
6 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Healthcare Sports Defence, & Seniors & Leisure Offshore & Remote Group revenue 2009 Group revenue 2009 Group revenue 2009 1 9% 1 1 % 9% 2008: 18% 2008: 11% 2008: 10% Delivering with care to the most exacting With our acclaimed foodservice and We lead the market in providing food and standards for patients, staff and visitors unrivalled hospitality and service support services to major companies in the in the public and private healthcare sector excellence, we have built up an enviable oil and gas and mining and construction and in the growing senior living market, reputation for providing food and industries, operating in some of the most with services to residential care homes, hospitality services at some of the worlds demanding environments in the world.
To retirement communities and providing most prestigious sporting, leisure and our defence sector clients we are a partner home delivery meal services.
exhibition venues, visitor attractions and who understands the challenges of running major events.
efficient and cost-effective operations for members of the armed forces.
Major sector brands Major sector brands Major sector brands Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 7 8 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009
