24 Directors report The directors present their report and the audited financial Directors statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December The names of the directors at the date of this report and their 2009.
The Business and Financial reviews set out on pages 06 to biographical details are given on pages 22 and 23.
19 and the corporate governance statement set out on pages 28 to 32 form part of this report.
Changes to the Board during the year were as follows: Bernard Fournier retired on 22 May 2009.
Results and dividends Leslie van der Walle retired on 22 May 2009.
Daniel Farrar retired on 22 May 2009.
The consolidated income statement is set out on page 40 and John Brady was appointed on 1 August 2009. shows a pro t for the financial year of 64.2m 2008: 89.2m.
Simon Laf n was appointed on 1 August 2009.
An interim dividend of 0.96p per ordinary share was paid on Martin Read was appointed on 1 August 2009.
The directors Nick Priday was appointed on 1 September 2009. recommend a final dividend for the year of 1.54p per ordinary Alicja Lesniak retired on 1 October 2009. share which, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be Brendan ONeill retired on 1 October 2009. payable on 1 July 2010 to ordinary shareholders registered at Adrian Chedore retired on 31 December 2009.
The total dividend for the year will then amount to 2.5p per ordinary share 2008: 2.50p.
The interests of the directors in the shares and share incentives of the Company are shown in the Remuneration report on pages 33 to 38.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding Re-election of directors company based in London.
Its subsidiaries and related companies provide a broad range of services in the areas of media In accordance with the Articles of Association, John Brady, Simon communications and market research.
Laf n, Nick Priday and Martin Read, having been appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, offer themselves The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the pro ts or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in Note 16 to the parent company financial statements.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Charles Strauss will be retiring at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will offer himself for re-election.
Review of business and future developments Details of all the directors service agreements, including notice A review of the business and likely future developments of the periods, are given in the Remuneration report on page 34.
Group is given in the Chief Executives report on pages 04 and 05, the Business Review on pages 06 to 11 and the Financial Review] on pages 12 to 17.
Those sections form part of, and are Directors indemnities incorporated by reference within, this Directors report.
A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by the Articles of Association and Sections 232 and 234 of the Financial instruments Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act, has been granted by the Company to each of its directors.
Under the QTPIs the Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company Company undertakes to indemnify each director against liability to and its subsidiaries is given in Note 20 to the financial statements.
third parties excluding criminal and regulatory penalties and to pay directors costs as incurred, provided that they are reimbursed Post-balance sheet events to the Company if the director is convicted or, in an action that is brought by the Company, judgement is given against the director.
The directors are not aware of any signi cant post-balance sheet events that require disclosure in the financial statements other than Directors who resign from the Board continue to have the bene t those disclosed in Note 34 to the financial statements at page 83. of the QTPI for potential liability to third parties that occurred prior to their resignation.
Donations Substantial shareholdings The Groups policy with respect to charitable donations and the amounts donated are detailed on page 20.
No political At 17 March 2010 the Company had been noti ed of the donations were made during the year.
following interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares, in accordance with chapter five of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Supplier payment policy Shareholder Number of shares % The Company does not impose a formal code of payment Bollor Group 344,276,446 29.62 practice on its subsidiaries.
However, the Groups policy is to try to create relationships with its suppliers such that they trust us and Fidelity International 57,562,000 4.95 want to do business with us.
In selecting external suppliers we AXA Investment Managers 55,000,086 4.73 use competitive processes that are fair and transparent, and designed to maximise value and quality of service for our clients Legal & General Group 46,239,051 3.98 and ourselves.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had 50 days purchases outstanding 2008: 62 days.
The creditor day analysis is not applicable to the holding company.
25 At every Annual General Meeting any director who held of ce at Share capital the time of two preceding annual general meetings and who did Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with not retire at either of them must retire by rotation and may offer details of movements in the Companys issued share capital during himself for re-election.
In addition, any director who has been in the year, are shown in Note 23 to the financial statements on of ce, other than as a director holding an executive position, for a page 77. continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting must also retire and may offer himself for re-election.
At the Annual The Company has one class of share capital that is divided into ordinary shares of 5p each and that carry no right to xed General Meeting at which a director retires, shareholders can pass an ordinary resolution to re-elect the director or to elect some income.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
other suitable person in his place.
There are no speci c restrictions on the size of a shareholding, The only people who can be elected as directors at an Annual the transfer of shares or voting rights, which are governed by the General Meeting are: i directors retiring at the meeting: general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing ii anyone recommended by the directors: and iii anyone legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements nominated by a shareholder.
The nominating shareholder must between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer be entitled to vote at the meeting.
He must deliver to the Company of shares or on voting rights.
a letter stating that he intends to nominate another person for election and the written consent of that person to be elected.
The trustees of the Aegis Group Employee Share Trust the Trust These documents must be delivered to the Company not less than have agreed to waive any right to all or any future dividend seven and not more than 42 days before the day of the meeting.
payments on shares held within the Trust except in certain limited The Company may by special resolution remove any director circumstances, none of which are currently applicable.
before the expiration of his term of of ce.
A director automatically Details of the shares held are set out in Note 24 to the financial stops being a director if: i he resigns: ii he offers to resign and statements.
The trustees of the Trust may vote or abstain from voting the Company accept his offer: iii all of the other directors at least on shares held in the Trust in any way they think t and in doing so three of them resolve to or sign a written notice requiring his may take into account both financial and nonfinancial interests of resignation: iv he is or has been suffering from mental ill health the bene ciaries of the Trust.
and the directors pass a resolution removing him from of ce: v he No person has any special rights of control over the Companys is absent without permission of the Board for a continuous period of six months and the directors pass a resolution removing him share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
from of ce: vi he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his The directors are authorised to allot unissued shares in the creditors generally: vii he is prohibited by law from being a Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 15,590,623. director: or viii he ceases to be a director under legislation or is No such shares have been issued or allotted under this authority, removed pursuant to the Articles.
nor is there any current intention to do so, save for shares to be issued to satisfy existing obligations.
This authority is valid until the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting at which time Signi cant agreements a resolution will be proposed to renew the authority as detailed The following signi cant agreements contain provisions entitling the in the accompanying circular.
counterparties to those agreements to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: The Company has not purchased, or created any charges over, its own shares in the year ended 31 December 2009.
The 450,000,000 multicurrency credit facility agreement dated Company has not had the authority to allot shares without regard 9 June 2006 as amended between, amongst others, the to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Acts or to Company, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc as agent and the purchase its own shares since the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
financial institutions named therein as banks the Facility.
On a change of control of the Company, unless the Majority Amendments to Articles of Association Banks as fide ned therein otherwise agree, all loans, letters of credit and guarantees, together with all accrued interest and Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company may be made in accordance with the provisions of the other sums payable under the agreement, shall be prepaid and, upon such prepayment being made, the total Companies Act by special resolution.
A resolution to amend the Articles of Association will be put to the forthcoming Annual commitments of the banks under the Facility shall be cancelled and reduced to zero.
The proposed changes relate to the recent implementation of the remaining provisions of the Companies Act.
Note purchase agreements dated 28 July 2005, Details of the changes being proposed are set out in the 17 September 2007 as amended and 17 December 2009, accompanying circular.
the Note Purchase Agreements pursuant to which notes amounting in aggregate to US$342m the 2005 Notes, Appointment and replacement of directors US$125m the 2007 Notes and US$225m the 2009 Notes, together with the 2005 Notes and the 2007 Notes, With regard to the appointment of directors, the Company the Notes respectively were issued by the Company.
is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
Each holder of Notes has an option, on a change of control of the Company, to require the Company to prepay the entire The Company shall have no fewer than two and no more than principal amount of the Notes held by that holder together with 16 directors.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by interest accrued thereon and the Make-Whole Amount as ordinary resolution or by a resolution of the Board.
A director fide ned in each of the Note Purchase Agreements.
appointed by the Board may only hold of ce until the following Annual General Meeting but is then eligible for election.
He she is not taken into account in determining the directors or the number of directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
Additional information Financial statements Business review Aegis Group plc Governance 95 4094 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Directors report 26 Directors report continued Employment policies Going concern The Group operates throughout the world and therefore has The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect developed employment policies that meet local conditions and its future development, performance and financial position and requirements.
These policies are based on the best traditions and commentary on the Groups financial results, its cash ows, liquidity practices in any given country in which it operates and are requirements, borrowing facilities and a summary of the Group discussed on page 19. principal risks and uncertainties are set out in the business and financial review on pages 18 and 19 and elsewhere within the financial statements.
In addition, Note 20 to the financial Human rights, diversity and disability statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes The Group has a series of human resources policies that require its for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, employees to act respectfully and responsibly at all times.
These details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its policies include policies on human rights, diversity and disability.
exposures to liquidity risk and credit risk.
We are committed to treating each employee and applicant The Board is satis ed that the Group balance sheet remains fairly and equitably.
Employment decisions are based on merit, strong.
We remain wellnanced with considerable headroom experience and potential, without regard to race, nationality, under our current facilities and no major re nancings are due sex, marital status, age, religion or sexual orientation.
We are until 2011. committed to following the applicable labour and employment The financial statements at 31 December 2009 show that the laws in all of the jurisdictions it operates.
Group generated a pro t from continuing operations of 64.2m We believe that disabled people have the same rights as 2008: 89.2m with cash generated from operating activities of non-disabled people to become, and continue to be, employees 164.9m 2008: 215.5m.
The financial statements also show of the Group.
Wherever possible, we provide the same that at 31 December 2009 the Group balance sheet was in a net opportunities for disabled people as for others.
If any of our asset position of 444.5m 2008: 459.8m with net current employees become disabled we make every effort to keep liabilities of 6.5m 2008: net current liabilities of 5.4m mainly them in the Groups employment, with appropriate training due to restructuring costs.
The Group has generated positive where necessary.
operating cash in ows from operations for each of the last six years to 31 December 2009.
Employee involvement The main factors contributing to these cash in ows are the retention and growth of the customer base, terms of trade with customers We have employee consultation processes throughout our and suppliers and the continuing management of working capital business in accordance with local laws.
In addition, we update balances within the Group.
The Board has concluded that no all of our employees on a regular basis with Group developments matters have come to its attention which suggests that the Group and progress through newsletters, internal publications, senior will not be able to maintain its current terms of trade with customers management notes and face-to-face meetings.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, Annual General Meeting indicate that the Group has suf cient funding to operate within the level of its available facilities.
The Annual General Meeting will be held in the Wren Room at the Royal Institute of British Architects, 66 Portland Place The Board has considered various alternative operating and London W1B 6DW, on Wednesday, 16 June 2010 at 11am.
funding strategies should these be necessary and are satis ed that revised operating and funding strategies could be adopted if and Enclosed with this report is a circular containing a letter from the when necessary to maintain these levels of funding.
Chairman to shareholders and the formal notice convening the Annual General Meeting.
After making these enquiries, the Board is satis ed that the Group has the suf cient resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and for this reason: the going concern basis Auditors continues to be adopted in preparing the financial statements.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in of ce By order of the Board as auditors and resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Company and to authorise the directors to x their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Emma Thomas Company Secretary Directors con rmation 17 March 2010 Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report con rms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This con rmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act.
