DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Computacenter plc and its subsidiary companies the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Principal activities The Company is a holding company.
The principal activities of the Group, of which it is the parent, are the supply, implementation, support and management of information technology systems.
Business review The Companies Act 2006 requires the Group to prepare a business review, which runs from the start of the Report and Accounts, up to page 27 and as such, should be considered part of the Directors Report.
The review includes information about the Groups operations, financial performance throughout the year and likely developments, key performance indicators, an overview of the markets in which the Group operates, principal risks and information regarding the Groups sustainable development.
Corporate governance Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2, the Company is required to include a Corporate Governance Statement within the Directors Report.
Information on the corporate governance practices can be found in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 29 to 33, which is incorporated into the Report of the Directors by reference.
Results and dividends The Groups activities resulted in a profit before tax of 48.4 million 2008: 39.5 million.
The Group profit for the year available to shareholders amounted to 37.7 million 2008: 37.3 million.
The Directors have decided to pay an additional interim dividend of 8.0 pence per share, in lieu of a payment of a final dividend.
This interim dividend totals 11.8 million 2008: final dividend of 8.1 million.
Dividends are recognised in the accounts in the year in which they are paid, or in the case of a final dividend, when approved by the shareholders.
As such, the amount recognised in the 2009 accounts, as described in note 11, is made up of last years final dividend 5.5 pence per share and the interim dividend 2.7 pence per share of 2009.
Directors and Directors authority The Directors who served through-out the year ended 31 December 2009 were Tony Conophy, Philip Hulme, Ian Lewis, Greg Lock, Mike Norris, John Ormerod, Peter Ogden and Cliff Preddy.
Brief biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are given on page 28.
Mike Norris and Ian Lewis will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Philip Hulme and Peter Ogden, having served as Directors for more than nine years, will also retire and offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Cliff Preddy will retire by rotation at the forthcoming AGM, but will not offer himself for re-election.
The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board of Directors consisting of not fewer than three but not more than 20 Directors, who manage the business and affairs of the Company.
The Directors may appoint additional or replacement Directors, who shall serve until the next AGM of the Company at which point they will be required to stand for election by the members.
At each AGM one-third of the Directors are required to retire by rotation and they may stand for re-election.
A Director may be removed from office at a general meeting by the passing of an Ordinary Resolution provided special notice has been given.
Members have previously approved a Resolution to give the Directors authority to allot shares and a renewal of this authority is proposed at the 2010 AGM.
This authority allows the Directors to allot shares up to the maximum amount stated in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting approximately one-third of the issued share capital and this authority would generally expire at the following AGM.
In addition, the Company may not allot shares for cash unless pursuant to an employee share scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
This is known as pre-emption rights.
A Resolution to allow a limited dis-application of these pre-emption rights has been passed by the members previously and a renewal of this authority is proposed for the 2010 AGM.
This authority is also restricted to a specific amount as detailed in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, which is approximately 5 per cent of the issued share capital.
This authority generally expires at the conclusion of the following AGM.
The Company may only amend its Articles of Association by passing a Special Resolution in general meeting.
The Company is proposing to amend its Articles of Association at the forthcoming AGM, in order to bring them in line with the Companies Act 2006.
A summary of the proposed changes to the Articles, has been sent to all shareholders along with the notice of Annual General Meeting.
A black-lined copy of the proposed Articles of Association is also available on the Companys website www.
40 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors indemnities The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors to the extent permitted by law and these indemnities remain in force at the date of this report.
The indemnities are uncapped and cover all costs, charges, losses and liabilities the Directors may incur to third parties, in the course of acting as Directors of the Company or its subsidiaries.
Directors conflicts of interests From 1 October 2008, a Director has had a statutory duty to avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, an interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has been authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association by the other Directors.
The Articles of Association were amended to include the relevant authorisation for Directors to approve such conflicts by a resolution of shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
During 2008 procedures were put in place to ensure compliance with the Directors conflict of interest duties set out in the Companies Act 2006.
All Directors were asked to submit details to the Company Secretary of any current situations appointments or otherwise which may give rise to a conflict, or potential conflict, of interest.
Notifications were received from all Directors.
These were reviewed by the Board and the Board identified those which required further consideration and, if appropriate, approval.
Following consideration, the Board approved the conflict or potential conflict matters, subject to the condition that the Directors concerned abstain from participating in any discussion or decision affected by the conflict matter.
In each case, authorisation was given by Directors who were genuinely independent of the conflict matter.
A record of all authorisations is maintained by the Company Secretary and will be reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
All Directors are required to notify the Company Secretary of any changes to their registered conflicts, including new potential conflicts of interest.
Directors interests in shares The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the year are set out below: At 1 January 2009 At 31 December 2009 or as at date of appointment Number of Number of Number of Number of ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares Beneficial Non-Beneficial Beneficial Non-Beneficial Executive Directors Mike Norris 1,385,658 1,204,158 Tony Conophy 2,175,905 2,058,044 Non-Executive Directors Greg Lock 350,000 200,000 Philip Hulme 19,291,770 9,143,921 19,291,770 9,143,921 Ian Lewis 45,000 45,000 Peter Ogden 35,335,636 979,166 35,335,636 979,166 John Ormerod 15,000 5,000 Cliff Preddy 14,166 14,166 Between 31 December 2009 and 10 March 2010 there have been no changes to the interests detailed above.
Major interests in shares In addition to the Directors interests set out above, as at 10 March 2010, the Company had been notified, in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following substantial interests in the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
Number of % of ordinary shares issued held share capital Fidelity International Ltd Indirect 9,601,943 6.01% Lloyds TSB Group Plc Indirect 5,381,288 3.37% JP Morgan Asset Management Holdings Inc 7,762,043 5.07% Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41 Directors report continued Capital structure As at 10 March 2010, there were 153.1 million fully paid ordinary shares in issue, all of which have full voting rights and there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares.
Pursuant to the Companys share schemes, there are two employee trusts which, as at the year-end, held a total of 5,728,576 ordinary shares of 6 pence, representing 3.74 per cent of the issued share capital.
During the year the Trusts purchased a total of 493,513 shares.
The voting rights attaching to these shares are not exercisable directly by the employees, but are exercisable by the Trustees.
However, in line with good practice, the Trustees do not exercise these voting rights.
In the event of another company taking control of the Company, the employee share schemes operated by the Company have set change of control provisions.
Participants may, in certain circumstances, be allowed to exchange their options for options of equivalent value over shares in the acquiring company.
Alternatively the options may vest early, in which case, early vesting under the executive schemes will be pro-rated accordingly and under the Sharesave scheme, employees will only be able to exercise the option, to the extent of their accumulated saving.
The Company was granted authority at the 2009 AGM, to make market purchases of up to 15,306,624 ordinary shares of 6 pence.
This authority will expire at the 2010 AGM, where approval from shareholders will be sought to renew the authority.
During the period no market purchases of ordinary shares were made, by the Company.
Significant agreements and relationships The Group has various borrowing facilities provided primarily by Barclays Bank plc, the most significant of which is a 60 million secured credit facility signed in May 2008.
These agreements include a change of control provision, which may result in the facility being withdrawn or amended upon a change of control of the Group.
In addition to financing arrangements, the Board considers that there are a number of relationships with suppliers which are significant to the business, namely with HP, IBM, Microsoft, Sun and Lenovo.
Creditors payment policy The Company does not hold any trade creditor balances.
However, it is the policy of the Group that each of the businesses should agree appropriate terms and conditions with suppliers ranging from standard written terms to individually negotiated contracts and that payment should be in accordance with those terms and conditions, provided that the supplier has also complied with them.
Group creditor days amounted to 46 2008: 45.
Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are discussed in the Finance Directors Review on pages 18 to 21.
Employee share schemes The Company operates executive share option schemes and a performance-related option scheme for the benefit of employees.
During the year, no options over ordinary shares of 6p were granted under the executive share option schemes 2008: 40,000.
At the year-end options remained outstanding under these schemes, in respect of a total of 2,714,756 ordinary shares of 6 pence each 2008: 4,421,506 ordinary shares.
During the year, 115,000 options over shares were exercised and options over 1,591,750 shares lapsed.
The Company also operates a Performance Share Plan PSP to incentivise employees.
During the year, 3,029,337 ordinary shares of 6 pence were conditionally awarded 2008: 1,635,160.
At the year-end, awards over 5,053,973 shares remained outstanding, under this scheme 2008: 3,624,497 ordinary shares.
During the year, awards over 1,216,601 shares were transferred to participants and awards over 383,260 shares lapsed.
In addition, the Company operates a Sharesave scheme for the benefit of employees.
At the year-end 2,595,964 2008: 3,043,897 options granted under the Sharesave scheme remained outstanding.
Corporate sustainable development The Board recognises that acting in a socially responsible way benefits the community, our customers, shareholders, the environment and employees alike.
Further information can be found in the Sustainable Development Report on pages 24 to 27.
Health, safety and environment It remains the policy of the Group that each business maintains the high standards necessary to safeguard the health and safety of its employees, customers, contractors and the public.
This commitment is formally contained in the Health and Safety Policy Statement, which is available from the Companys website at www.
The Groups Health, Safety and Environment HSE Department monitors and reviews all procedures and policies, utilising the advice of external consultants, where necessary, in order to ensure the management systems comply with current legal requirements.
Further objectives in relation to the maintenance of appropriate health, safety and environment standards, are detailed in the Sustainable Development Report on pages 24 to 27.
Equal opportunities The Group takes the issues of equality and diversity very seriously and is committed to equal opportunities, monitoring and regularly reviewing policies and practices to ensure that it meets current legislative requirements, as well as Computacenters own internal standards.
The Group is committed to make full use of the talents and resources of all its employees and to provide a healthy environment that encourages good and productive working relationships within the organisation.
Policies dealing with equal opportunities are in place in all parts of the Group, which take account of the Groups overall commitment and also addresses local regulatory requirements.
42 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Employee involvement Computacenter remains committed to involving all employees in significant business issues, particularly matters which affect their work and working environment.
Employee involvement is undertaken through a variety of methods including team briefings, intranet, electronic mail and in-house publications.
The primary method is through team briefings where managers are tasked with ensuring that information sharing, discussion and feedback happen on a regular basis.
Employee consultative forums exist in each country to consult staff on major issues affecting employment and matters of policy and to enable management to seek the views and opinions of employees on a wide range of business matters.
Should there be transnational issues to discuss, a facility exists to engage a European forum made up of representatives from country forums.
Performance and personal development The Group is committed to the development of its employees through a regular performance review process.
Managers are responsible for setting and reviewing personal objectives aligned to corporate and functional goals, reviewing performance against behavioural standards appropriate to job level, agreeing appropriate training and development interventions, and discussing career aspirations.
The Group Executive Committee has overall responsibility for monitoring management development and ensuring that the required skills are available to meet the current and future management needs of the Group.
At divisional and functional level, review processes exist to ensure that there is breadth and depth of management talent throughout the business.
The UK business retains its Investor in People status.
Computacenters reward strategy is reviewed regularly and continues to emphasise performance-related pay, particularly for more senior managers, with bonus payments aligned to financial performance.
Key performance indicators KPIs Performance and operational KPIs can be found within the strategy spread at the front of the report and accounts.
The Board considers employee driven attrition rates as a KPI in relation to employee issues.
For the year ended 31 December 2009 this figure was 6.14 per cent 2008: 13.67 per cent.
Further KPIs on employee and environmental matters can be found within the Corporate Sustainable Development Report on pages 24 to 27.
Workplace International human rights obligations and international employment laws are met through a broad range of policies across the Group.
These ensure that, for example, employees are not subject to discrimination, arbitrary or unjust dismissal or unjust application of wage rates.
Further information on this can be found in the Sustainable Development Report on pages 24 to 27. Business ethics An ethics policy is operated by the Group, which commits Computacenter employees to the highest standards of ethical behaviour in respect of customers, suppliers, colleagues and other stakeholders in the business.
The policy includes a requirement for all employees to report abuses or non-conformance with the policy whistle-blowing and sets out the procedures to be followed.
Community relations and charity activities The Group supports community and charitable projects as part of its commitment to corporate social responsibility and encourages its employees to support such projects.
It also organises and supports ad hoc charitable fundraising events.
In addition, the donation of IT equipment to schools and other charitable causes is a feature of the Groups recycling programmes.
Further information on the Groups community initiatives can be found within the Sustainable Development Report on pages 24 to 27.
In 2009 the Group made charitable donations amounting to 100,050 2008: 87,000.
During the year the Group did not make any political donations to any political party, or other political organisation and did not incur any political expenditure within the meaning of Sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review, which runs from the start of the Report and Accounts, up to page 27.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Directors Review on pages 18 to 21.
In addition, notes 24 to 25 to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution approving the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 43 Directors report continued Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable company law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the Company and of the Group and the results and cash flows of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained in the accounts: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group or Company will continue in its business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence, taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken, to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Directors responsibility statement The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit for the Company and undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the Companys annual report and accounts include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board Mike Norris Tony Conophy Chief Executive Finance Director 10 March 2010 44 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
