Directors report chief executives review CONTINUED Continental European commercial property market has also be worth an additional net rental income including empty shown signs of turning a corner towards the end of 2009 property cost savings of some 23 million per annum.
with yields beginning to stabilise after suffering a later and Further out, our 520 hectare 1,285 acre land bank softer landing than in the UK.
offers both designandbuild and speculative development In terms of SEGROs own prospects, we have a good opportunities.
The prelet market is showing signs quality, well located portfolio which is well placed to benefit of renewed activity after a slow 2009 and we are from any recovery in the underlying markets and continues wellpositioned to provide flexible business space solutions to benefit from a strong tenant base.
TheGroups largest to office, industrial and data centre markets.
One of the nearterm opportunity is from letting up vacant space, strengths of the industrial asset class is that development particularly within the Brixton portfolio and we are very pipelines can be adjusted quickly compared to office focused on making progress here.
The current level of and retail, because of relatively short leadtimes of six vacancy within the Groups entire portfolio represents a to nine months to completion for industrial projects.
We potential 56 million per annum of additional rent with are in active discussions with several potential customers corresponding potential annualised vacant property cost regarding preletting opportunities.
As and when the savings of approximately 21 million.
Whilst it is not demandsupply balance appears attractive, we will look to realistic to expect all of this space to become occupied, restart speculative development on a very selective basis.
ifthe Group were able to reduce the annual vacancy rate In the nearterm, however, we will complete our existing of the enlarged portfolio to the Groups recent historic trend level of around 10 per cent, we estimate this could developments and strive to secure new prelets.
What was the strategic rationale structure and asset management systems behind theacquisition of Brixton?
The acquisition of Brixton has enabled Secondly, over the medium term we expect to us to acquire a portfolio of high quality, well grow net rental income by extending our asset located assets which constitute an excellent management skills and leveraging the larger strategic fitwith our existing holdings in the selection ofproperties to satisfy our customers core markets of Heathrow and West London and the North West.
It has reinforced our changing property needs.
This has the position as Europes leading industrial REIT potential to generate in excess of 23 million and was well timed at, or close to, thebottom per annum of additional rental and further of the UK property cycle.
savings on related vacant property costs.
Thirdly, when market conditions are suitable, Q.
Could you tell us more about challenging we will also be able to generate income and the specific financial and operational capital growth through selective development market, exciting benefits to SEGRO?
of Brixtons well located 31 hectare land bank.
We believe that the Brixton transaction Finally, through acquiring a high quality represents compelling value with an attractive SEGROs Chief Executive, portfolio at a discount to its market value, implied net initial yield relative to other market at the trough of the UK investment market, Ian Coull talks about transactions, and representing a substantial our shareholders will enjoy the benefits of discount to Brixtons 31 May 2009 valuation.
the Brixton acquisition capital value appreciation accompanying any recovering investment market over the four The financial benefits of the acquisition are and the exciting fourfold.
Firstly, due to the complementary months since the acquisition, the value of the opportunities ahead.
geographical fit of the acquired assets, we Brixton assets has already increased in value were able to identify significant cost savings by over 7 per cent.
14 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2009 We currently have approximately 39,000 sq m under Overall, it has been a momentous year for the industry development and a further 10,000 sq m of committed and for our Group, and one that positions us positively development starts of which 71 per cent is prelet, which for the future.
I am more confident than ever that we have is expected to generate income of 10.5 million perannum a robust business model, an excellent portfolio and, most with remaining expenditure to be incurred ofapproximately importantly, the people with the right skills, capabilities 21 million.
and commitment to drive this Company forward.
In conclusion, whilst markets have come a long way in the last 12 months, the recovery is still in its early stages.
We look Ian Coull, Chief Executive forward to 2010 with considerably more optimism than was the case a year ago, but our priorities remain largely unchanged: continue to stay close to our customers and minimise theportfolio vacancy level: ongoing financial and risk management: deliver further capital recycling in tandem with identifying attractive reinvestment opportunities, particularly prelet development: and continue to look selectively for other investment opportunities presented by the current market conditions.
What actions did you take the overall UK team by bringing together to manage thefinancial position SEGRO and Brixton employees and through of the enlarged group?
introducing a more streamlined organisation structure, wenow have a lower UK a.
We underpinned the acquisition headcount than SEGRO alone had prior to of Brixton throughraising 437 million the acquisition.
The integration of Brixton through the disposal of matureor noncore into the Group was completed by the end assets and 242 million of equity net of September, andwe have secured 12.8 of expenses through a placing and million per annum of cost synergies.
Thismaintained the enlarged forward, ourfocus is to deliver further upside Groups financial covenant headroom throughreducing the vacancy rate at the levels achieved following the of theBrixton portfolio.
What is the current status of the integration process and have there been any issues?
A comprehensive integration plan was designed prior to the completion of the acquisition with accountability assigned to key personnel and reporting procedures put in place to track progress.
The due diligence process prior to making the offer also helped ensure there have been no surprises since the completion of the acquisition.
com 15 Directors report: BUSINESS REVIEW
