Directors report BoarD of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 60 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2009 eXecUtiVe Directors NoNeXecUtiVe Directors 1.
Chris Peacock Chairman Aged 64 Finance Director Aged 48 Senior Independent NonExecutive Director Aged 64 NonExecutive Director Aged 57 chairman of the Nomination committee Appointed as Finance Director on Member of the Nomination and Appointed a NonExecutive Director 1 January 2006.
Previously, he was remuneration committees Member of the audit, Nomination and on 1 July 2006 and became Chairman finance director of Wagon plc, the Appointed a NonExecutive Director remuneration committees on 1 October 2006.
He is chairman of international automotive engineering on 28 January 2004.
He is a director Appointed a NonExecutive Director on Xchanging Ltd, a nonexecutive director group from 1999 to 2005.
From 1982 of Howard fide Walden Estates Limited 1 April 2001.
He is chairman of of Bank of the Philippine Islands Europe to 1999 he worked for Arthur Andersen, and a member of the advisory board Interserve plc, senior independent plc, Matheson & Co Ltd, Pacific Assets latterly as a partner and head of audit to The Landon Trust.
He was previously director of Standard Life plc and a Trust and Castle Asia Alternative PCC Ltd. and assurance for the Midlands.
He is president and chief executive officer of nonexecutive board member of He was previously chairman of Exel PLC, a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Jones Lang LaSalle.
He is a fellow of the OFCOM.
He is also a board member CP Ships and Hamptons Group Ltd and Accountants in England and Wales and Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
and former chairman of the Centre in his career he was managing director a nonexecutive director of Bunzl plc.
Thom Wernink of Hongkong Land and then Jardine a partner with McKinsey & Company, 4.
Ian Sutcliffe NonExecutive Director Aged 64 Matheson.
He is a fellow of the Institute head of the Prime Ministers Policy Unit Managing Director, UK Aged 50 of Chartered Accountants in England between 199597, director of group Member of the audit and and Wales.
Appointed an Executive Director on development at NatWest Group, a Nomination committees 1 July 2008.
Previously, he was a director nonexecutive director of The Corporate Appointed a NonExecutive Director on 2.
Ian Coull of Taylor Wimpey plc and chief executive Services Group plc, chairman of 23 May 2005.
He is a nonexecutive Chief Executive Aged 59 of Taylor Wimpey UK and had held a Smartstream Technologies Ltd and a director on a number of property Member of the Nomination committee number of senior international roles board member of the Office of Fair and investment companies based in Appointed Chief Executive on 1 January with Royal Dutch Shell plc, lastly as vice Trading.
He is also on the London regional president retail for Shell Oil in the US.
chairman of the European Public Real 6.
Stephen L Howard board of Royal & SunAlliance and chairs He was also retail director of Shell UK.
Estate Association and of Corio NV, a NonExecutive Director Aged 56 the British Property Federations BPF Netherlandsbased property company REITs task force, having been president of with interests across Europe.
chairman of the remuneration the BPF from June 2005 until July 2006. committee, Member of the He is also a board member of European audit committee Director changes Public Real Estate Association and a Appointed a NonExecutive Director on Lesley MacDonagh, former director of London Scottish International 16 May 2001.
He holds memberships NonExecutive Director, resigned from Ltd.
Prior to joining SEGRO he was of the advisory councils of various the Board on 31 December 2009. a director at J Sainsbury plc and held private and nonprofit organisations board and senior management positions and is the chief executive of Business Ins Reinmann, former Managing at Ladbrokes, Texas Homecare and in the Community.
He was previously Director, Continental Europe, resigned Cavenham Foods.
He is a fellow of the nonexecutive director of Balfour Beatty from the Board on 11 January 2010.
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
plc, group chief executive of Cookson Group plc and then Novar plc.
Andrew Palmer NonExecutive Director Aged 56 chairman of the audit committee, Member of the Nomination and remuneration committees Appointed a NonExecutive Director on 28 January 2004.
Formerly group finance director of Legal & General Group plc where he had also held a number of financial and operational roles in the asset management, insurance and international businesses.
He is a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel of the Financial Reporting Council.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
com 61 Directors report: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
