Directors report our business moDel in action buy smart BRixtOn PLC SEGROs 1.1 billion acquisition of Brixton, at a significant discount to Brixtons valuation at the end of December 2008, was one of the largest property transactions in the UK in 2009.
Brixtons highquality and well-located portfolio of assets strengthened SEGROs UK position in core markets.
the acquisition also confirmed SEGROs position as the leading industrial REit in Europe.
the acquisition of Brixton involved a second equity raising for SEGRO within the space of less than 6 months.
242 million was raised in July via a placing and open offer, confirming the confidence investors placed in SEGRO and itsability to successfully complete the takeover.
Within 3 months, SEGRO had sold Great Western industrial Park part of the Brixton portfolio achieving a 7.5 per cent premium over its valuation at the point of acquisition.
18 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2009 buy smart, aDD value, sell well At 1.1 billion, the purchase of Brixton was one of the UKs largest property deals in2009 www.
com 19 Directors report: BUSinESS REViEW Directors report our business moDel in action 74.8 million purchase price in 2007 102.6 million valuation 31 December 2009 20 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2009 buy smart, aDD value, sell well aDD value EnERGy PARK, MiLAn, itALy in 2007, SEGRO paid 74.8 rooms, auditorium and test rooms.
to a 40 per cent reduction of million for a 71,000 sq m business the first building, a pre-let to SAP energy consumption compared park in Vimercate, northern of 6,000 sq m, was delivered in with traditional italian standard italy, with potential for further December 2009. office buildings.
the site comprised Sustainability is at the heart of the the park has easy access to Milan, a mixture of office, light industrial, development plans with buildings road, rail and air networks and laboratory and related space on designed to achieve new levels of is adjacent to a shopping centre, a 15.2 hectare site, with Alcatel efficiency, including use of new hotel and health complex in the Lucent occupying 48,954 sq m generation of ground water heat established high technology area on a lease that expires in 2012. pumps for heating and cooling.
in 2008 a Masterplan was High efficiency electronic systems the current valuation of the created which will deliver five new were used for the lighting with use now re-named Energy Park buildings totalling 60,000 sq m in a of sensors and dimming controls.
sustainable business park offering in all, procedures, resources, low cost hybrid space: offices, materials, and green control laboratories, it rooms, training systems contributed www.
com 21 Directors report: BUSinESS REViEW Directors report our business moDel in action 83% reduction of the void at Beeches industrial Estate 32% rental uplift at Beeches industrial Estate 22 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2009 buy smart, aDD value, sell well aDD value tHROUGHOUt tHE PORtfOLiO SEGRO continues to add Heston, Heathrow, UK Lease Re-gearing value through responsible and Since consolidating the ownership in 2009 SEGRO took advantage innovative asset management, of the 45,982 sq m industrial of the volatile market conditions bringing benefits to both itself estate, the asset management to re-gear many leases, particularly and its customers.
Recent team has been pro-active on larger holdings.
At tulipan Park examples include: in working with the existing Poznan, Poland, the lease on a customers to improve their 23,527 sq m logistics warehouse, Beeches, Bristol, UK experience of the estate.
this due to expire in September 2015, in December 2008 a 1970s has included a programme of was restructured and extended detached block of 4 industrial rolling refurbishments, lettings by a further 6 years, achieving warehouse units of approx and estate improvements and a rental increase of 3.3 per cent 2,787 sq m was left in a poor cost-saving initiatives to minimise per annum on annualised income condition when the occupier rates payments.
At tulipan Park of 3 of the units went into 2009 included facilitating the Strykow, in Central Poland, the administration.
in 2009, rationalisation of a number lease on a 10,000 sq m logistics refurbishment of the block was of units leased to a single warehouse, due to expire in undertaken and included the occupier into one linked space March 2011, was restructured creation of a secure yard for two within the estate, enabling the and extended by a further 3 of the units, making these units improvement in efficiency of years, achieving a rental increase a unique offer in this part of north their food production operations.
of 1.5 per cent per annum Bristol.
A lease was agreed with As part of this re-location a effective from 2010. in both cases, a logistics company before the number of new leases were significantly improved leasing remedial work was finished.
As a completed and existing leases terms were achieved through result of the asset management renewed and extended.
SEGRO the granting of rent free periods programme for these units a provided assistance to a customer of up to 4 months phased over rental uplift of 32 per cent was experiencing short term financial the new lease terms.
By working achieved and the void for the difficulties as a result of the loss closely with its existing customers estate was reduced from of a key contract.
SEGRO also in this way, SEGRO has been 7.8 per cent to 1.3 per cent.
went on to support the company able to secure rental income for in an eventual merger with longer periods and maintain the a competitor, leading to the underlying value of the assets continuation of operations of whilst compensating occupiers the stronger, enlarged business for their loyalty with incentives on the estate in the long term.
com 23 Directors report: BUSinESS REViEW Directors report our business moDel in action sell well GREAt WEStERn inDUStRiAL PARK, SOUtHALL, UK the sale of Great Western During the short time of its industrial Park to Universities ownership, SEGRO completed Superannuation Scheme Ltd for amajor outstanding rent review a total consideration of 110.4 with noon Products, the relocation million in november 2009 of a retail occupier into a larger achieved a 7.5 per cent premium premises, the letting of a vacant over its valuation at the point of unit and clarification of a acquisition as part of the Brixton contamination issue, clearly portfolio.
this represented a net demonstrating several elements initial yield of 6.9 per cent, which ofSEGROs operating model: rises to over 7 per cent once buysmart, add value, sell well.
As part of the sale, SEGRO pre-sold a future development of 3,400 sq m at Western Point which forms part of the industrial park.
SEGRO has entered into an agreement with GeoPost UK Ltd to develop a cross docking warehouse on a 20-year lease.
24 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2009 buy smart, aDD value, sell well Sale price achieved a 7.5% premium over the estates valuation at the point of acquisition net initial yield of 6.9% rising to 7% on settlement of existing reviews www.
com 25 Directors report: BUSinESS REViEW
