| | 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 VALUERS SUMMARY REPORT 3-5 &15 17 Mercer Street, London WC2 all of All valuations were on the basis of Market Value.
We have assessed Market Value in which are owned by Longmartin Properties Valuers Limited, a joint venture company owned in accordance with PS 3.2 of the Red Book.
Our opinion of the Market Value of each of the equal shares by the Company and the summary report Mercers' Company : to our previous involvement properties or Properties has been primarily Wholly owned portfolio derived using comparable recent market in advising the Company and Longmartin Properties Limited in respect of landlord and transactions on arm's length terms.
tenant and other matters: to our involvement, To the Directors of Shaftesbury PLC We have not made any allowance for vendors until recently, in advising the Company or In accordance with your instructions, we have sale costs nor for any tax liabilities which may some of the Subsidiary Companies in connection undertaken a valuation of the various arise upon the disposal of any of the properties with the acquisition or disposal of certain commercial and residential freehold and long or Properties.
We have made deductions to properties and to our involvement, until recently, leasehold property interests as at 30 September reflect purchasers normal acquisition costs.
on behalf of the Company or certain of the 2009 the date of valuation held by Shaftesbury Subsidiary Companies in acting as letting A full explanation of the Assumptions made in Carnaby Limited, Shaftesbury Covent Garden agents in respect of certain of the office our valuations and details of the sources of Limited, Shaftesbury Chinatown Limited and accommodation.
information are contained within our Reports.
"Shaftesbury Charlotte Street Limited, which are subsidiary companies collectively referred DTZ Debenham Tie Leung is a wholly owned We have measured certain of the properties, to as the Subsidiary Companies of subsidiary of DTZ Holdings plc the ""Group""."
or parts of properties, either on site or by Shaftesbury PLC the Company, as referred In the Group's financial year to 30 April 2009, scaling from floor plans.
The Company, its to in our Valuation Reports dated 19 November the proportion of total fees payable by the managing agents or professional advisers 2009 our Reports.
Our Reports were Company and the Subsidiary Companies to the have provided us with the floor areas of the prepared for accounts purposes.
total fee income of the Group was less than 5%.
remaining properties or parts of properties.
All properties have been subject to external In accordance with the provisions of Guidance We have read the majority of the leases and inspections between August and November Note 3 of the Red Book, in undertaking our related documents provided to us in respect 2009 and a number were subject to internal valuations, we have lotted together certain of the commercial properties.
individual properties to form a separate property not read leases, we have relied on tenancy a Property or Properties in the manner information provided by the Company.
The valuations have been made in accordance we consider to be most likely to be adopted in with the appropriate sections of the current Certain properties were subject to works of the case of an actual sale.
We consider that Practice Statements PS, and United Kingdom repair or refurbishment at 30 September 2009, lotting the properties together on the basis Practice Statements UKPS contained within or were subject to outstanding retentions and reflected in our valuations would allow a the RICS Valuation Standards, 6th Edition the fees in respect of projects already completed purchaser to capitalise on the estate Red Book.
We confirm that we have the at that date.
In these instances, the Company management advantages and opportunities knowledge, skills and understanding to advised us of the amount of the outstanding available from such comprehensive ownership.
undertake the valuations competently and that costs.
The costs will be borne by the Company we have undertaken the valuations acting as A high proportion of the total value of the as they are not recoverable from the tenants.
External Valuers, qualified for the purpose of Subsidiary Companies properties and We have reflected these costs in our valuations.
Properties is accounted for by properties and The total amount of such costs is 1,845,000 Properties situated in adjacent and or and details of the individual sums are included In accordance with UKPS 5.4, we are required adjoining locations in four specific areas of the in our Reports.
to make certain disclosures in connection with West End of London: Carnaby Street and its this valuation instruction and our relationship As referred to above, we have lotted together environs, Chinatown and the adjoining area with the Company and the Subsidiary certain individual properties to form a number immediately west of Wardour Street south of Companies.
John Bareham is the signatory of of separate Properties.
In the case of three its junction with Shaftesbury Avenue, and the our Reports and he has been the signatory of Properties which comprise a number of areas around Seven Dials in the western part Reports addressed to the Subsidiary individual properties, the majority of such of Covent Garden and a block of properties to Companies since September 2006.
DTZ properties are held freehold but certain of them the east of the Central Covent Garden Piazza Debenham Tie Leung has been carrying out are held on long leases.
In order to divide our with its main frontage to Wellington Street.
this valuation instruction for the Company, valuation of these Properties between the These areas are all dominated by retail and and now the Subsidiary Companies, for a categories of freehold and long leasehold, we restaurant uses.
In our opinion, at the date of continuous period since 1996.
As well as have undertaken notional apportionments of valuation, this particular unusual confluence preparing our Reports, we also undertake value between the freehold elements and the of ownership and use characteristics may valuations of certain of the properties referred long leasehold elements which together cause some prospective purchasers to regard to in our Reports for other purposes, such as comprise the relevant Properties.
The amounts parts of the portfolio when combined as secured lending and for inclusion in arising from these notional apportionments having a greater value than the aggregate of shareholders circulars.
There are no current of value have been included in the figures the individual values of the combined properties fee-earning instructions between DTZ representing the freehold and long leasehold and Properties which make up those parts.
Debenham Tie Leung and the Company or the categories below.
The amounts arising from Subsidiary Companies other than valuation As required by the provisions of the Red Book, the notional apportionments do not themselves instructions.
However, in addition to valuation in undertaking our valuations, we have valued represent the Market Value of the two elements.
instructions, there are other recent fee-earning each property or Property separately, rather relationships between DTZ Debenham Tie Leung than valuing the portfolio as a whole or in and certain of the Subsidiary Companies or combinations of parts.
The total valuation the Company itself.
These relate to our figure below is the aggregated value of the appointment, until recently, as property and separate properties or Properties within the asset managers in respect of the properties various categories of tenure referred to below.
