Note Market Value 1 % of total Market Value 2 Current gross income at 30 September 2009 3 Estimated rental value ERV SHOPS Number Area sq.
ft 4 % of current gross income 4 % of ERV 5 Vacancy rate by % of ERV 6 Average unexpired lease length - years Number RESTAURANTS Area sq.
ft AND LEISURE 4 % of current gross income 4 % of ERV 5 Vacancy rate by % of ERV 6 Average unexpired lease length - years OFFICES Number of tenancies Area sq.
ft 4 % of current gross income 4 % of ERV 5 Vacancy rate by % of ERV 6 Average unexpired lease length - years RESIDENTIAL Number Area sq.
ft % of current passing rent 4 % of ERV 5 Vacancy rate by % of ERV Longmartin statistics include space under construction in the St Martins Courtyard scheme and accommodation not part of the Courtyard scheme.
Overall initial yield 8 Initial yield ignoring contractual rent free periods 9 Overall equivalent yield 10 at 30 September 2009 Tone of retail equivalent yield Tone of retail estimated rental values [ITZA per sq.
ft. ] Tone of restaurant equivalent yields Tone of restaurant estimated rental values [ per sq.
ft. ] Tone of office equivalent yields Tone of office estimated rental values [ per sq.
ft. ] Tone of residential estimated rental values [ per annum] Notes: 1 The Market Values at 30 September 2009 the date of 3 Estimated rental value ERV is the respective valuers 5 The vacancy rate by percentage of ERV is the ERV of the valuation shown above in respect of the five Villages are, opinion of the rental value of the properties, or parts vacant accommodation within each use sector, on a in each case, the aggregate of the market values of thereof, reflecting the terms of the relevant leases or, if village-by-village basis, expressed as a percentage of several different property interests located within close appropriate, reflecting the fact that certain of the total ERV of each use sector in each village.
The vacancy proximity which, for the purpose of this analysis are properties, or parts thereof, have been valued on the basis rate includes accommodation which is awaiting or combined to create each Village.
The different interests in of vacant possession and the assumed grant of a new undergoing refurbishment and not available for each Village were not valued as a single lot.
Estimated rental value does not reflect any ground occupation at the date of valuation.
rents, head rents or rent charges and estimated 6 Average unexpired lease length has been calculated by 2 Current gross income includes total actual and estimated irrecoverable outgoings.
No rent is attributed to leases weighting the leases in terms of current rent reserved 4 The percentage of current gross income and the under the relevant leases and, where relevant, by reference which were subject to rent free periods at the date of valuation.
Current gross income does not reflect any percentage of ERV in each of the use sectors are to tenants options to determine leases in advance of expressed as a percentage of total gross income and total expiry through effluxion of time.
ground rents, head rents or rent charges and estimated irrecoverable outgoings at the date of valuation.
7 Where mixed uses occur within single leases, for the Estimated income refers to gross estimated rental purpose of this analysis the majority use by rental value values in respect of rent reviews outstanding at the date of has been adopted.
valuation and, where appropriate estimated rental values in respect of lease renewals outstanding at the date of valuation where the Market Value reflects terms for a renewed lease.
Yields reflect net income after deduction expected flow of income so that the total amount of of any ground rents, head rents and rent charges income so discounted at this rate equals the capital and estimated irrecoverable outgoings at the date outlay at values current at the date of valuation.
The Equivalent Yield shown for each Village has been calculated by merging together the cash 9 The initial yield ignoring contractual rent free flows and Market Values of each of the different periods has been calculated as if the contracted interests within each Village and represents the rent is payable from the date of valuation.
average Equivalent Yield attributable to each Village from this approach.
11 The tone of rental values and yields is the range of rental values or yields attributed to the majority of the properties.
12 All commercial floor areas are net lettable.
All residential floor areas are gross internal.
SHAFTESBURY PLC Gerrard Street Berwick Street Earlham Street Wellington Street Wardour Street Kingly Court Newburgh Street Macclesfield Street St Martins Courtyard Lisle Street Fouberts Place Ganton Street SHAFTESBURY PLC
