directors, officers and advisors 1 Jonathan S Lane 5 P John Manser 8 Oliver J D Marriott Stockbrokers MA, FRICS CBE, DL, FCA JPMorgan Cazenove Non-executive Director Merrill Lynch International Chief Executive Chairman and non-executive Appointed to the Board on Noble & Company Director.
Chairman of the Joined in 1986 as managing 23.9.
A former financial Nomination Committee director and appointed to the journalist and his roles Principal Bankers Board on 3.11.1986.
Overall Appointed to the Board on included property editor on Bank of Scotland responsibility for the Groups 20.2.
1997 and Chairman from the Investors Chronicle and Clydesdale Bank PLC strategy and day-to-day 1.10.2004.
Chairman of financial editor of The Times.
GE Real Estate Finance Limited operations.
Intermediate Capital Group He left journalism in 1969 and Lloyds TSB Bank plc PLC and Deputy Chairman of became a founder director of Nationwide Building Society Colliers CRE plc.
Non-executive Sterling Guarantee Trust which 2 Brian Bickell director of SABMiller plc.
FCA Debenture Stock Trustee From then until 1991 he was a Prudential Trustee Company Limited Finance Director non-executive director of P&O 6 John R K Emly Joined in 1986 and appointed and from 1986 until 1991 he Registered Auditors FCIS a Director on 20.7.
1987. was Chairman of the Trustees  LLP Non-executive Director.
Responsible for financial of P&O Pension Fund.
From Chairman of the strategy, accounting 1979 to 1985 he was chairman Solicitors Remuneration Committee and taxation.
and managing director of Lovells LLP Appointed to the Board on Churchbury Estates, a quoted Eversheds LLP 3 Simon J Quayle 16.10.2000 and Senior property company which was Forsters LLP BSc, MRICS Independent Director from acquired by Greycoat.
Valuers he formed a private property Director Investment director of the DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited investment company, Ilex Joined in 1987 and appointed Civil Aviation Authority Pension wholly owned portfolio Limited, of which he was a Director on 1.10.1997.
Non-executive director Knight Frank LLP chairman and managing Responsible for strategy and of the JP Morgan Mid-Cap Longmartin joint venture director, backed by ten leading management of the Carnaby Investment Trust plc and the institutions.
Ilex was sold to village, the properties in the F&C Capital and Income Great Portland Estates.
vicinity of Berwick Street and Investment Trust plc.
Member the Longmartin joint venture.
of the investment committees of the P&O and Balfour Beatty 4 Thomas J C Welton pension funds.
MRICS Director 7 W Gordon McQueen BSc, CA, FCIBS Joined in 1989 and appointed a Director on 1.10.1997.
123 4 Responsible for strategy and Chairman of the Audit management of Chinatown, Committee the Covent Garden villages Senior Independent Director and Charlotte Street.
Appointed to the Board on 25.4.
Non-executive director of Scottish Mortgage Investment Independent non-executive Trust plc and JP Morgan Directors for the purposes 567 8 of the Combined Code.
Secretary and Registered Office Websites Penny Thomas, LLB Hons, FCIS Corporate: Villages: Pegasus House www.
co. uk 37-43 Sackville Street www.
co. uk Includes Annual and Interim Reports Library London W1S 3DL www.
co. uk from 2002 and recent corporate announcements.
com News alert service allows registered users to Fax: 020 7333 0660 www.
org receive e-mail alerts of new announcements.
co. uk Registered Number: 1999238 Independent non-executive SHAFTESBURY PLC Directors for the purposes of the Combined Code.
December Seven Dials Shopping Angels December A unique personal shopping service in the heart of Seven Dials, Covent Gardens Christmas lights Hidden Village.
The best unsponsored Christmas installations in London appear in Carnaby 13 giant 12 ft snowmen cascaded around the 12 streets of Carnaby.
SOME OF THE EVENTS DURING THE YEAR SHAFTESBURY HAS ORGANISED TO PROMOTE ITS VILLAGES November Silent Disco To celebrate the Christmas Decorations Carnaby turned into a Silent Disco with Norman Jay, OBE, playing to the crowd.
January Chinese New Year Celebrating the Chinese Lunar New Year, lions dances, firecrackers throughout Chinatown, Leicester Square and Shaftesbury Avenue.
SHAFTESBURY PLC May and November Carnaby Shopping Evenings Carnaby Shopping Events promoting the shops, cafes, bars and restaurants in the 12 streets of Carnaby.
February Seven Dates in Seven Dials Valentines Day promotion in Seven Dials.
May City Showcase Showcasing new and emerging musical talent in 10 shops within Carnaby and included a live stage in Gerrard Street, Chinatown.
September London Fashion Weekend 20% discount at selected retailers within Seven Dials and Opera Quarter over four days to celebrate London Fashion Week.
August - October Wish You Were Here A celebrated slice of London descended on New Yorks Lower East Side, followed by a reciprocal visit to the Newburgh Quarter featuring Big Apples best.
October London Restaurant Festival Chinatown celebrated the first London Restaurant Festival with a cultural arts stage in Gerrard Street, lion dances and great festival menus.
June Swinging Carnaby Throughout the year Working alongside the Greater London Authority Pop-Up Exhibitions and promoting the History of London Carnaby Art Sponsorship celebrates all things 60s including a live music stage and shop promotions within Carnaby.
Carnaby and Seven Dials facilitated some of the most cutting edge exhibitions within London.
