Directors report The Directors submit their report and the audited Directors and their interests accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2009.
The appointment and removal of a Director is governed by the Articles of Association and within the Terms of the Principal activities, business review and Nomination Committee.
The Directors of the Company future developments currently in office are as stated on page 17.
Each of the Directors served for the whole of the year under review The Groups activities during the year were focused in the together with Derek Black who resigned as a director on food and pet sectors.
A review of the business and future 24 April 2009 following the disposal of the Pet Division.
development of the Group and a discussion of the principal Adam Couch and John Worby retire in accordance with risks and uncertainties faced by the Group is presented in the Articles of Association and, being eligible, each offers the Chairmans Statement and Review of Activities on himself for re-election.
John Lindop will retire as a director pages 3 to 8 and in the Group Operating and Financial on 31 May 2009 and Mark Bottomley, the current group Review on pages 9 to 15. financial controller, has been appointed by the Board as his replacement with effect from 1 June 2009.
Mark will stand Results and dividends for election at the Annual General Meeting.
The profit on ordinary activities before taxation from Details of the Directors beneficial interests in the ordinary continuing operations was 34.7 million 2008 - 33.0 share capital of the Company are included in the Directors million.
After a taxation charge of 16.0 million 2008 - Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 34.
9.2 million, the profit for the year is 19.0 million 2008 - 25.7 million.
An interim dividend of 7.0 pence per Major Shareholders ordinary share was paid on 23 January 2009.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year, The Company has been informed of the following interests which is not reflected in these accounts, of 14.7 pence per at 8 May 2009 in the 46,464,612 ordinary shares of the ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend, Company: represents 21.7 pence per ordinary share, totalling 10.0 million 2008 - 19.9 pence per ordinary share, totalling Number of % of issued 9.2 million.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Shares share capital Meeting, the final dividend will be paid in cash or scrip AMVESCAP PLC 13,439,679 28.92 form on 4 September 2009 to members on the register at the close of business on 3 July 2009.
The shares will go Legal & General 2,849,953 6.13 Investment Management ex-dividend on 1 July 2009.
Jupiter Asset Management 2,423,691 5.22 Financial instruments JP Morgan Asset 2,041,798 4.39 Management The Groups risk management objectives and policy are discussed in the Treasury Policies section of the Group Operating and Financial Review on page 14.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 19 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 20 Daily Official List for the 5 business days immediately Share capital structure preceding the day on which the ordinary shares are purchased.
The Directors have no immediate plans to The Company has one class of shares, being ordinary exercise the powers of the Company to purchase its own shares of 10p each.
The authorised, allotted and fully paid shares and undertake that the authority would only be up share capital is shown in note 23.
There are no special exercised if the Directors were satisfied that a purchase rights pertaining to any of the shares in issue.
would result in an increase in expected earnings per share and was in the best interests of the Company at the The Directors of Cranswick plc have received limited time.
This authority will expire on the commencement of authority to disapply Shareholders pre-emption rights in the Annual General Meeting to be held on 27 July 2009. certain circumstances, to authorise the Company to buy back a proportion of the Companys share capital and to allow the Directors to allot shares.
Further resolutions will The Company is not aware of any agreements between be placed before the Annual General Meeting to renew shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer these powers.
of securities and for voting rights.
At the last Annual General Meeting the Directors received There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares authority from the shareholders to: in the Company other than where certain restrictions may apply from time to time, on the Board of Directors and Allot Shares this gives Directors the authority to allot other senior executive staff, which is imposed by laws and authorised but unissued shares and it is to maintain regulations relating to insider trading laws and market the flexibility in respect of the Companys financing requirements relating to close periods.
The nominal value of ordinary shares which the Directors may allot in the period up to the next Events since the balance sheet date Annual General Meeting is limited to 1,540,934 which represents approximately 33 per cent of the issued share As notified to shareholders on 6 April 2009 Cranswick has capital excluding treasury shares as at 23 May 2008.
The exchanged contracts to acquire the whole of the issued Directors do not have any present intention of exercising share capital of Bowes of Norfolk Limited, a pork processing this authority other than in connection with the issue of business based in Norfolk, for a cash consideration of 17.2 ordinary shares in respect of the dividend offer and the million.
The completion of the transaction is conditional Companys share option plans.
This authority will expire upon clearance from the UK Competition Authorities on the commencement of the Annual General Meeting which at this moment in time is ongoing.
Disapplication of rights of pre-emption this On 24 April 2009 the Pet Division was sold to the disapplies rights of pre-emption on the allotment of management team, headed up by Derek Black, for a shares by the Company and the sale by the Company of consideration of 17.0 million.
There is a mechanism treasury shares.
The authority will allow the Directors to in place to normalise working capital through a cash allot equity securities for cash, and to sell treasury shares adjustment.
Cranswick plc will retain a 5.5 per cent share for cash, on a pro rata basis to existing shareholders in the business going forward.
Derek Black resigned as a and otherwise on a pro rata basis up to an aggregate main Board Director on that day.
nominal amount of 231,163, representing 5 per cent of the Companys issued share capital as at 23 May Employment policies 2008.
Listed Companies that purchase their own shares are able to hold shares in treasury for subsequent sale, The Groups policy on employee involvement is to adopt rather than to cancel them immediately.
This authority an open management style, thereby encouraging informal will expire on the commencement of the Annual General consultation at all levels about aspects of the Groups Meeting to be held on 27 July 2009. operations.
Employees participate directly in the success of the business by participation in the SAYE share option To buy own shares the authority allows the Company schemes.
to buy its own shares in the market, as permitted under Article 6 of the Articles of Association of the Company, Employment policies are designed to provide equal up to a limit of 10 per cent of the Companys issued opportunities irrespective of colour, ethnic or natural share capital.
The price to be paid for any share must origin, nationality, sex, religion, marital or disabled status.
not be less than 10p, being the nominal value of a Full consideration is given to applications for employment share, and must not exceed 105 per cent of the average by and the continuing employment, training and career middle market quotations for the ordinary shares of the development of disabled people.
Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 21 Payment policy Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors The Group and the Company do not have a formal policy that they follow with regard to payment to suppliers.
The Directors who were members of the Board at the Payment terms are agreed with each supplier and every time of approving the Directors Report are listed on page endeavour is made to adhere to the agreed terms.
Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the average credit terms for the continuing Group, based on Companys auditors, each of these Directors confirm the year-end trade creditors figure and a 365 day year, are that: 40 days.
The average credit taken by our customers on a similar basis is 33 days.
to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation Auditors of their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Ernst & Young LLP, having been reappointed during the each Director has taken all the steps a Director might year, have expressed their willingness to continue in office reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be relevant audit information and to establish that the submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 22 Change of control Articles of Association There are no agreements that the Company considers The Companys Articles of Association may only be significant and to which the Company is party to, that amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of would take effect, alter or terminate upon change of the shareholders.
control of the Company following a takeover bid other than the following: Annual General Meeting and Special The Company is party to a number of banking Business to be transacted at the Annual agreements which upon a change of control of the General Meeting Company are terminable by the bank upon the provision of 10 working days notice, and The notice convening the Annual General Meeting can be There are no agreements between the Company and found in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting its directors or employees providing for compensation accompanying this Report and Accounts.
for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise Details of the Special Business to be transacted at the that occurs because of a takeover bid other than as Annual General Meeting are contained in the separate stated in the Directors Remuneration Report relating to Martin Davey, Derek Black, Bernard Hoggarth and letter from the Chairman which also accompanies this John Lindop.
Report and Accounts, and covers the Directors authority to allot shares, the partial disapplication of pre-emption Long Term Incentive Plan rights and the authority for the Company to buy its own shares.
In the event of a general offer being made to acquire part or all of the issued share capital of the Company as a result of which the offeror may acquire control of the By order of the Board Company, award holders under the Cranswick plc Long Malcolm Windeatt Term Incentive Plan LTIP will have an opportunity to Company Secretary, exercise their awards either: 18 May 2009 a immediately before the time at which the change of control of the Company occurs or any condition subject to which the offer is made has been satisfied Take-over Date but conditional on the Take-over Date occurring, if the Remuneration Committee issues a written notice in advance of the Take-over Date to award holders: or b at any time within 6 months following the Take-over Date, in any other case.
In the event that the Court sanctions a scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 in connection with a scheme for the Companys reconstruction or amalgamation with another company, award holders under the LTIP may exercise their awards during the six month period commencing on the date upon which the scheme of arrangement is sanctioned by the Court.
The LTIP also contains provisions enabling award holders to exercise their awards if a person becomes entitled to issue a compulsory acquisition notice under the provisions relating to the compulsory acquisition of a company set out in the Companies Act 2006.
The period allowed for exercise in these circumstances is any time up to the seventh day before the final day upon which that person remains entitled to serve such a notice.
In each case, the extent to which awards are capable of exercise depends on the extent to which the performance targets as adjusted or amended have been satisfied.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 23 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 24
