Review of activities by the Chief Executive, Bernard Hoggarth The continued growth in sales is pleasing to report.
Total The upgraded primary processing plant for fresh pork external sales grew by 9 per cent to 607 million.
Internal referred to previously is due for completion early in 2010. sales within the Group have risen and totalled in excess of The investment in the plant will make an industry leading 87 million.
Internal sales consist predominantly of primal facility of what is already the largest single site fresh fresh pork to the further processing sites where its used pork processor in the UK.
During the year we successfully in the production of cooked meats, sausage and air-dried assisted our major pig producers to achieve Freedom bacon.
Sales to retail multiple customers and discounters Foods accreditation across their production units and the also grew and these together represent over 82 per cent resulting pork is supplied as part of our range of premium of total sales.
The balance is divided between food service fresh pork.
High welfare standards have been a key feature and third party food producers.
in broadening the customer base for fresh pork and contributed to a rise of 14 per cent in sales.
Raw material inflation was a feature of the year and dealing with this involved the achievement of improved There has been much focus on developing sales from the operating efficiencies, pricing discussions with customers new bacon factory at Sherburn and this has been helped or a combination of both.
Inflation has resurfaced in by the consumers increased willingness to buy British.
Demand for British pork is strong and has customer base has been developed further using a 180 year been favourably publicised by a number of celebrity chefs old recipe from Richard Woodalls artisan bacon operation including Jamie Oliver.
Coupled with a national pig herd based in Cumbria.
All these products are air-dried and at relatively low levels, in fact less than half the level of matured in a similar process to that used for the Jack Scaife 12 years ago, this has impacted pricing.
Inflation has also branded bacon, produced at Sherburn.
This and the launch of been influenced by the weakness of sterling against the traditional Wiltshire cured products into customers ranges euro resulting in a higher price for pig meat imported into have all helped to generate sales growth of 14 per cent in the UK from traditional sources.
Despite this the consumer the year with further growth expected.
Recent weeks have continues to find pork an attractive proposition compared seen volumes double those of a year ago.
to other proteins such as beef and lamb on both price and health criteria.
There is unlikely to be any significant Growth within cooked meats has been predominantly change in the pork supply side in the short term given that within the major grocery retailers and promotional the minimum lead time for pig production expansion is programmes, including round pound offers and the use about twelve months.
of tertiary brands have contributed to a sales increase of 4 per cent.
Capacity has been increased during the year and Cranswick is well known as a quality producer and supplier work is continuing at both the Valley Park and Deeside of pork based products.
The portfolio of products embraces sites.
During the year the lease ended at the Elland premium, standard plus, standard and value products and facility where historically cooked poultry products were meets the requirements of the consumer in the current produced.
This has now been totally integrated into the economic environment.
Substantial volumes have been Deeside operation.
The freehold of the 7 acre 105,000 supplied to customers for round pound promotions and sq ft factory Milton Keynes site was recently acquired, equally encouraging has been the volumes at the premium showing savings over previous lease costs.
end for the stay-in and dine consumer.
Whether it is a gourmet meal at home or a value ham pack for sandwiches Sausage sales were up 8 per cent in the year helped by its in the product range.
increased customer penetration of both the premium Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 7 Our Premier Deli range of continental products has been a great success pre-pack and counter categories with leading retailers report that in the main the situation was understood and and discounters.
Simply Sausage, which is a Cranswick most have been supportive.
During the year a greater brand, achieved listings with two leading grocery retailers presence was developed in the cheese category with and supply of Weight Watchers sausage and The Black listings achieved for Italian cheeses.
There has been strong Farmer under licence continues, with Weight Watchers growth in antipasti and olive ranges and our own branded recently gaining additional listings.
Premier Deli range of continental packs has been a great success with its credit crunch pricing.
Large volumes of The Sandwich Factory had a difficult year, but remained corned beef have also been sold with sole supply in certain profitable.
There was significant inflation in input costs areas.
Given the trading environment during the year it is and whilst there was some reduction in volumes during a credit to the Continental team that sales have continued the second half, sales for the year were 11 per cent ahead to rise, in the last year by an encouraging 12 per cent, and of the previous year.
The weakness of sterling had a the history of strong growth has continued.
negative impact on the cost of tuna, prawns, packaging and seasonally imported salads, putting pressure on In summary the teams have had to deal with a number margins.
A more stable pricing environment is anticipated of challenges, but despite this, record results have been in the current year, new listings have been achieved and achieved and all employees must be congratulated.
Costs the focus on efficiency continues.
have been reviewed rigorously and all major expenditure from packaging to power continues to be monitored.
I The product range at Continental Fine Foods is largely feel that with the completion of the Bowes acquisition, supplied from Europe and the continuing weakness of expanding product portfolios, industry leading facilities sterling meant the business had to deal with raw material and the continued commitment and dedication of inflation on an ongoing basis.
This inevitably leads to our excellent teams, the business can look forward to pricing discussions with customers and it is pleasing to continuing its successful development.
