Directors report The directors report is required to include a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2009, including an analysis of the development and performance of the Group during the year and the position of the Group at the end of the financial year, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as a Business Review.
The information which makes up the Business Review can be found in the following sections of the annual report, all of which are incorporated into this directors report by reference: n Chairmans statement on pages 2 and 3 n Chief Executives review on pages 4 to 11 n Financial review on pages 12 to 15 n Safety, health and the environment report on pages 16 to 21 n Principal risks and uncertainties as discussed in the Financial review section on pages 12 to 15.
Further information on Corporate Social Responsibility CSR can be found in our CSR report on our website at www.
com Principal activities of the Company and subsidiaries Croda International Plc is a holding company operating from headquarters at Cowick Hall, Snaith, Goole, East Yorkshire, and providing central direction for a speciality chemicals group with operations across the globe.
Research and development Research and development activities are undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding.
Further details can be found in the Chief Executives review on pages 4 to 11.
Profit and dividends The results for the year are set out on page 44.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 15.00p per share 2008: 13.55p.
If approved by shareholders, total dividends for the year will amount to 21.50p per share 2008: 19.75p per share.
Details of dividends are shown in note 9 on page 62.
Disposals During the year the Group closed its oleochemical site at Bromborough in Merseyside.
Prior to closure, the triacetin business carried on at the site was sold to Polynt UK Limited.
Further details appear in note 7 on page 60.
Directors The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the directors power to appoint and replace directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the board of directors.
The Articles also require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following appointment and all directors who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, to submit themselves for re-election.
The present directors of the Company are shown on pages 22 and 23.
David Dunn retired on 29 April 2009.
Nigel Turner was appointed after the AGM in 2009 and so will stand for election at the AGM in April 2010.
Mike Humphrey and Sean Christie are required to retire by rotation and so will be standing for re-election at the AGM.
Details of the directors service contracts are given in the directors remuneration report on pages 27 to 36.
Apart from the share option schemes, long term incentive schemes and service contracts, no director had any beneficial interest in any contract to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party during the year.
A statement indicating the beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company, including share options, is shown in the directors remuneration report on page 34.
The directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys Memorandum and Articles and any directions given by special resolution.
Directors indemnities The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its directors and the secretary which represent qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which the directors or secretary may incur to third parties in the course of acting as directors or secretary or employees of the Company or of any associated company.
In addition, such indemnities have been granted to other officers of the Company who are directors of subsidiary companies within the Group.
The Company has also granted an indemnity representing qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions as defined by section 235 of the Companies Act 2006 to a paid director of the corporate trustee of the Groups UK pension schemes.
Share capital At the date of this report, 139,949,969 ordinary shares of 10 pence each have been issued and are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Articles, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
24 Directors report Directors report Further information which fulfils the requirements of Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 and which should be treated as forming part of this report by reference are included in the following sections of the annual report: n details of the structure of the Companys share capital and the rights attached to the Companys shares are set out on pages 75 and 79 n details of the employee share schemes are set out on pages 75 to 79.
Power to issue shares At the 2009 AGM, authority was given to the directors to allot unissued shares in the Company up to a maximum amount equivalent to approximately one third of the issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury for general purposes, plus up to a further one third of the Companys issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury, but only in the case of a rights issue.
No such shares have been issued.
A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the then Companies Act 1985.
Both these authorities expire on the date of the 2010 AGM to be held on 28 April 2010 and so the directors propose to renew them for a further year.
Last year the members also renewed the Companys authority to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
No purchases were made during the year.
The Company will be seeking to renew its authority to purchase its own shares at the 2010 AGM.
Shares will only be purchased if the Board believes that such purchases will improve earnings per share and be in the best interests of the shareholders generally.
It is the Companys intention that any shares purchased will be held as treasury shares.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan Further details of the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan can be found on page 92.
Articles of Association Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the Companys Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Significant contracts and change of control The Group has borrowing facilities which may require the immediate repayment of all outstanding loans together with accrued interest in the event of a change of control.
The rules of the Companys employee share plans set out the consequences of a change in control of the Company on participants rights under the plans.
Generally such rights will vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Neither of the executive directors service contracts contain provisions which are affected by a change of control and there are no other agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company which are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the Group.
The Company does not have any contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group.
Audit information The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and that each director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Employees We recognise that business success depends on retaining our skilled, motivated workforce who form the Croda global team.
We aim to create a fair, diverse and high-quality working environment that allows all employees to demonstrate their abilities without facing discrimination and where individuals are recognised and rewarded for the contribution they make to the continued growth of our business.
Development & training The focus of our HR practices continues to be the development of the skills, knowledge and abilities of our employees.
Through our philosophy of internal promotion, we invest in our employees now to better prepare ourselves for the future.
All of our training and development activities focus on ensuring employees are equipped to run our businesses in an ever more complex global environment.
During 2009 employees each received an average of 22 hours of training.
Our leadership programmes continue to concentrate on strengthening the quality of leaders at all levels in the organisation.
Through offering a number of project based learning opportunities, we enable our employees to continually develop their careers whilst meeting business objectives.
During 2009, we adapted our development activities to meet the needs of the individual through an increased focus and investment in initiatives like mentoring and coaching.
The ongoing evaluation of our training and development activities has helped us to ensure that time and money is not wasted on misplaced and ineffective training programmes.
HR systems & processes A planned programme of global implementations and upgrades to current HR operating systems has been completed, resulting in the establishment of a standardised and unified HR management information system.
We believe that having a global HR system that offers individual operating units flexibility in terms of data management is essential to ensuring our HR reporting is efficient and effective.
The global implementation of a new Job Evaluation Scheme is nearing completion and it has succeeded in balancing the needs of the Group with the needs of local employees.
Once completed it will enable us to better understand our organisational structures across the globe, the type of roles we offer and the talent within them.
25 Directors report Communication By listening to our employees and establishing dialogue, we try to reflect employee thinking in our business activities.
Our global sites held, on average, 16 face to face meetings with employees during the year, focusing on business performance, SHE targets, community projects and other specific projects.
The importance of communication was heightened with the closure of our manufacturing facility at Bromborough in the UK.
Through working closely with the unions, the site consultation committees and educating managers on change and personal transitions, we have been able to make this difficult process as less painful for the employees involved.
CSR Community involvement Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is embedded in the way we run our business.
Customers want to buy products from a company they can trust, suppliers want to form business partnerships with a company they can rely on and employees want to work for a company they respect.
Our 2009 CSR report details progress we have made against our stretching targets relating to the four Pillars of Our Responsibility.
One of the continuing strengths of our business is the commitment that we have towards the local communities in which we operate.
These local communities provide the dedicated and talented resource that makes Croda what it is today.
We have a well established history in the area of community involvement.
Placing this recognition of community engagement under the CSR umbrella has provided a framework that allows us to monitor our activities and to think more critically about what we do, how we do it and for what purpose.
Within the community, our focus continues to be on education.
Ensuring there is future talent for the industry is critical to our business growth.
Mentoring, teaching, site visits, presentations, awards, work experience and apprenticeship schemes are just some of the activities we have been involved in across the globe.
Supplier payment policy Group policy concerning the payment of suppliers is that each operating unit agrees terms of payment at the beginning of business or makes the supplier aware of the standard payment terms and pays in accordance with those terms or other legal obligations.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had an average of 33 days 2008: restated 43 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
The Companys trade creditors are not material.
Charitable and political donations Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted to 38,000 2008: 57,000.
No donations were made for political purposes 2008: Nil.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at Carlton Towers, Carlton, Goole, East Yorkshire, DN14 9LZ on Wednesday, 28 April 2010 at 12 noon.
The notice of meeting and explanation of the business to be considered at the AGM are contained in a separate document issued to shareholders with this annual report.
Independent auditors Our auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, a resolution regarding their reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the AGM.
Substantial shareholders As at 19 February 2010, the Company had been notified under DTR5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: Ordinary shares % of share capital Nature of holding Standard Life Investments Ltd 6,679,711 4.91% Direct 1.90%, Indirect 3.01% Prudential plc 6,923,666 5.08% Direct Legal & General Group Plc 5,446,588 3.99% Direct Massachusetts Financial Services Company 7,219,521 5.03% Direct By order of the Board Louise Scott Company Secretary 23 February 2010 26 Directors report
