DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Directors report Other statutory information The directors submit this Annual Report and the Directors of the Board audited consolidated financial statements of the The directors who served during the year are detailed Company and its subsidiaries for the 52 week period on page 62 of the Directors Report Corporate ended 1 January 2010.
Activities and business review Change of control CSR is a leading developer and provider of single chip All of the Companys share schemes contain wireless solutions designed to support data and voice provisions relating to a change of control of the communications between a wide range of products Company following a takeover.
Outstanding options over short range radio links.
More detailed information and awards would, subject to satisfaction of on the principal activities of CSR plc and its applicable performance conditions and certain rules of subsidiaries, together with a review of the businesses the particular schemes normally vest and become and a description of the principal risks and exercisable on a change of control subject to a uncertainties facing the Group along with other pro-rata adjustment reflecting the time elapsed since information that fulfils the requirements of the the month in which the grant was made.
Business and Financial Review are set out on pages 8 to 44 and 45 to 57.
Some information required by Share capital applicable US securities laws is set out in the section The Companys ordinary shares with a nominal value entitled Corporate and Share Information.
The use of 0.1p per share, are quoted on the London Stock of financial instruments is covered within the Directors Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Report Business and Financial Review.
Details of the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the subsidiaries and branches of the Company are set out Companys Articles of Association, copies of which in note 42 on page 151. can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
There are no Financial results restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the For a discussion of our financial results, please refer to Companys ordinary shares.
No person holds the Directors Report Business and Financial Review securities in the Company carrying special rights with on pages 8 to 44. regard to control of the Company.
The Company is Our operating loss for 2009 was $15.9 million not aware of any agreements between holders of compared to a loss of $8.5 million in 2008 2007: securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer profit of $150.1 million.
The underlying operating of securities or on voting rights.
Unless expressly profit for 2009 decreased to $26.9 million compared stated to the contrary in the Articles of Association of to $72.8 million in 2008 2007: underlying operating the Company, the Companys Articles of Association profit of $181.3 million.
Underlying operating profit is may be amended by special resolution of the a non-GAAP measure: an explanation of our use of Companys shareholders.
A summary of the non-GAAP measures is given on page 15.
Revenue Companys Articles of Association are set out on showed a decrease of 13% to $601.4 million from pages 160 to 165.
$694.9 million for the 52 week period to 1 January 2010 and underlying diluted earnings per share were During the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2010, options $0.20 down from $0.49 for the 52 week period to were exercised pursuant to the Companys share 1 January 2010.
Basic and diluted earnings per share schemes.
The number of shares allotted and the were a loss of $0.07 for 2009, compared to basic and consideration received in respect of such allotments diluted loss per share of $0.05 for 2008. are detailed in note 24 of the Financial Statements beginning on page 128.
In accordance with stated policy, explained on page 28, no dividend will be paid in respect of the 52 weeks ABI Guidelines relating to directors power to allot ended 1 January 2010 2008: nil.
share capital and disapply pre-emption rights, are Future development reflected in Resolution 10 the Section 551 Authority It remains the Boards intention to develop the Group and Resolution 11 respectively, in the Notice of through organic growth and selective acquisition.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 86 The directors propose Paragraph A of Resolution 10 limited authority to repurchase ordinary shares in the in the Notice of Meeting to renew the authority market.
This authority will be limited to a maximum of granted at the 2009 Annual General Meeting to 18,308,724 ordinary shares representing 10% of the authorise the directors to allot equity or grant rights in Companys issued share capital as at the latest respect of equity shares up to an aggregate nominal practicable date and also sets the minimum and value of 61,029 representing approximately maximum prices which may be paid.
one-third of the ordinary shares issued as at the latest practicable date.
The directors believe it is advantageous for the Company to have the flexibility to make market purchases of its own shares.
In the event that shares In accordance with ABI Guidelines, the directors also are purchased, they would either be cancelled and propose Paragraph B of Resolution 10 in the Notice the number in issue would be reduced accordingly of Meeting to renew the authority granted at the 2009 or, subject to the legislation referred to below, Annual General Meeting to authorise the directors to retained as treasury shares.
The directors will only allot or grant rights in respect of equity shares make purchases after consideration of the possible representing two-thirds of the Companys issued effect on earnings per share, the long term benefits to share capital as at the latest practicable date as shareholders and consultation with advisers.
The reduced by the nominal amount of any allotment or directors have no present intention to purchase grant made under paragraph A of Resolution 10 in shares in the Company.
the case of a compensatory rights issue.
This authority, if renewed, will represent in total an The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury aggregate nominal value of 122,058.
This Shares Regulations 2003 allow shares repurchased Section 551 Authority, if approved, will expire at the by the Company to be held as treasury shares that conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held may be cancelled, sold for cash or used for the in 2011 or 19 August 2011, whichever is the earlier.
purpose of employee share schemes.
The Company currently holds no shares in treasury.
The authority The limited power granted to the directors at the 2009 contained in the Special Resolution will expire at the Annual General Meeting to allot equity shares for cash earlier of 19 August 2011, or the conclusion of the other than pro-rata to existing shareholders expires on Annual General Meeting to be held in 2011.
It is the the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting current intention of the directors to renew this to be held on 19 May 2010.
Subject to renewal of the authority annually.
Section 551 Authority, the directors recommend Resolution 11 in the Notice of Meeting that this New Articles of Association authority also be renewed so as to give the directors Following final implementation of the Companies Act the ability until the earlier of 19 August 2011, or the 2006, and the coming into force of the Companies conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009, the directors in 2011 to issue equity shares for cash other than are seeking approval for the adoption of new articles pro-rata to existing shareholders, in connection with a of association.
rights issue or up to a limit of 5% of the ordinary shares issued at the 1 March 2010.
The directors The principal changes introduced in the new articles have no present intention to issue equity shares for are summarised in the Appendix to the Notice of cash other than pursuant to the Companys employee Annual General Meeting.
Other changes, which are of share schemes.
a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes The directors recommend that you vote in favour of made by the Companies Act 2006 or the Resolutions 10 and 11 to maintain the Companys Shareholders Rights Regulations, or conform the flexibility in relation to future share issues, including language of the new articles with that used in the any issues to finance business opportunities should model articles for public companies produced by the appropriate circumstances arise.
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills have not been noted in the Appendix.
The new articles A Special Resolution will be proposed Resolution 12 showing all changes to the current articles are in the Notice of Meeting to renew the directors available for inspection, at the Companys registered CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 87 DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION continued office during normal working hours on a weekday Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association a except Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays until director shall retire from office and may offer himself the Annual General Meeting and at the Annual for re-appointment when they have been appointed General Meeting location from 15 minutes before the since the last Annual General Meeting, held office in Annual General Meeting until it ends.
the preceding two annual general meetings and did not retire at either of them or has been in office for a Notice required for shareholder meetings continuous period of nine years or more at the date of The Shareholders Rights Directive was implemented the meeting.
in the UK by the Companies Shareholders Rights In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Regulations 2009 on 3 August 2009.
The Regulations directors retiring at the Annual General Meeting will implementing this Directive increase the notice period include Mr Kanwar Chadha, executive director and for general meetings of the Company to 21 days, Chief Marketing Officer, and Mr Diosdado Banatao, a unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period.
non-executive director, as they have been appointed On the basis of a resolution passed at the 2009 since the last meeting.
Being eligible, Mr Chadha and Annual General Meeting, the Company is currently Mr Banatao offer themselves for election.
able to call general meetings other than an annual general meeting on 14 days notice and would like to Mr Ron Mackintosh, non-executive director and preserve this ability.
Resolution 14 seeks such Chairman of the Board, and Mr Sergio Giacolettoapproval.
The approval will be effective until the Roggio, non-executive director and Chairman of the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is Remuneration Committee, will also be retiring and, intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
In being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.
accordance with the Directive, the Company will offer The directors considered the performance of an electronic voting facility for a general meeting called Mr Mackintosh and Mr Giacoletto-Roggio in on 14 days notice.
connection with their re-appointment and determined they had performed well.
Accordingly, the Board Employee Benefit Trust supports Mr Mackintoshs and Mr GiacolettoThe CSR Employee Benefit Trust was established in Roggios submission for re-appointment.
2007 to facilitate satisfying the issue of shares to employees within the Group on exercise of vested The interests of the executive directors in the options options under the various share option plans of the of the Company are detailed in the Remuneration Company.
During 2009, no ordinary shares in CSR plc were Directors interests in shares acquired by the Trust.
The details of the purchases in The directors in office at 1 January 2010 and their prior years of ordinary shares in CSR plc is shown in families had the under-mentioned interests in the note 25 to the Financial Statements on page 132.
The ordinary shares of the Company.
Trust holds a total of 4,689,580 ordinary shares in CSR plc representing 2.57% of the issued share 1 January 2 January 2010 2009 capital at the date of this report.
Andrew Allner 2,850 As participants in the share options plans, the Diosdado Banatao 1,590,049 executive directors of the Company are potential Joep van Beurden beneficiaries from the shares held by the Trust and are therefore regarded for the purposes of the Anthony Carlisle 4,000 4,000 Companies Act as being interested in ordinary shares Kanwar Chadha 633,510 held by the Trust.
James Collier 1,019,163 1,014,911 Will Gardiner Directors Details of the directors of the Board who served Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio 5,000 5,000 during the year are contained on page 62.
Chris Ladas 86,234 86,234 Biographies of the directors in office at 1 January Ron Mackintosh 125,000 100,000 2010 are on pages 59 and 60.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 88 There were no changes to the directors preparing these financial statements, International shareholdings between 1 January 2010 and Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: 9 February 2010.
The foregoing holdings do not include the ordinary shares held by the CSR properly select and apply accounting policies: Employee Benefit Trust in which the executive directors are potential beneficiaries as disclosed present information, including accounting earlier.
policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Conflicts of interests information: The Company has procedures in place to deal with conflicts of interests and believes that procedures are provide additional disclosures when compliance operated efficiently.
with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events Payment of creditors and conditions on the entitys financial position The Group agrees payment terms with its suppliers and financial performance: and when it enters into binding purchase contracts to ensure that suppliers are made aware of terms of payment.
The Company abides by these terms of make an assessment of the companys ability payment.
At 1 January 2010 the number of creditor to continue as a going concern.
days outstanding for the Company was 30 2008: 30 and for the Group was 61 2008: 64.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with Donations reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position The Company and employees support a number of of the company and enable them to ensure that the charities for a variety of causes.
For the period ended financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1 January 2010, the Company made charitable 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the donations totalling $6,550 to charities local to the assets of the company and hence for taking Groups operations.
The Company did not make any reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of political donations during the year.
Directors responsibility statement The directors are responsible for the maintenance and The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual integrity of the corporate and financial information Report and the financial statements in accordance included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the with applicable law and regulations.
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Company law requires the directors to prepare legislation in other jurisdictions.
financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group Each of the persons who is a director at the date of financial statements in accordance with International the approval of this report confirms that: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS so far as the director is aware, there is no Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the relevant audit information of which the Company financial statements under IFRSs as Companys auditors are unaware, adopted by the EU.
The financial statements are also prepared in accordance with the IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Under the director has taken all the steps that he company law the directors must not approve the ought to have taken as a director to make accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true himself aware of the relevant audit information and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and and to establish that the Companys auditors of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In are aware of that information.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 89 DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION continued the Financial Statements, prepared in Going concern accordance with the applicable set of The Financial Statements have been prepared on the accounting standards, give a true and fair view going concern basis.
The directors have considered of the assets, liabilities, financial position and future cash forecasts and revenue projections, based profit of CSR and the undertakings included in on prudent market data, in their consideration of the consolidation taken as a whole: and going concern.
The Groups business activities, together with the the report includes a fair review of the factors likely to affect its future development, development and performance of the business performance and position are set out on pages 8 to 57. and the position of the Company and the The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and undertakings included in the consolidation taken liquidity position are described in the Business and as a whole together with a description of the Financial Review on pages 26 to 29.
In addition, note 33 principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management The directors, having prepared the Financial objectives: details of the financial instruments and Statements, have permitted the auditors to take hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk.
The whatever steps they consider appropriate for the principal risks and uncertainties which could adversely purpose of enabling them to give their audit opinion.
impact the long term performance of the Group are discussed on pages 45 to 57 in the Business and Substantial shareholdings Financial Review.
All of these matters have been taken As at the dates shown below, the Company had into account by the directors in coming to their received the following notifications of substantial conclusions on going concern.
interests 3% or more in the total voting rights of the Company, as disclosed to the Company under the Management is currently of the opinion that the Group Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
has adequate financial resources and a robust policy towards treasury risk and cash flow management.
The % of issued directors believe that the Group is adequately placed Ordinary share to manage its business risks successfully despite the Disclosed Holding capital current uncertain economic outlook and challenging The BlackRock Group 23,335,886 12.75 macro economic conditions.
Schroders Plc and its After making enquiries, the directors have a subsidiaries 22,557,170 12.32 reasonable expectation that the Company and the Fidelity 9,520,363 5.20 Group have adequate resources to continue in Majedie Asset operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Management Limited 7,170,285 3.92 Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Legal & General Group Financial Statements.
plc and its subsidiaries 6,803,525 3.72 Norges Bank 6,158,306 3.37 Auditors at 1 March 2010 Deloitte LLP are the Companys auditors and have at 9 March 2010 expressed their willingness to continue in the office of auditors and therefore, in accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for their re-appointment will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board Brett Gladden Company Secretary 9 February 2010 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 90
