DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE AND SHARE INFORMATION Directors report Corporate and share information History and Development investment we had made in the UbiNetics CSR plc is the holding company of an international protocol software development program, which group of companies the principal activities of which had been acquired with the software business are the design and supply of integrated circuits or of UbiNetics in August 2005. silicon chips for wireless connectivity.
CSR is domiciled in England and Wales and its registered In January 2007, we acquired NordNav for an office and principal place of business is at Churchill initial consideration of $40 million, in cash.
In House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, 2008, we paid a further consideration of $17.5 Cambridge CB4 0WZ and its telephone number is million in cash.
Through this acquisition, we 44 0 1223 692000. acquired early-stage GPS technology and intellectual property to develop a softwareCSR was established in Cambridge in April 1999 by based GPS solution.
an engineering and marketing team that previously worked at Cambridge Consultants Limited, a technology and consulting firm based in Cambridge In January 2007, we also acquired CPS for $35 that transferred certain assets, including the million in cash.
Through this acquisition, we assignment and license on a non-exclusive royalty acquired specialized location system free basis of intellectual property rights, to CSR in technology to address solutions when GPS exchange for ordinary shares.
signals may be unavailable e. g. indoors.
CSR plc the holding company was incorporated and In June 2009, we acquired the GPS-based registered in England and Wales on 26 March 2001 business of SiRF, for a consideration satisfied with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings by the issue of shares in CSR plc to holders of Limited registered number 04187346, as a private SiRF Common Stock as at 26 June 2009 at a company limited by shares under the U. K. Companies ratio of 0.741 of a CSR ordinary share for each Acts.
On 10 July 2001, CSR was re-registered as a SiRF share, which at 26 June 2009, valued public company limited by shares with the name SiRF at $281.5 million.
Through the transaction, Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings PLC: on we acquired a leader in semiconductor-based 25 October 2002, CSR was re-registered as a private GPS location platforms with strong hardware, company limited by shares with the name Cambridge software and system capabilities, as a further Silicon Radio Holdings Limited: and on 19 February step towards building on our leading position in 2004, it was re-registered as a public company limited the Connectivity Centre.
by shares with the name CSR plc.
CSR ordinary shares were admitted to the Official List of the U. K. Listing Authority and to trading on the main market of Sales and Marketing the London Stock Exchange in March 2004 and CSR CSRs sales and marketing function is centered in is a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.
Cambridge with sales liaison offices in Dallas and Detroit, United States: Taipei, Taiwan: Seoul and Beginning in 2005, we have sought to broaden our Gumi, South Korea: Tokyo, Japan: and Shanghai and technological base and product range through a Shenzhen, China.
series of acquisitions, as follows: CSR markets to OEMs and ODMs, principally through In March 2005, we acquired Clarity its direct sales force and, in North America, through Technologies, Inc. for $17.1 million, in cash.
CSR also markets its products through a global network of distributors.
In August 2005, we acquired the software business of UbiNetics VPT Limited for $48 million in cash.
In May 2008, as a result of an CSRs marketing efforts are supported by a team of operational strategy assessment we decided to applications engineers who provide technical support cease our ongoing investment and write off the and assistance to existing and potential customers in CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 157 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE AND SHARE INFORMATION continued designing, testing and qualifying systems that capacity at a supplier due to events affecting their incorporate its products.
This support is generally business, or increased demand from our competitors provided without charge to customers who have the which may mean we are unable to secure the potential to purchase large volumes of products.
volumes of products we require to meet customer demand.
An important part of CSRs marketing effort involves providing technical support to product developers to Raw Materials encourage them to design products using CSRs CSR sources the manufacture of its silicon wafers, chips.
For this purpose, CSR provides a range of and sources the testing of wafers and packaging of its development kits and tools.
For a discussion of CSRs integrated circuits from various subcontractors named revenue by product segment, see Business and above, who have facilities spread across multiple Financial Review Financial Performance Segment locations, primarily in the Asia Pacific region.
CSR also Analysis of this annual report.
For a discussion of purchases flash memory from a sole supplier, SST, CSRs revenues by geographic area, see Business and certain other passive components from other and Financial Review Financial Performance suppliers.
These passive components are standard Geographical Analysis of this annual report.
components capable of being obtained through alternative sources, subject to the conduct of a product qualification process prior to adoption into Manufacturing and Assembly manufacturing.
CSR is a fabless semiconductor company.
Because CSR uses independent fabrication facilities to manufacture its products, we subcontract wafer Seasonality fabrication and assembly to Taiwan Semiconductor CSR has historically experienced increased net Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, in Taiwan, IBM revenue in its second and third quarters primarily due in the United States, Samsung in South Korea and to seasonal demand related to the holiday season and STMicroelectronics in Italy and France.
We also end of calendar year spending patterns in corporate subcontract assembly, testing and shipping to budgets.
Due to continued economic uncertainty and Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, or ASE, in other factors, past historical patterns should not be Taiwan, STATS ChipPAC Limited, STATS in Korea considered a reliable indicator of CSRs future net and Malaysia, Amkor Technology Inc in Taiwan and revenue or financial performance and historical China, Siliconware Precision Industries Limited in seasonal patterns may not recur.
Taiwan, Samsung in South Korea, ST Microelectronics in Italy and France, Signetics Corp in Governmental Regulation Korea and King Yuan Electronics Co. Ltd KYEC in CSR is not aware of any governmental regulations Taiwan.
We also rely on Global Uni Chip, a design that would have a material effect on its business.
foundary, to provide turnkey solutions for our system on chip, or SoC products.
We do not have any longterm contracts with any of these third parties, and Intellectual Property thus have no assurance as to their long-term Our success and ability to compete depends to a availability or cost.
significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technology.
As of 1 January 2010, we had Prior to the acquisition of SiRF, all wafer fabrication, 582 patents granted worldwide.
Of this total, CSR has test, assembly and packaging was subcontracted to 250 patents granted in the United States and 332 TSMC and ASE.
As part of the integration of SiRF patents granted in other territories, with expiration following the acquisition in June 2009, we added dates ranging from 2010 to 2029, along with 284 additional partners to our supply chain who had pending patent applications in the United States and previously supported SiRF in order to enable the 485 pending patent applications in other territories.
enlarged portfolio of products to be supplied to our We intend to continue to assess appropriate customers.
Through all these subcontractors we work occasions for seeking patent protection for those to ensure that the Group is able to maintain sufficient aspects of our technology that we believe provides capacity to support the demand for our integrated significant competitive advantage.
Although we file circuits, which can be affected in the event of a loss of patents to protect our inventions, our revenue is not CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 158 dependent on any particular patent.
We do not believe Capital Structure Number of % age of total that the expiration or loss of a particular patent would Holding Shareholders shareholders materially harm our business.
1 1,000 598 42.32 1001 5000 329 23.28 CSRs Bluetooth products use the Bluetooth 5,001 10,000 99 7.01 trademark, which is owned by the Bluetooth SIG, or 10,001 50,000 154 10.90 special interest group, a trade association of which CSR is a member.
Any company incorporating 50,001 100,000 59 4.18 Bluetooth wireless technology into products or 100,001 250,000 66 4.67 services, or re-branding a product with Bluetooth Over 250,000 108 7.64 technology, must become a member of the Bluetooth Total 1,413 100 SIG.
The Bluetooth trademark is licensed on a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, nontransferable, personal basis for use by companies that are incorporating qualified Bluetooth wireless Market Prices technology into their products.
CSR is a member of The primary trading market for CSR ordinary shares is the Bluetooth SIG and licensee of the Bluetooth the London Stock Exchange, where CSR ordinary trademark.
shares trade under the ticker symbol CSR.
L. As of 1 January 2010, there were 182,187,878 CSR ordinary shares outstanding.
CSR plc Churchill House Cambridge Business Park The following table shows the high and low market Milton Road prices for CSR ordinary shares in pounds sterling for Cambridge the five most recent full financial years, for each full CB4 OWZ financial quarter for the two most recent full financial Registered in England and Wales 4187346 years and for each month within the last six months: www.
com CSR Ordinary Shares pence Advisors Year High Low Auditors Deloitte LLP 2010 508.00 157.25 Corporate brokers JPMorgan Cazenove 2009 600.00 150.25 Limited, UBS 2007 905.00 548.00 Solicitors Slaughter and May 2006 1,512.00 613.00 Bank Lloyds TSB Bank plc 2005 936.00 301.25 Share Information at 1 March 2010 CSR Ordinary Shares pence Quarter High Low Shares outstanding Fourth Quarter 2009 485.70 368.80 Trading Symbol CSR Third Quarter 2009 508.00 347.75 Country of Registration Great Britain Second Quarter 2009 389.75 234.00 Market London Stock Exchange First Quarter 2009 260.25 157.25 SEDOL 3414738 Fourth Quarter 2008 274.25 150.25 Registrar Equiniti, Third Quarter 2008 347.25 224.00 Aspect House, Spencer Second Quarter 2008 395.00 274.50 Road, Lansing, West Sussex, BN99 BDA First Quarter 2008 600.00 295.00 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 159 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE AND SHARE INFORMATION continued Agent in the United States CSR Ordinary Shares pence The Companys agent for service in the United States Month High Low is National Registered Agents, Inc, 160 Greentree Drive, Suite 101, Dover, Delaware 19904.
February 2010 441.00 505.00 January 2010 457.50 417.40 Documents on Display December 2009 420.00 368.80 We previously filed with the United States Securities November 2009 467.20 400.00 and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, a registration October 2009 485.70 402.10 statement on Form F-4 File No.
333-159615 and a related prospectus with respect to an offering of our September 2009 508.00 453.50 ordinary shares in the United States.
Under the Exchange Act, we are required to file reports and Exchange rates other information with the SEC.
Copies of these The following table sets out, for the periods and dates reports and other information, when so filed, including indicated, the period end, average, high and low documents referred to in this Annual Report, may be exchanges rates for pounds sterling expressed in US inspected without charge and may be obtained at dollars per 1.00. prescribed rates at the public reference facilities maintained by the SEC at Judiciary Plaza, 100 F Year ended 31 December Average High Low Street, N. E. Washington, D. C. 20549.
For further 2009 1.57 1.70 1.38 information regarding the operation of the public 2008 1.85 2.03 1.44 reference room and the copy charges, please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
The SEC maintains a web 2007 2.00 2.11 1.92 site at http: www.
gov that contains reports, 2006 1.84 1.98 1.72 proxy and information statements, and other 2005 1.81 1.92 1.71 information regarding registrants that make electronic filings with the SEC using its EDGAR system.
As a Month High Low foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules of February 2010 1.61 1.52 the Exchange Act prescribing the furnishing and content of quarterly reports and proxy statements, January 2010 1.64 1.59 and our executive officers, directors and principal December 2009 1.66 1.59 shareholders are exempt from the reporting and November 2009 1.68 1.64 short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in October 2009 1.66 1.58 Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
September 2009 1.67 1.59 This Annual Report is also available, free of charge, at www.
You may also obtain copies of this Major Shareholders Report, free of charge, by mail.
Information regarding our major shareholders is disclosed on page 90.
None of the holders of CSR ordinary shares has voting rights that differ from those Memorandum and Articles of Association of other shareholders.
As of 1 March 2010, there were The following summarizes certain provisions of the 98 shareholders with a US address on the register of Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association shareholders, representing approximately 0.64% of and applicable English law, as currently in effect.
This CSRs outstanding share capital.
Because many of summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the our ordinary shares are held by brokers and UK Companies Act and the Companys Memorandum nominees, the number of record shareholders in the and Articles of Association, copies of which can be US may not be representative of the number of US obtained from Companies House in the United beneficial shareholders of our ordinary shares.
CSR is Kingdom or by writing to the Company Secretary.
not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any Copies of the Companys Memorandum and Articles government, person or other legal entity.
There are no of Association, as currently in force, are available from arrangements known to CSR that could result in a the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission change of control of CSR.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 160 At the AGM scheduled to be held on 19 May 2010, provide that the Board may in specified the Company proposes to amend the Articles of circumstances authorize any matter that would Association to reflect the full implementation of the otherwise involve a director breaching his duty under Companies Act 2006 on 1 October 2009. the UK Companies Acts to avoid a conflict of interest.
They also provide that, subject to authorization of such conflict, a director may retain any benefit derived Objects and purposes by reason of that interest.
CSR plc was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 26 March, 2001 with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited, as a Director compensation private company limited by shares under the UK The Board sets the Companys remuneration policy.
On 10 July, 2001, CSR was The Remuneration Committee determines on behalf of re-registered as a public company limited by shares the Board, specific remuneration packages for each of with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings the executive directors and for the Chairman.
Only PLC: on 25 October, 2002, CSR was re-registered as non-executive directors serve on the Remuneration a private company limited by shares with the name Committee and the members of the Remuneration Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited: and on Committee are independent of executive 19 February, 2004, it was re-registered as a public management.
The Remuneration Committee monitors company limited by shares with the name CSR plc and provides guidance on the level and structure of registered number 04187346. remuneration for senior management who report to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Board itself The Memorandum of Association of CSR provides determines the remuneration of the non-executive that the Companys objects are to carry on the directors.
No director may participate in discussions business of a holding company, the development and relating to his or her own terms and conditions of design of electronic hardware and computer software service or remuneration.
and other objects more particularly set out in Clause 4 of the Memorandum of Association.
Since 1 October 2009, the Companies Act 2006 treats certain clauses Borrowing powers of the Memorandum of Association, including Clause The Board may exercise the Companys borrowing 4, as part of the Companys Articles of Association.
Save with the previous sanction of an However, the Companies Act 2006 abolishes the ordinary resolution, such borrowing powers are need for companies to have an objects clause and for restricted where the principal amount outstanding of this reason, the Company is proposing to remove its all borrowings is equal to the greater of 300,000,000 objects clause at the 2010 AGM.
and three times the Companys adjusted capital and reserves.
Directors The business of the Company is conducted under the Retirement supervision of the Board.
At every annual general meeting, any director who a has been appointed by the Board since the last Conflicts of interest annual general meeting, or b held office at the time of The UK Companies Act requires a director of a the two preceding annual general meetings and did company who is in any way interested, directly or not retire at either of them, or c has held office with indirectly, in a contract or proposed contract with the the Company, other than employment or executive company to declare the nature and extent of his office, for a continuous period of nine years or more at interest to the other directors of the company.
The UK the date of the meeting, shall retire from office and Companies Act also requires that a director must may offer himself for re-appointment by the members.
avoid a situation where a director has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the companys interests.
It allows Director qualifying shares directors of public companies to authorize such Directors of the Company are not required by the conflicts where appropriate, if a companys articles of Memorandum or the Articles of Association to hold association so permit.
CSRs Articles of Association any shares in the Company.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 161 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE AND SHARE INFORMATION continued Rights and restrictions attaching to the shares shareholder entitled to vote on the resolution has one Dividend rights vote on a show of hands, unless the proxy is The shareholders may by ordinary resolution from appointed by more than one shareholder in which time to time declare dividends not exceeding the case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may if the proxy has been instructed by one or more pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate shareholders to vote for the resolution and by one or dividend, whenever the financial position of CSR, in more shareholders to vote against the resolution.
the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is not liable to holders of The Articles of Association provide that resolutions put shares with preferred or similar rights for losses arising to a vote at a shareholders meeting will be decided from the payment of interim or fixed dividends on on a show of hands, unless a poll is demanded by: other shares.
a the chairman of the meeting: b not less than five members present in person or by proxy and entitled The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of to vote: c a member or members present in person any dividends or other moneys payable in respect of or by proxy and representing not less than one-tenth CSRs shares from a person with a 0.25% interest if of the total voting rights of all the members having the such a person has been served with a restriction right to vote at the meeting: or d a member or notice after failure to provide CSR with information members present in person or by proxy and holding concerning interests in those shares required to be shares in CSR conferring a right to vote at the provided under the UK Companies Act.
meeting being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the The Board may, if authorized by an ordinary total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that resolution, offer shareholders excluding any member right.
holding shares as treasury shares in respect of any dividend the right to elect to receive shares by way of A demand for a poll may be withdrawn with the scrip dividend instead of cash.
consent of the chairman of the meeting at any time before the close of the meeting or the taking of the Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years poll, whichever is the earlier.
A demand so withdrawn from the date when it was declared or became due shall not invalidate the result of a show of hands for payment must be forfeited and revert to CSR.
CSR declared before the demand was made.
may stop sending checks, warrants or similar financial instruments in payment of dividends by post in Under English law, any shareholder entitled to attend respect of any shares or may cease to employ any and vote at a meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to other means of payment, including payment by exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and means of a relevant system, for dividends if either i at vote at a meeting of the company.
least two consecutive payments have remained uncashed or are returned undelivered or that means Generally under English law, two shareholders present of payment has failed or ii one payment remains in person or by proxy constitute a quorum for the uncashed or is returned undelivered or that means of purpose of a general meeting, unless the companys payment has failed and reasonable inquiries have articles of association specify otherwise.
The Articles failed to establish any new postal address or account of Association specify that two members present in of the holder.
In addition, CSR must resume sending person or by proxy and entitled to vote constitute a dividend checks, warrants or similar financial quorum for all purposes.
instruments or employing that means of payment if the holder requests such resumption in writing.
At each annual general meeting of shareholders, Voting rights directors are elected to fill the vacancies resulting from Under English law, a shareholder who is present in the retirement of directors described above under person and entitled to vote at a shareholders meeting Directors Retirement.
Accordingly, not all directors is entitled to one vote on a show of hands regardless stand for election each year.
The Memorandum and of the number of shares he or she holds.
Every proxy Articles of Association do not provide for or permit present who has been duly appointed by a cumulative voting.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 162 Under the Articles of Association, no member is Sinking fund provisions entitled to vote at any general meeting or class CSR shares are not subject to any sinking fund meeting in respect to any share held by him if any call provision under its Memorandum or Articles of or other sum then payable by him in respect of that Association or under English law.
share remains unpaid or if a member has been served with a restriction notice after failure to provide CSR Capital calls with information concerning interests in those shares Shareholders have no liability for capital calls by the required to be provided under the UK Companies Act.
Company except with respect to the unpaid amount, if any, respecting their shares consisting of the nominal value of the shares and any premium which Rights to share in profits may be payable on those shares.
The directors can Other than the provisions outlined above in relation to call on shareholders to pay such amounts that have dividends that have been declared and the provisions not yet been paid to the Company for their shares.
below in relation to rights on a liquidation of CSR, shareholders have no rights to share in the profits of Provisions applicable only to significant shareholders CSR.
There are no provisions in the Memorandum or Articles of Association discriminating against a Pre-emptive rights shareholder as a result of his or her ownership of a Subject to the UK Companies Act, any equity substantial number of shares.
securities issued by CSR for cash must first be offered to CSR shareholders in proportion to their existing Variation of rights holdings of CSR ordinary shares.
The Articles of Association provide that the rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than The UK Companies Act and the listing rules made by three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of the UK Listing Authority, or the listing rules, allow for that class calculated excluding any shares held as the disapplication of pre-emption rights, which may be treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special waived by a special resolution of CSR shareholders, resolution passed at a separate general meeting of either generally or specifically, for a maximum period the holders of those shares.
At every such separate not exceeding five years.
general meeting except an adjourned meeting the quorum must be two persons holding or representing Liquidation rights by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of The rights of shareholders to share in any surplus in the issued shares of the class calculated excluding the event of liquidation are not expressly dealt with in any shares held as treasury shares.
the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Under English law, if CSR is wound up whether the The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares liquidation is voluntary, under supervision of the Court are not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the or by the Court, the liquidator is under a duty to rights attaching to those shares, deemed to be varied collect in and realize the assets of CSR and to by the creation or issue of further shares ranking distribute them to CSRs creditors and, if there is a equally with them.
surplus, to CSR shareholders according to their entitlements.
This applies whether the assets consist General meetings of property of one kind or of different kinds.
The Articles of Association rely on the UK Companies Act provisions dealing with the calling of general Redemption provisions meetings.
An annual general meeting of shareholders Subject to the provisions of the UK Companies Act must be held once in every year within a period of six and the listing rules, CSR may purchase or contract to months beginning with the day following CSRs purchase any of its ordinary shares on or off-market.
accounting reference date which is December 31.
CSR may only purchase its ordinary shares out of CSRs Board may convene a general meeting of distributable reserves or the proceeds of a new issue shareholders whenever they think fit or where they are of shares made for the purpose of funding the requisitioned to do so by CSR shareholders in repurchase.
accordance with the UK Companies Act.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 163 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE AND SHARE INFORMATION continued General meetings may be held at such time and place interest in the relevant share capital of a public as may be determined by CSRs Board.
An annual company to notify the company of that fact within two general meeting must be convened on at least 21 days excluding weekends and bank holidays of his days written notice to shareholders entitled to receive or her knowing of its occurrence.
General meetings must be convened on at threshold is 3%.
least 21 days written notice unless the requisite In addition, the UK Companies Act provides that a majority of shareholders has agreed to short notice.
public company may, by notice in writing, require a Two shareholders must be present in person or by person whom the company knows or reasonably proxy and entitled to vote to constitute a quorum for believes to be or to have been within the three all purposes at general meetings of CSR.
preceding years, interested in the companys issued voting share capital to 1 confirm whether this is or is Limitation on voting rights not the case, and 2 if this is the case, to give further Persons who are neither residents in the UK nor UK information that the company requires relating to his nationals may freely hold, vote and transfer shares in interest or any other interest in the companys shares the same manner as UK residents or nationals.
member whose registered address is not within the UK can give the Company a postal address within the The Articles of Association provide that if the holder of UK at which notices may be served on him.
any shares or a person who appears to be interested Otherwise, a member whose registered address is not in those shares, fails to comply within the relevant within the UK is not entitled to receive any notice from period with any statutory notice in respect of those the Company.
shares, or makes a statement in response to the notice which is false or inadequate in a material Change of control particular, CSR may restrict the rights relating to the The Company can issue additional shares with any identified shares, following a restriction notice.
The rights or restrictions attached to them as long as not restriction notice will state that the identified shares no restricted by any rights attached to existing shares.
longer give the shareholder any right to attend or vote These rights or restrictions can be decided by the either personally or by proxy at a shareholders directors so long as there is no conflict with any meeting or to exercise any right in relation to the resolution passed by the shareholders.
The ability of shareholders meetings.
Where the identified shares the directors to issue shares with rights or restrictions make up 0.25% or more in amount or in number of that are different than those attached to the currently the existing shares of a class at the date of delivery of outstanding ordinary shares could have the effect of the restriction notice, the restriction notice can also delaying, deferring or preventing change of control of contain the following further restrictions: i the Board the Company.
can withhold any dividend or part of a dividend or other money otherwise payable in respect of the In addition, as discussed above under Directors identified shares without any right to he holder to Retirement, directors stand for re-election at an receive any shares in lieu of dividend: and ii the annual general meeting only if they are required by the Board can refuse to register a transfer of any of the terms of the Articles of Association to have retired identified shares which are certificated shares unless from office in connection with such annual general the Board is satisfied that they have been sold meeting.
As a result, not every director stands for outright to an independent third party.
Once a re-election at each annual general meeting.
Because restriction notice has been given, the Board is free to this would prevent shareholders from replacing the cancel it or exclude any shares from it at any time they entire board at a single meeting, this provision could think fit.
In addition, it must cancel the restriction also have the effect of delaying, deferring or notice within seven days of being satisfied that all preventing a change in control of the Company.
information requested in the statutory notice has been given.
Also, where any of the identified shares are sold Disclosure of interests in shares and the Directors are satisfied that they were sold The UK Financial Services Authority and Disclosure outright to an independent third party, they must and Transparency Rules impose an obligation upon a cancel the restriction notice within seven days of person who acquires or ceases to have notifiable receipt of the notification of the sale.
The Articles of CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 164 Association do not restrict in any way the provision of Differences from law in host country the legislation which apply to failures to comply with With respect to the items described above, applicable notices under the legislation.
UK law is not significantly different from applicable U. S. law.
The UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers imposes rigorous disclosure requirements affecting Changes in share capital parties to a proposed takeover, their associates and CSR may by ordinary resolution increase, consolidate, persons acting in concert in relation to the shares of or consolidate and then subdivide its shares or any of a company.
These requirements also extend to them.
Subject to the Companies Act, CSR, by dealings by persons who directly or indirectly own or resolution, may determine that, as between shares control either before or as a result of the dealing 1% resulting from a subdivision, any of them may have a or more of the equity shares in an offeror or offeree preference or advantage, or may be subject to company or of any other class of shares relevant to restrictions as compared with the others.
CSR may, the offer in question.
by special resolution, reduce its share capital, share premium account, capital redemption reserve or any other undistributable reserve.
Rule 13d-1 of the U. S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires that a person or group acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 5% of equity Material contracts securities registered under that Act discloses such Excluding contracts entered into in the ordinary information to the SEC within 10 days after the course of business, no contracts have been entered acquisition.
into in the two years preceding the date of this document by CSR or any other member of the Group that are considered material to its results or CSR is required by the listing rules of the UK Listing operations, other than the merger agreement with Authority to disclose in its annual report the identity SiRF.
On 9 February 2009, CSR entered into an and share interests of its directors and any persons agreement and plan of merger with SiRF Technology connected with them, as defined in the UK Holdings, Inc. pursuant to which a subsidiary of CSR Companies Act, and of any person with an interest of was merged with and into SiRF, with SiRF as the 3% or more of its CSR ordinary shares.
Under the merger agreement, CSR issued ordinary shares to SiRF shareholders with Persons discharging managerial responsibilities a total value of $281.5 million as of the date the primarily directors and some senior executives, and acquisition was completed on 26 June 2009.
This their connected persons, must notify a public transaction is discussed further in the section entitled company such as CSR in writing of the occurrence of Business and Financial Review on page 10. all transactions conducted on their own account in the shares of the company, or derivatives or any other financial instruments relating to those shares within Exchange Controls four business days of the day on which the There are currently no foreign exchange control transaction occurred.
The notification must contain restrictions on CSRs ability to pay dividends on its specified information, including the name of the ordinary shares or on the conduct of its operations person involved, the type of transaction, the date on imposed by English law.
There are currently no which it occurred, and the price and volume of the limitations on the right of non-residents or foreign transaction.
The public company must notify a owners to hold or vote CSR ordinary shares imposed regulatory news service which will make the by English law or CSRs articles of association.
information public of any information notified to it in accordance with these provisions.
The notification to a regulatory news service must be made as soon as Taxation US Holders possible, and in any event by no later than the end of US federal income tax matters the business day following the receipt of the The following general discussion describes the information by the company.
material US federal income tax consequences of the CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 165 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE AND SHARE INFORMATION continued ownership of ordinary shares that are generally Service, or the IRS, or the courts.
Future legislative, applicable to US holders as defined below.
However, judicial, or administrative changes or interpretations, this discussion does not address all aspects of which may or may not be retroactive, may adversely taxation that may be relevant to particular US holders affect the accuracy of this discussion.
in light of their personal investment or tax circumstances or to persons that are subject to Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules special tax rules.
In addition, this discussion does not Special US federal income tax rules apply to US address the tax treatment of special classes of US holders owning stock of a passive foreign investment holders, such as banks, insurance companies, taxcompany, or PFIC.
A foreign corporation generally will exempt entities, financial institutions, broker-dealers, be considered a PFIC for any taxable year in which i persons holding ordinary shares as part of a hedging 75% or more of its gross income is passive income, or conversion transaction or as part of a straddle, or ii 50% or more of the average value of its assets US expatriates, persons subject to the alternative are considered passive assets generally, assets that minimum tax, and non-US holders.
This discussion generate passive income.
Based upon an analysis of may not be applicable to holders who acquired CSRs holdings during the taxable year ended ordinary shares pursuant to the exercise of options or January 1, 2010 of cash and liquid assets such as warrants or otherwise as compensation.
Furthermore, bank deposits and marketable securities all of which this discussion of US federal income tax matters does are passive assets for these purposes and CSRs not give a detailed discussion of any state or local tax share price for such period which affects the considerations or tax considerations with respect to valuation of certain assets, including goodwill, CSR any non-US jurisdiction.
We urge you to consult your believes that it did not qualify as a PFIC for its taxable own tax advisor as to the specific tax consequences year ended January 1, 2010.
Moreover, based on of the ownership of ordinary shares, including the current projections of CSRs passive assets and applicable US federal, state, local and foreign tax expected share price, CSR believes that it will not consequences to you of the ownership of ordinary qualify as a PFIC for its taxable year ending December shares.
However, the determination of whether a company is a PFIC is highly factual, and will depend, As used in this discussion of US federal income tax among other things, upon CSRs actual holdings of consequences, a US holder means a holder of passive assets and share price during such period.
ordinary shares who or that holds such stock as a Given CSRs significant holdings of passive assets capital asset within the meaning of the Internal such as cash and marketable securities, if CSRs Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal share price were to decline for an extended time to Revenue Code, and is for US federal income tax levels comparable to its low point during January purposes i a citizen or resident of the United States, 2009, it is possible that CSR would be treated as a ii a corporation or other entity taxable as a PFIC in a future taxable year.
CSR will continue to corporation organized under the laws of the United monitor whether it qualifies as a PFIC, and will notify States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, US holders of ordinary shares if it determines that it is iii a trust if a court within the United States is able to a PFIC for a given taxable year.
exercise primary jurisdiction over its administration and one or more US persons have authority to control If CSR were classified as a PFIC for any taxable year all substantial decisions of the trust, or iv any person during which US holders hold ordinary shares, US that is subject to US federal income tax on its holders would be subject to special, adverse rules worldwide income.
As used herein, a non-US holder unless, as described below, they make either a QEF refers to any holder of ordinary shares other than a election or a mark-to-market election with respect to partnership who is not a US holder.
Absent such elections, US holders gain from the sale or other disposition of This discussion is based on the Internal Revenue ordinary shares and excess distributions received Code, applicable Department of Treasury regulations, from CSR would be ordinary income.
Such income judicial authority, and administrative rulings and would be taxed as if the gain or excess distribution practice, all as of the date of this annual report.
This had been realized ratably over the US holders holding discussion is not binding on the US Internal Revenue period and would be increased by an interest charge CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 166 with respect to underpayments of tax as if the ratable made, a mark-to-market election would be effective portion of the gain or excess distribution with respect for the taxable year for which the election was made to a given prior taxable year had been subject to tax in and for all subsequent taxable years in which CSR is a such year.
An excess distribution generally would be PFIC unless the ordinary shares were not considered any distribution to a US holder with respect to to be traded on a qualified exchange or other ordinary shares during a single taxable year that is market or the IRS consented to the revocation of the greater than 125% of the average annual distributions election.
For any year for which CSR is not a PFIC, the received by such US holder with respect to ordinary mark-to-market election is inoperative.
US holders shares during the three preceding taxable years or, if make the mark-to-market election on IRS Form 8621, shorter, during his or her holding period with respect which must be filed along with their tax return for the to the ordinary shares.
For these purposes, gifts, taxable year for which the election is to take effect on exchanges pursuant to corporate reorganizations, and or before the due date for such return including pledges of ordinary shares for use as a security for a extensions.
US holders who decide to make the loan may be treated as taxable dispositions.
mark-to-market election are advised to make the election for the first taxable year for which CSR is a US holders who make neither a mark-to-market PFIC.
US holders must report income and loss with election nor a QEF election will be required to file an respect to the election for each year for which CSR is IRS Form 8621 if they own ordinary shares in any year a PFIC on IRS Form 8621. in which CSR is a PFIC and they receive a distribution from CSR or dispose of their CSR shares and will QEF Election also be required to file this form to make certain The PFIC taxation rules outlined above also would not elections with respect to their CSR shares.
apply to US holders that elect to treat CSR as a qualified electing fund or QEF.
US holders that are Mark-to-Market Election eligible for and timely make a QEF election, would If ordinary shares are considered to be traded on a include in income each year for which CSR is a PFIC qualified exchange or other market, US holders and would be subject to current US federal income would not be subject to the foregoing PFIC taxation tax on their pro rata share of CSRs ordinary rules if they make a mark-to-market election with earnings, as ordinary income, and net capital gains, respect to their ordinary shares.
Although the as long-term capital gain, for the taxable year that determination of whether shares are traded on a ends with or within their taxable year, regardless of qualified exchange or other market is factual and whether such amounts are actually distributed.
Any there is no specific authority that designates certain such ordinary income would not be eligible for the non-US exchanges as qualified exchanges, CSR favorable rates applicable to qualified dividend expects that US holders of ordinary shares will be able income.
Corporate US holders would not be eligible to make this election because CSRs shares are for a dividends received deduction in respect of such currently traded on the LSE.
However, no assurance income or gain.
US holders adjusted tax basis in can be provided in this regard.
After making such an ordinary shares would be increased to reflect taxed election, US holders generally would include as but undistributed earnings and profits.
Distributions of ordinary income in each year during which the election earnings and profits that had been previously taxed is in effect and during which CSR is a PFIC the would result in a corresponding reduction in US excess, if any, of the fair market value of ordinary holders adjusted tax basis in ordinary shares and shares at the end of the taxable year over their would not be taxed again.
US holders would not, adjusted basis in such ordinary shares.
US holders however, be entitled to a deduction for their pro rata also would be allowed to take an ordinary loss in share of any losses that CSR incurred with respect to respect of the excess, if any, of their adjusted basis in any year.
ordinary shares over their fair market value at the end of the taxable year but only to the extent of the net US holders may only make a QEF election if CSR amount of income that was previously included as a provides them with the information needed to result of the mark-to-market election.
US holders tax determine CSRs ordinary earnings and net capital basis in ordinary shares would be adjusted to reflect gains.
If it is a PFIC, CSR will provide US holders with any income or loss amounts resulting from a mark-tothe information that is necessary in order to make a market election.
If QEF election and to report their shares of ordinary CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 167 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE AND SHARE INFORMATION continued earnings and net capital gains for each year for which for benefits of the United States income tax treaty with CSR is a PFIC.
CSR has had substantial taxable the United Kingdom.
Although CSR believes that it is income in prior years, and may have taxable income in currently eligible for such treaty benefits, there can be 2010 or any future year in which it is a PFIC.
As CSR no assurance that this will be the case for any taxable historically has not made cash distributions with year.
Further, individual US holders will not be eligible respect to its stock, US holders may be taxed on for the reduced rates of dividend taxation if CSR is a significant phantom income if they make a QEF PFIC for the taxable year of the dividend payment or election.
A US holder may make a separate election to the preceding taxable year.
Corporate US holders will defer the payment of taxes on undistributed income be taxed on dividends received from CSR at a 35% inclusions under the QEF rules, but any taxes deferred tax rate.
Dividends generally will be income from would be subject to an interest change.
For any year sources outside of the United States for foreign tax for which CSR is not a PFIC, the QEF election would credit limitation purposes, and generally will not be be inoperative.
If US holders make a QEF election, eligible for the dividends-received deduction that is they would generally recognize capital gain or loss on allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends the sale, exchange or other disposition of ordinary received from other US corporations.
The QEF election is made by each US holder, excess of CSRs current and or accumulated earnings and can only be revoked with the consent of the IRS.
and profits, as determined for US federal income tax US holders make the QEF election on IRS Form 8621, purposes, will be treated as a non-taxable return of which must be filed along with their tax return for the capital to the extent of the US holders tax basis in the first taxable year to which the election will apply on or ordinary shares and thereafter as capital gain.
before the due date for such return including extensions.
US holders who decide to make the QEF The amount of the dividend includible in the income of election are advised to make the election for the first a US holder will be the US dollar value of the dividend taxable year for which CSR is a PFIC.
A US holder determined at the spot rate on the date that dividend also must file Form 8621 with the IRS for each is includible in the income of the US holder, regardless subsequent year that the election is in effect.
of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars at such time.
A US holder will have a basis in US holders cannot make both a mark-to-market any GBP distributed by CSR equal to the US dollar election and a QEF election.
value of the GBP on the date it is actually or constructively received by the US holder.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange US holders are urged to consult their own tax fluctuations during the period from the date the advisors concerning the potential application of the dividend payment is includible in income to the date PFIC rules to their ownership and disposition of that payment is converted into US dollars will be ordinary shares, including the availability and treated as ordinary income or loss.
advisability of making a mark-to-market or QEF election.
Taxation of Capital Gains Taxation of Dividends Subject to the PFIC rules described above, upon a Subject to the PFIC rules described above, for US sale or other disposition of ordinary shares, a US federal income tax purposes, a US holder will holder will generally recognize gain or loss for US generally include in gross income the amount of any federal income tax purposes in an amount equal to dividend paid by CSR to the extent paid out of CSRs the difference between the US dollar value of the current and or accumulated earnings and profits, as amount realized and the US holders tax basis, determined for US federal income tax purposes, as determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares.
Gain ordinary income when the dividend is actually received or loss recognized will be long-term capital gain or by the US holder.
Individual US holders currently are loss with respect to ordinary shares held for more taxed at a maximum rate of 15% on dividends than 12 months at the time of the sale or other received from qualified foreign corporations, disposition and any gain recognized generally will be provided the US holders satisfy certain holding period income from sources within the United States for and other requirements.
In order to be treated as a foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility qualified foreign corporation, CSR must be eligible of capital losses is subject to significant limitations.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 168 Backup Withholding and Information Reporting or anothers employment.
The following paragraphs In general, dividend payments with respect to ordinary do not apply to individuals or companies that hold, shares and proceeds from the sale or other directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power disposition of ordinary shares made or deemed in CSR.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are in made within the United States may be subject to any doubt as to their taxation position should consult information reporting to the IRS and US backup an appropriate professional advisor immediately.
withholding currently at a rate of 28%.
Backup withholding will generally not apply to a holder who: Taxation of Dividends Under current UK taxation legislation, no tax will be furnishes a correct taxpayer identification withheld by CSR from cash dividend payments.
number and certifies, under penalties of perjury, Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are resident that such holder is not subject to backup outside of the UK will generally not receive any withholding on a Form W-9, and otherwise payment from HM Revenue & Customs in respect of complies with applicable requirements of the any tax credit on dividends paid by CSR.
backup withholding rules: Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are not resident is a corporation or otherwise exempt from or, in the case of individuals, ordinarily resident, in the backup withholding and, when required, UK and who do not carry on a trade, profession, or demonstrates this fact: or vocation in the UK through a branch, agency or permanent establishment in connection with which provides a certification of foreign status on their CSR ordinary shares are held, used or acquired Form W-8BEN or a successor form.
will not generally be liable to pay any UK tax in respect of any dividends received on their CSR ordinary Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are withheld under the backup withholding rules will be resident or, in the case of individuals, ordinarily allowed as a refund or credit against a holders US resident, in the UK or who carry on a trade, profession federal income tax liability, provided the holder or vocation in the UK through a branch, agency or furnished the required information to the IRS.
permanent establishment in connection with which their CSR ordinary shares are held, used or acquired are encouraged to consult appropriate professional UK tax matters advisors.
The following paragraphs summarise the material UK tax consequences for investors who are not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes including US investors Under its current dividend policy, CSR does not who are not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes intend to pay a dividend for the foreseeable future.
regarding ownership and disposal of CSR ordinary Any future payment of dividends will be at the shares.
discretion of CSRs board of directors.
The following paragraphs, which are intended as a general guide only, are based on current UK tax Taxation of Capital Gains legislation and what is understood to be HM Revenue A holder of CSR ordinary shares will not ordinarily be & Customs the UK tax authority practice which are liable for UK tax on capital gains realised on the both subject to change at any time.
They summarise disposal of CSR ordinary shares, unless, at the time of certain limited aspects of the UK tax treatment of the disposal, he or she carries on a trade, profession holders of CSR ordinary shares and apply only to the or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency in position of holders of CSR ordinary shares who for UK the case of an individual shareholder or a permanent tax purposes are beneficial owners of their CSR establishment in the case of a corporate shareholder ordinary shares, hold their CSR ordinary shares as an and those CSR ordinary shares are, or have been, investment and not as assets to be realised in the used, held or acquired for the purposes of that trade, course of a trade and are not treated as having profession or vocation or branch or agency or acquired their CSR ordinary shares by reason of their permanent establishment as the case may be.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 169 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE AND SHARE INFORMATION continued A holder of CSR ordinary shares who is an individual EU Clearance Service or an EU Depositary Receipt and who has ceased to be resident or ordinarily System.
In light of that announcement, if would seem resident in the UK for UK tax purposes for a period of that, in the view of HM Revenue & Customs, the 1.5% less than five years of assessment and who disposes UK SDRT charge will continue to apply to i the of all or part of his CSR ordinary shares during that transfer of existing shares to Clearance Services or period of temporary non-residence may be liable on Depositary Receipt Systems, in each case whether or his return to the UK to taxation on chargeable gains not in the EU and ii the issue of new shares to nonarising during the period of absence, subject to any EU Clearance Services or non-EU Depositary Receipt available exemption or relief.
However, a charge to UK SDRT at 1.5% on the issue of new shares to a non-EU Clearance Service or a non-EU Depositary Receipt System is Stamp Duty and Stamp Duty Reserve Tax arguably not consistent with the aforementioned No UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty reserve tax UK decision of the European Court of Justice.
SDRT will generally be payable on the issue of CSR ordinary shares.
No UK stamp duty or UK SDRT will generally be payable on the issue of CSR ordinary shares into Subject to the paragraph below, where CSR ordinary CREST the London Stock Exchanges paperless shares are issued or transferred i to, or to a nominee trading system, but, subject to the paragraph above, or agent for, a person whose business is or includes UK SDRT will be payable to the extent that the CSR the provision of clearance services, or a Clearance ordinary shares are issued to, or into the CREST Service, or ii to, or to a nominee or agent for, a account of, a Clearance Service or a nominee or  agent for a Clearance Service which has not made an depositary receipts, or a Depositary Receipt System, election in relation to the CSR ordinary shares under UK stamp duty or UK SDRT will generally be payable Section 97A or to, or into the CREST account of, a at the rate of 1.5% of the consideration paid rounded Depositary Receipt System or a nominee or agent for up to the nearest multiple of 5 in the case of UK a Depositary Receipt System.
The UK stamp duty or stamp duty.
The UK stamp duty or UK SDRT will UK SDRT will generally be paid by the Clearance generally be paid by the Clearance Service or the Service or the Depositary Receipt System, as the case Depositary Receipt System, as the case may be, but may be, but will, in practice, generally be reimbursed will, in practice, generally be reimbursed by the by the relevant participant in the Clearance Service or relevant participant in the Clearance Service or the the Depositary Receipt System.
A Clearance Service can elect under section 97A of the Finance Act 1986, or Subject to an exemption for certain low value Section 97A, provided certain conditions are satisfied, transactions, the transfer on sale of CSR ordinary for the normal rate of UK stamp duty or UK SDRT shares in certificated form, or a right to such shares, generally no charge on issue and a charge at 0.5% of will generally give rise to a liability, usually met by the the amount or value of the consideration paid, rounded purchaser, to ad valorem UK stamp duty at the rate of up to the nearest 5 in the case of UK stamp duty, on 0.5% rounded up to the nearest multiple of 5 of the transfer to apply to issues or transfers of CSR ordinary amount or value of the consideration paid.
An shares into, and transactions within, such Clearance agreement to transfer such shares or a right to such Service instead of the higher rate of 1.5% generally shares which is or becomes unconditional will applying to an issue or transfer of CSR ordinary shares generally give rise to UK SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of into the Clearance Service and the ability to transfer the amount or value of the consideration paid, such CSR ordinary shares while in the Clearance Service UK SDRT generally being payable by the transferee or without there being UK stamp duty or UK SDRT.
The liability to UK SDRT will generally be cancelled or any UK SDRT paid will be refunded if the Following a recent decision of the European Court of agreement is completed by a duly stamped transfer Justice, HM Revenue & Customs have announced within six years of either the date of the agreement or, that they will not seek to apply the 1.5% UK SDRT if the agreement was conditional, the date when the charge where new shares are first issued into an agreement became unconditional.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 170 A transfer of CSR ordinary shares on a paperless basis Generally, a gift of CSR ordinary shares or a transfer of such through CREST will generally be subject to UK SDRT at the shares from a nominee to the beneficial owner will give rise to rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration paid, neither UK stamp duty nor UK SDRT.
which will be collected and accounted for to HM Revenue & Customs by CREST such UK SDRT generally being borne by the transferee or purchaser.
No UK stamp duty or UK SDRT The above statements are intended only as a general guide to will arise on a transfer of CSR ordinary shares into CREST the current UK stamp duty and UK SDRT position.
Transfers provided that, in the case of UK SDRT, the transfer is not for to certain categories of person are not liable to UK stamp duty money or moneys worth.
or UK SDRT and others may be liable at a higher rate.
Property CSRs corporate headquarters is located on the Cambridge Business Park, Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, England, where it occupies approximately 51,000 square feet under a lease expiring in September 2014.
CSR also leases property in the following areas, which serve as its research and development, sales and customer support and administration offices: Lease Location Sq.
feet Expiration Purpose Churchill House, Cambridge, England 51,000 September R&D 2014 St Johns House, Cambridge, England 33,100 August Sales and administration 2016 Unit 400, Cambridge, England 24,100 September 17,151 sq ft sublet 2016 2 Phoenix, Arizona, 85044 USA 26,300 July 2012 Engineering and product development Richardson, Texas 75080 USA 18,828 May 2016 Sales and administration San Jose, California, USA 48,000 November Engineering and product development and sales 30, 2010 Santa Ana, California, USA 12,643 December Engineering and product development 2013 Cedar Rapids, Iowa, USA 7,400 April 2013 Engineering and product development Stockholm, Sweden 5,167 September R&D and administration 2011 Bangalore, India 26,516 May 2012 R&D and administration 1 Noida, India 9,200 March Engineering and product development 2014 Shanghai, China 12,121 April 2012 Sales and administration Chungli City, Taiwan 4,340 March Sales 2011 Sophia Antipolis, France 7,513 February R&D 2011 1 We may terminate this lease upon six months notice.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 171
