DIRECTORS REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS Directors report - Board of directors Board of Directors CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 58 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Directors Biographies 3.
Diosdado Banatao Mr Carlisle age 62, non-executive Mr Chadha age 50, Chief Marketing Mr Banatao age 63, non-executive director and Senior Independent Officer joined CSR on 26 June 2009, director, joined the CSR Board on Director, was appointed a nonfollowing the acquisition of SiRF 26 June 2009.
Prior to this, executive director of CSR in July 2005 Technology Holdings Inc. where he Mr Banatao served as Executive and was appointed as Senior was a founder, head of marketing and Chairman of the Board and Interim Independent Director on 27 May 2009. a member of the Board of Directors.
Mr Banatao is the Mr Carlisle is the Chief Executive of Mr Chadha has over 25 years of managing partner of Tallwood Venture Citigate Dewe Rogerson Consultancy.
experience in various marketing and Capital.
Prior to forming Tallwood He has over 30 years experience in management positions.
Prior to Venture Capital, Mr Banatao was a marketing and communications, founding SiRF, Mr Chadha served as venture partner at Mayfield Fund.
advising major companies in the UK general manager of the multimedia Mr Banatao has co-founded three and internationally.
He holds a BA in group and director of strategic technology start-ups, S3 SBLU Economics and is a Fellow of the marketing at S3 Inc. where he led the Incorporated which changed its name Institute of Public Relations.
development of innovative audio and to SonicBlue Incorporated, Chips & video processing technologies.
Before Technologies INTC and Mostron.
joining S3 Inc, Mr Chadha co-founded 4.
Joep van Beurden Mr Banatao has also held positions at AQuesT Inc. a developer of multimedia Mr van Beurden age 49, Chief National Semiconductor, Seeq and 3D graphics acceleration products Executive Officer, was appointed Chief Technologies, Intersil, and Commodore and served as its chairman.
Prior to his Executive Officer on 1 November 2007. International.
Mr Banatao also served entrepreneurial ventures, he served at Prior to joining CSR, Mr van Beurden as Chairman and led investments in Intel in various product marketing was Chief Executive of NexWave Inc. a Marvell Technology Group, Acclaim positions, including product line provider of embedded software Communications, acquired by Level manager for the i860 RISC processor solutions for the consumer electronics One, Newport Communications, and floating point co-processors market based in France.
Before joining acquired by Broadcom, Cyras 8087 287 387.
Mr Chadha received his NexWave, Mr van Beurden held senior Systems, acquired by Ciena and B.
in electrical engineering from positions at Canesta Inc. a fabless Stream Machine, acquired by Cirrus the Indian Institute of Technology, New semiconductor company in San Jose, Logic.
Mr Banatao holds a BSEE, cum Delhi and later his MS in CIS from the California and Philips Components also laude, from the Mapua Institute of University of Pennsylvania in San Jose.
Prior to that, Mr van Technology in the Phillipines and MS in simultaneously with an MBA from the Beurden had worked for five years for Electrical Engineering and Computer Wharton School of Business at the management and strategy consultants Science from Stanford University.
Mr van Beurden has also worked as a 2.
Will Gardiner crude oil trader for Royal Dutch Shell in 6.
Ron Mackintosh Mr Gardiner age 45, Chief Financial Rotterdam and lectured in Physics and Mr Mackintosh age 61, Chairman, has Officer, joined CSR as Chief Financial Electronics at the University of Zambia.
served as a non-executive director Officer in June 2008.
Prior to joining In January 2009, Mr van Beurden was since May 2004 and was appointed CSR, Mr Gardiner was Finance Director appointed a director of the Global Chairman with effect from 2 May 2007. for Technology and Enterprise at Semiconductor Alliance, GSA a Mr Mackintosh is a non-executive BSkyB plc.
Before its acquisition by not-for-profit organisation supporting director of software company Fidessa BSkyB in 2006, Mr Gardiner had since collaboration, supply chain integration Group plc.
Mr Mackintosh has held a 2001 been CFO of Easynet Group plc, and innovation in the global number of senior executive positions in a pan-European broadband telecoms semiconductor industry.
In December European technology companies.
Between 1991 and 2001, 2009 the GSA appointed Mr van Between 1992 and 2000, Mr Gardiner held a number of senior Beurden as a Vice Chairman.
Mr van Mr Mackintosh was chief executive of roles within JPMorgans investment Beurden holds a Masters degree in Computer Sciences Corporations banking division, specializing in the Applied Physics from Twente University CSC European business, which had telecoms and technology sectors.
of Technology in Enschede, The revenues of $2.5 billion.
He is also a Mr Gardiner has a BA from Harvard Netherlands.
former director of Gemplus SA, and the College and MA from Johns Hopkins former chairman of each of University.
Smartstream Technologies Ltd, CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 59 DIRECTORS REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS continued Northgate Information Solutions plc Accountants in England and Wales.
also a member of the Institute of and also of Differentis, a privately Mr Allner is Chairman of the Audit Electrical and Electronics Engineers owned IT consultancy which, he Committee and is a member of the and a member of the Europe, Middle co-founded in July 2000.
Remuneration and Nomination East and Africa Leadership Council of Mr Mackintosh is Chairman of the Committees.
Nomination Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
James Collier Mr Giacoletto-Roggio age 60, 7.
Andrew Allner Mr Collier age 51, Chief Technical non-executive director, joined CSR as Mr Allner age 56, non-executive Officer, has served as CSRs Chief a non-executive director on director, joined CSR as a Technical Officer since its 4 January 2007.
He is Chairman of the non-executive director on establishment in April 1999.
Mr Allner was is a co-founder of CSR.
Between 1984 December 2008, Mr Giacoletto-Roggio appointed chairman of the Audit and April 1999, Mr Collier held a retired from Oracle Corporation, where Committee on 27 May 2009.
Mr Allner number of executive and technical he had been executive vice president is a chartered accountant with positions at Cambridge Consultants of Oracle Corporation, Europe, Middle extensive experience in senior Ltd.
Prior to 1984, Mr Collier held a East and Africa and a member of executive and non-executive positions.
number of executive and technical Oracles executive committee.
Prior to Between 2004 and 2007, Mr Allner positions at Schlumberger.
Mr Collier joining Oracle in 1997, Mr Giacolettowas Group Finance Director at RHM has a degree in Physics from the Roggio was President, value added plc, taking a lead role in its flotation in University of Oxford.
services at AT&T, before which he July 2005 on the London Stock spent 20 years with Digital Equipment Exchange.
Prior to joining RHM plc, Corporation in various senior 9.
Christopher Ladas Mr Allner was CEO of Enodis PLC.
Mr Ladas age 64, Operations Mr Allner has also served in senior Mr Giacoletto-Roggio has served on Director, was appointed a director of executive positions with Dalgety PLC, multiple company boards and IT CSR on 1 January 2008.
He has Amersham International PLC and industry associations.
He is currently served as CSRs Senior Vice President, Guinness PLC.
He is a former partner non-executive director and the senior Operations since May 2000.
Mr Allner is independent director of Logica plc, a January 1996 and May 2000, Mr Ladas presently a non-executive director and non-executive director of Colt Telecom served as the vice president of chairman of the audit committee at SA and the chairman of Sophis Holding operations at Micro Linear Corporation.
Northgate plc, a non-executive director Luxembourg SCA.
Mr GiacolettoPrior to 1996, Mr Ladas held several and chairman of the remuneration Roggio holds a Masters in Computer managerial and technical positions at committee at Marshalls plc, and a Science from the University of Turin.
He National Semiconductor, Fairchild, non-executive director and the is chairman of the Remuneration Harris, Sperry, Motorola and Signetics.
chairman of the audit committee of The Committee and is a member of the Mr Ladas holds a BS in Chemistry from Go-Ahead Group plc.
He is a member Audit and Nomination Committees.
He is of the Institute of Chartered CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 60
