DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report Corporate governance Chairmans introduction Other than the provision relating to the balance of Your Board is accountable to the Companys executive and non-executive directors on the Board shareholders for creating and delivering sustainable over the period between 27 May 2009 and 1 January shareholder value through the management of the 2010, the Board has complied with the provisions of Groups business.
We are committed to high the Code.
On 27 May 2009, Mr David Tucker, a standards of corporate governance which we non-executive director, retired from the Board.
As a recognise is fundamental to business integrity and to result, from that date, the Board had a greater enabling the Group to operate successfully.
number of executive directors than non-executive directors.
On 26 June 2009, at the time of the completion of the acquisition of SiRF Technology The Company expects all directors and employees to Holdings, Inc. Mr Diosdado Banatao and Mr Kanwar act honestly, with integrity and fairness and this is Chadha were appointed as directors: Mr Banatao as a supported by established policies and is reinforced non-executive director and Mr Chadha as an through a culture which is driven from the Board executive director.
Following the appointments, the members across the organisation.
As an increasingly balance of executive and non-executive directors global business, the Group strives to act in remained non-compliant with the Code as the Board accordance with the laws and customs of the remained composed of more executive directors than countries in which it operates: adopt proper standards non-executive directors.
of business practice and procedure and respect the culture of every country where it does business.
As explained in the Circular issued to shareholders on 4 June 2009, in deciding to offer Messrs. Banatao The following report and the report of the and Chadha positions as directors of the Company, Remuneration Committee on pages 73 to 85 explains the Board considered that their knowledge and how the Board operates, the roles of the Board experience in the management of SiRF and their members and how the Board and its Committees extensive understanding of the semiconductor function to ensure compliance with the principles of industry will be beneficial not only to the integration of corporate governance.
It also sets out how we CSR and SiRF, but also to the development of the encourage our employees across the Group to business of the combined company going forward.
contribute to ensuring that the Group as a whole When considering the appointment of Mr Banatao to operates to high standards of governance, in their the role of a non-executive director, the Board participation within the business of the Board and its discussed his independence from management at the Committees and as individuals through their time of appointment.
The Board is satisfied that Mr responsibility to support these principles.
Banatao is independent of the Company, the Board and management, since he has not had any previous relationship or dealings with the Company.
Ron Mackintosh Statement of compliance Following a suitable period after these appointments, The Companys shares are listed on the London and with due regard and consideration given to the Stock Exchange and therefore, under the Listing balance of skills and experience, the Board will Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the Board address the appointment of an additional must report on compliance with the provisions set out non-executive director during 2010.
The Board in Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code on considers that, notwithstanding the non-compliance Corporate Governance the Code, which are with the provisions of the Code, an appropriate appended to the Listing Rules.
balance of skills and experience has been in place to enable the Board to perform its responsibilities effectively.
In addition to complying with UK corporate governance requirements, the Company must also follow US securities laws and regulations due to registration of its ordinary shares with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, although it is not listed on a US stock exchange.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 61 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The Board believes that succession planning should independent of management, were Mr Anthony be an area for focus, particularly in light of the Carlisle, Mr Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio and Mr Andrew acquisition of SiRF and as part of this recognition, a Allner.
Mr Diosdado Banatao was appointed as a proposal on possible steps was developed in non-executive director on 26 June 2009.
November 2009, which has been approved for execution in 2010.
As a result, the Board expects to Mr Mackintosh has served as Chairman of the Board consider this matter further during 2010. since May 2007 and as a non-executive director of the Company since May 2004.
In the opinion of the The Board is aware of the review of the Code Board, on each of his appointments as a conducted by the UK Financial Reporting Council non-executive director and as Chairman, which was completed and published in 2009.
The Mr Mackintosh was independent of management.
The Board will reflect the revisions to the Code in its Board is satisfied that Mr Mackintosh is able to devote practices during the course of 2010 and will report on the necessary time commitment to the role of these matters in the next annual report issued in 2011 Chairman of the Board.
Mr Tucker served as the Senior Independent Director Executive Ethics Policy and Chairman of the Audit Committee until he retired All employees of the Group, including the executive from the Board on 27 May 2009.
With effect from directors and senior officers, must comply with the 27 May 2009, Mr Anthony Carlisle was appointed the Groups Ethics Policy recently adopted following the Senior Independent Director and Mr Andrew Allner, a Companys registration with the US Securities and chartered accountant with recent and relevant Exchange Commission.
In addition, the Company has financial experience, was appointed Chairman of the adopted an Executive Ethics Policy that applies to Audit Committee.
Mr Gardiner is the director executive directors, senior officers and other specified responsible for health and safety.
The directors employees and is intended to meet the code of possess diverse business experience in spheres ethics requirements of Section 406 of the US complementary to CSRs activities, as well as other Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
A copy of the Executive Ethics sectors.
Biographies of the directors are shown on Policy may be found at www.
Mr Brett Gladden served as Company Secretary throughout the year.
The following statements describe how the Board operates and the respective roles of the Chairman, The Conduct of the Business of the Board non-executive and executive directors.
The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an adhoc basis as required by time critical business needs.
During the course of 2009 regular The Board meetings were augmented by additional meetings to As at 1 January 2010, the Board comprised ten enable discussion with other Board members and members, being the Chairman, Mr Ron Mackintosh, advisers on the proposed acquisition of SiRF.
This five executive directors and four non-executive included understanding the implications for the directors.
Of those in post as at 1 January 2010, eight Company registering with the US Securities and directors including Mr Mackintosh had served Exchange Commission, the relisting of the Companys throughout the year.
ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange and the development and review of associated documents The four executive directors in office at 1 January in regard to these matters and the issue of a circular 2010 who had served throughout the year were to shareholders seeking approval for the acquisition.
Mr Joep van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer, Mr Will Gardiner, Chief Financial Officer, Mr James Collier, The Board is responsible to shareholders for the Chief Technical Officer and Mr Chris Ladas, effective and proper management and control of the Operations Director.
Mr Kanwar Chadha was Company and Group and has a formal schedule of appointed as an executive director on 26 June 2009. matters reserved for its decisions.
Its primary role is to The three non-executive directors who served determine and review strategy and policy, consider throughout the year, each of whom is considered CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 62 acquisitions and disposals, assess requests for major broad range of financial, commercial and technical capital expenditure and give consideration to all other aspects concerning the strategic objectives for the significant financial matters.
These meetings are held in the summer and undertaken following discussions in conjunction with autumn, with different members of the management senior executive management, who in turn are team attending, depending on the topics for responsible for the day-to-day conduct of the Groups discussion.
operations and for reporting to the Board on the progress being made in meeting the objectives.
With the agreement of the Board, during 2009, individual non-executive directors provided specific The Chairman ensures that the Board functions support and advice on discrete issues being effectively, overseeing the timely and effective considered by the Company, according to their provision of information to the Board and that the particular skills and experience.
Mr Giacoletto-Roggio business of the Board is properly conducted.
A acted in an advisory capacity to the Integration comprehensive file of briefing papers and a meeting Committee the remit of which is explained in more agenda is provided for each director in advance of detail on page 68 in the planning of the integration of each meeting.
Decisions are taken by the Board, the Company and SiRF and he was able to report on taking into account, where appropriate, the these matters to the Board as a whole.
During recommendations of its Committees and advice from October 2009, the Chairman travelled with the CEO to external consultants and executive management.
a number of offices around the Groups locations worldwide to meet with staff to discuss the Companys vision and strategy and also progress on The non-executive directors of the Board have diverse the integration.
Following the acquisition of SiRF, the business, financial and technical experience, details of Board as a whole also travelled to California for a which are summarised on pages 59 and 60 and they meeting, the business of which included discussions each play a full role in the consideration of matters on the future strategy for the enlarged group.
Whilst in brought before the Board.
This includes: California, the Board also visited the Groups offices in San Jose to hold meetings with members of staff who considering, approving and monitoring had joined as a result of the acquisition of SiRF and performance against strategic objectives attend demonstrations on products under through detailed reviews conducted at Board development.
level: Independence of non-executive directors and providing entrepreneurial leadership within a segregation of duties framework of prudent and effective controls, In accordance with the provisions of the Code, which enable risks to be assessed and consideration has been given to the independence of managed: and all the non-executive directors.
The Board considers all the non-executive directors to be independent of setting the Groups values and standards and management and free from any business or other ensuring that its obligations to its shareholders relationship that could materially interfere with the and other stakeholders are understood and exercise of independent judgement.
The division of responsibilities between the Non-executive directors are expected to non-executive Chairman and Mr van Beurden, CEO, constructively challenge and contribute to the is sufficiently clear in the opinion of the Board that it is development of strategy, scrutinise the performance not required that they be formally documented.
The of management in meeting agreed goals and Chairman is responsible for the running and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
The CEO is responsible for leading and managing the business within the The Board regularly reviews strategy as part of its authorities delegated by the Board.
This includes holding two offsite meetings each year, the agendas for which cover a CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 63 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The CEO has day-to-day responsibility for the Group the Chairman held a meeting with the non-executive and has reporting to him executive management who directors to discuss the performance of the executive in turn are responsible for the performance of discrete directors which concluded that they were each commercial and operational activities of the Group.
This includes management teams responsible for reviewing the implementation of established objectives In December 2009, the non-executive directors, led and assessing performance of particular functions by the Senior Independent Director, met in the against those objectives.
Representatives from these absence of the Chairman to appraise the performance teams in turn attend and report to a weekly executive of Mr Mackintosh as Chairman.
The non-executive leadership forum which includes the executive directors concluded that he had performed well.
The CEO also meets regularly with the managers and leaders in various established forums Policy on Appointment and Re-Appointment that fit with the operational cycles of the Group.
The In accordance with the Companys Articles of CEO formally reports at each meeting of the Board on Association, all directors are required to retire and salient matters arising from the execution of his submit themselves for re-election at least once every responsibilities.
The Board met 11 times during the year and the It is the policy of the Board that non-executive attendance of each of the directors is shown on directors are appointed for an initial term of three page 72. years.
The directors performance is assessed throughout the term.
An appointment may, if Evaluation of the Performance of the Board performance is satisfactory, be extended for a further In the final quarter of 2009, the Board undertook a period not exceeding three years.
Non-executive formal process of performance evaluation.
Each directors should not generally serve for more than director who had served to that point throughout the nine years.
year completed a confidential survey prepared by the Company Secretary, covering a wide range of matters At this years Annual General Meeting Mr Mackintosh associated with the activities and conduct of the will be retiring in accordance with the Companys Board and its Committees.
The process was Articles of Association and will be offering himself for conducted without reference to external agencies.
As part of its formal business in February The merits of using external agencies to support the 2010, the Board considered and supported Mr evaluation process is reviewed from time to time, and Mackintoshs re-appointment for a further three year will be looked at in more detail during 2010.
The initial three year term of Mr Sergio summary of the responses from each participating Giacoletto-Roggio concludes in January 2010.
As part director was prepared by the Company Secretary of its formal business in December 2009, the Board which was considered by the Board in December considered and approved the renewal of 2009 as an agenda item which was led by the Mr Giacoletto-Roggios appointment for a further Chairman.
three year term, effective from 4 January 2010.
At this years Annual General Meeting Mr Giacoletto-Roggio The overall conclusion was that the Board and its will be retiring in accordance with the Companys Committees were performing appropriately, whilst Articles of Association and will be offering himself for proposing that additional attention be given to certain re-election.
areas, including the development of Group-wide measures for succession planning, in particular for Mr Diosdado Banatao who was appointed a senior roles within the organisation.
The Board also non-executive director on completion of the recognised the importance of appointing an additional acquisition of SiRF has a letter of appointment non-executive director, which will be addressed effective for a three year term from 26 June 2009.
In during 2010 as explained above.
accordance with the Companys Articles, Mr Banatao will be offering himself for election at the 2010 Annual The Chairman holds regular meetings with all the General Meeting being the first General Meeting of the directors individually.
In addition, prior to the year end, Company since his appointment.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 64 Mr Kanwar Chadha was appointed an executive objectives with its major shareholders through regular director on completion of the acquisition of SiRF.
In meetings and presentations following announcements accordance with the Companys Articles of of each quarters results.
Association, Mr Chadha will be offering himself for election at the 2010 Annual General Meeting being The Senior Independent Director, Mr Anthony Carlisle, the first General Meeting of the Company since his is available to meet institutional shareholders should appointment.
there be unresolved matters they wish to bring to his attention.
The Board is also appraised of discussions Further information on each of the directors standing with major shareholders to ensure that executive and for re-election and election are set forth in the Notice non-executive directors consider any matters which of the Annual General Meeting which is in a separate might be raised by those shareholders and to enable document issued to all shareholders.
all directors to understand shareholders views.
This includes feedback from the meetings attended by executive directors and the Chairman, in addition to On appointment, all directors are asked to confirm reports from the Companys advisers on their they have sufficient time to devote to their duties engagement with shareholders on behalf of the which, along with their duties and roles are confirmed Company.
During 2009, the Chairman of the in their letter of appointment.
They are also advised Remuneration Committee met with a number of that they have access to the advice and services of shareholders to discuss the Boards remuneration the Company Secretary and, in addition, that they are policy, which included a review of changes introduced entitled to seek independent professional advice in the in 2009 to aspects of the remuneration of executive furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the directors, primarily concerning the performance Companys expense.
As part of their induction, the conditions applying to the vesting of share options directors are provided with a detailed file explaining and share awards, the details of which were disclosed their role and duties, in addition to background in the report of the Remuneration Committee for the information on the Company and Group as well as the period ending 2 January 2009. function and recent deliberations of the Board and its committees.
In addition, where appropriate, meetings with advisers to the Company and Board are Non-executive directors attend the Annual General arranged to assist in briefing a director on Meetings and will also make themselves available to appointment.
meet with shareholders on other occasions where requested.
Corporate information is available on the Companys website, www.
Directors are also provided with information and assistance in the event of any change in their role.
Committees of the Board The Board has three Committees, Remuneration, Indemnities to Directors Audit and Nomination.
Throughout the year, the In accordance with the Companys Articles of Chairman and each of Mr Allner, Mr Carlisle and Association, directors are granted an indemnity from Mr Giacoletto-Roggio were members of the the Company to the extent permitted by law in Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
respect of liabilities incurred as a result of the Mr Mackintosh attends meetings of the Audit performance of their duties in their capacity as Committee by invitation.
Mr Tucker was a member of directors to the Company.
The indemnity would not the Remuneration and Nomination Committees and provide any coverage to the extent that a director is Chairman of the Audit Committee until he stood down proven to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Company has also arranged insurance coverage in respect of legal action against the directors and officers.
In accordance with the Code, the duties of the Committees are set out in formal terms of reference.
Communications with shareholders These are available from the Company Secretary and Principally via the executive directors, the Company can be found on the Companys website, seeks to build on a mutual understanding of www.
Membership of the Committees is CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 65 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued shown on page 59 and 60.
The Company Secretary consider the appointments of Mr Banatao and acts as secretary to each of the Committees.
As explained on page 61, the terms of reference are each subject to annual review.
appointments of both Mr Banatao and Mr Chadha, were considered in conjunction with the acquisition of SiRF and also the extensive experience and Remuneration Committee knowledge which they were both able to bring to the Mr Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio is the Chairman of the combined company going forward.
As a result, the Remuneration Committee, which position he has held Nomination Committee did not consult with external since September 2007.
The other members of the agencies in regards to their appointments.
Committee at 1 January 2010 were Messrs Allner, Carlisle and Mackintosh.
Audit Committee Mr Andrew Allner is the Chairman of the Audit The principal function of the Remuneration Committee Committee, a position he has held since 27 May is to establish and review the terms and conditions for 2009.
Mr Allner was appointed following the the executive directors, and the overall policy retirement from the Board of Mr David Tucker who framework for the remuneration of other senior had acted as Chairman of the Audit Committee since executives and the Group as a whole.
The Board has determined that Remuneration Committee met four times during the Mr Allner, a Chartered Accountant, has recent and year and the attendance of its members is shown in relevant financial experience for the purposes of the the table on page 72.
Code and is an audit committee financial expert for the purposes of US securities laws.
The report to shareholders on the role of the Remuneration Committee, how directors are The Board has further determined that for the remunerated, together with details of individual purposes of US securities laws, although CSR is not directors remuneration are shown on pages 73 to 85. listed in the United States, Mr Allner is independent in accordance with the definition of independence in Nomination Committee Rule 5605 a 2 of the listing rules of the NASDAQ Mr Ron Mackintosh is the Chairman of the Nomination Stock Market.
Committee, which position he has held since 2 May 2007.
The other members of the Nomination The other members of the Audit Committee at Committee at 1 January 2010 were Messrs Allner, 1 January 2010 were Messrs Carlisle and GiacolettoCarlisle and Giacoletto-Roggio.
Mr Mackintosh, Chairman of the Board, attends meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation.
The Nomination Committee meets as appropriate to The experience and expertise of the members of the consider appointments to the Board and to consider Audit Committee are summarised on pages 59 and succession planning at senior levels within the 60.
The attendance of its members is shown in the Company.
The Nomination Committee reviews the table on page 72. composition of the Board, particularly in relation to the diversity of skills, experience and terms of office and Role of the Audit Committee seeks to ensure that both executive and The Audit Committee is responsible for the non-executive directors have the necessary skills and development, implementation and monitoring of the attributes for the future success of the Group.
Companys policy on external audit and for overseeing the objectivity and effectiveness of the auditors.
The The Nomination Committee retains external search Audit Committee monitors the conduct of the consultants as appropriate to assist the Committee in statutory audits of the consolidated reports and identifying candidates for appointments to the Board.
financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries.
This includes consideration of the areas of focus of the audits in conjunction with the external auditors During 2009, the Nomination Committee did not meet and assessment of their findings and separately, but did meet as part of the formal recommendations, where relevant.
proceedings of the Board on one occasion to CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 66 The Audit Committee recommends the appointment progress with the integration of the two companies, and re-appointment of the Groups external auditors which included financial, tax and treasury, business and considers the scope of their audit work, the terms systems and wider commercial matters.
More details of their appointment, their fees and the cost on this work is set out below.
The Audit Committee reviews all proposed The Audit Committee also monitors the effectiveness announcements to be made by the Group to the of the Groups internal control systems, accounting extent they contain financial information, but primarily policies and practices, risk management procedures the announcement of the Groups results released and compliance controls, as well as the statement on each quarter to the markets and investors.
Each internal controls before it is agreed by the Board for quarter, as part of its routine business, the Audit each years annual report.
Committee receives a detailed report from the Chief Financial Officer on the performance of the Group.
In addition to a summary of the balance sheet and A detailed agenda of matters for discussion at the income statements, the report incorporates detailed meeting, together with supporting papers is provided analysis on a range of key metrics which tracks the in advance of each meeting.
The agenda incorporates performance of the Group and its business units.
This a range of standard business items considered at information forms part of the discussions by the Audit each meeting.
Routine business items include reports Committee to ensure that material matters are from the CFO and Internal Auditor as well as a draft properly considered and discussed with management form of the announcement on the Groups financial and where appropriate the external auditors.
The results for the relevant quarter.
In addition the Audit information and the discussions in turn supports the Committee addresses a number of other items as part understanding of the Audit Committee on the nature of its schedule of business through the course of a of disclosures which should be made in the Groups year, such as risk management, business continuity financial results.
planning, treasury policy and procedures, tax planning and the Groups policy manual as well as such ad-hoc matters as are deemed appropriate.
The schedule of During the year, the Audit Committee considered and agenda items for the calendar year was last reviewed was advised on the work which was conducted in and approved by the Audit Committee in July 2009. connection with the submission of the Registration Statement on Form F-4 to the US Securities and Exchange Commission and separately the approval The Audit Committee invites the Chief Executive and release of both the Circular to shareholders Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Internal Auditor advising on the proposed acquisition of SiRF and the and senior representatives of the external auditors to Prospectus in connection with the re-admission to attend meetings as appropriate to the business being listing of the Companys ordinary shares on the considered.
In addition, the Audit Committee has the London Stock Exchange in accordance with the right to invite any other employees to attend meetings requirements of the UK Listing Rules.
where this is considered to be appropriate.
The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of the The Conduct of the Business of the Audit Committee internal audit function, approving the annual internal The Audit Committee met four times during the year in audit plan, and thereafter reviewing reports on the the execution of its responsibilities.
The more material results of internal audit work which has been matters considered and any proposals for action were conducted.
These reports are provided on a quarterly reported by the Chairman of the Audit Committee to basis and up-date the Audit Committee on the the subsequent meeting of the full Board.
During progress in addressing any recommendations that 2009, in addition to the routine business, the Audit have been made arising from the audits which have Committee received reports on additional matters been conducted.
falling within its terms of reference, the primary focus of which was initially information in connection with the proposed acquisition of SiRF Technology Holdings At an early stage in the assessment of the tasks and Inc and, following completion of the acquisition, on risks associated with integrating CSR plc with SiRF, CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 67 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued the Board and Audit Committee recognised the The Audit Committee approved an internal audit plan importance of establishing dedicated internal resource in July 2009, following completion of the acquisition of whose responsibility it would be to develop an SiRF.
The plan provided for reviews of aspects of the integration plan and facilitate the implementation of controls and procedures of the newly acquired that plan post acquisition.
company to ensure an appropriate level of confidence at an early stage in areas which the Audit Committee considered to be of particular importance.
As part of This was delegated to an Integration Committee, the adoption of the plan, the Audit Committee also which was resourced from within the Company whilst supported the utilisation of external resources to being supported by external consultants.
In the assist in timely execution and reporting.
course of the planning and execution of the integration programme, it was felt appropriate that the Internal Auditor should be seconded to the Integration During the year, the Audit Committee appointed Committee.
This was regarded as appropriate based Ernst & Young LLP to conduct an internal audit of the on his knowledge of the business of CSR and the Companys Treasury Policy and Procedures.
The use contribution he was able to make in implementing of external advisers was considered appropriate given best practices within the enlarged company in the increasing complexity of Treasury matters addition to facilitating the transition of policies, affecting the Company and to assist management in a procedures and controls from two organisations into thorough understanding of the Treasury practices and one.
Acting in this capacity the Internal Auditor was policies within SiRF.
The findings and also able to report to senior management and the recommendations from that audit were considered at Audit Committee on the progress of integration.
As a the meeting of the Audit Committee held in October result, the Internal Auditor was seconded for a 2009.
Reflecting a combination of management significant proportion of his time to the Integration comments and the recommendations of the review, Committee.
the Audit Committee considered a revised Treasury Policy which was subsequently approved by the Board in October 2009.
The Audit Committee received detailed reports arising from the work of the Integration Committee on various aspects associated with both the planning and Following the completion of the integration with SiRF, execution of the integration of the separate the present Internal Auditor has been appointed to businesses and operations of CSR and SiRF following another role within the finance department of the completion of the acquisition.
Steps are being taken to appoint a new given to the timely integration of financial systems in internal auditor and it is anticipated that an order to best ensure accurate recording and reporting appointment will be made in the spring of 2010.
In the of financial matters, within a consistent framework of interim, aspects of the internal audit plan for 2009 accounting policies which applied for the enlarged continue to be supported by external professional group as a whole.
Since the Company became subject to the reporting The routine business of the Committee at each requirements of the US Securities Exchange Act of meeting includes an up-date on litigation concerning 1934, the Audit Committee has received reports from the Group.
In the time leading up to the proposed management regarding the Companys compliance acquisition of SiRF, the Board considered and took with requirements under the Exchange Act including advice on litigation as it concerned SiRF.
Following the those rules and regulations that apply by reason of the acquisition, at the proposal of the Committee, a US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that relate to sub-committee of the Board led by the Chairman has financial reporting and other disclosure matters.
These been established which meets to consider matters requirements relate among other things to disclosure connected with material litigation, which has as invited controls and procedures which became applicable in attendees members of the Groups executive June 2009 and internal control over financial reporting management.
which will apply beginning in the current fiscal year.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 68 Interaction with the External Auditors The line for Other Services for 2009 includes During 2009, as part of its formal business, the Audit $316,000 for advisory work provided by Deloitte LLP Committee met on four occasions with the external in connection with the acquisition of SiRF.
On two occasions the Audit Committee also remaining balance for other services primarily consists held separate meetings with the external auditors at of Deloitte LLP acting as UK reporting accountant and which no executive director or employee of the SEC regulatory reporting accountant.
Deloitte LLP has been the Companys auditors since In relation to the appointment of external auditors and July 2002 and the cost, scope and effectiveness of in order to safeguard auditor independence and the audit are reviewed regularly.
The most recent full objectivity, the Audit Committee has a policy of review, including release of tenders to other possible permitted services which details the services that can audit firms was conducted in 2005.
In 2009, the be provided by the Groups auditors and those Chairman of the Audit Committee led a meeting which services which require specific advance approval by reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors the Audit Committee.
The policy also details services which concluded that Deloitte LLP was performing that the Groups auditors are not permitted to provide.
satisfactorily and should be recommended for For permitted services, the Audit Committee has re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
delegated the determination of fees to the Chief Financial Officer, provided the fee does not exceed The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the 100,000.
No services can be provided in excess of Companys Annual General Meeting to respond to 100,000 without the prior approval of the Audit any shareholder questions that might be raised Committee.
The policy was reviewed and revised in concerning the Audit Committees activities.
Both the existing policy and the policy in place prior to October 2009 were complied with Internal control throughout the year.
Philosophy and policy The objective of the directors and senior management The Audit Committee is aware of and has approved is to safeguard and increase the value of the business the audit and non-audit services which have been and assets of the Company.
Part of this objective provided during 2009 by the Companys external requires the development of relevant policies and auditors, Deloitte LLP.
Those non-audit services appropriate internal controls to ensure proper concerned advice on tax matters and transaction management of the Companys resources and the support in connection with the SiRF acquisition which identification of risks which might serve to undermine was considered to be appropriate, given their in-depth them.
knowledge of the affairs and financial practices in the Group.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that, The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups notwithstanding this work, Deloitte LLP have retained system of internal control and for reviewing its objectivity and independence during the year.
The systems and processes established by the Board are designed to manage, rather than The following table sets forth the fees paid by the eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business Company to the external auditors as approved by the objectives and provide reasonable, not absolute, Audit Committee.
assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the review of practices 2009 2008 2007 and procedures to the Audit Committee.
The $000 $000 $000 Companys senior management, in conjunction with Audit Fees 936 360 357 external advisers are responsible for undertaking periodic reviews of the suitability of current systems Audit-related services 103 34 34 on which they report to the Audit Committee.
Taxation services 511 130 146 Other Services 2,189 The Audit Committee reviews the findings to ensure Total 3,739 524 537 the effectiveness and efficiency of the processes CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 69 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued implemented by senior management.
This includes A summary of the structures and processes in place discussions with senior management of the Group and to identify and manage risks across the Group are set consideration of reports that have been submitted.
These findings are in turn regularly reviewed and discussed by the full Board.
The Board is satisfied that Risk profiling this process accords with the internal control guidance There is an ongoing process to identify and evaluate for directors set out in the Turnbull Report Internal risks faced by the Group, through the conduct of Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined regular meetings by the Groups senior management, Code and that through its interface with management, and engagement of external consultants where in the the Board is aware of the major risks facing the Group opinion of the Groups senior management this is and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate such considered appropriate.
Findings are reported to the risks, so far as is possible.
Audit Committee together with recommended actions for managing the risks and a timetable for implementation.
The assessment of prioritised risks is The risk evaluation process has been the subject of refreshed on a regular basis to reflect changes to the review during 2009, and a revised process adopted business and any observations or proposals arising which reflects the changing nature of the business.
from events since the last review.
A schedule of the This ongoing review process included a detailed prioritised risks is developed and reviewed by assessment of the key risks affecting the Group prior management to ensure that possible mitigation to the acquisition of SiRF.
The assessment was measures are considered and plans for action agreed.
reported in detail in the Prospectus dated 24 June Responsibility is assigned within the Group for 2009 which was submitted to the UKLA as part of the carrying out proposed actions which are also completion of the acquisition of SiRF and also within reviewed and up-dated by management.
Such a the Form F-4 filed with the US Securities and process of review was conducted in the months Exchange Commission on 29 May 2009 as following the acquisition of SiRF.
Following completion of the acquisition of SiRF, the management of the combined organisation was engaged to complete a further review of the key Controlling risk risks as part of the integration of the two entities.
The The Group has policies which address a range of key findings from these reviews were considered by the business risks, including financial, treasury, health and Audit Committee.
A risk evaluation process has been safety and the protection of intellectual property.
The implemented throughout 2009 and was in place up to policies are made available to relevant employees the date of approval of this Annual Report and the through policy manuals, an intranet site and also via financial statements.
Following a recommendation by employee briefings on specific topics.
the Audit Committee, a meeting of the Board dedicated to the consideration of key risks of the Periodically, reviews are performed in order to verify Group was held in January 2010 in order to allow for that ongoing practices within relevant parts of the detailed discussion on issues of risk and risk Group comply with current policies.
In addition, management and to augment the process for policies are themselves reviewed against best practice approval of the Annual Report and financial and in order to take appropriate account of statements.
That meeting determined that the steps developments both within or external to the Groups being taken by management were satisfactory.
Steps are ongoing to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the Group and to deal with areas of Managing risks improvement which come to managements and to The Board confirms that the actions it considers the Boards attention.
necessary have been or are being taken to remedy such failings and weaknesses which it has determined to be significant from its review of the system of As explained in the Directors Report Business and internal control.
This has involved considering the Financial Review on pages 27 to 29, the Group has a matters reported to it and developing plans and treasury policy for the placement of cash deposits programmes that it considers are reasonable in the with financial institutions.
Young LLP conducted an internal audit of the CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 70 Companys Treasury Policy and Procedures.
The use support has been provided through the provision of of external advisers was considered appropriate given self assessment forms and training on the conduct of the increasing complexity of Treasury matters the assessments.
affecting the Company and to assist management in a thorough understanding of the Treasury practices and Monitoring and managing the status of residual risk policies within SiRF.
The findings and The actions arising from external and internal recommendations from that audit were considered at assessments of risks are consolidated and during the scheduled meeting of the Audit Committee held in 2009 the results were reported to the Audit October 2009 as part of its annual review of the Committee.
The review also considered amongst other aspects of the policy, the requirement for the The Audit Committee assesses the findings and Groups cash to be spread amongst multiple counterproposed actions for addressing residual risks and parties and the minimum credit ratings required to be also advises on areas for further attention.
met to allow the Group to make a deposit with each counter-party, in addition to the authorities required to manage the movement of funds.
Reflecting a Business continuity planning combination of management comments and the Since 2007 a rolling programme aimed at improving recommendations of the review, the Audit Committee the Groups Business Continuity Plan has been in considered a revised Treasury Policy.
The project has been facilitated by the risk subsequently submitted for adoption by the Board management practice of a leading independent which occurred in October 2009. consultant.
Through workshops and one-on-one interviews, the potential significant risks are identified and an action plan implemented to enable the Group As one aspect of ensuring a culture of integrity and to respond in the event that such a risk arose.
That encouraging high standards throughout the plan was the subject of further work during 2009.
This organisation, the Group has a formal whistle-blowing included a workshop attended by senior management policy.
The policy provides information on the process conducted in November 2009 which assessed the to follow in the event that any employee feels it adequacy of existing plans and provided feedback on appropriate to make a disclosure where they believe areas for further development across the Group.
there has been improper conduct or actions which There is a programme of further reviews and testing could cause the companys good standing to be due to take place during 2010.
The findings and steps called into question.
The policy was most recently taken to date have been reported to the Audit up-dated during 2006.
The Audit Committee ensures Committee.
that employees are reminded of the existence of the policy and of the Companys commitment to respond appropriately to circumstances warranting Internal financial controls investigation.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the The Group has a comprehensive system for regular policy provides an adequate basis for employees to monitoring and reporting of financial performance and make representations in confidence to the Group and assessing the adequacy of the Groups systems of for appropriate and proportionate investigation.
Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
This includes assessment of the Groups strategic During 2009, a Group-wide programme was initiated direction, objectives and financial returns and the risks providing for management to carry out selfin achieving them.
assessments to determine ongoing compliance with Group policies and to report the findings.
These reports are provided to the Internal Auditor who will As part of the planning cycle, a detailed budget is provide interim reports between each internal audit prepared by management and thereafter is reviewed review.
The intention of the process is to support and formally adopted by the Board.
The budget and management across the Group in better other targets are regularly updated via a rolling understanding how their teams are meeting Group forecasting process and regular business review standards and to encourage more timely corrective meetings are also held involving senior management action where appropriate.
In preparing for the reviews, worldwide, at which the Groups overall performance CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 71 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued is assessed.
The results of these reviews are reported Attendance at meetings to and discussed by the Audit Committee and the The table below shows the attendance of each of the Board at each meeting.
A summary of the key directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees financial and non-financial risks inherent in the held during the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2010.
Groups business is given on pages 45 to 57.
of Meetings Board Audit Remuneration Nomination These processes are supported by discrete reviews 11 4 6 1 conducted by the Internal Auditor and external A J Allner 11 4 5 1 advisers, as determined by the Audit Committee, in 1 D Banatao 3 addition to the routine audits.
J A J van Beurden 11 The Board confirms that it has reviewed the A E C G Carlisle 10 4 5 1 effectiveness of the system of internal controls which 1 K Chadha 4 were in place throughout the financial year and up to J D Y Collier 11 the date of signing the Financial Statements for the 52 D D W Gardiner 11 week period ended 1 January 2010.
S Giacoletto-Roggio 10 4 6 1 This Annual Report does not include a report of C A Ladas 11 managements assessment regarding internal control R W Mackintosh 10 6 1 over financial reporting or an attestation report of the 2 D L Tucker 62 2 1 companys registered public accounting firm pursuant 1 Appointed to the Board effective from completion of the acquisition to US securities laws due to a transition period of SiRF in June 2009 established by rules of the US Securities and 2 Retired from the Board on 27 May 2009 Exchange Commission for companies who have recently filed an initial registration statement with the Annual General Meeting resolutions US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 19 May 2010, together with Disclosure controls and procedures explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of The executive management, with the participation of the Annual General Meeting, which has been sent to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, all registered shareholders.
evaluated the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15 e and 15d-15 e under the US By Order of the Board Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act as of 1 January 2010.
The Groups disclosure controls and procedures are designed to Brett Gladden ensure that the information which the Group is Company Secretary required to disclose in the reports that are filed or 9 February 2010 submitted under the Exchange Act is i recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the US Securities and Exchange Commissions rules and forms and ii accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as the principal executive and financial officers, respectively, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Groups disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 72
