Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 30 Directors and Advisers Chairman 68 Chief Executive 49 Finance Director 48 Executive Managing Non-Executive Director 51 Director 53 Appointed as a NonAppointed a Director in Appointed in September Appointed in January 2008.
Appointed as a NonExecutive Director in July 2002 and became 2003.
He was Finance He was President of the Executive Director in July December 1997 and became Chief Executive in January Director of The Body Shop Snackfood Division of 2007 and is Senior Managing Chairman in July 2000.
He joined Dairy Crest International plc from January Masterfoods USA, and has Director of Evercore Partners farms 670 acres of cereals in August 1991 and was 1999 and was previously held senior management in the firms London office.
in Cornwall and has many formerly with Shell U. K. Ltd. Finance Director of Dalgety positions within the Mars He has previously held senior years experience in the He is also Chairman of Food Ingredients Limited.
and Masterfoods Groups appointments at Lehman dairy industry, notably as Dairy UK Ltd. including Managing Director Brothers, Credit Suisse and Chairman of Mendip Foods of Mars, France.
the Rothschild Group in a Limited prior to its acquisition career in merchant banking by Dairy Crest in November which has spanned more 1995.
He is Chairman of than 30 years.
He is currently Private Investor Capital a non-executive director of Limited and a director of the Control Risks and the BBC Ambassador Theatre Group Trust and has served on Limited and in April 2009 the boards of Mowlem, The became a non-executive British Standards Institution Director of i20 Water Limited.
and Southern Water as well as numerous not-for-profit organisations.
Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Company Secretary and Director 62 Director 47 Director 51 Director 57 General Counsel 38 Appointed as a NonAppointed as a NonAppointed as a NonAppointed as a NonAppointed in April 2008.
He Executive Director in May Executive Director in July Executive Director in July Executive Director in is a solicitor having worked in 2003 and was President and 2007 and is the Group 2007.
A member of the Bars December 2004 and was private practice and in-house Chief Executive of McCain Strategy Director of of New York and of Paris, Finance Director of Whitbread in both retail and international Foods Limited, Toronto, W H Smith.
He was previously and Managing Director of PLC from March 2001 until manufacturing, latterly with Canada from May 1995 to Head of UK Consumer and Naxos UK.
He is a nonGallaher Group Plc.
He previously held Retail Practice at Boston executive director of Aviva executive Director of Forth a number of senior positions Consulting Group and and Toepfer, as well as a Ports plc, Serco Group plc with Rank Hovis McDougall.
BCGs European Corporate member of Monsantos and Tomkins plc.
He is non-executive chairman Development practice.
He Sustainable Yield Advisory of Reconomy Holdings was also chairman of Council.
WH Smith News until 2006. appointments include chairmanship of Amylum and vice chairmanship of Tate&Lyle.
Auditors Principal Bankers Corporate Brokers Audit Committee Member Ernst & Young LLP The Royal Bank of Citigroup Global Scotland plc Markets Limited Nomination Committee Solicitors Member Eversheds LLP Rabobank International, RBS Hoare Govett Ltd London Branch Remuneration Committee Registered Office Member Lloyds TSB plc Claygate House, Littleworth Road, Corporate Responsibility BNP Paribas Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN Committee Member Registered in England No.
B. E Simon Oliver Neil Monnery Mark Allen Carole Piwnica Alastair Murray David Richardson Martyn Wilks Robin Miller Anthony Fry
