Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 21 Milk Purchasing Director Working relationships Dairy Crest Direct Supply Manager, Peter Bramley, shows and other local meetings.
DCD, our suppliers Milk Purchasing on farm with dairy farmer Brian Doble.
As well representatives, regularly meet the Dairy Crest as regular visits from our DSMs, our direct milk Chairman and other senior Dairy Crest employees suppliers talk to the Dairy Crest team at agricultural Sourcing milk direct from farms of milk supply including milk purchasing see more product, factory and customer is fundamental to Dairy Crests agreements, farm assurance, milk quality, specific dairy supply chains established.
strategy, enabling both our supplying and, in some cases, the delivery of specific Customer partnerships have supported farmers and ourselves to benefit customer requirements.
innovative projects at farm level.
These from long term security.
The team works closely with Dairy projects have focused on supporting We have a clear focus on Crest Direct DCD, the elected farmer consumer choice, the environment, efficiency and a commitment to representative organisation, to ensure animal husbandry and improved supply delivering best practice throughout better communication and an improved chain efficiency.
understanding of the issues and Consumers are becoming increasingly We consistently pay a fair opportunities impacting on the partnership.
aware of where their food comes from and competitive milk price to our There is regular dialogue between the DCD and how it is produced.
The advice and Board and the Dairy Crest Executive.
DCD that animal health and welfare and the support services we provide add also engages with our retail customers, environment remain in the spotlight and further value helping farmers to promoting greater awareness of key industry have to be a priority for dairy farmers.
We achieve contractual and legislative issues and the impact on farm.
have continued to support our suppliers requirements, as well as improving Since summer 2008 there has been through the unique independent White farm business margins.
downward pressure on raw milk prices due Gold Service, raising awareness of how to We continue to build a strong to the collapse of dairy commodity returns.
adopt best practice on farm efficiently.
and progressive partnership with DCD However farmgate milk prices remained With an increasing focus on efficiency working together to develop a stable until spring 2009.
Farm production we have fundamentally reviewed our ex-farm shared plan for the future.
Regular, costs remained high and the poor summer milk haulage operation and have decided, transparent communication at all weather further impacted on already fragile over time, to end shared milk collection levels is an important part of farmer confidence.
Concerns over declining agreements with other processors.
milk production levels, strong competition also increase the opportunity for marketing Change is inevitable and for milk supply and weaker sterling delayed initiatives for our suppliers milk.
welcomed by our suppliers and and reduced the impact of lower commodity The milk procurement team has held a ourselves as we adapt to the prices.
Since February 2009 most UK number of meetings and events throughout challenges we face.
We will meet farmgate milk prices, including those paid by the year to provide an opportunity for these by continually innovating and Dairy Crest, have fallen by around 10%.
discussion and debate, and also seek improving what we do.
With UK milk production in long-term views and ideas of how we can work better decline, securing and increasing Dairy together.
This process has been very Crests direct milk supply is a key priority.
positive and is informing the development The Dairy Crest offer to its farmer suppliers of our future plans.
Sourcing our milk is based on working in partnership to Dairy Crest is proud of its dairy Dairy Crest currently purchases 2.1 billion develop a long-term secure relationship and farmer suppliers and their achievements.
litres of raw milk per anum.
Around 70% achieve value for both parties.
In a challenging market we continue to of this milk comes direct from over 1,300 We have further developed our retailer work together to deliver value for all our direct supplying dairy farmers located milk pools for M&S, Sainsburys and stakeholders.
Our farmers are at the heart throughout England & Wales.
of the business and key to our success.
A dedicated team of head office The introduction of the Morrisons We will continue to develop and build our and field based staff are responsible for regional milk initiative in 2008 now means relationships to secure a sustainable milk managing and developing the relationship that all our liquid milk suppliers are part of supply for our business.
Dairy Crest has with its farmer suppliers.
As milk supply This relationship encompasses all aspects in the UK continues to fall we expect to DC AR09 FC-p25 28-5-09. indd DC AR09 FC-p25 28-5-09. indd 21 21 29 5 09 29 5 09 16:49:17 16:49:17 Mark Taylor Operating review
