Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 4 Using every drop of milk Dairy Crest is the UKs Foods Our UK Foods division is made up leading dairy company.
of our Cheese and our UK Spreads Our business depends businesses.
The Cheese business on milk and we make uses over 400 million litres of milk sure we use every drop each year, which is all sourced we buy.
This diagram direct from dairy farmers in Devon shows how milk flows and Cornwall and is turned into cheddar cheese at our Creamery through our business in Davidstow, Cornwall and the products we make from it Our spreads business makes butter and dairy spreads from We operate across cream skimmed from the milk two divisions, Foods used by our Dairies division and Dairies There is more about our Foods division on pages 1015 This flow diagram only covers our UK operations, excluding St Hubert, France Spreads and Wexford, Republic of Ireland Cheese see Overseas operations opposite for information on these businesses Milk Purchasing Foods Raw milk Dairies Milk Purchasing Dairies A sustainable supply of high quality Our Dairies division processes milk is important to Dairy Crest.
around 1.7 billion litres of milk each We buy 2.1bn litres each year year.
Most is sourced directly from around 1 litre in every 6 produced dairy farmers across the southern in Great Britain half of England and Wales.
Milk production is seasonal, with more There is more about Milk Purchasing being produced in the spring, but on page 21 because our consumers want to drink the same amount every day, we turn any surplus milk we have into skimmed milk powder and butter.
Over 90% of the milk our Dairies division buys is sold in liquid form, through UK retailers, middle ground customers ranging from coffee shops to hospitals, and direct to consumers doorsteps by our milkmen Todays consumers prefer to drink lower fat varieties of milk so we skim off the cream and sell it or churn it into butter Our Dairies division also produces a range of potted cream for consumers to enjoy Read more about our Dairies division on pages 1620 DC AR09 FC-p25 28-5-09. indd DC AR09 FC-p25 28-5-09. indd 4 4 1 6 09 1 6 09 15:49:29 15:49:29 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 5 Ingredients As well as selling whey from the cheese manufacturing process and buttermilk that is produced when we make butter, our Ingredients team also sell skimmed milk powder, creams and bulk butter to food manufacturers.
We report Ingredients as part of our Dairies division and there is more about this business on pages 18 and 19 Foods Cheese Packet butter and dairy spreads Ingredients Whey Skimmed Milk Powder Cream for food manufacturers Buttermilk Butter Bulk butter Cream Dairies Packaged milk Potted cream Retail milk Doorstep milk Middle ground milk Overseas operations St Hubert, France We bought St Hubert, our French spreads business, in January 2007.
St Hubert purchases cream in France to make branded spreads for the French and Italian markets Wexford, Republic of Ireland Our creamery in Wexford has over 300 supplying dairy farmers, who own 20% of this business.
