Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 Directors report 45 The Directors of Dairy Crest Group plc the Company present their anticipated and action is not taken to address potential issues at an thirteenth Annual Report to shareholders together with the audited early stage.
Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 March 2009.
The purpose of the Annual Report is to Dairy Crest mitigates this risk in a number of ways.
First, the Company provide information to members of the Company.
The Company, its carries out market research and analyses consumer trends.
This Directors, employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume research is used to anticipate future customer trends and, through responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or new product development, to position itself to benefit from those into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability trends.
An example of this has been the continuing development of is expressly disclaimed.
It contains certain forward-looking statements products focused on health described in the Chief Executives review with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of on page 8. the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results to differ from those Our household business operates in a declining market but the anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and Company delivers market-leading productivity ratios, has invested in information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report new customer propositions, including its innovative milk&more internet and except to the extent required by applicable regulations or by law, proposition, and invests in targeted marketing and canvassing activity to the Group undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking address the overall decline rate.
It is also trialling new business models.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Competition The foods sector is highly competitive.
The Companys future financial Except where required by subsequent legislation, this report has been performance would be at risk if it failed to compete strongly and lost prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies market share to its competitors.
It has been compiled for a year in which the Company was a parent company.
Dairy Crest has a portfolio of leading brands which it consistently As the Companys accounts are prepared as group accounts, this supports by marketing and promotional investment such as the TV report is a consolidated report or group directors report.
It relates advertisements for Country Life spreadable brand focussing on its to the Company and its subsidiary undertakings, which are included British heritage, designed to build long-term shareholder value.
As permitted by Companies Act 1985 s234 3, where appropriate, this report gives greater emphasis Within the liquid milk business, the Company has strong relationships to the matters that are significant to the Company and its subsidiary with certain major retailers and there is full involvement of Executive undertakings included in the consolidation, taken as a whole.
Directors in negotiations with these retailers and significant focus in delivering high levels of quality and service.
As the 2008 09 financial year commenced after November 2006 but prior to 29 June 2008, references to the Combined Code in this Consumer spending report are to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of June The current recession in Western economies is having an impact 2006 Code.
This report has been prepared following the main on consumer spending.
As the majority of the Companys revenue principles of the Code.
Those not referred to in this statement are is generated in the UK, the general health of the UK economy dealt with elsewhere in the Annual Report.
In accordance with Listing and its influence on consumer spending in particular is important Rule 9.8.
10, the relevant parts of this report have been reviewed by to the Companys success.
This poses a risk to the Groups Ernst & Young LLP and their opinion is set out on page 106. financial performance.
Principal activities The Companys product base consists of dairy-based consumables The principal activities of the Group are the manufacture and trading which form part of the staple purchases of the majority of households.
of milk and dairy products.
This mitigates the impact on our business of any decrease in general consumer spending.
The Company also continues to invest in its Principal risks and uncertainties business, particularly in the form of targeted marketing spend and in In addition to the opportunities we have to grow and develop our the development of its operating facilities while maintaining focus on business, the Company faces a range of risks and uncertainties as operating efficiencies and cost control.
part of both its day-to-day operations and its corporate activities.
The processes that the Board has established to safeguard both Inflation shareholder value and the assets of the Company are described in the The Group has experienced high levels of inflation with respect to corporate governance statement.
certain non-milk input costs during 2008 09 namely, diesel, vegetable oils, energy, gas and plastics.
There is a risk that this could impair The narrative which follows describes those specific risks and future profitability.
uncertainties that the Directors believe could have the most significant impact on the Companys long-term value generation.
The risks and Non-milk costs are monitored regularly and appropriate levels of uncertainties described below are not intended to be an exhaustive list.
Where necessary, prices are increased to offset input cost increases.
In addition, the cost base of the Marketplace risks business continues to be rationalised so that we can absorb more Consumer trends inflationary costs and minimise price increases to our customers It is possible that changing consumer trends may reduce the appeal while investment has been focussed on the Companys non-milk of some of the Companys businesses if those trends are not properly purchasing function.
DC08 Directors' DC08 Directors' report pp45-49 245 45 report pp45-49 245 45 2 6 09 2 6 09 18:36:46 18:36:46 Our leadership team Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 46 Directors report continued The risk of continued increases in raw milk prices identified in last Health and safety years report has not materialised, as commodity dairy prices have A major incident resulting from a health and safety failure would be a declined dramatically in 2008 09 as increased production outpaced significant reputational and financial risk to the Company.
These are discussed in more detail in the Operating review The Company takes health and safety very seriously.
It has robust on page 21. management processes focused on quality control risk management and has established major incident procedures that are in place and Credit market weakness have been tested successfully during and since the recall of Clover in Weakness in the international credit markets could pose risks to May 2007.
Dairy Crest continues to set increasingly high standards the cost of financing borrowings, the ability of the Group to for food safety throughout its supply chain and has recently enhanced renegotiate banking facilities and the financial position of our its Good Manufacturing Practice review and audit processes.
The Company has recently undertaken a project, expected The Group regularly reviews its funding arrangements and has a high to complete during the course of 2009 10, to ensure its crisis proportion of fixed interest long-term debt which mitigates risks to the management and business continuity processes remain appropriate.
More details concerning financial risk management are described in Note 31 to the accounts on pages 93 to 96.
Dairy Crest works closely with Government Agencies and dairy organisations to ensure it is able to respond effectively to the specific The Group has had a long-term relationship with a group of banks risk of raw milk supplies being impacted by an outbreak of diseases that participate in its syndicated loan facility.
There is regular contact affecting cattle.
with all of our relationship banks from the Chief Executive and Finance Director and other senior management.
As a result the The Company carries insurance against the risk of property damage banks understand the business and requirements of the Group and and business interruption.
have provided support for a number of years.
Additionally, there is enough depth in the syndicate to mitigate the risks of any one bank More information on Dairy Crests approach to health and safety can experiencing difficulties.
be found on page 25 of the Corporate Responsibility review.
In July 2008 we successfully renegotiated our 2004 facility and Equipment agreed a new five year multi-currency revolving credit facility expiring A failure of the Companys principal equipment including its in July 2013.
This gives us security in facilities and comfortable facility manufacturing control systems could lead to a halting of production headroom.
The earliest facility to expire is the 100 million revolving and consequent loss of product.
In order to mitigate this risk, the credit facility in November 2011.
Further details are included in the Company has trained engineering resources at its production sites Financial review on pages 26 to 29 and Note 31 to the accounts on which are supported by major equipment suppliers.
The Companys pages 93 to 96. engineers undertake a continuous programme of preventative maintenance and they hold a supply of key spare parts on site.
A Customers with whom the Group trades are subject to credit checks project has been initiated to identify any additional support required and there is very close review of trade debtors, days outstanding for control systems used within the business in order to ensure and overdue amounts.
The Group is focusing particularly closely company wide standards are maintained.
on smaller customers who are considered to be more financially vulnerable during the current recession.
Appropriate provisions are Utilities made when specific customers are deemed to be a risk.
A large Maintaining a reliable supply of gas, electricity and water to its proportion of debt is with major UK multiple retailers which are production sites is key for the Companys manufacturing processes.
considered to be of above average financial strength.
Wherever Without this, there would be a risk of disruption to production, possible, legal proceedings are taken to recover monies due.
There and spoilage of both finished product and raw materials.
In order is regular review of our supplier base for key inputs to ensure that to mitigate this risk, the Company has contracts with major utility wherever possible there is not over-reliance on one supplier and suppliers: it has its own generators at a number of its sites: and therefore a risk to the Group.
the Company adopts a layering approach to securing the supply of services.
The Company is regularly audited by the responsible Operational risks Government Agency and each manufacturing site is IS accredited.
Milk supply There is a risk that the future volume produced in the UK of the People key ingredient in the Companys products, raw milk, will not be The successful delivery of service to the Companys customers sufficient to cover forecast demand.
In order to mitigate this risk, relies on Dairy Crest recruiting and retaining people of a high quality.
the Company obtains its milk under contract from a wide supplier The failure to employ appropriate people would put the Companys base, more than half of which are farmers rather than third-party reputation at risk and could lead to the loss of market share.
The Company has paid a premium over commodity dairy prices for much of 2008 09 to the farmers Dairy Crest is proud of its people.
The Company believes that by supplying it with milk.
The Companys Milk Committee regularly taking care of its people, its people will take care of its customers reviews the strategy for milk supply.
There is full involvement of the and financial performance will follow.
Dairy Crest listens to the views Companys Milk Purchasing Director and its Executive Directors in of its employees, has a range of employment policies designed to negotiations with these milk suppliers.
make Dairy Crest a rewarding place to work and emphasises the importance it attaches to its people.
Dairy Crest carries out a rigorous DC08 Directors' DC08 Directors' report pp45-49 246 46 report pp45-49 246 46 2 6 09 2 6 09 14:49:25 14:49:25 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 47 selection process and benchmarks the pay and benefits that it offers in trading performance and have been stress tested to consider to its employees in order to recruit and retain the best people for the the impact of changes in key assumptions.
Talent planning is carried out on an annual basis.
that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facilities.
A 175m tranche of the Groups facility flexes with More information on Dairy Crests people can be found on page 25 of movements in the Sterling Euro exchange rate and there is currently the Corporate Responsibility review.
Should the 100 million facility expiring in November 2011 not be renegotiated and fall away, forecasts show External financial risks that headroom would remain adequate.
The level of Euro borrowings, The Companys financial risk management objectives and policies having been reduced in the year ended 31 March 2009, are now and risk exposures are described in detail in Note 31 to the accounts such that exchange rate fluctuations no longer materially impact our on pages 93 to 96. bank covenant tests.
There were no breaches of bank covenants in the year ended 31 March 2009 and projections do not indicate any Pension funding breaches in the foreseeable future.
Dairy Crest operates a defined benefit pension scheme.
At 31 March 2009, there was a gross pension fund deficit of 63.3 million under It should be recognised that any consideration of the foreseeable IAS 19.
There is a risk that this deficit could deteriorate further in the future involves making a judgement, at a particular point in time, event, for example, of poor investment performance or increasing about future events, which are inherently uncertain.
Nevertheless, mortality rates and a corresponding risk that an increase to the level of at the time of preparation of these accounts and after making funding already agreed to address the deficit, may be required.
Recent appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation legislation means that, on occasions, it may be necessary to approach that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the the Pensions Regulator for pre-clearance of agreements reached with foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going the Pension Trustee at the time of significant corporate transactions.
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Such clearance could include a requirement to increase the level of funding.
Business review S417 of the Companies Act 2006 requires that the Company sets Dairy Crests pension risks have been mitigated by the closure of its out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during defined benefit scheme to new entrants on 1 July 2006.
As an the 2008 09 financial year, including balanced and comprehensive alternative, a defined contribution pension scheme is available to analysis of the development and performance of the Group during eligible new employees.
the financial year and the position of the Group at the end of the year: together with information relating to environmental, employee, The Company continues to maintain a close dialogue with the social and community matters.
In addition, the Company is required pension schemes Trustee Board.
The Companys pension risks have to provide a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing been mitigated through the purchase in December 2008 of a bulk the Group as described above and, to the extent necessary for an annuity policy with Legal & General Assurance Society Limited L&G.
understanding of the business, the main trends and factors likely The policy sees L&G insuring part of the funds pension liabilities to to affect the future development, performance and position of the the value of 150 million equating to approximately half the funds Companys business.
The information satisfying the business review liability for pensions in payment.
requirements is set out in this report: the Chairmans statement on page 6: Chief Executives review on pages 7 to 9: Operating review Legal and compliance risks on pages 10 to 21: the Corporate Responsibility review on pages The business sector in which the Company operates is subject to a 22 to 25 and Financial review on pages 26 to 29: all of which are number of complex demanding Legal regulatory requirements.
The incorporated into this report by reference.
Company has an in-house legal function and retains external advisors to ensure rigorous compliance with those existing regulations while it Group results monitors and responds to new legal and regulatory developments.
The Groups consolidated income statement set out on page 51 shows a profit for the 2008 09 financial year of 74.3 million Going concern compared with 54.7 million in 2007 08.
As highlighted in the Financial review and Note 31 to the accounts, the Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through Dividends committed long-term bank facilities.
A tranche of these facilities The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 13.0 pence was renegotiated in July 2008 and the earliest to expire is the 100 2007 08: 17.3 pence per ordinary share, which, if approved, will be million revolving credit facility expiring in November 2011.
The recent paid to members on the register at the close of business on 26 June economic conditions have increased risks and uncertainties faced by 2009.
Together, the final dividend and interim dividend 7.1 pence per the Group particularly over: a the future direction of milk and other ordinary share paid on 31 January 2009 make total dividends for the input prices and ingredients realisations: b the availability of future year of 20.1 pence per ordinary share 2007 08: 24.4 pence.
bank finance: c the competitive landscape with regard to branded products: and d the exchange rate between Sterling and the Euro Share capital and impact on net debt.
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company together with details of movements in the Companys issued share capital The Group has recently performed forecasts and projections both during 2008 09 are shown in Note 25 to the Financial Statements for 2009 10 and for the three years ending March 2012.
As at the date of this report, 133.3 million ordinary 25p projections have taken account of reasonably possible changes shares were in issue and fully paid with an aggregate nominal value DC08 Directors' DC08 Directors' report pp45-49 247 47 report pp45-49 247 47 2 6 09 2 6 09 17:09:52 17:09:52 Our leadership team Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 48 Directors report continued of 33.3 million.
The Company has only one class of shares, details of contracts for its supply.
While these contracts are collectively essential which are set out in its articles of association.
to the business, no single contract nor any single supplier of raw milk is critical to the Companys business.
Issue of shares At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 17 July 2008, shareholders The Company also has strong relationships with certain major renewed the authority for the Board under the Companys articles of retailers to supply them with liquid milk.
Individually these contracts association to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant are important to the business but not essential.
securities up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to the section 80 amount until the conclusion of this years AGM.
A section 80 amount Substantial shareholdings of 10,976,999 was declared at last years AGM.
The Directors believe The Company has been notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following it advisable to seek renewal of this authority or replacement of it with a interests in 3% or more of its issued share capital as at 15 May 2009: suitable alternative, annually at the AGM.
Approval will be sought from the Notified shareholders at this years AGM to renew the authority for a further year.
percentage issued share Purchase of own shares capital % At the AGM on 17 July 2008 shareholders granted the Company Standard Life Investments Ltd 4.995 Legal & General Group Plc 3.99 authority to make market purchases of up to 13,305,454 of its issued ordinary shares of 25 pence each, provided that: the minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is 25 pence exclusive Directors of expenses and appropriate taxes : the maximum price exclusive of The names and biographical details of the current Directors of the expenses and appropriate taxes which may be paid for any such Company are given on page 30.
The names of those persons ordinary share shall be not more than 5% above the average of the who were Directors during the year but have retired or resigned from middle market values for an ordinary share in the Company as taken the Board are set out at page 31 together with the dates on which from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business they left the Board.
days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
The Company did not exercise this authority during the year and made no market purchases.
Further information about the Companys rules on the appointment and replacement of its Directors is given in the Corporate governance Except in relation to a purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for statement on pages 32 to 33. which was concluded before the authority expires and which will or may be executed wholly or partly after such expiry, the authority granted In accordance with the articles of association, Mark Allen and Howard shall expire at the conclusion of this years AGM.
The Directors believe Mann retire by rotation.
Both offer themselves for re-election at this it advisable to seek renewal of this authority or replacement of it with a years AGM.
In addition, in compliance with the spirit of the Code, suitable alternative, annually at the AGM.
Approval will be sought from Simon Oliver will retire from the Board at the 2009 AGM and offers the shareholders at the AGM to renew the authority for a further year.
Pensions Directors interests The Groups defined benefit pension fund is controlled by a corporate Details of the interests in the shares of the Company of the Directors trustee, Dairy Crest Pension Trustees Limited, the Board of which holding office as at the date of this report along with those of the comprises four nominees from Dairy Crest Limited including an Directors who held office during the year but retired or resigned from independent professional trustee organisation and two employee office and their immediate families appear in the Remuneration report members elected by all members whether active, deferred or pensioners.
The pension funds assets are held separately from those of the Group and can only be used in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
In Details of the Directors service contracts and letters of appointment 2006, the defined benefit scheme was closed to new employees and a appear in the Remuneration report on page 42. defined contribution scheme was established for new employees.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract with the Significant agreements change of control Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid may cause a number of agreements to which the Company or Directors and officers indemnities and insurance its subsidiaries are party to take effect, alter or terminate.
The The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and agreements that are considered significant are as follows: officers.
At its AGM held on 14 July 2005 shareholder approval was given for the amendment of the Companys articles of association Borrowing facilities giving Directors and officers the benefit of an indemnity to the extent Non-compliance with the change of control clauses in the Groups permitted by law.
funding arrangements, or failure to reach agreement with the parties on revised terms, would require any acquirer to put in place Environment, social and community issues replacement facilities.
Information on Dairy Crests approach to the environmental, social and community issues can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Review Essential Contracts on pages 22 to 25.
It is imperative that Dairy Crest is able to source high quality raw milk at the most competitive prices.
To this end the Company has numerous DC08 Directors' DC08 Directors' report pp45-49 248 48 report pp45-49 248 48 2 6 09 2 6 09 18:36:22 18:36:22 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 49 Employees creditors and therefore the number of days purchases in creditors is The Group employs approximately 7,800 people throughout the not relevant.
United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, France and Italy and depends on the skills and commitment of its employees in order to achieve its Charitable and political donations objectives.
Personnel at every level are encouraged to make their fullest Charitable donations amounted to 0.1 million 2007 08: 0.1 million possible contribution to Dairy Crests success.
Small contributions, mainly of product, were also made to local charities.
No political donations or expenditures were made or Employees are kept regularly informed on matters affecting them incurred during the year.
and on issues affecting the Groups performance through a variety of communication tools, including the Group intranet, which has been Disclosure of information to the auditors completely redesigned during the year ended 31 March 2009, and the So far as each Director in office at the date of approval of this in-house magazine, People.
report is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
In 2009, an employee and franchisee survey has again been conducted in order to research their views.
Results are encouraging with the Each of the Directors has taken all steps that they ought to have overall engagement score improving by 6%.
Detailed results for each taken in performing their roles as directors to exercise due care, skill site are scheduled to be issued by June 2009.
Thereafter further and diligence in order to make themselves aware i of any relevant consultation is planned to develop action plans, addressing feedback audit information and ii to establish that the Companys auditors are from the survey which shows that further improvements are possible.
The Group has well-established consultation and negotiating For the purposes of this statement on disclosure of information to the arrangements with established trade unions.
auditors, relevant audit information is the information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with the preparation of their report Employees are encouraged to acquire shares in the Group through at page 106. participation in the savings-related share option scheme Sharesave Scheme.
Details of this scheme are set out on page 40 of the Directors responsibility statements Directors remuneration report.
The responsibility statements required under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1 are set out on page 50.
The Board is committed to ensuring a culture free from discrimination and harassment remains embedded within the Group and Annual general meeting discrimination of any sort is not tolerated.
Proper consideration is The AGM will be held at Eversheds, 1 Wood Street, London given to applications for employment from disabled people who are EC2V 7WS on Thursday 16 July 2008 at 11.00 am.
Details of the employed whenever suitable vacancies arise.
Wherever practicable, resolutions to be proposed, including items of special business, are staff who become disabled during employment are retained.
The Group given in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and Explanatory Notes practices equality of opportunity for all employees, irrespective of ethnic which has been dispatched.
The notice of this years AGM has been origin, religion, political opinion, gender, marital status, disability, age or posted on the Companys website.
The Directors believe that the sexual orientation.
resolutions set out in the notice of meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and unanimously recommend that Research and development shareholders should vote in favour of all resolutions.
The Group has adopted a target of delivering part of its annual turnover through new product development and has implemented a new Auditors project management process aimed at achieving this.
In line with the The Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken Companys strategy to offer consumers a wide product mix, it has as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit continued to develop during the year ended 31 March 2009 lower fat information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of variants of its existing products.
Through innovation, Dairy Crest has that information.
also remained at the forefront of dairy industry developments to reduce packaging waste.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors of the Company.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young Land and buildings LLP as the Companys auditors will be put to the forthcoming Annual The Directors have obtained an informal valuation of the Groups land General Meeting.
and buildings and believe that the current market value in existing use of these properties slightly exceeds their book value.
By order of the Board Supplier payment policy Robin Miller Payment dates are established according to the agreed date of Company Secretary delivery of goods or provision of services and the receipt of a correct 18 May 2009 invoice.
The Group agrees the length of payment terms with each of its suppliers as part of the overall purchasing agreement.
It is the Groups policy to abide by these agreed terms of payment.
The number of days purchases in the Groups creditors at 31 March 2009 was 24.8 days 2007 08: 23 days.
