Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 18 Operating review continued Share of UK retailers own brand conventional milk Dairy Wiseman Arla Crest Sainsburys 50% 50% Morrisons 50% 50% Waitrose 100% M&S 100% Co-op 15% 65% 20% Tesco 50% 50% Managing Director, Asda 100% Liquid Products and Ingredients Total 20% 38% 42% Organic milk growth Source: DC estimates Liquid Products We relaunched our Country Life organic milk in October 2008.
This has grown sales in a dif cult market and Ingredients Dairy Crests Liquid Products Consumption of fresh conventional milk has Supported by our innovative and successful business processes and delivers remained steady year on year in terms of Four Ridges media campaign and by the fresh conventional, organic and volume.
However, there has been a 13% ongoing introduction of Limited Editions, flavoured milk to major UK retailers.
growth in value as prices rose, reflecting there were one million more FRijj drinkers It also manufactures, markets and input cost inflation.
Sales of higher fat milk this year compared to last.
sells FRijj, the leading fresh flavoured have declined as consumers continue to The business continues to focus on milk brand as well as potted creams switch to healthier, lower-fat products.
driving efficiency to improve its costs of including speciality and seasonal Organic milk accounts for around 5% of production and the quality and service offerings and milk powders.
The growth in consumption provided to its customers.
The business has four milk of organic milk seen over recent years has To support our ongoing commitment packing dairies located at stalled as consumers have reacted to the to cost reduction and to maintain the Severnside in Gloucestershire, economic downturn.
There is also some long-term sustainability of the business Chadwell Heath in London, evidence that consumers have become we continued to invest in its infrastructure.
Fenstanton in Cambridgeshire more interested in locally sourced produce Our Foston dairy, which was acquired and Foston in Derbyshire.
A large and provenance, rather than organic.
in 2005 from Starcross Foods Limited, proportion of our potted cream The market for fresh flavoured milk has been the focus of significant capital and all our speciality seasonal grew both in terms of volume and value, investment over the last two years.
For creams, as well as our retail milk 14% and 15% respectively, with branded a total investment of 34 million we have powders are made at Chard in growth taking the lead.
Strong growth in developed this site into an efficient facility Somerset.
FRijj is made at our the consumption of healthier cream options with current capacity of around 250 million Severnside dairy.
such as Crme Fraiche, have led to the litres and the potential to expand beyond Our Ingredients operation, total cream market showing growth of 9% this.
During the autumn of 2008 the business which is also based at Severnside, in value.
commissioned a new Regional Distribution provides the Dairies division with Our Liquid Products business increased Centre in Aldridge in the West Midlands.
a flexible balancing solution and its share of supplies to the retail liquid milk This facility, together with our existing RDC deals with the Groups by-products.
market by delivering both volume and value in Collumpton, complements the distribution Surplus milk in the spring, and milk growth ahead of the market.
Dairy Crest operations run from our dairies and means arising from short term supply and supplies major retailers, including sole the business has considerably increased its demand differences, is processed supply for Waitrose and Marks & Spencer geographical reach and improved its supply into a range of food industry and 50% share of supply to Sainsburys chain efficiency.
products, primarily skimmed milk and Morrisons.
During the year our sales Health and the environment have powder and bulk butter.
These grew by 17% in value and 4% in volume.
been key areas of focus for our innovation products, along with whey powder Our sales of organic milk to the major team over the last year.
We launched 1% produced by our Foods division, retailers remained steady during the year.
fat milk for Sainsburys and Morrisons in are sold both domestically to major Distribution of our Country Life organic milk the year and sales are growing strongly.
food companies and exported by brand was extended towards the end of the We also rolled out our milk pouch and a specialist team.
The Ingredients year and this will deliver growth in 2009 10.
Jugit packaging solution in Sainsburys business also operates in added FRijj, our leading flavoured milk brand, and Waitrose.
The pouch uses 75% less value ingredients through our grew by 23% in value terms and 17% in packaging than a standard polybottle.
In Wessex Dairy Products business volume.
This growth means FRijj annual 2009 10 we will continue to drive listings and our Joint Venture interest in retail sales have exceeded 40 million of pouch and launch it through our Fayrefield Foodtec.
The brand has a 50% doorstep business.
share of the fresh milkshake category Our Ingredients operation had a difficult and continues to attract new consumers.
The markets for dairy commodities DC AR09 FC-p25 28-5-09. indd DC AR09 FC-p25 28-5-09. indd 18 18 1 6 09 1 6 09 18:27:46 18:27:46 Toby Brinsmead Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 19 1% fat milk FRijj a million more consumers Jugit milk in a bag We sell 1% fat milk to Sainsburys and Morrisons.
FRijj, our leading milkshake brand, supported We have developed Jugit - milk in a bag - which Whole milk contains 4% fat.
The Foods Standards by a successful multi-media campaign, grew is available in Sainsburys and Waitrose.
Jugit Agency advises consumers to switch to lower sales by 23% in the year and attracted a million uses less packaging and makes recycling easier fat milk more consumers such as skimmed milk powder and bulk By focussing on raw milk utilisation we commodity markets.
We have reviewed butter have been depressed over the last were able to reduce the amount of milk our milk purchasing requirements to year.
Peaking in the autumn of 2007, the put through our Ingredients business in the minimise the amount of milk we process market went into steep decline over the second half of the year and minimise the through our Ingredients business.
winter and into the spring of 2008.
The impact of the market slowdown.
By the Our Liquids business has continued difference between the realisations from year-end, we had managed commodity to progress since the year end and has these markets and the price we paid our stocks back down to below 5 million, in recently secured additional business with suppliers for their milk widened considerably line with previous years.
The focus to unprecedented levels.
As market prices Since February 2009 milk purchase remains on increasing efficiency and fell, trading activity also slowed and as a prices have started to fall, partially reflecting improving the quality and service offered consequence, stocks grew.
the ongoing low returns from dairy to customers.
