Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 20 Operating review continued Managing Director, Household Delivering against the odds Country Life Household Customers appreciate the familiar face of their During the year we took the decision to extend milkman or woman, especially when they deliver our Country Life brand to cover all the milk we against all odds during the sort of snowfalls we sell to our Household customers.
We are proud saw in February 2009 that our milk carries the Red Tractor quality mark Dairy Crests Household business over 100 products through the internet for delivers fresh milk and a wide range their next doorstep delivery and will let us of other products.
We have over compete with convenience stores for top- 1.3 million doorstep customers, over up purchases.
Over the past year we have 20,000 middle ground customers extended trials of milk&more from 5 depots ranging from coffee shops to to 30 depots.
We have built a new website, hospitals, and we also supply milk enhancing users experience and we have to around 1,000 independent confirmed that we will roll milk&more out dairymen, most of whom have their nationally to around 120 depots over the own doorstep customers.
Our trials have shown The business has an extensive that milk&more users spend more with us distribution network across England and it also helps with cash collection.
and Wales, with over 3,800 During the year turnover in the employees and another 1,500 Household business rose slightly on franchised milkmen, 150 depots and the back of higher prices.
Milk is bottled at increasingly tough consumer environment dairies located at Aintree in and the need to recover higher milk Liverpool, Hanworth in London, and prices at the start of the year adversely milk&more milk&more allows our customers to order over 100 Fenstanton in Cambridgeshire.
These factors increased products through the internet for their next doorstep the underlying net annual decline rate to delivery.
It makes paying easier too good news for over 10%, although it has since fallen back the customer and the milkman below this level.
Although sales to doorstep customers To differentiate our milk we have Looking forward, falling milk costs will have fallen over the years as more rebranded it using our Country Life brand benefit this business and we will continue consumers purchase their milk from the and we have also increased the amount to drive out other costs to ensure we can big supermarkets, we are working hard of organic milk we sell to doorstep offer our consumers the best possible to reverse this trend.
value without compromising service levels.
out detailed analysis of our customer Our doorstep delivery service is We are excited about this years full launch base and have found that they value the recognised as being environmentally of milk&more.
convenience of having their milk and other friendly.
We use electrically powered milk essentials delivered, provided we can floats where possible and over 80% of the get the right products and service levels.
milk we supply to our doorstep customers Customers appreciate the familiar face of is in returnable glass bottles, which are their milkman, especially when he delivers used nearly 20 times each.
against all odds during the sort of snowfalls The business has been proactive in we saw in February 2009. controlling its costs.
In February 2009 we Against this background we have completed the closure of a bottling dairy invested in our new internet-based, in Nottingham and we also shut 15 doorstep delivery service, milk&more, depots during the year.
We continue to which now has 67,000 registered work with the suppliers of the products customers.
This will give our doorstep we sell through our business to control customers a contemporary shopping costs and to ensure we are able to give experience delivered by the traditional our customers the best possible range milkman.
It will allow consumers to order and value.
