Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 12 Operating review continued Share of UK retail butters and Share of French retail non-butter spreads market by value spreads by value Other 9% Other 7% Dairy Crest 20% Lactalis Private St Hubert 36% 16% label 16% Unilever 26% Arla 29% Unilever 41% Source: AC Nielsen 52 w e 21 March 2009 Source: IRI 52 w e 5 April 2009 Executive Managing Director, UK Spreads and Foods division St Hubert The divisions strategy is to focus UK Spreads Our butter brand, Country Life, has also on brands and this has improved Our UK butters and spreads are continued to grow strongly, out-performing profits over recent years.
This manufactured in two factories at Kirkby in the butter and spreadables segments, with year nearly 80% of the sales of the Liverpool and Crudgington in Shropshire, sales up 24% in value and 29% in volume.
To and distributed via our national distribution The brand was relaunched with a very generate more momentum we have centre in Nuneaton to UK retailers.
strong television advertising campaign, further concentrated our marketing The UK market for butter and spreads which emphasised the provenance of expenditure behind our core brands, grew by 12% in the year to March 2009, Country Life as the only major British Cathedral City, Clover, Country Life reaching 1.1 billion.
This was primarily butter, featuring ex-Sex Pistol John Lydon and St Hubert and spent over 40% as a result of price increases to offset as a tongue-in-cheek spokesperson.
more on these brands in the year.
input cost inflation, and volumes were This, plus a highly effective promotional As a result, all these brands are in down slightly overall -0.6%.
The largest campaign, and continued strong growth strong share growth and well placed growth came in the dairy spreads and wellfor the lighter variant, has propelled the for the future.
brand to 60 million at retail value.
Within Investment in innovation has The second half of the year was the Dairies division the re-branding of enabled us to give consumers the characterised by a significant rise in Dairy Crest milk to Country Life is further choice of buying healthier products promotional sales across the market as expanding the brand footprint.
without having to compromise on consumers became increasingly hardWith Clover Lighter, Country Life taste or quality.
We built upon our pressed.
This has lowered total margins Spreadable Lighter, Utterly Butterly previous success with Country Life without increasing overall consumption.
with Omega 3, and Vitalite we are proud Lighter and Cathedral City Lighter Dairy Crest recognised the need to provide of the choice we offer todays healthand have now launched Clover value to our consumers and accordingly conscious consumer.
Lighter in the UK and St Hubert we chose to promote our brands more.
This, along with our focus on advertising, St Hubert In Foods we will focus on contributed to their increased market share St Hubert was acquired in January 2007 brands and businesses where we and enabled us to far exceed the market from Uniq, and has now become an can add value and where we own growth rate.
Together our brands achieved integral part of the Dairy Crest Group.
Accordingly, in 23% value growth and we were the only We manufacture at our Ludres factory July 2008 we sold our Stilton and major manufacturer in volume growth at in Eastern France, for distribution across speciality cheese business, based at 12%.
We now enjoy a 20% share of the France and to Italy.
The business continues Hartington, to Long Clawson Dairies total butters and spreads market.
to strengthen its leading market positions Limited.
In March 2009 we sold our All of our dairy spreads brands have in France and Italy and, despite difficult 49% share of the UK chilled yogurts performed well in the year, with strong market conditions, its performance since and desserts joint venture with growth on both Clover and Utterly Butterly.
acquisition has beaten our expectations.
Clover, now fully recovered from the The total non-butter French spreads Following these sales we have previous years operational issues, grew by market has remained flat by value at 387 fewer manufacturing sites to invest 33% in value and 29% in volume.
Utterly million, with the health segment continuing in.
We continue to concentrate Butterly grew by 19% in value and 1% in to grow by 2%.
Within this market our on the elimination of waste and volume.
The launch of Clover Lighter has leading brand, St Hubert Omega 3, has inefficiency in order to keep our been a big success, and now accounts for strengthened its market leadership, with costs in line with affordability.
over 15% by value of the brand.
In terms of value growth of 10% volume 5% to trial and repeat purchase levels it has been achieve an all time high value share of the most successful launch in the butters 21% of the French spreads market.
Overall and spreads category in the past five years.
St Hubert has held market share.
DC AR09 FC-p25 28-5-09. indd DC AR09 FC-p25 28-5-09. indd 12 12 2 6 09 2 6 09 13:46:02 13:46:02 Martyn Wilks Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 13 I buy it cos it tastes the best Innovating Foods Country Life is the UKs fastest growing butter brand.
The Foods division constantly innovates to develop The launch of Clover Lighter this year was the A hugely successful TV advert featured John Lydon, healthy, convenient and great tasting new products.
most successful launch in the entire category formerly of the Sex Pistols, telling the nation that he All five products shown above were developed in the in the last five years chooses Country Life butter because it tastes the best last three years and give consumers real choice.
In a difficult economic context, French support, Vall has grown by 8% in value, consumers have increased their purchases achieving a market share of 55%.
in hard discounters, who now represent As in the UK, we are broadening almost 15% of retail sales.
In September the choice offered to health-conscious 2008 we successfully entered this channel consumers.
In France, St Hubert Omega 3 with the St Hubert brand.
introduced a Lighter variant to the range, St Huberts subsidiary, Vall Italia, and in Italy we launched Vall Leggera, remains the undisputed leader of the Italian whose performance is encouraging.
