Directors Report 38 Directors Report The Directors present their Report and significant although decreasing trustees as part of discussions around the Accounts for the year ended 4th October, proportion of our revenue is derived from three yearly actuarial valuation.
A funding 2009. advertising, which has historically been approach and a revised asset allocation cyclical, and has reduced as a result of strategy, designed to reduce and diversify the downturn in the global economy.
A the risk inherent in the investment Activities similar effect has been seen in our portfolios, have been agreed and The principal activities of the Group are businesses that rely on non-advertising implemented.
The cash flow of the main set out on pages 12 and 13 of this Annual revenues in the financial and property defined benefit scheme is broadly neutral Report.
Despite the difficult trading so the trustees have not needed to sell conditions in these businesses, our long assets to any material extent in these The analysis of turnover and operating term strategy of diversifying the Groups depressed markets.
The next valuation profit for the years ended 4th October, portfolio, especially into business will be undertaken as at 31st March, 2010.
2009 and 28th September, 2008 are information and subscription revenue These actions have been supplemented by included as Note 3 to the Consolidated streams, and our commitment to invest in the recently announced closure of the Income Statement.
our core brands, puts us in a strong scheme to new employees, changes to position both now and when growth benefits and further proposals to be Business Review returns.
introduced next year that are designed to The information that fulfils the Companies deal with the ongoing risk to the balance Act requirements of the business review sheet created by defined benefit pension The impact of technological is included in the Business Review on liabilities.
By next year a programme to pages 4 to 32.
This includes a review of the and market changes on install updated, consistent defined development of the business of the Group our competitive advantage contribution pension plans in all divisions during the year, of its position at the end of Our businesses operate in highly will be complete, a further measure to the year and of likely future developments competitive environments that can be control pension liabilities and costs in its business.
Details of the principal subject to rapid change.
Our products and incurred by the Group.
risks and uncertainties facing the Group services, and their means of delivery, are are set out below.
affected by technological innovations, Impact of a major disaster changing legislation, competitor activity or outbreak of disease Principal risks and uncertainties or changing customer behaviour.
A The first wave of the H1N1 influenza The principal risks and uncertainties the structural change in the advertising pandemic was not as severe as first Group faces vary across the different markets resulting in significant predicted and had only a limited impact on businesses and are the focus of the Risk advertising moving away from our DMGT.
It is, however, likely that there will Committee.
These risks are identified in traditional products to the internet has be a further wave in the northern the DMGT Group Risk Register.
The affected our results both positively and hemisphere coinciding with the 2009 10 materiality of each risk is assessed negatively.
We have developed an internet winter flu season.
At present the virus is against a framework to determine its strategy for each of our main segments of at the low end of the virulence spectrum: significance and likelihood of occurrence.
however it is impossible to predict The Risk Register is used to determine the whether the virus will mutate into a more agenda and activity of the Risk Committee.
The decentralised autonomous culture of virulent and severe form.
This second The most material risks identified in the the Group encourages an entrepreneurial wave could affect the Groups ability to Risk Register, together with the steps approach to the development of new produce and deliver its products, reduce taken to mitigate them, are described opportunities in response to these threats the demand for them, or affect our cost below.
The operation of the Risk and we must continue to invest and adapt base.
Some of our events businesses are Committee is described on page 44 to remain competitive.
Our strategy of more sensitive to a pandemic as the and 145. diversification and willingness to take a success of certain events can depend on long-term view helps us to react to these confidence in global travel.
The geographic spread and diverse challenges and opportunities.
portfolio of businesses within the Group Business continuity plans including help to dilute the impact of some of the Pension scheme shortfalls specific pandemic planning measures Groups key risks.
Certain of these risks We operate defined benefit pension have been implemented across the Group.
are interdependent and should not be schemes for our newspaper divisions and We have called upon specific pandemic considered in isolation.
Reported modelling expertise within RMS to give us earnings may be adversely affected by the best available insight into the likely Exposure to changes in the changes in our pension costs and funding spread of the pandemic and issued requirements due to lower than expected economy and customer regular communications to senior investment returns, demographic changes spending patterns divisional management and staff and increased life expectancy.
Recent The current economic climate, especially members.
In addition we have turmoil in global equity markets and in the UK and US economies, continues to implemented a pandemic influenza reduced bond yields has increased this represent a significant risk to the Group.
A management scheme that includes risk, which is considered with the scheme Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2009 Directors Report 39 provision of anti-viral medication to our climate change could affect our business Acquisition and disposal risk staff.
Our planning in advance of the locations, distribution routes or third There are risks to our ability to achieve recent events and since have allowed our party suppliers.
A Group wide review of optimal value from disposals including the businesses to be well prepared and to the impact of climate change was incorrect timing of any sale, the inability to respond quickly as new information performed in 2008 to identify the key risks identify and agree a deal with a purchaser, becomes available to protect our staff, and opportunities for the Group presented the unsuccessful separation of a business brands and reputation.
and management of any related costs, as well as the failure to realise any other Reliance on key management anticipated benefits of a disposal.
This risk Legal and regulatory is particularly pertinent, given the current DMGT businesses are subject to varying and staff retention economic climate.
legislation and regulation across several In order to pursue our strategy, we are jurisdictions including health and safety reliant on key management and staff As well as launching and building new and employment law as well as more across all our businesses.
We cannot businesses, an integral part of our specific regulations such as from the predict with certainty that we will enjoy success has, and will continue to be, the Office of Fair Trading and the Audit Bureau continued success in our recruitment and acquisition of businesses that of Circulation.
The impact of this retention of high quality management and complement our existing products or legislation or regulations could adversely creative talent.
expand the scope of our expertise into new affect the results and future trading of the markets.
A number of risks are inherent business.
Whilst employees need to be Our Group Human Resources Director has within any strategy to acquire.
The Group responsible for their own health and worked with divisional and executive generally acquires businesses with a high safety, they are made aware of health and management across the DMGT divisions potential for growth in related markets.
safety and of employment rights through to implement a formal approach to talent The majority of acquisitions considered the employee handbook.
A Group-wide management and succession planning.
are smaller add-on acquisitions, which code of conduct highlighting key legal and This includes payment of competitive reduces the size of the risk of each regulatory issues affecting our rewards, employee performance and acquisition to the Group.
businesses and working practices has turnover monitoring and a variety of been developed and distributed in the approaches to staff communication.
Controls are also in place Reliance on IT infrastructure surrounding compliance with the ABCs All of our businesses are dependent on Commercial regulations and other regulatory bodies to technology to some degree.
Information Relationships including: which we adhere.
systems are critical for the effective Volatility of newsprint management and provision of services DMGT is reliant on a number of around the Group.
Disruption to our Treasury risk commercial relationships with key information technology infrastructure or There are a number of risks arising from suppliers and third parties.
A significant failure to implement new systems the Groups Treasury operations including change to the commercial terms under effectively could result in lost revenue and currency exchange rate fluctuations which we trade or a loss of any of these damage our reputation.
Dedicated project impacting on the Groups reported key relationships could have a material management teams are used to manage earnings, liquidity risk, interest rate risk impact on the Groups financial results the risk in any change project and and debt levels.
The current problems in and ability to trade.
business continuity plans are in place in global financial markets as a result of the each division to protect existing systems.
credit crunch and banking crisis heighten An example of this is newsprint which the risk in this area.
In addition the represents a significant proportion of our treasury function within DMGT undertakes Information security costs within the newspaper divisions.
high value transactions and therefore Information security has become an Newsprint prices are subject to volatility there is inherently a risk of treasury fraud important issue in recent years as a result arising from variations in supply and or error.
The policies and procedures in of several high profile losses of data.
Generally, these variations are place to manage these risks are future breach in our data security could not large, but from time to time changes discussed in the Financial and Treasury have a harmful impact on our business are significant.
In response to this, review on pages 31 and 32. and reputation.
A Group-wide policy has significant time and resources are been set and the Risk Committee have committed to cultivating and developing overseen the implementation of this policy Tax risk these relationships to ensure they in all divisions.
The Group operates within many continue to operate satisfactorily.
The jurisdictions: our earnings are therefore Groups newsprint requirements are also subject to taxation at differing rates Climate change monitored by the board of Harmsworth across these jurisdictions.
Whilst we The risks associated with climate change Printing to which the duties of the endeavour to manage our tax affairs in an include the introduction of or increase in Newsprint Committee were transferred in efficient manner, due to an ever more legislation and regulation of the October 2009 and, where possible, long complex international tax environment environmental impact of our operations.
term arrangements are agreed with there will always be a level of uncertainty In the longer term, the physical impact of suppliers to limit the potential for volatility.
com 2009 Directors Report 40 Directors Report Continued when provisioning for our tax liabilities.
February, 2009 and 31st July, 2009 Employees There is also a risk of tax laws being respectively.
All other Directors remained Under the Groups general policy of amended by authorities in the different unchanged during the year.
decentralised management, it is the jurisdictions in which we operate which responsibility of the management in each would have an adverse effect on our The number of shares of the Company and subsidiary to encourage the involvement financial results.
Working with divisional of securities of other Group companies, in and participation of employees in their management and external experts we which the Directors or their families had company.
The methods used vary have a team of in-house specialists who an interest at the year end, are stated in company by company, but the linking to review all tax arrangements within the the Remuneration Report on pages 62 and performance targets of a significant Group and keep abreast of changing 63. portion of remuneration is one widely legislation.
In accordance with the Articles of This Annual Report contains certain Association, Messrs Dutton, Gillespie, The Group gives full and fair consideration forward-looking statements with respect Verey and Berry retire by rotation at the to suitable applications from disabled to the principal risks and uncertainties Annual General Meeting on 10th February, persons for employment.
If existing facing the Group.
Each being eligible, offers himself employees become disabled they will statements involve risk and uncertainty for re-election.
Shareholders will be continue to be employed, wherever because they relate to events and depend asked to confirm the appointment of Mr practicable, in the same job or, if this is on circumstances that may or may not Nelson to the Board.
The Directors would not practicable, every effort will be made occur in the future.
There are a number of like to thank Messrs Sinclair, Park and to find suitable alternative employment factors that could cause actual results or Gray for their invaluable contributions to and to provide appropriate training.
developments to differ materially from the Boards deliberations.
those expressed or implied by these Policy on payment of suppliers forward looking statements.
No Post balance sheet events The Groups policy on supplier payments assurances can be given that the forwardOn 26th November, 2009, the Group varies across its subsidiaries.
These looking statements are reasonable as they announced the sale of a 50% interest in companies have no formal code or can be affected by a wide range of dmg radio australia to Illyria for estimated standard which deals specifically with the variables.
The forward-looking net proceeds of A$112 million payment of suppliers.
However, their statements reflect the knowledge and 63 million.
policy is to ensure that the terms of information available at the date of payment, as specified by, and agreed with preparation of this Annual Report, and will Share capital the supplier at the outset, are not not be updated during the year.
Nothing in There were no allotments of share capital exceeded.
this Annual Report should be construed during the year.
The Company had no trade At the Annual General Meeting on 11th creditors at the year end date.
Results and dividends February 2009, the Company was granted The Groups average payment period, The loss after taxation of the Group the authority to purchase up to 10% of its calculated on the basis of year end trade amounted to 305 million.
creditors, is 66 days 2008 63 days, minority interests of 2 million, the although this is dependent on the year end Group loss for the year amounted to During the year, the Company transferred date and cannot therefore be regarded as 303 million.
10,184,237 shares out of treasury, meaningful.
representing 2.73% of called up A An interim dividend of 4.80 pence per Ordinary Non Voting share in order to Donations share was paid on the Ordinary and satisfy incentive schemes.
Charitable donations made by the Group A Ordinary Non-Voting shares and the in the year amounted to 700,000 2008 Directors recommend that a final dividend The Company also purchased 1,626,058 946,000.
This excludes the cost of of 9.90 pence per share be paid on 12th A Ordinary Non-Voting shares for holding publicity, often provided free of charge by February, 2010 making 14.70 pence per in treasury, having a nominal value of the Groups titles, and funds raised by share for the year 2008 14.70 pence.
203,257 in order to match obligations them, further details on which are given in under various incentive plans.
The the Corporate Responsibility Report on Directors consideration paid for these shares was page 36 of this Annual Report.
No political Biographical details of the Directors of the 5.6 million.
Shares repurchased during donations were made by the Group.
Company at 4th December, 2009 are set the year represented 0.44% of the called out on page 45.
Messrs M. W. H. Morgan up A Ordinary NonVoting share capital and D. H Nelson were appointed to the at 4th October, 2009.
Board on 1st October, 2008 and 1st July, 2009 respectively.
Messrs C. J. F. Sinclair, Full details of the Companys share capital I. G. Park and S. M Gray retired from the are given in Note 35.
Board on 30th September, 2008, 11th Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2009 Directors Report 41 prepare the financial statements on the Substantial shareholdings Responsibility statement going concern basis unless it is As set out in Note 35, the Company has We confirm that to the best of our inappropriate to presume that the two classes of share capital Ordinary knowledge: Company will continue in business.
shares and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares.
On 4th December, 2009 the the financial statements, prepared in In preparing the Group financial following were interested in more than 3% accordance with International Financial statements, International Accounting of the issued Ordinary shares: Reporting Standards, give a true and Standard 1 requires that Directors: fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Rothermere Continuation Limited 63.1% properly select and apply accounting the Company and the undertakings and other parties to an agreement policies: included in the consolidation taken as a which comes within section 824 of the Companies Act 2006 whole: and present information, including Codan Trust Company Ltd and Codan 29.3% accounting policies, in a manner that the Business Review, which is Trustees BVI Ltd trustees of the provides relevant, reliable, comparable Esmond Harmsworth 1998 Family incorporated into the Directors report, and understandable information: Settlement includes a fair review of the development and performance of the provide additional disclosures when Directors responsibilities business and the position of the compliance with the specific Company and the undertakings statement requirements in IFRSs are insufficient included in the consolidation taken as a The Directors are responsible for to enable users to understand the whole, together with a description of preparing the Annual Report and the impact of particular transactions, other the principal risks and uncertainties financial statements in accordance with events and conditions on the entitys that they face.
financial position and financial performance: and Company law requires the Directors to Auditors prepare financial statements for each The Companys auditors, Deloitte LLP, make an assessment of the Companys financial year.
Under that law the have indicated their willingness to ability to continue as a going concern.
Directors are required to prepare the continue in office and, in accordance with group financial statements in accordance section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a The Directors are responsible for keeping with International Financial Reporting resolution proposing their reappointment adequate accounting records that are Standards IFRSs as adopted by the will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
sufficient to show and explain the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Companys transactions and disclose with Regulation and have elected to prepare Annual General Meeting reasonable accuracy at any time the the parent Company financial statements The AGM of the Company will be held on financial position of the Company and in accordance with United Kingdom 10th February, 2010 at 9.00 a. m. at the enable them to ensure that the financial Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Kensington Roof Gardens, 99 Kensington statements comply with the Companies United Kingdom Accounting Standards High Street, London W8.
They are also responsible for and applicable law.
Under Company law resolutions, including those to be put as safeguarding the assets of the Company the Directors must not approve the special business, are set out in the and hence for taking reasonable steps for accounts unless they are satisfied that enclosed circular to shareholders.
the prevention and detection of fraud and they give a true and fair view of the state of other irregularities.
affairs of the Company and of the profit or Corporate Governance loss of the company for that period.
The following pages 42 to 46 on Corporate The Directors are responsible for the Governance also form part of this maintenance and integrity of the corporate In preparing the parent company financial Directors Report.
and financial information included on the statements, the Directors are required to: Companys website.
Legislation in the By Order of the Board United Kingdom governing the preparation select suitable accounting policies and and dissemination of financial statements then apply them consistently: may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and N D Jennings, FCA prudent: Secretary 4th December, 2009 state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and www.
