Governance Directors and Officers Colin R Goodall Stuart M Paton across Africa.
He is the Senior Independent Director and chairs the Remuneration and Chairman & Non-Executive Director Technical & Commercial Director Nominations Committees.
Colin Goodall joined the Dana Board in 2002 Stuart Paton was appointed to the Dana Board as Technical & Commercial Director following a successful 24 year upstream Philip J Dayer in 2006, having joined the Companys senior oil career with the BP group.
A Chartered Non-Executive Director executive team in 2003 to lead Danas Accountant, Mr Goodall worked in Africa Philip Dayer joined Dana in 2006, bringing Business Development and Commercial for a number of companies, including Anglo 20 years of public market and corporate activities.
Dr Paton is a graduate of American Corporation, and became a partner finance experience gained with a number Cambridge University, where he gained at Touche Ross.
He joined the finance team of prominent city institutions during which an Honours Degree in Natural Sciences at BP in 1975, later becoming the first Chief he has advised a wide range of public specialising in Earth Sciences, followed by of Staff within the BP group.
From 1995 to companies across a variety of sectors a Phd in Geology.
At Shell International, in 1999 he served as Chief Financial Officer including UK and International groups active The Hague, he worked on the quantitative of BP Europe and then as BPs senior in the oil and gas sector.
After graduating in assessment of exploration and development representative in Russia.
Mr Goodall has Law from Kings College, London, Mr Dayer opportunities world-wide.
Later at Shell in the been a lecturer and examiner for London qualified as a Chartered Accountant and UK, he held senior technical and commercial University in the areas of management and went on to develop widespread experience roles as well as being on the commercial finance.
Mr Goodall is the Non-Executive as Director or Head of Corporate Finance leadership team of Shell UK, before joining Chairman of The Parkmead Group plc and a with Barclays fide Zoete Wedd, Citigoup Dana.
Dr Paton is a Member of the Institute Non-Executive Director of a number of other Scrimgeour Vickers, ANZ Grindlays and of Directors and the Petroleum Exploration companies.
He was appointed Chairman of Societe Generale.
Latterly whilst focusing on Society of Great Britain.
the Dana Group in January 2005. the energy sector, Mr Dayer was Director of Corporate Finance at Old Mutual Securities John J Arnton Thomas P Cross and Executive Director at Hoare Govett Company Secretary & Group Legal Manager Chief Executive Officer Limited.
Mr Dayer is a Non-Executive Director John Arnton joined Dana in 2000 as Group Tom Cross co-founded Dana Petroleum in of a number of other companies.
He chairs Legal Manager and was appointed Company 1994.
Mr Cross is a Chartered Director and Danas Audit Committee.
Secretary in the same year.
He began his Petroleum Engineer.
After graduating with a legal career in Scottish private practice and First Class Honours Degree in Engineering he Brian Johnston moved to Total Oil Marine as a staff lawyer in went on to hold senior positions with Conoco, Non-Executive Director 1985.
Mr Arnton joined Occidental Petroleum Thomson North Sea and Louisiana Land Brian Johnston joined Dana in April 2008, in 1987 as Legal Counsel, and continued and Exploration.
From 1990 to 1993 he was following a highly successful 34 year career with the Elf Group following its acquisition Director of Engineering at the UKs Petroleum with Bank of Scotland HBOS the Bank.
of Occidentals UK assets in 1991.
He was Science and Technology Institute.
Mr Cross Until January 2007, Mr Johnston was Head appointed Legal Manager of Elf Exploration is a Fellow of the Institute of Directors, a of Corporate, Scotland, for the Bank where UK in 1996 and became Company Secretary former Chairman of the Society of Petroleum he led the Relationship Banking Operation of the Elf Groups UK upstream companies.
Engineers and advisor to BBC Radio on oil managing a team of 600 colleagues in 45 Mr Arnton is a qualified solicitor and Notary affairs.
In 2005 he was elected as Chairman locations.
He also had responsibility for five Public.
He also holds a postgraduate Diploma of BRINDEX, the Association of British other niche business units within the Bank.
Independent Oil Companies, and continues Mr Johnston has wide-ranging experience in that role.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of D Ian Rawlinson across all areas of corporate and acquisition financing, and has worked with a number of AUPEC, a global advisory group on energy Non-Executive Director Scotlands top entrepreneurs.
AUPEC was acquired and Senior Independent Director and 1999 he expanded the Banks Structured by The Parkmead Group plc during 2009 and Ian Rawlinson joined Dana in 2005 bringing Finance team in Aberdeen from UK domestic Mr Cross is a Non-Executive Director of The some 20 years experience in banking and MBO MBI Acquisitions to major international Parkmead Group plc.
investment, gained with Lazard Brothers, deals for energy sector companies working Robert Fleming and Fleming Family & David A MacFarlane in the USA, Canada, South America and the Partners.
Ian read law at Cambridge and was Finance Director Far East.
Mr Johnston is a Non-Executive called to the Bar in 1981.
From 1995 to 2000 David MacFarlane, an economics graduate Director of a number of other companies.
he was responsible for building and managing and Chartered Accountant, joined Dana in He is a Fellow of the Institute of Bankers in Flemings investment banking presence in 2002.
He has more than 25 years experience Scotland and holds an MBA from Strathclyde Southern Africa.
In 2000 he joined Fleming University.
in financial control and management in the Family & Partners from its establishment, upstream oil and gas business.
Between and until 2005 held various senior executive 1985 and 1993 he was Finance Director of and advisory positions within this group.
the MOM Group, later becoming Finance Since 2005 he has focused on independent Director for two key sub-groups of the John commercial and charitable interests, which Wood Group plc.
He joined Dana from concentrate on natural resources, the Amerada Hess where during the previous six financial sector, transportation and the Independent Director and member years he headed finance for its fast growing environment.
He is a director of a number of the Audit and Remuneration international exploration and production group of public and private companies, and is Committees and latterly for its substantial.
Europe, North Chairman of Tusk Trust, a UK charity focused Africa and Asia production business.
on conservation, communities and education Member of the Nominations Committee 38 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 David MacFarlane Stuart Paton Philip Dayer Ian Rawlinson Brian Johnston John Arnton Colin Goodall Tom Cross 39 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
