Governance Report on Directors Remuneration continued The Remuneration Committee has also asked PWC to assist the Background to the Remuneration Committees Committee in its desire to introduce a new executive incentive scheme application of its policy which, once approved by shareholders, would replace the current With the difficult global economic backdrop to 2009 and the banking LTIP arrangement.
It is currently anticipated that this will remove the industry turmoil, there has been much focus on executive pay as a current TSR based performance measures, to be replaced by a future potential causal factor in the banking crisis.
This has had widespread value creation basis of award.
It is expected that this new arrangement coverage and has generated significant political pressure for change will be placed before shareholders sometime during 2010 after an to the practices of the financial services industry in particular, and appropriate consultation process.
culminated in the publication of the Walker Review in November 2009, The Remuneration Committee also wish to re-affirm their commitment making a number of new recommendations of principle to be applied to openness and transparency in remuneration reporting as a means of to remuneration in the financial services sector from the 2010 reporting continuing to build investor confidence.
The Committee was pleased year onwards.
In addition, there have been a number of associated to note that this was recognized during the year, when Dana won the general pronouncements from shareholder bodies and institutional FTSE 250 category, for best practice disclosure on remuneration investors clarifying their expectations for remuneration in 2009 and a policy and practice at the ICSA Hermes Transparency in Governance subsequent revised UK Corporate Governance Code has been issued.
In formulating the application of its policy for 2009 and future years, In assessing the performance priorities set for annual bonuses, the the Remuneration Committee has been cogniscent of the evolving Remuneration Committee takes into account the general performance landscape in remuneration developments.
In particular, and in direct of the Company and the prevailing economic environment.
This section response to the challenging global economic background, the of the report summarises the performance of the Company taken into Committee elected to: account when determining Executive remuneration for 2009. freeze Executive Director salaries and related benefits for 2009 at The macro environment, the business background and the principal risks the 2008 levels, and facing the Company are described in detail in the Business Review on to defer any new LTIP award originally scheduled for 2009. pages 7 and 8.
2009 proved to be a challenging year for the Company, but nonetheless, a year with some significant achievements.
Most As a consequence of these initiatives, Directors Remuneration for 2009 notable amongst these successes were the acquisition of Bow Valley was 77% of that reported for the previous year.
and the associated debt re-financing, which boosted the Companys The Remuneration Committee also believes that many of the principles production base and secured funding and cashflow for the Company for proposed by the Walker Review, the new UK Corporate Governance the next three years, during an environment when access to liquidity was Code and by institutional shareholders and representative bodies are extremely difficult.
already in operation or embedded within the Companys Remuneration In Exploration, a record 17 wells were drilled with some notable framework, namely: success in the UK, Norway and Morocco.
Attractive new acreage was also won in both the UK and Norwegian licencing rounds, and the terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee include the commercially the Company also signed a binding Sale and Purchase responsibility for setting the over-arching parameters of incentive Agreement to acquire an interest in offshore Guinea, an exciting new reward for all senior employees, including those who could have a exploration area.
material impact on the risk profile of the Group.
In Developments, significant milestones were achieved on the Babbage the Remuneration Committee in the design of the annual bonus and Development project, with the float-out and installation of the jacket LTIP have incorporated risk adjustment mechanisms to encourage and topsides in September 2009, and the tie-in work with West Sole consistent and sustainable levels of Company performance and has also now been completed.
Good progress has also been made ensured when selecting performance conditions and the level of with both the BarbaraPhyllis and Western Isles projects which are challenge within those conditions for these incentive arrangements, planning for future sanction towards the end of 2010. that they support the long-term future of the Company.
For example: Executive Director bonus arrangements already reflect the Overall, and from a value creation perspective, proven and probable concept of risk adjustment by deferral through the requirement to reserves increased to a new record high of 223 mmboe at the end of commit a minimum equivalent of 25% of any bonus award to buy 2009, representing a reserves replacement of approximately 304%.
shares which are required to be held for two years: and For much of 2009 however, the lower commodity price environment, and some disappointing production performance across the portfolio, to fully qualify for Level 1 LTIP awards, Executive Directors are allied to a number of unsuccessful exploration wells, depressed the required to purchase shares equivalent to a minimum of 100% of Companys financial performance relative to previous years.
As a net salary, which have to be held for three years thereby making consequence, the Remuneration Committee decided to restrict the Executives significant long-term shareholders.
2009 annual bonus awards for Executives to 50% of the maximum bonus potential.
the Company does not offer a defined benefit scheme for Executive Directors, but rather limits the cost of pension provision to Executives to 20% of salary per annum.
48 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009
