Business review Development Danas investment Babbage lies in block 48 2 in the UK SNS, and commercial terms have been agreed.
and will be produced via an unmanned The next phase of the project will consist of expenditure in 2009 was platform, with gas exported via the existing detailed front end engineering design, with dominated by the Babbage West Sole pipeline to the Dimlington terminal.
first gas currently scheduled for late 2012.
Phase 1 development drilling, consisting of gas development, which Another important development, Western the first three of an expected total of five Isles is located in UKCS block 210 24a in the received project sanction from horizontal multi-fractured wells, commenced NNS some 500 km north east of Aberdeen partners in mid 2008 and is in April 2009, with two wells drilled to and is operated by Dana on behalf of its total depth by the year end and the third due onstream mid 2010. co-venture partner Cieco.
The project, which completed during January 2010.
Progress comprises four discrete oil accumulations, on platform construction was adversely Lewis, Harris, Uist and Barra formerly known impacted by financial problems at fabricator as Melville, was discovered in 2008 through SLP, who ultimately went into Administration the drilling of the Rinnes exploration wells to in November last year.
Notwithstanding the south of the Hudson oil field, which Dana this, the facility was successfully installed also operates.
The hydrocarbons are located in September, and offshore hook-up and within the Middle Jurassic age Brent reservoir commissioning work is well under way.
Phase 2 drilling is expected to commence in early 2011.
Following successful appraisal of the discovery in 2009 through the 210 24a-12 Elsewhere, the Company delivered first and 12z wells, recoverable reserves in the oil from the Ettrick project in the UK CNS region of 65 mmboe have been identified in August and first gas from the E18-A and initial concept selection work has been development in the Netherlands, which came completed.
As a result of the significant onstream in June 2009, ahead of schedule reserve size and the current status of local and under budget.
In Egypt, the 2008 70.1m infrastructure, a floating production solution discovery of the Sohba field in East Beni Suef has been selected for the development, with concession was also successfully developed 2009 development spend invitations to tender about to be issued.
in 2009 and commenced production in The field will be produced via a number of September.
The current drilling campaign gas lifted oil production wells with pressure in the East Beni Suef concession offers the support being provided by water injection.
potential to turn exploration successes into A total of 12 wells six oil producers and six production during 2010 or early 2011. water injectors are envisaged in the initial Significant progress was also made phase of the development.
during the year on Danas planned future Further work will be undertaken during 2010 developments, including the Barbara-Phyllis to fully delineate the subsurface structure gas-condensate project in the UK CNS.
and complete dynamic modelling of the This project is expected to be sanctioned field.
In addition, a remapping exercise is in Q4 2010. underway across the entire region to assess The Barbara-Phyllis project, which Dana the potential for further prospectivity.
Vessel operates on behalf of its co-venturers Shell, selection and upgrade design will continue in ExxonMobil, Eon Ruhrgas and Dyas, is the parallel with the subsurface work to enable development of two gas condensate fields executable contracts to be ready by project located in UKCS blocks 23 11 and 23 16 sanction which is expected around the end of approximately 240 km due east of Aberdeen.
First oil is currently expected late 2012.
The accumulations are both of Palaeocene age with hydrocarbons contained within the Forties sandstone member.
Estimated reserves for the combined fields are 230 bcf of gas with associated condensate.
The fields will be produced through three subsea wells tied back via a circa 40 km, 12 diameter pipeline to nearby infrastructure.
The project has progressed to the point where the preferred tieback host has been selected 24 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009
