Accordingly, it was agreed that the Chairman and Remuneration Committee Chief Executive will not be entitled to cast a vote or be counted in The Directors who were members of the Remuneration Committee the the quorum at any Board meeting in respect of any resolutions of the Committee during the year are shown on page 47.
Board relating to Faroe Petroleum plc or any matters involving The Parkmead Group whilst the situational conflict persists.
The system has The responsibility for the establishment of a remuneration policy and been tested and found to operate effectively.
its cost is a matter for the full Board, on the advice of the Committee.
The recommendations of the Remuneration Committee have been The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising approved without amendment by the Board for submission to its authority.
These Committees are the Audit, Remuneration and shareholders.
Nominations Committees and where matters arose during the year which required the attention of these Committees, a separate meeting The Committee is responsible for developing policy on remuneration of the relevant committee was convened with full attendance by its for Executive Directors and senior management and for determining members.
Each of the Committees has detailed Terms of Reference specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors.
under which authority is delegated by the Board.
The Terms of The Committee members have no personal financial interest other Reference for each Committee can be found under the governance than as shareholders in matters to be decided, no potential conflicts section of the Groups website www.
of interests arising from cross directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
These committees deal with the following specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
During the period under review, the Committee sought the assistance of the Chairman and Chief Executive on matters relating to Directors performance and remuneration.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Audit Committee attend meetings by invitation except when their individual remuneration The Audit Committee, was chaired by Mr P J Dayer and comprises all arrangements are discussed.
No Director takes part in discussions the Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairman, and meets not relating to their own remuneration and benefits.
This requirement was satisfied in 2009 and Full details of the Remuneration Committee, the Companys both meetings were attended by all members.
The Committee provides policies on remuneration and their application, service contracts a forum for reporting by the Groups external auditors.
If required, and compensation payments are given in the Report on Directors meetings are also attended by the Chairman and appropriate members Remuneration on pages 47 to 57. of senior management at the specific request of the Committee.
The Audit Committee is responsible each year for reviewing a wide Relations with shareholders range of matters including the Interim Report and the Annual Report and Accounts before their respective submission to the Board and Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
Extensive the monitoring of the controls that are in force to ensure the integrity information about the Groups activities is provided in the Annual of the information reported to the shareholders.
The Audit Committee Report and Accounts, the Interim Report and the Interim Management advises the Board on the appointment or re-appointment of external Statements.
There is regular dialogue with major institutional auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, shareholders and meetings are offered following the Groups and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the preliminary announcement of the year end results and at the half year.
The Audit Committee keeps under review the cost The Company has its own web-site www.
com for effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
In the purpose of improving information flow to shareholders as well as line with the Combined Code, the Audit Committee is also responsible potential investors.
Enquiries from individual shareholders on matters for reviewing annually the requirement for an internal audit function.
All relating to their shareholdings and the business of the Group are also the foregoing responsibilities were duly fulfilled in 2009. welcomed.
The ongoing members of the Audit Committee all have recent and The Board also uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate relevant financial experience as detailed in their biographies on with private and institutional investors and welcomes their page 38. participation.
The Board aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions and explain details Nominations Committee of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for appointments or Notice of the Annual General Meeting and the related papers are sent re-appointments to the Board.
This committee comprises the Nonto shareholders at least 20 clear business days before the meeting in Executive Directors and Mr T P Cross, is chaired by Mr D I Rawlinson, accordance with the Combined Code.
and generally meets not less than once annually with all members attending.
The Nominations Committee is charged with ensuring the necessary balance of skills, knowledge and experience is maintained and represented on the Board.
The Nominations Committee considers that the current composition of the Board is satisfactory to provide the proper governance, administration and business counsel in respect of the Companys affairs.
It will continue to monitor the situation in 2010.
41 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
