Governance Statement of Corporate Governance All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
In addition, the Company Secretary will ensure that the Directors receive appropriate training as necessary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically referred to it for decision.
In addition to those formal matters required by the Companies Acts to be set before a board of directors, the Board will also consider business strategy and policy, business plans, acquisition and divestment proposals, approval of major capital investment plans, risk management policy, significant financing matters and statutory shareholder reporting.
Colin Goodall, Chairman To comply with the provisions of the Combined Code and in an effort to strive for continual improvement in the effectiveness of the Board, its committees and the individual Board members, the Company has The Board is responsible to shareholders an evaluation process based on individual questionnaires.
The Board have also noted that the consultation paper on the UK Corporate for providing a specific leadership focus on Governance Code recommends an external evaluation be undertaken business strategy and for ensuring the risks and at least every three years, and will monitor how this develops.
rewards of the business are properly managed The Board meets regularly during the year with additional meetings throughout the business and economic cycle.
as dictated by matters arising.
In addition, there is frequent dialogue between meetings to progress the Groups business.
The Board met Against the challenging economic backdrop, the formally four times during 2009, with 100% attendance from the Board issue of governance and the proper stewardship members in office at the time of the Board meeting.
All Directors of companies in all business sectors is under attended the AGM.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information and the Chairman close scrutiny.
The Board is accountable to the ensures that the Directors take independent professional advice as Companys shareholders for good corporate required.
The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are governance.
In my role as Chairman, I am fully considered.
Statements of the Directors responsibilities in respect pleased to report that the Dana Board operates of the financial statements are set out on pages 45 and 46 and a in a very effective manner and continues to statement on going concern is given on page 45. be committed to high standards of corporate The Companys articles of association permit the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an governance.
interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance the Company situational conflicts.
The Board has put in place a are applied to the Company and the Companys compliance with the formal system for Directors to declare situational conflicts and for 2008 Combined Code Combined Code, which was adopted by the these to be considered for authorisation by those Directors who have Financial Services Authority for reporting periods commencing on or no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to after 29 June 2008.
The Board has noted that the Financial Reporting authorise a situational conflict, these non-conflicted Directors are Council recently issued a report on the effectiveness of the Combined required to act in the way that they consider would be most likely to Code and issued a consultation paper on revisions to the code to be promote the success of the Company and they may impose limits or renamed the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This will not formally conditions when giving authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this impact the Company until our 2011 reporting period, but the Company is appropriate.
will continue to monitor the ongoing developments from this initiative to Following its introduction, the system for declaration and authorisation ensure our corporate governance practices remain compliant and high of situational conflicts has been followed by the Company.
2009, a situational conflict was authorised following the acquisition by The Parkmead Group plc of AUPEC Limited, which resulted in Mr The Board T P Cross becoming a major beneficial shareholder in The Parkmead Group plc.
As a result of this interest: the existing Non-Executive The Board comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Board roles in The Parkmead Group plc of Danas Chairman and Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Technical & Commercial Director Executive: and The Parkmead Groups equity investment in Faroe and three further Non-Executive Directors.
The membership and Petroleum plc, in which the Company is also the largest shareholder, a brief biographies appear on page 38.
These demonstrate a range of situational conflict was authorised in respect of the Companys equity experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on investment in Faroe Petroleum plc and any potential dealing with The issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, which are vital to the continuing success of the Group.
40 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009
