Business review Production Overall, the Production average for the year The start up of Grouse production in late The Company continues was 38,653 boepd on a working interest December 2008 resulted in a significant to benefit from the balance basis, broadly flat with 2008, with growth increase in GKA production in 2009 of its diverse portfolio of from the Bow Valley acquisition being offset compared to previous years, the facility by price-related constraints on UK gas averaging in excess of 22,000 boepd.
Grouse assets, holding interests in 36 production and production difficulties on the and Goosander, both of which continue to producing oil and gas fields.
outperform expectations, contribute the majority of production from the area.
The Northern North Sea NNS & Norway Mallard field exhibits significant scaling tendencies, and while this can be treated via Both the Hudson field and Otter field periodic scale inhibitor squeezes, the field performed strongly during the year.
requires to be shut in for the duration of the Production during the early part of the year squeezes.
Several infill well and exploration on both fields was affected by host facility targets in the GKA have been identified as issues, but as expected improved reliability potential drilling targets, and it is anticipated later in the year enabled any early deficit to be that this drilling activity will take place during recovered.
Otter also experienced a problem 2011. with part of the electrical system connected Group production by location to the downhole pump on one well.
The Production from Blane and Chestnut boepd downhole pumps have a finite life before they performed in line with expectations.
Chestnut require to be replaced, and it is expected that production is dictated to a high degree by a workover will be required during 2010 to 40,000 water injection volumes required to maintain remedy this.
reservoir pressure, and a project is currently being considered which will significantly 30,000 As a result of strong field performance, improve injection capacity.
production from the Jotun field in Norway was ahead of forecast.
25,000 Claymore production during 2009 has been disappointing, primarily as a result of lengthy Central North Sea CNS problems with the gas compressors required 20,000 The incorporation of Bow Valleys assets to provide gas lift to the wells.
The immediate has increased the importance of the CNS compressor problems have been resolved, 15,000 as a core area for Dana, adding production allowing the field to finish 2009 with daily interests in Ettrick, Blane, Chestnut and Kyle, rates in excess of 20,000 boepd.
The field and increasing Danas existing interest in the 10,000 operator expects to restart development Enoch field.
drilling in 2010 and begin the first phase 5,000 A key milestone during the year was the of an upgrade project to the Claymore start up of production from the Ettrick field in compressors.
August, via the Aoka Mizu FPSO.
Although 0 Southern North Sea SNS the late arrival of the FPSO resulted in delays During 2009 the SNS was characterised by to first oil, early field data is encouraging and low gas prices which resulted in low demand gives confidence for future performance.
Europe NNS & Norway from gas buyers in fields where buyers Ongoing commissioning of the water injection Europe CNS nomination contracts had contract prices Europe SNS & Netherlands and gas compression systems during the Russia substantially higher than the prevailing market remainder of the year means that the full Egypt GoS price.
The greatest impact has been on the production potential of the field will not be Egypt Western Desert Johnston field, where field production was realised until later this year, when production shut in during May and did not recommence is expected to normalise around 20,000 until mid November.
Although gas prices and boepd.
Further infill drilling during 2010 is demand are expected to remain subdued being undertaken.
during much of 2010, the longer term outlook The Kyle field, which produces across the is healthier, and as a result Dana is evaluating same FPSO as the Banff field, provides Dana options for further drilling on the field in late with a better balance of production and 2010 or early 2011. commercial position across this facility and has performed strongly throughout the year, exceeding Danas forecast at the time of acquisition.
18 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 2007 2008 2009 Further drilling is also planned on the Cavendish field, which does not have a buyers nomination contract and it therefore produced throughout the year.
Start up of compression service from the Murdoch host platform in May was later than originally expected, but improved field deliverability meant that overall annual production was close to expectations.
Egypt Production in Egypt was below plan for 2009.
The shortfall was due to earlier than anticipated water breakthrough in one of the key wells on the East Zeit field, and reduced activity levels, particularly in the non-operated producing fields in response to downward pressures on capital budgets.
On East Zeit, Dana participated in a GoS 2009 Group production regional seismic re-processing project being run by BP.
Data quality in the GoS is poor and it is expected that targeting new wells using the new data will significantly fide-risk future activities.
A new well is planned for later in Europe 2010, with redevelopment opportunities being 78% oil 81% considered for later years.
Egypt gas 19% Across Danas non-operated portfolio in Egypt, three development wells were drilled 22% along with 15 further well interventions and a 3D seismic survey was acquired.
Seven 2008: oil 74%, gas 26% 2008: Europe 71%, Egypt 29% production wells had been planned for 2009 in the Qarun concession.
These wells were deferred and replaced by a 3D seismic survey across the Qarun Ridge area.
This survey was Highlights optimised to target new play potential in the Jurassic across the area.
The data has been acquired and is currently being processed, 110 millionth barrel of oil delivered from the ahead of potential drilling in 2011.
Hudson field In the East Beni Suef and East Beni Suef extension concessions, production was added 4 producing UK oilfields, Blane, Chestnut, from the 2008 Sohba discovery, two new wells in the Yusif field and the Gharibon-3 well.
Enoch & Kyle added with Bow Valley acquistion Activity levels were reduced in this area by the operator, Apache but are expected to increase Ettrick oil field brought onstream during August significantly in 2010.
In West Abu Gharadig, two wells were deferred into 2010 to allow the operator to review field performance and significant increase in production from GKA with optimise the wells.
full year production from Grouse field production added from Sohba discovery, Yusif field and Gharibon-3 well in Egypt 19 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
