Report of the Directors Ordinary shares The Directors submit their report On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every together with the audited Group and holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by Company financial statements for the proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share year ended 31 December 2009. held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or in person in relation to resolutions to Business review and future activities be passed at the general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are The principal activities of the Group are oil and gas exploration and announced at the annual general meeting and in accordance with the production.
The Company is a public limited company, incorporated current requirements of the Combined Code, will be published on the in England and Wales, and its securities are quoted on the London Companys website after the meeting.
Stock Exchange, under the designation DNX.
The Chairman and Chief Executives Statement and the Business Review describe the There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the significant developments in the business of the Group during 2009 and Company other than: its future prospects.
certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws and market Results, dividends and retentions requirements relating to close periods : The Group profit for the year amounted to 22,574,000 2008: pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority 96,235,000.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of dividend.
the Company to deal in the Companys securities: pursuant to the Companys various share scheme arrangements.
Corporate governance The Companys articles of association may only be amended by a The UK Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Directors Rules DTR 7.2 require that certain information be included in a are reappointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of the corporate governance statement set out in the Directors Report.
The Board can appoint a Director but anyone so information required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the appointed must be elected by an ordinary resolution at the next general UK Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
Any Director who has held office for more than three years the Statement of Corporate Governance on pages 40 to 42, with the since his her last appointment is obliged to offer himself herself up for exception of the information relating to shares DTR 7.2.
6, which is re-election at the next annual general meeting.
Authority will be sought at the 2010 Annual General Meeting for the Company to buy back up to approximately 10% of its issued share Additional information for shareholders capital.
The following provides additional information required for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the Takeovers Directive into UK Convertible bonds Law.
Convertible bonds were issued during 2007 and are described in notes At 31 December 2009, the Companys issued share capital comprised: 21 and 23 of the Group Financial Statements.
Pending conversion, the Convertible bonds carry no votes at meetings % of total of the Company.
Ordinary shares in the Company issued on conversion Share 000 000 capital will rank pari passu with the Companys existing issued share capital.
Ordinary shares of 92,006 13,801 100 On a change of control of the Company, bondholders have an 15 pence each entitlement to exercise their conversion rights.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders Company share schemes that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or of voting rights.
The Dana Petroleum plc Share Incentive Plan, holds 30,083 shares of the Company in trust for the benefit of employees of the Group.
This includes 21,990 unreleased matching and free shares.
The voting rights in relation to these unreleased shares are exercisable by the trustees.
43 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
