Business review Exploration UK Egypt During 2009, there Two exploration wells were drilled in the During 2009, Dana completed drilling on were notable discoveries at Rinnes area, targeting separate fault panels to seven exploration wells, across all of the SE Rinnes Uist and Tornado the south west of the Dana operated Hudson major hydrocarbon producing basins in in the UK, Jetta and Fulla field.
The first well 210 24a-12 targeted the Egypt.
South East Rinnes now named Uist fault in Norway and Anchois In the offshore Nile Delta, West El Burullus panel and found good quality oil in excellent concession, the Papyrus-1X well, was drilled in Morocco with further reservoir quality Brent Group sandstones with at the year end using the Atwood Aurora rig.
A downdip appraisal discoveries onshore Western This well, targeting additional gas volumes sidetrack 210 24a-12z was drilled and just 2.5 km from the WEB-1X discovery made Desert, Egypt.
successfully penetrated the oil-water contact.
in 2008, was designed to prove commerciality The second exploration well 210 24aof a combined development.
The well 13 targeted the South West Rinnes fault encountered good quality gas bearing panel and was dry.
The Rinnes and Melville channel sands and an extensive set of discoveries have been renamed and handed wireline log data was also acquired over the over to the Dana project team progressing the reservoir section.
Under test, the well flowed Western Isles development WID.
at rates of up to 33 mmscfd of gas plus Dana was also awarded three blocks 442 bbls of condensate per day, with immediately adjacent to WID in the 25th downhole pressures remaining high Licensing Round with 100% equity.
This well was immediately blocks are currently being evaluated using the followed by the deeper and significantly newly reprocessed 3D seismic data.
larger, Bamboo prospect which is currently drilling ahead.
The third 2009 UK exploration well 204 13-1 17 wells was drilled on the Tornado prospect West of The Dana operated SE July well in the Gulf of Shetland and discovered gas overlying good Suez GoS was dry although it did encounter drilled in 2009 quality oil in a Palaeocene Lambda Formation reservoir and the Company is currently reservoir.
This was Danas first West of evaluating further exploration prospects in the Shetland well and the first discovery at this concession.
Dana will operate an exploration particular stratigraphic level in the entire well in the South October concession in basin.
A downdip sidetrack 204 13-1z was the eastern GoS in 2010 to test the Nefertiti drilled and successfully penetrated the oilprospect.
Although the prospect is located water contact.
Given the size of the discovery, offshore, the well will be drilled from land to proximity to the Suilven discovery and allow an extended well test in the case of a recently announced government incentives, discovery.
this discovery is likely to be economic and Onshore in the GoS area two unsuccessful will be further progressed.
wells were drilled on North Zeit Bay.
The 115m Norway Company has however, identified further drilling targets in a different play which benefits exploration-targeted Dana drilled four exploration wells in Norway from the successful drilling in the neighbouring in 2009.
The Fulla well, drilled in the Heimdal investment for 2010 NW Gemsa concession.
Drilling is planned to area in the second quarter of 2009, proved begin at these targets in April 2010. gas and condensate in the Brent formation.
Development options for this discovery are In the Western Desert, the Azhar-7X now being assessed.
discovery demonstrated a lateral extent of the Azhar field located on the East Beni Suef The Jetta and Eitri wells drilled in the Jotun concession.
Production from the well will area in the second and fourth quarters of commence following access to a workover 2009 demonstrated small accumulations rig to complete the main oil zone.
The well of oil in the Ty and Heimdal formations, is expected onstream in the second quarter respectively.
Given the proximity to the of 2010.
Two other exploration wells on this existing Jotun facilities, the threshold for concession were both small discoveries but commerciality in this area is low and the the Company was unable to justify the cost partnership group are considering options for of completion.
The Qamara-1 well, in the development.
The Trolla well in mid Norway North Qarun concession was dry and the was not hydrocarbon bearing.
concession has since been relinquished.
22 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Other International Also during 2009, Dana was involved in two exploration wells in Morocco resulting in a promising gas discovery on the TangerLarache offshore licence.
The Anchois-1 well spudded in January and targeted Upper Miocene Lower Pliocene deep water turbiditic sands in a combination trap with amplitude anomaly support.
The well encountered two intervals of high quality sands with a combined gas column of about 90 metres with 40 metres of net pay.
The well has been suspended as a potential future producer.
This was the first well in this large under-explored area some 40 km from the Moroccan coast and up to 25 additional prospects have already been identified in this area.
Additional 3D seismic is planned for A dynamic drilling programme for 2010 2010 to high-grade the prospect portfolio for drilling in 2011-2012 leading to an optimal development plan.
Agreement has also been K3 Anne Marie Storkollen reached on securing future gas contract Netherlands Faroes Norway prices in line with European prices.
Equity: 2.9% Equity: 25% Equity: 25% Operator: Operator: Eni Operator: Det A second well, TAJ-1, was completed in the Wintershall Norske remote Bouanane Petroleum Exploration Permit, south of the Atlas Mountains, onshore Morocco.
Although there were indications of gas during drilling, the data collected indicated poor reservoir quality.
The well was plugged and abandoned and the licence Platypus Monkwell Tolmount subsequently relinquished.
UK SNS UK SNS UK SNS Equity: 45% Equity: 30% Equity: 45% In Block 7, offshore Mauritania, Dana plans Operator: Dana Operator: Dana Operator: Eon to drill an exploration well in 2010 to test Ruhrgas the Cormoran Prospect which lies a short distance to the south of, and at a deeper level than Danas existing Pelican gas discovery.
The Company is actively progressing negotiations to secure a rig to drill this well.
Q1 Q2 Q3 Bamboo Nefertiti Cormoran Nile Delta, Egypt offshore GoS Mauritania Equity: 50% Equity: 65% Equity: 36% Operator: Gaz fide Operator: Dana Operator: Dana France Papyrus Lorcan Nile Delta, Egypt onshore GoS Equity: 50% Equity: 100% Operator: Gaz fide Operator: Dana France Throughout year RAD-3x Fin 4 x EBS offshore GoS onshore GoS wells in Equity: 100% Equity: 100% Operator: Dana Operator: Dana Egypt 23 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
