Summary of remuneration philosophy Remuneration policy 2009 & 2010 The remuneration philosophy is designed to encourage, reward and The Remuneration Committee applied its remuneration policy in 2009 retain the Executives based on the following principles: taking into account the following factors: shareholders interests are best served by remuneration market conditions affecting the Company, and in particular the packages which have a large emphasis on performance related prevailing macro economic situation: pay: the recruitment market in the Companys sector: and emphasis on performance will encourage the Executives to focus changing market practice and best practice corporate governance.
on delivering the business strategy: During 2010, the Remuneration Committee will seek to introduce the structure of the package will ensure fair reward for a new long-term incentive scheme which supports the business performance such that exceptional remuneration will only be strategy going forward and responds to the rapidly changing economic justified where performance is exceptional: and landscape.
This scheme will take into account recent pronouncements Executives will be encouraged to build substantial personal from the FSA and other regulatory bodies on the use of more riskshareholdings in the Company to further align their interests with based performance metrics to measure long-term performance.
The Remuneration Committees policy during the year was to set the main elements of the remuneration package at the following quartiles in comparison to the Companys Comparator Group: Base Salary Annual Bonus Pension Potential Total ShortPotential Potential Total Potential Term Remuneration Annual Compensation Available Share Value Awards Lower to Upper Quartile Revised to Upper Median to Upper Upper Quartile Upper Quartile Median to Upper Quartile Lower Quartile to Median Quartile Quartile The Remuneration Committees Maximum The Company The remuneration package The remuneration package will policy was on appointment to the bonus payouts avoids will provide lower to provide a lower quartile to median Board to provide a lower quartile are only earned considerable median quartile total total compensation value unless salary which based on appropriate by executives cost and short-term remuneration executives earn their bonus levels of individual and corporate for achieving administrative unless bonus payments payouts or satisfy the demanding performance would be increased exceptional burden by are earned by executives.
performance conditions attached to the upper quartile position with performance.
not running Maximum bonus payments to their share incentives.
In The a corporate will only be earned for Maximum share incentive light of the current macro economic Remuneration pension exceptional performance.
payments will only occur for upper situation, the Remuneration Committee scheme.
Instead In the current economic decile comparative performance.
Committee has changed its assessed that it provides cash climate the Remuneration targeted salary policy for Executive performance in payments to Committee will be mindful Directors from upper quartile to 2009 justified a Executives to of the general performance median for 2009.
The Committees payout of 50% supplement of the Company when first step in moving towards this of the maximum their personal considering the level of any policy was to freeze 2009 salaries bonus potential.
pension bonus in 2010. at 2008 levels.
49 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
