Business review Business development and commercial activity Key commercial transactions undertaken during 2009 Business development In April 2009, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Bow Valley, a company listed during 2009 continued the on the Toronto Stock Exchange, through a plan of arrangement.
Aggregate consideration success of previous years was approximately USD 212 million equivalent, which included the assumption of USD 176 through a combination of million of net debt.
The transaction delivered production from four oil fields producing in the UK, namely Blane, Chestnut, Enoch and Kyle, with a fifth, Ettrick, which came onstream a production adding deal, during August 2009.
The acquisition added approximately 12 mmboe of reserves at the date a material exploration new of completion and a substantial UK tax loss position which has delivered further benefit to Dana post acquisition, particularly given the oil price recovery in the second half of 2009. country entry, and a number Through this deal, the Company has again demonstrated its ability to undertake complicated of portfolio optimisation transactions in a difficult financial and economic climate, in a timely manner.
Through the In December 2009, Dana signed a binding Sale and Purchase Agreement with Bow Valley deal, in particular, Hyperdynamics Inc to acquire 23% equity in an exploration stage Production Sharing Contract PSC covering offshore Guinea, West Africa for a total consideration of USD 20 the Company has again million.
This acreage is considered to be highly prospective given the recent discoveries in demonstrated its ability to the West Africa Transform Margin including those in Ghana and Sierra Leone.
The partnership aims to acquire 3D seismic over the highest ranked prospects in 2010, with the objective of move swiftly and undertake drilling the first exploration well by late 2011. complicated transactions in Farm-out of a 10% interest in the Eitri and Jetta wells in Norway to Bridge Energy a difficult financial and enabling an additional exploration well to be accommodated in the 2009 programme while economic climate.
remaining within the agreed budgeted spend for the year.
Completion of a deal with CalEnergy originated during November 2008.
Dana acquired a 45% equity in Block 48 1a, UK Southern North Sea adjacent to the Babbage discovery for circa 2 million, carrying CalEnergy through its remaining 5% well costs.
An additional element of the farm-in, gave Dana a 40% equity in 48 1c at no further cost.
This part of the Licence awards deal completed during June 2009.
Drilling is planned on the Platypus prospect in this area during the first half of the year.
This gives Dana further exposure to an exploration well close Norwegian 20th round May 2009 to infrastructure where Dana holds a material existing interest.
Block Dana Operator Licence rounds PL523 20% Eon Ruhrgas Dana again was an active participant in licence rounds in the UK and Norway.
Successful Torunn awards enable the Group to broaden its exploration portfolio and provide the potential for further prospect drilling opportunities in the future.
PL526 Leo 20% North Energy prospect Other commercial opportunities Oil price volatility and the difficult financial market conditions have been a catalyst for an increasing number of commercial opportunities.
The Group regularly reviews such opportunities Norwegian APA 2009 January 2010 and the upstream corporate landscape for potential value-adding transactions and will continue Block Licence Dana to do so.
3 7 PL359 20% 6609 5&6 PL562 30% 25 7 PL548S 30% 30 10&25 1 PL549S 20% 25 7 PL504BS 30% 7 8&7 11 PL497S 20% 26 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Our key commercial contracts Dana operates in a sector where Contractor Country Nature of Contract under supply of equipment, Service Provider manpower and services has the Transocean Egypt IO3 drilling rig on contract for development and exploration drilling in GoS from mid 2008 until potential to hamper progress and mid 2009 the cost of key equipment can Sino Thawa Egypt Onshore rig contracts for ST2 and ST6 rigs for change significantly within relatively exploration drilling short time frames, affecting the Senergy UK Supply of drilling rig contract and services for commerciality of operational exploration the drilling in the Rinnes area commitments.
PGS Norway UK Acquisition of 3D seismic in Norway and supply of 2 Fluctuations in the market price 90,000 km of 3D seismic in UK and Norway for our produced oil and gas and PR Jotun DA Norway Lease of FPSO for use on the Jotun field associated NGLs must also be Guney Yildizi Morocco Supply of the drilling rig for the TAJ-1 well monitored constantly, to ensure Petrol A. S. maximum value is achieved for Sales Contracts Country Nature of Contract these commodities.
Shell Trading UK Sale of crude oil from NNS & CNS fields Hudson, As such, the quality of our supply and Shipping Otter, Enoch, Blane chain management and our ability Company to negotiate contracts of all types Vitol SA UK Egypt Sale of 2009 crude oil from GKA fields and certain with foresight and legal expertise is non-operated Egyptian fields paramount.
We value and respect Hess Energy Gas UK Sale of gas from the Cavendish field the contractors and customers and Power with whom we do business and Gaselys UK Sale of gas from the Cavendish field endeavour at all times to deliver best ExxonMobil Norway Sale of oil from the Jotun field value for shareholders.
Production Co A list of our key commercial contracts EGPC Egypt Sale of oil from the East Zeit field from 2009 appears opposite.
27 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
