DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual report together with the audited Directors financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2009.
Any comparative The names and biographical details of the Directors holding ofce gures used in this report are extracted from the 2007-2008 Annual at the date of this report are shown on pages 18 and 19.
Particulars report for the 15 month period ended 30 April 2008. of Directors emoluments and their interests in the shares of the Company and its subsidiaries are shown in the report on Directors Principal activities remuneration and related matters on pages 29 to 37.
There were The Groups principal activities comprise three operating divisions: no changes in the Directors interests in shares between the end Darty France, Comet UK and Other businesses which consists of of the financial year and 24 June 2009.
Vanden Borre Belgium, BCC Holland, Datart Czech Republic and Slovakia, Darty Italy, Darty Switzerland, Darty Turkey and Menaje At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the following Directors will del Hogar Spain and Portugal.
be retiring and being eligible, are offering themselves for re-election: Business and financial review Thierry Falque-Pierrotin Further information regarding the Group, its progress during the David Newlands financial year, events since the year end and likely future developments Bernard Dufau is contained in the Chairmans review and in the Operating business and financial review.
The information that fulls the requirements of the Details of the terms of the appointment for Thierry Falque-Pierrotin, Business Review as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act David Newlands, and Bernard Dufau can be found in the Remuneration 2006, is incorporated in this Directors report by reference, and can Committee report on pages 35 and 36.
Their biographies are set out in be found on the following pages: the Directors report on page 19.
The Board strongly supports their re-election and recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions proposing their re-election.
Information Location Pages Development and performance Chairmans review 4 Details of all the Directors service contracts are set out in the report during the financial year Operating business and on Directors remuneration and related matters on pages 35 and 36. financial review 613 Throughout the financial year, the Company has maintained liability Position at the year end Operating business and insurance for its Directors and ofcers against the costs of defending including analysis and key financial review 613 themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in that capacity and performance indicators in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any Other performance, Corporate social responsibility 1417 proceedings.
To the extent permitted by UK law, the Company has including environmental Operating business and also provided an indemnity for its Directors and ofcers.
Neither the and employee matters financial review 613 insurance nor the indemnity provides any cover where the Director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Principal risks and uncertainties Directors report 2023 facing the business Corporate governance Land and buildings value Note 14 of the accounts 71 The Companys statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 24 to 28. profit and dividends Principal risks and uncertainties Kesa Group sales for the financial year to 30 April 2009 were The business, financial condition or results of operations of the 5.0 billion 5.9 billion 2008: 5.4 billion 7.6 billion with retail profit Group could be adversely affected by any of the risks set out below.
The Groups systems of control and protection are designed to help The retained loss for the year ended 30 April 2009 amounts to manage and control risks to an appropriate level rather than to 111.4 million 2008: 119.6 million profit.
The Corporate Governance report on pages 24 to 28 sets out the operational procedures through which the Directors assess An interim dividend of 1.75 pence was paid to the ordinary shareholders and manage risk.
of the Company on 3 April 2009 and, on 24 June 2009, the Directors recommended the payment, on 9 October 2009, of a final dividend of 3.25 pence 2008: 3.6 pence, giving a total dividend for the year of 5 pence 2008: 17.9 pence for the 15 months ended 30 April 2008.
The final dividend, once approved, will be paid to those persons on the Register of Members at the close of business on 18 September 2009.
20 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 The Directors consider that the principal risks to achieving the Groups f Legislative and regulatory risks objectives are those set out below.
The Groups operations are subject to extensive regulatory requirements, particularly in relation to its products and services, a Economic and market conditions its advertising, marketing and sales practices, its employment and The economic environment inuences the level of consumer pensions policies and planning and environmental issues.
Changes in expenditure on electrical goods in a number of ways.
The state of laws and regulations and their enforcement may adversely impact the the housing market affects spending on white goods in particular, Groups operations in terms of costs, changes to business practices, and the feel good factor has a significant influence on discretionary and restrictions on activities.
spending on higher value electrical products.
Many other economic factors influence customers spending decisions, including interest The Groups businesses may also be adversely affected by changes rates and levels of personal debt.
Actions taken by the Groups competitors, as well as actions taken to maintain its own competitiveness and reputation for value, have g Reputational risks placed and may continue to place pressure on the Groups pricing, The Groups success is dependent, in part upon the strength of margins and profitability.
the Groups brands and their reputations.
The Group operates in an The Groups business is seasonal, with a high percentage of its industry where integrity, customer trust and confidence are important annual sales and operating profit generated during the Christmas and any adverse publicity concerning corporate behaviour, policies and and New Year periods.
There are only limited opportunities to strategies could damage that customer trust and damage the Groups compensate at other times of the year for any material shortfalls reputation and brands.
in sales during this period.
The level of profit margin in electrical retailing is largely determined h Pension risks by the market, consumer demand, manufacturer supply, The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is the UK dened competition and government regulations.
The Group protects benefit scheme for Comet employees and there is a smaller dened its margins, as far as possible, through its buying arrangements benefit scheme in France for senior Darty and Kesa employees.
and by maintaining an efficient sourcing operation.
Cost structures Both schemes are currently in deficit.
are actively managed in order to mitigate the impact of product margin erosion.
The amount of the deficit is volatile as a result of changes in the assumptions regarding life expectancy, discount rates, ination and future b Product life cycles salary increases, risks regarding the value of investments and the returns Electrical products such as brown and grey goods are subject to rapid derived from such investments.
Changes in pension fund legislation change in design and functionality, which shortens their economic life.
have also caused increases in scheme deficits and uncertainties.
As new technologies become commoditised and availability increases, they usually suffer a level of price deation.
Careful management is i Employees needed in order to avoid loss of value and stock obsolescence when The Groups success depends on its ability to continue to attract, products are superseded.
motivate and retain highly qualied employees.
The highly qualied employees required by the Group in various capacities are sometimes c Entry into new markets in short supply in the labour market.
There are only limited opportunities available, as suitable target companies may not be available for purchase, and there is a shortage j Leased properties of appropriate sites to enable rapid organic growth.
A significant portion of the Groups properties are leasehold, and the Group is therefore exposed to substantial increases in commercial d Systems failure property rents.
The Groups businesses are dependent on the suitability and reliability of their systems and procedures, especially information technology, warehousing and distribution systems.
e Financial risk management Financial management risks are detailed in the operating business and financial review on page 12 and in note 2 to the accounts.
The principal risk is the foreign exchange exposure arising from the varying exchange rates between the euro and pound sterling, which are the Groups two main trading currencies.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 21 DIRECTORS REPORT Share capital and control Purchase of own shares  At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 10 September in issue together with rights under the Companys Long Term Incentive 2008, authority was given for the Company to purchase, in the market, Plans of 2,879,068 ordinary shares of 25 pence.
It is intended to satisfy up to 52,955,321 ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
The Company did these rights through market purchase, rather than issuing new shares.
not use this authority to make any purchases of its own shares during the period.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 September Further details of the share capital are given in note 28 to the 2009, shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority.
Substantial shareholding The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the Board As at 24 June 2009, the following interests of more than 3 per cent power to appoint Directors, but also require Directors to retire and in the issued share capital of the Company had been notied pursuant submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting to section 793 of the Companies Act 2006: AGM following their appointment.
A Director who retires in this way is eligible for election but is not taken into account when deciding how Number of Percentage many Directors should retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
ordinary of issued The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of Name shares held share capital the shareholders.
Capital Research and Management Company 63,902,328 12.07% Standard Life Investments Limited 38,344,569 7.24% Pursuant to the Articles, at every AGM any Director who i has been Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 26,336,364 4.98% appointed by the Board since the last AGM, ii who held ofce at the AXA S. A 25,619,257 4.84% time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, Blackrock Investment 25,250,390 4.76% or iii who has held ofce with the Company, other than employment Aberdeen Asset Management 25,064,270 4.74% or executive ofce, for a continuous period of nine years or more at Legal and General Group plc 21,519,561 4.06% the date of the meeting, shall retire from ofce and may offer himself for Allianz Global Investors Global Equity re-appointment by the members.
From time to time a Director may retire Business Unit 16,307,531 3.08% and offer himself for re-appointment by the shareholders to ensure Norges Bank Investment Management 15,999,278 3.02% orderly succession.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the management of the which represented 48.79 per cent of the issued share capital of the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company at that date.
Company subject to the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of Association and the Articles.
The Articles contain specic provisions Save for the above, no person has reported any material interest and restrictions regarding the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also included in the Articles and shareholders are asked to renew such Annual General Meeting authorities each year at the AGM.
A copy of the Articles is available The sixth AGM of the Company will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday on request from the Company Secretary.
10 September 2009 at The Novotel Hotel, 100-110 Euston Road, London NW1 2AJ.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover, such Corporate social responsibility as commercial contracts, the Group bank agreements, property lease The Group has a code of conduct which sets out the standards of arrangements and employees share plans.
None of these are deemed behaviour expected in the Group and of all who work for the Group, to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the in their relationships with employees, customers, suppliers, business Group as a whole.
partners, the community including the environment, government and all other stakeholders in the business.
significant contracts There are no persons with whom the Company has contractual or .
other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group.
Donations The Groups support for charitable causes is principally through the work done by the Groups operating companies to the value of 138,446.
Details of the types of activity undertaken are set out in the corporate responsibility report on pages 14 to 17.
The Group made no political donations and incurred no items of political expenditure.
22 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 Employment policies Creditor payment At 30 April 2009 the average number of employees working for the For all trade creditors, it is Group policy to: Group throughout Europe was 27,360.
Kesa Electricals consists of a number of businesses operating in different sectors.
While employment Agree and confirm the terms of supply at the commencement practices may vary between these businesses, the Group is, of business with that supplier.
nevertheless, committed to ensuring that: Pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
Continually review the payment procedures and liaise with suppliers All employees receive fair and equal treatment irrespective as a means of eliminating difficulties and maintaining a good of gender, ethnic origin, age, nationality, marital status, religion, working relationship.
The working environment is conducive to achievement and free Trade creditors of the Group at 30 April 2009 were 37.4 2008: 40.2 from harassment and intimidation.
days based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the Disabled persons, whether registered or not, have equal period to the amounts invoiced during the period by trade creditors.
opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their The trade creditors for the Company were nil 2008: Nil.
In addition to complying with legislative requirements, procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly Directors disclosure of information to auditors treated and that their training and career development needs are The Directors believe that there is no relevant audit information of carefully managed.
which the auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all steps The assessment of training needs and the provision of appropriate that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any training is delivered to its employees.
relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Health and safety Group companies have a responsibility to ensure that all reasonable Auditors precautions are taken to provide and maintain working conditions, for Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of the auditors and employees and visitors alike, which are safe, healthy and in compliance authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed with statutory requirements and appropriate codes of practice.
The Groups companies pursue the objective of minimising the By order of the Board instances of occupational accidents and illnesses.
Examples of this are to be seen in the employment of health and safety advisers and Simon Enoch Secretary in the establishment of detailed policies and statements of intent.
24 June 2009 The Company Secretary has the responsibility to ensure that the Board is presented with a review at least annually detailing how the Group Registered Ofce: complies with the statutory requirements and appropriate codes 22-24 Ely Place of practice.
London EC1N 6TE Employee involvement Group companies actively consult their staff on matters of concern to them in the context of their employment.
In Europe, where the largest numbers of employees are, there is a formal consultation process through workers councils.
Consultation also takes place through joint consultation committees.
Information on matters of concern to employees including the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group is also disseminated through conferences, meetings, publications and electronic media.
An all-employee savings plan exists for employees in the UK.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 23
