50 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Report Other Statutory Information Other Statutory Information Payments to Suppliers The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account The Company and Groups policy is that suppliers be paid on reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show the basis of monthly summary invoicing plus 60 days subject to that the Group should be able to operate with its currently local laws or other exceptions.
The average number of days credit available facilities.
The Group will open refinancing negotiations provided by suppliers to the Group has been calculated at 67 days with lenders in due course and expects to be able to achieve 2008: 48 days.
The Company does not have any trade payables.
sufficient refinancing to meet its future requirements.
Change of Control The Group has sufficient financial resources together with assets A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon that are expected to generate cash flow in the normal course a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, of business.
As a consequence the Directors have a reasonable such as bank loan agreements and employee share plans.
expectation that the Company and the Group are well placed None of these is deemed to be significant as a whole except to manage their business risks and to continue in operational for the following: existence for the foreseeable future, despite the current global uncertain economic environment.
Accordingly, the Directors The 175m credit facility dated 21 May 2008 between the continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Company and three of its key relationship banks contains a Annual Report and Accounts.
provision such that in the event of a change of control, any lender may, if it so requires, notify the agent that it wishes to cancel this Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the commitment whereupon the commitment of that lender will be Annual Report and the Financial Statements cancelled and all its outstanding loans, together with accrued The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and interest, will become immediately due and payable.
the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the A change of control will be deemed to have occurred if any person Directors to prepare Group and parent Company financial or persons acting in concert as defined in the City Code on statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required Takeovers and Mergers at any time is are or become interested in to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with more than 50 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by Company.
the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Political Donations Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting There were no political donations.
The Companys policy is not to Practice.
The Group financial statements are required by law and make any.
The Company will propose to shareholders at this years IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position Annual General Meeting that the precautionary authority granted at and the performance of the Group.
The Companies Act 1985 the 2006 Annual General Meeting, pursuant to the Companies Act provides in relation to such financial statements that references in 1985, be renewed and details are included in the Chairmans Letter the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and Notice of Meeting.
and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent Company financial statements are required by law Essential Contracts or other Arrangements to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent fide La Rue confirms there are no persons with whom the Company Company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company has contractual or other arrangements, which fide La Rue considers financial statements, the Directors are required to: are essential to its business.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Annual Report and the Financial Statements consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out for the Group financial statements, state whether they have on pages 20 to 33 of the Business Review.
The financial position of been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in pages 38 to 40 of the Business Review.
The for the parent Company financial statements, state whether accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial position applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, are described in pages 72 to 77.
In addition, pages 34 to 37 of the subject to any material departures disclosed and explained Risk and Risk Management Report include the Groups objectives, in the parent Company financial statements: and policies and processes for financial risk management, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposure to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis credit risk, liquidity risk and commodity pricing risk.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
As described on page 39 of the Annual Report, the Group meets its funding requirements through a main corporate borrowing The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting facility of 175m and cash generated from operations.
The Group records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the has no material debt requiring refinancing in 2009 2010. financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
51 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Report Other Statutory Information Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors Responsibility Statement in Respect of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules We confirm to the best of our knowledge: a the financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Statements as adopted by the EU adopted IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: b the parent Company financial statements in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: and c the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Provision of Information to Auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors Aresolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
On behalf of the Board Simon Webb Group Finance Director 19 May 2009
