01 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review Introduction Our primary aim is to deliver certainty to our customers.
We do this by focusing on currency, security, authentication and identity.
We invest in innovation to create products and solutions they can trust.
Certainty means our customers get the reassurance they want and expect from fide La Rue.
02 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review 03 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review Combining a holographic Discover Financial Services The new product has given Discover fide La Rue Holographics continuing the opportunity to create a strong vibrant foil and magnetic stripe for commitment to innovation and design to differentiate its brand, while Discover Financial Services partnership with its customers was offering integrated security to protect against central to the introduction of its patented counterfeit and fraud.
High standards of new Optically Variable Magnetic Stripe security in the manufacturing and shipping OVMS technology, recently selected by process ensure full accountability and Discover Financial Services, one of the traceability across the supply chain.
Significant capital investment has been OVMS combines a holographic foil and made in custom built technology at the a magnetic stripe into a single product Basingstoke facility to support the volume for use on financial cards, giving high production of secure OVMS product.
visual impact while ensuring compliance The magnetic stripe element of production with the relevant ISO standards.
is undertaken by Holographics coating partner in France who has worked with fide La Rues experts in a combined research and development project on this technically complex and challenging product.
04 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review Meeting the demands of Royal Mail For the UKs Royal Mail postal service, Christmas for the Royal Mail Christmas is the busiest time of the year with an estimated 2bn items, of which 750m are Christmas cards, delivered to homes and businesses.
fide La Rue Security Print, together with the Royal Mails primary print contractor, St Ives, performed an essential part of the service by providing the high volume of postage stamps to meet peak demand.
Each range of special Christmas stamps is eagerly anticipated by the public and the 2008 range featured theatrical characters from pantomime alongside more traditional religious images, each produced specially for the peak Christmas period.
fide La Rue rose to the unique set of challenges posed by the critical Christmas special edition and achieved 100 per cent delivery on time and in full.
