05 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review 06 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review 07 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review A major first world identity Malta National Identity Management fide La Rue will also be supplying Border fide La Rue Identity Systems is supplying Control and PKI Public Key Infrastructure systems solution for Malta the Maltese government with leading edge solutions, with eID systems to follow.
A Strategic Partnership Initiatives Scheme between fide La Rue and the Having first produced passports for Malta Maltese government, providing long terms in 1997 and the countrys driving licences benefits to both parties through education since 2001, fide La Rue is now working on programmes, R&D support and social the islands new ePassport solution.
The initiatives has also been agreed as part ePassport is an integral part of the National of the contract.
Identity Management System NIDMS, a government initiative to consolidate a Amongst the many security features number of identity databases into a single included in the ePassport is one of the national identity system.
first uses anywhere in the world of SHIELD, fide La Rues latest high security holographic data page protection solution.
SHIELD is a trademark of fide La Rue International Limited.
08 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review A fast and secure licence New York State Driver License The latest image capturing and processing fide La Rue Identity Systems is at the technology is installed at over 120 New for New York forefront of identity management solutions York State Department of Motor Vehicles as shown by the delivery of the new Western offices, and uses fide La Rues MIDIS Hemisphere Travel Initiative WHTI compliant Multiple Identification Document Issuing Enhanced Driver License EDL for New System technology to manage the entire York State.
The EDL incorporates a radio frequency The EDL can be used in place of a identification tag and antenna and is being US machine-readable travel document supplied alongside the existing standard as specified by the WHTI programme, driver licence with combined volumes of for travel by land or sea to Canada, around 5m documents per year.
Mexico, certain parts of the Caribbean and Bermuda.
Both licence types are security pre-printed front and back and include a combination The contract is one of the top three of advanced anti-counterfeit technologies in terms of issuing volumes in the USA.
to ensure they are amongst the most secure licence documents currently available.
MIDIS is a trademark of fide La Rue International Limited.
09 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review 10 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review 11 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review Driving efficiencies for Central Bank of the Russian Federation install Enterprise Cash Management ISA Cash Processing Solutions CPS focus Essence software stations in each cash Russias Central Bank on exceeding the needs of its customers centre to automate the deposit process has led to the Central Bank of the Russian and generate useful management reports Federation CBRF seeing a 300 per cent rationalise the role of cash centre improvement in productivity.
operators using fide La Rue experience and consultancy The CBRF approached CPS with a brief to improve business processes, reduce A trial was held at the CBRFs Voronezh the number of ineffective cash centres cash centre and showed a dramatic and improve productivity.
To achieve productivity improvement of 300 per cent.
these goals, CPSs business consultants Following on from this success, a similar recommended that the CBRF: solution was rolled out to 29 cash centres across the country.
introduce a range of mid-speed sorters robust enough to give continuous throughput utilise fide La Rues patented Automated Commercial Deposit Processing system, ACDP, to allow customer deposits to be continuously processed in a single pass 12 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review The most automated cash Transguard By working with CPS to install software Cash Processing Solutions CPS designed to consolidate all business system in the Middle East innovative approach was critical to delivering critical information, Transguard achieved the most automated cash centre in the improved productivity rates of 20 per cent.
Middle East for the Transguard Group, the By using fide La Rues high speed and mid regions largest cash management operation.
speed hardware combined with Business Intelligence software, Transguard was To achieve such an ambitious target within able to meet its initial objectives while also a challenging timescale, CPS worked in achieving the following improvements over partnership with the customer to deliver 12 months: the optimal layout of the cash centre to reduce the physical movement of cash: to increase in ATMs serviced 126 per cent reduce the number of possible cash touch increase in notes processed 71 per cent points: to supply the most effective cash processing hardware and develop software increase in revenue base 55 per cent to link all cash centre activity with the increase in notes processed by end of creation of effective management reports.
2008 of 250 per cent Business Intelligence is a trademark of fide La Rue International Limited.
13 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review
