2009 sPeCiAL feAtuRe Over the past two years we have made significant improvements to our own bought product ranges.
Our mantra has been to enhance the design, quality and value of everything that we sell.
Let me tell you how we think about these three inter-dependent factors and how they run through our company.
MiChAeL shARP Deputy Chief Executive NO.
01 DesiGN at the heart of everything we do NO.
02 QuALity Its all about detail, cut and craft NO.
03 vALue Design and quality at an affordable price 11 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 2 the Business NO.
01 DesiGN at The Heart of Everything We Do Design is a synthesis of many things.
its about style and fashionability.
its about theme and trend and seasonality.
But it is also about meeting the needs of the target customer.
to ensure our design process works effectively, we put the customer at the heart of it.
from the first sketch to the last detail, our designers think about the brands prole customer and how she or he is going to use the product.
so whilst our designers for occasionwear brand Debut will be thinking about glamour and sophistication, the team working on Maine New england will focus on practicality and comfort.
we are of course fortunate at Debenhams to work with some of the worlds greatest fashion designers through the Designers at Debenhams portfolio whose combined knowledge and skill is unparalleled.
JAsPeR CONRAN grey ruffle trenchcoat from J by Jasper Conran at Designers at Debenhams.
12 Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NO.
02 QuALity Its all about Detail, Cut and Craft for Debenhams, quality is just as important as design in ensuring our customers are pleased with the products they buy from us.
Quality is about both looking great and being t for purpose.
so its about fabrics and linings and embellishment and trimmings, all of which are obvious quality clues.
And its about garments that look as good after repeated wearing and washing as they did when new, and home products that can withstand the rigours of everyday life.
we check that we are meeting our quality standards on an ongoing basis from both a formal quality assurance process and through customer feedback and testing.
JAsPeR CONRAN Jacket, shirt and tie from J by Jasper Conran at Designers at Debenhams.
13 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 2 the Business NO.
03 vALue Design and Quality at an affordable Price we think of value as being about so much more than price.
it is interesting that despite the difficult economic environment, the best performing part of our business in 2009 was Designers at Debenhams, our highest price product ranges.
why has this been the case?
we believe it is because customers are looking for the quality, longevity and versatility these products offer and not just the lowest cost option which may be cheaper but overall offer them less value for money.
Debenhams is committed to supporting its customers through the difficult economic environment and we constantly look for ways to enhance our value proposition.
ReD heRRiNG Shirt and jeans from red Herring.
14 Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chief exeCutives Review continued AN exteNsiON tO the CARDiff stORe wAs OPeNeD iN 2009 As PARt Of the stORes RefuRBishMeNt.
The store refurbishment the programme to refurbish core stores remained largely on hold in programme will 2009, although the Cardiff store was refurbished, including a sizeable recommence in the extension which provides an entrance into the new st Davids second half of 2010 shopping centre.
improvements are being made in all stores with having largely been on hold for the past year.
the introduction of new shop ts for many ranges across the store chain, especially in womenswear.
Over the past year these have included J by Jasper Conran, star by Julien Macdonald and Collection.
International Franchise Stores Debenhams business outside the uk and Republic of ireland takes the form of franchise stores operated by a number of regional franchise partners.
own brands for all ages and occasions and international brands is in During 2009, a further 11 international franchise stores were opened the best position to deliver this.
Launched in Autumn 2009, in eight countries.
these included market entry in iran and Moldova.
Debenhams has recently unveiled its new brand manifesto, design in there were 52 franchise stores in 17 countries by the end of the year, every department, symbolising the importance of design across all representing 1.7 million sq ft of trading space.
New branding has been rolled out throughout all communications, stores and our website.
it is embedded in the way whilst some of the international markets have experienced a we talk to our customers, present our products instore and online, our slowdown in consumer activity, overall we are pleased with the tone of voice and product visuals.
performance of the international business.
sales attributable to the international business increased by 13.6 per cent to 63.3 million A key pillar of this campaign is a tv digital campaign running in 2008: 55.7 million.
its contribution to total gross transaction value October and November 2009, with a subsequent product campaign increased from 2.4 per cent in 2008 to 2.7 per cent in 2009. continuing into 2010.
Multi-Channel in order to complement this focus of great product design and quality, Debenhams Direct, the online business, continued to grow in 2009.
Debenhams will continue to offer its customers exceptional value for sales were up 31.0 per cent to 55.1 million 2008: 42.1 million, money via product offers, promotions and spectaculars.
we are resulting in a contribution to total gross transaction value of 2.4 per committed to ensuring we support our customers when the economic cent 2008: 1.8 per cent.
eBitDA increased by 133 per cent.
the number of visitors to Debenhams Direct targeted communication programmes also increased by 36.8 per continue to develop further this year with We are committed to cent during the year.
increased focus on retention and growth for our Debenhams Cardholder base, acceleration of ensuring weSUPPORT During 2009 a change our email customer base, driving both online ourCUSTOMERS was made to our online and store sales, and finally the introduction of our Beauty Club Reward scheme.
the fulfilment provider when the economic outlook Debenhams Beauty Club not only allows which has improved customers to earn points on their purchases at service levels for remains challenging.
Debenhams for money-off rewards but it also customers and reduced gives them access to cosmetics samples free delivery times.
gifts, makeovers skincare consultations, instore events, exclusive products and offers.
New features added in 2009 include: zoom, video and catwalk outt projection: the launch of the online outlet from which customers Deleveraging Initiatives can access all current offers and promotions: shop by size: product the board had said for some time that reducing leverage for reviews and surveys: and social networking capability.
Priorities Debenhams was an important aim.
to this end, a capital raising was going forward will be to develop a full multi-channel offering alongside launched on 4 June 2009 and subsequently approved by shareholders at the existing online operation and these are described in more detail in a General Meeting on 23 June 2009 with new shares issued on 26 June the 2010 Preview on page 18.
2009. the capital raising took the form of a placing and open offer which was chosen due to the unusually concentrated nature of Marketing Debenhams shareholder register which contained several large Customers today are looking for unique design, great quality and shareholders who were unlikely to participate.
the choice of this exceptional value for money.
we believe that Debenhams with its structure was vindicated as the rm placing element was several times differentiating mix of Designers at Debenhams ranges, contemporary 15 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 2 the Business Chief exeCutives Review continued oversubscribed and the discount was one of the lowest seen amongst the outperformance of own bought over the past year suggests the raft of capital raisings undertaken across the market during the that customers are favourable towards these ranges and acknowledge first half of the calendar year 2009. the superior design, quality and value they offer.
this position is reinforced by the relative underperformance of concessions across the purpose of the capital raising was four-fold.
first, to reduce net the business.
debt and enhance the ability to renance in the future.
secondly, to provide an opportunity to amend existing covenants resulting in the full year impact of the 530,000 sq ft space moves undertaken greater headroom and operational and financial exibility.
thirdly, to in late 2009 early 2010 will move us a good way towards this target provide funds in order to buy back debt at below par in the market through the introduction of new ranges such as Mantaray should it become available.
finally, to improve the ability to pursue in womenswear, Bluezoo in childrenswear and the new sports and opportunistic acquisitions.
in line with these aims, the covenants on the term loan and revolving A significant part of own bought growth is expected to come from credit facility were reset as follows: net debt eBitDA of 3.75 times: Designers at Debenhams, our portfolio of aspirational brands created xed charge cover of 1.60 times NB: the metrics used in these exclusively for Debenhams by internationally renowned fashion designers.
covenants are based on uk GAAP as adjusted for covenant purposes.
they are catwalk designers, not celebrities, whose mainline collections are shown at the worlds greatest fashion events such as London fashion following the receipt of the proceeds, a 50.0 million pre-payment week.
Designers at Debenhams is a unique and important differentiator was made against the 150.0 million amortisation payment due in for Debenhams in an increasingly crowded high street.
A further 61.4 million of debt has been acquired in the market at an average discount of 5.6 per cent.
since the end of the expansion of Designers at Debenhams falls into four main categories.
year, a further 100.0 million payment has been made against the May 2010 amortisation payment.
expansion of existing designer brands: through extending designer presence to all stores and increasing the space allocated to As a result of the capital raising and organic cash generation, net debt designers in stores where they are already present to give them stood at 590.3 million at year end, 403.7 million lower than at the more authority.
introduction of existing designers into new categories such as the expansion of Buttery by Matthew williamson from accessories Strategy Update and 2010 Preview and childrenswear into womenswear.
following the successful deleveraging of Debenhams balance sheet, increasing the designer mix in under-represented categories such we are now looking forward to the next era in the Companys as home and womens footwear.
development as we move into the new financial year.
introduction of new designer brands to target market share Our strategic priorities for 2010 and the medium term are: opportunities: in 2010 these will include the launch of a new young fashion designer brand, h!
by henry holland, in 65 stores from core stores and organic growth: spring summer.
space expansion: Organic growth will also be achieved through the recommencement of the modernisation programme for core stores.
some 40 core stores multi-channel expansion and integration: and remain to be modernised.
Our priority in the first instance will be to modernise high turnover stores in large towns and this will commence balance sheet optimisation.
in the second half of 2010. we have historically generated strong returns of 25-35 per cent on modernised stores with an uplift in sales Core stores and organic growth of some 5 per cent.
As well as whole store modernisations, we will Own bought products generate signicantly higher margins than continue to ret individual brands across all stores and in 2010 these concession products even after the additional costs of stockholding, will include Red herring in womenswear and Jeff Banks in menswear.
logistics and stafng are taken into account.
for this reason, one of our key strategic aims is to increase the percentage of own bought Space Expansion merchandise sold in our stores and thereby take advantage of the Debenhams generates strong returns from new stores.
we continue to higher margins available.
believe that there are up to 240 possible locations for department stores and 100 for Desire stores in the uk and Republic of ireland.
Our target own bought sales participation is 80-85 per cent.
New stores opened in the past 12-18 months already carry some 90 per cent of own bought merchandise and are trading well.
16 Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009 the iMPORtANCe Of DetAiL Detail is just as important where only you can see it.
ruched bra and shorts by red Herring.
17 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 2 the Business Chief exeCutives Review continued however, as the difficult economic environment has been impacting Balance Sheet Optimisation new property developments for some time there may be some delay to the Groups balance sheet was substantially delevered following the anticipated store openings in the medium term.
capital raising in June which substantially reduced net debt.
the balance sheet must be structured effectively to maintain an six new stores are scheduled to open during 2010, comprising three appropriate balance between exibility on the one hand and department stores and three Desire stores, two of which have opened minimising interest costs on the other.
these include a agship store in Newcastle upon tyne which is due to open in february.
in total, these openings will in July, a pre-payment of 50.0 million was made against the add some further 300,000 sq ft of trading space.
150.0 million term loan amortisation payment that is due in May 2010.
A further 61.4 million of debt was acquired in the market space growth is also anticipated outside the uk and ireland through before the end of the year at an average discount of 5.6 per cent.
since the international franchise stores.
A further five stores are scheduled the end of the year, a further pre-payment of 100.0 million has been to open in five countries during 2010. made against the amortisation payment due in May 2010.
Multi-Channel Expansion and Integration we will continue to look for accretive acquisitions which may involve the Debenhams online store, www.
com, has been adding further operating units to leverage our existing infrastructure growing steadily.
New features and services are added on a regular or acquiring brands to reverse into our existing units whilst reducing costs and expanding margins.
basis and over the past year these have included: zoom, video and catwalk outt project: the launch of the online outlet from which Current Trading customers can access all current offers and promotions: shop by size: for the seven weeks to 17 October 2009, gross transaction value product reviews and surveys: and social network capability.
we are increased by 2.8 per cent over the previous year.
Like-for-like sales now looking to accelerate sales growth from our online business by grew by 0.6 per cent.
Gross margin and cash margin were both ahead developing a full multi-channel business which integrates online and of last year.
instore shopping and drives additional trafc to the online store.
Outlook the key components of this, all of which are expected to be fully the outlook for consumer behaviour remains hard to predict.
operational by the end of 2010, are as follows: however, we are encouraged by the response of customers to the changes we have made to our offer.
Our focus will continue to be on website refresh and ease of shopping improvements: the drivers of cash profit.
we will also be investing for the future debenhams.
com will benefit from a new look and improvements to through the opening of new stores, development of our multi-channel its ease of shopping meaning that customers can get to their business and recommencement of the store modernisation programme.
using afliates to drive additional trafc to debenhams.
com: stores will be launched on afliate sites such as Amazon on a trial basis during the autumn.
Looking further out, we will look to develop websites for individual brands which would be available through afliates, including some of the Designers at Debenhams brands.
instore ordering: enabling customers to order instore for delivery at home will improve ranging in small stores and availability in all stores.
Assisted facilities are available in all stores and self-service kiosks are being rolled out over the next year.
Collect from store: this will enable customers to collect goods they have ordered online from their local store.
international delivery: we know from the success of our international franchise stores that Debenhams products are attractive to overseas customers.
international deliveries will be available to a range of countries from late autumn.
18 Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
