dIreCTorS rePorT Principal Activities debenhams is a leading department store group with a strong presence in womenswear, menswear, home, health and beauty, accessories, lingerie and childrenswear.
a unique mix of exclusive own brands, including designers at debenhams, and third-party brands helps differentiate debenhams from its competitors.
debenhams had 1 stores including ten desire by debenhams stores, across the UK and Ireland with approximately 11.0 million sq ft of trading space and some 28,000 employees as at 29 august 2009.
In addition, debenhams has 2 international franchise stores in 17 countries outside the UK and Ireland.
debenhams also extends its customer reach by making direct sales through its internet website www.
Business Review This review has been prepared in accordance with the Companies act 2006 which requires the Company to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 29 august 2009, including an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year and the trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the business.
The purpose of the Business review is to enable shareholders to assess how the directors have performed their duty under section 172 of the Companies act 2006.
The contents of this directors report, together with the Chairmans Statement, the Chief executives review, the Finance directors review, the Corporate responsibility review which can be found on pages to, Principal Business risks and Uncertainties on pages 6 to 8, the remuneration report on pages 7 to and the directors responsibility Statement on page constitute the Business review and are therefore incorporated into this report by reference.
any liability is restricted to the extent prescribed by the Companies act 2006.
Events Since the Year End Since the year end debenhams has opened two desire by debenhams stores, one in Kidderminster and one in Monks Cross.
profit and Dividends The profit after tax for the financial year ending 29 august 2009 was 9.
The board did not declare an interim dividend 2008: 2. pence per share and has not proposed a final dividend for 2009 2008: 0. pence per share.
Share Capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company are shown in note 27 to the Financial Statements on pages 86 and 87. on 2 June 2009, the authorised share capital of the Company was increased from 128,8 6.1 to 167,28.
82 in connection with the placing and open offer, the details of which were set out in the prospectus published on June 2009. as a result of the approval of the placing and open offer on 2 June 2009, 0, 981,28 ordinary shares of 0.01 pence per share were issued on 26 June 2009.
Major Shareholders as at 22 october 2009, debenhams plc has received notication of the following significant holdings of voting rights pursuant to the disclosure and Transparency rules: Issued share Number of capital Shareholder shares % artemis Investment Management Ltd 128,099,72 9.9 TPG Group 120,220,261 9.
Bestinver Gestion S. a. SGIIC 108,762,9 6 8.
Milestone resources Group Ltd 89,18, 1 6.9 Standard Life Investments Ltd 77, 9, 99 6.02 aXa S. a.
27 9 Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 Section 3 Management and Governance dIreCTorS rePorT continued Share Capital and Control The authorised and issued share capital of the Company are shown in note 27 to the Financial Statements on pages 86 and 87 and consist of ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each.
all the shares rank pari passu.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys articles of association, a copy of which can be obtained by writing to the Company Secretary.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the January 2009 annual General Meeting aGM to purchase in the market up to 87, 77,0 2 ordinary shares.
although this authority was not utilised by the Company during the last financial year, approval will be sought from shareholders at the forthcoming aGM to renew this standard authority for a further year.
It is the Companys present intention, should shares be bought back, for them to be cancelled or retained in treasury pending a subsequent sale, cancellation or transfer.
The Company does not currently hold any shares in treasury.
The Company will only buy back shares if the directors believe that it is in shareholders best interests and will increase earnings per share.
Changes to the articles of association must be approved by special resolution of the Company.
New articles are being proposed at this years aGM to reect principally the changes imposed by the Companies Shareholders rights regulations 2009 and the Companies act 2006. explanatory notes relating to these changes are included in the appendix to the Notice of Meeting that accompanies this report.
The debenhams retail employee Trust 200 holds 1, 1, 6 ordinary shares in the Company 0.11 per cent : any voting or other similar decisions relating to those shares would be taken by the trustees, who may take account of any recommendations of the Company.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the Company except that the supplier agreements with major cosmetic suppliers contain termination provisions on change of control and the Credit agreement dated 19 april 2006 as amended by supplemental agreements dated 28 November 2007 and June 2009 in respect of the 1, 0 million credit facility contains mandatory pre-payment.
There are no agreements providing for compensation for directors or employees on change of control.
details concerning the impact on share options and share awards held by directors or employees in the event of a change of control are set out on page 0 of the remuneration report.
Essential Contracts debenhams has contractual arrangements with many organisations but no one contract is so material as to be essential to our business with the exception of our warehouse operators.
Board of Directors The membership of the board and biographical details of the directors are given on pages and and are incorporated into this report by reference.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of the board members are set out in the Companys articles of association.
Directors Indemnities In addition to the indemnity provisions in their articles of association, the Company and other Group companies have entered into a direct indemnity agreement with each of the directors and certain other ofcers or senior employees of the Group.
The Company also maintains directors and ofcers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action that may be brought against its directors.
Directors Interests The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors and their connected persons in the shares of the Company are shown on page 2 of the remuneration report.
Their interests in options and awards over shares in the Company are shown on page of the same report.
No director had, during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of signicance in relation to the Groups business.
Payment of Suppliers It is the Companys policy to pay suppliers in accordance with the agreed payment terms provided that the invoice is properly presented and not subject to dispute.
The ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts owed by the Company to trade creditors at the end of the year and the amounts invoiced by suppliers in the financial year ended 29 august 2009 was nil days 2008: nil days.
The ratio, expressed in days between the amounts owed by the Group to trade creditors and the amount invoiced by suppliers in the financial year ended 29 august 2009 was 7 days 2008: 8 days.
Financial Instruments debenhams does not enter into financial instruments for speculative trade.
details of financial instruments entered into for underlying risks are set out in note 22 on pages 78 to 81.
Political Donations It is the Groups policy not to make donations to political parties.
There were no disclosable expenses made during the financial year which fall within the denition of a political donation under the Political Parties, elections and referendums act 2000.
0 Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 Charitable Giving details of the Companys charitable activities are given in the Corporate responsibility review on page.
The Group made direct donations for charitable purposes in the financial year of 12, 906 to the Breast Cancer Campaign 2008: 122,628, 210, 81 to the NSPCC 2008: nil, 6, to the debenhams retirement association 2008: 60,000 and 10,000 to the Marine Conservation Society 2008: 10,000.
Going Concern after making enquiries, the directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Corporate Governance Statement In accordance with the Financial Services authoritys disclosure and Transparency rule dTr 7.2.
1, the disclosures required by dTr 7.2.
7 are within the Corporate Governance review on pages 2 to 6 of this report which is incorporated into this report by reference.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors each of the directors of the Company at the time when this directors report was approved confirms that: a so far as the director is aware, there is no information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and b s he has taken all the steps that s he ought to have taken as a director in order to make him herself aware of any information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing the report and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in ofce and a resolution dealing with their reappointment as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming aGM.
Annual General Meeting AGM The aGM of debenhams plc will be held at holborn Gate, 26 Southampton Buildings, London WC2a 1PB on Tuesday 12 January 2010 at 2pm.
The Notice is given, together with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
By order of the board PAuL EARDLEY Company Secretary 22 october 2009 1 Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 Section 3 Management and Governance
