The Board 123 4 5 6 789 Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 1 John Lovering 5 Paul Pindar Chairman 60 Independent Non-Executive Director 50 John Lovering has been the Chairman of the Company since May Paul Pindar became a director of the Company in april 2006 and was 2006.
Prior to the IPo in May 2006 he was Chairman of debenhams appointed Senior Independent non-executive director in april 2009.
Limited having been appointed in december 200.
Mr Lovering is a he is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
he has been former Chairman of Fitness First Limited, the Laurel Pub Company Chief executive of The Capita Group plc since 1999 having joined Limited, odeon Limited, homebase Group Limited, Fired earth Capita in 1987. he is currently Chairman of the Corporate Limited, the Peacock Group, Somereld Limited and Birthdays development Board for the Great ormond Street hospital.
he was also previously Chief operating officer of Tarmac Limited, Finance director of Sears Limited and Vice 6 Adam Crozier Chairman of Barclays Capital.
Independent Non-Executive Director 45 adam Crozier became a director of the Company in april 2006 and 2 Rob Templeman was appointed Chairman of the remuneration Committee in april Chief Executive 52 2009.
Mr Crozier is currently Chief executive of royal Mail holdings rob Templeman became Chief executive of the Company in May plc and a non-executive director of Camelot Group plc.
Prior to the IPo he was Chief executive of debenhams Limited was Chief executive of the Football association Limited and has held having been appointed in december 200.
Previously MrTempleman a number of senior positions at Saatchi & Saatchi UK including Joint was Chief executive and subsequently Chairman of halfords Group Chief executive.
plc, Chief executive officer of homebase Group plc and Chief executive officer of harveys Furnishing plc.
7 Martina King Independent Non-Executive Director 48 3 Michael Sharp Martina King joined the Company on 1 august 2009.
Ms King Deputy Chief Executive 52 is currently a non-executive director of Capita Group Plc, Independent Michael Sharp was appointed deputy Chief executive in November Media distribution Plc and Johnston Press Plc.
her former 2008 having previously held the post of Chief operating officer since appointments include Managing director, europe of Yahoo Limited May 2006.
From 1997 to 200, Mr Sharp was Trading director of and Sales director and then Managing director of Capital radio.
Ms debenhams Limited and from January 200 to May 2006 was Chief King is also a trustee of Coram and Governor of Woodbridge School.
operating officer of debenhams Limited.
he previously worked in various capacities within the Burton Group, including as Managing 8 Dennis Millard director of Principles and racing Green and Buying and Independent Non-Executive Director 60 Merchandising director of Topshop and Topman.
dennis Millard became a director of the Company in april 2006 and is Chairman of the audit Committee.
Mr Millard is also Chairman of 4 Chris Woodhouse halfords Group plc and Smiths News plc and a non-executive director Finance Director 48 of Xchanging UK Limited and Premier Farnell plc.
his former Chris Woodhouse has been the Finance director of the Company appointments include Group Finance director of Cookson Group plc, since May 2006.
Prior to the IPo in May 2006 he was Finance Finance director of Medeva plc and non-executive director of exel director of debenhams Limited having been appointed in december plc, arc International and eaG Ltd. Mr Millard is a member of the 200.
MrWoodhouse is currently Group non-executive Chairman of South african Institute of Chartered accountants.
he was previously deputy Chairman of halfords Group and Commercial director and deputy Chief 9 Sophie Turner Laing executive at homebase Group.
he is a former Finance director of Independent Non-Executive Director 49 Birthdays Group and Superdrug Stores.
MrWoodhouse is a Fellow of Sophie Turner Laing joined the Company on 1 august 2009.
She is the Institute of Chartered accountants in england and Wales and an currently Managing director, entertainment and News at British Sky associate of the association of Corporate Treasurers.
In addition, she is a trustee of BaFTa and a governor of the National Film & TV School.
her previous roles include Controller, Programme acquisition at the BBC and VicePresident, Broadcasting at Flextech now Virgin Media Television.
Ms Turner Laing was also Co-founder and Managing director of hiT entertainment.
Member of the audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the remuneration Committee Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 Section 3 Management and Governance
