com Senior Management 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 Martin Riley 2 Mike Eldred 3 Mike Annice 4 Peter Graham 5 Susan Longhofer 6 Barbara Johnson 7 Zoe Goulding Martin Riley Canine Diabetes Mellitus.
He contributed to the initial commercialisation Managing Director, National Veterinary Services of biochemistry and endocrinology lab services at the University of Glasgow.
Between 1995 and 2002, Peter was Assistant Professor at Aged 45, Martin was appointed Managing Director of National Veterinary the worlds largest specialist veterinary endocrinology laboratory in Services in 2005.
A graduate of the Welsh Agricultural College in Michigan State University, USA, leading it as Section Chief from 2000.
He Aberystwyth, Martin has extensive knowledge of the animal healthcare was awarded Diplomate of the European College of Veterinary Clinical and veterinary sectors.
Before joining the Group, he previously held Pathologists in 2002. several senior positions over an 18 year period with the pharmaceutical manufacturer Merial Animal Health.
Dr Susan Longhofer DVM, MS, DipACVIM Product Development and Regulatory Affairs Director Mike Eldred BA, MBA President, US Operations, Dechra Veterinary Products Aged 51, Susan joined the Group in June 2005.
She has 20 years industry experience in development and worldwide registration of animal health Aged 39, Mike was appointed in November 2004 to head up the Groups pharmaceuticals, having worked for multinational corporations including sales and marketing drive in the United States.
He has over 12 years Virbac Corporation, Heska Corporation and Merck Research Laboratories.
professional experience in the US animal health sector, having held Her veterinary degree is from Texas A&M University and her MS is from senior positions in business development, sales and operations at Virbac the University of Wisconsin, Madison.
She was awarded Diplomate Corporation, and international marketing and operational positions at Fort status in the American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine in 1992.
Mike began his career with Sanofi Animal Health She has held a number of Academic and Professional Honours including where he managed the pharmaceutical and biological production planning membership on the Board of Directors of the American Heartworm activities.
Society and the Executive Council of the American Academy of Veterinary Pharmacology and Therapeutics.
Mike Annice BSc Hons, MRPharmS Managing Director, Dales Pharmaceuticals Barbara Johnson Chartered MCIPD Aged 49, Mike graduated from The School of Pharmacy at Aston Group HR Director University in 1980.
Prior to joining Dales in 1990 as Site Manager, Aged 48, Barbara joined the Group in April 2008.
Prior to joining Dechra he worked within the Hospital Pharmacy Service, Glaxo and SSS she had 19 years human resources management experience within the International formerly Cupal Pharmaceuticals.
He was appointed food and drink industry covering manufacturing, retail, wholesale and Technical Director at the time of the Groups MBO.
Barbara has previously worked for Allied Domecq plc, Geest Managing Director at Dales in March 2002. plc and most recently Nicholl Food Packaging Limited.
Prior to joining private industry, Barbara served for 10 years in the British Army.
Dr Peter Graham BVMS, PhD, CertVR, DipECVCP, MRCVS Managing Director of NationWide Laboratories Zoe Goulding LLB Hons and Cambridge Specialist Laboratory Services Company Secretary and Solicitor Aged 41, Peter was appointed Managing Director of NationWide Aged 35, Zoe was appointed as Company Secretary in July 2007.
She Laboratories and Cambridge Specialist Laboratory Services in 2003.
Peter qualified as a solicitor in April 2000.
Prior to joining the Group she worked graduated from the University of Glasgow Vet School in 1989, where at Eversheds LLP and Brammer plc.
he remained as Small Animal House Physician and Research Scholar until 1995.
During this period he was awarded the RCVS Certificate in Veterinary Radiology and a PhD on the Epidemiology and Management of 39 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
