Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Report The Directors present their report and audited financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2009.
Principal Activity, Business Review and Future Developments The Company acts as a holding company to all the Groups subsidiaries.
The Pharmaceuticals Division develops, markets and sells veterinary pharmaceuticals and specialist pet diets into international companion animal markets.
Additionally, the Pharmaceuticals Division manufactures the majority of the Groups own branded pharmaceutical products and manufactures both veterinary and human pharmaceuticals on a contract basis for third parties.
The Groups Services Division distributes veterinary products, including pharmaceuticals, specialist pet diets and instruments to veterinary practices within the United Kingdom.
The Chairmans Statement and the Directors Business Review on pages 12 to 35 provide a review of the Groups business, likely future developments and include information in respect of: l Development and performance of the Group in the year: l Principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group: and l Financial and Non-Financial Key Performance Indicators used to measure the Groups performance.
Details of the Groups policy in relation to its employees, health, safety and environment are disclosed on pages 59 to 62, and details of the Groups policies in relation to Corporate Governance are disclosed on pages 44 to 48.
Share Capital The authorised share capital of the Company as at 30 June 2009 was 1,000,000 divided into 100,000,000 ordinary shares of 1p each.
As at the end of the financial year, 65,581,924 fully paid ordinary shares were in issue which included 340,015 ordinary shares issued during the year in connection with the exercise of options under the Companys share option schemes.
Each share carries the right to one vote on a poll at a general meeting of the Company and are all listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are contained within the Articles of Association see following page, a copy of which can be obtained by writing to the Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of shares in the Company, nor are there any requirements to obtain prior approval in respect of any transfers of the shares.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements which limit the transfer of shares or curtail the voting rights attached to those shares.
As at the date of this Report 65.6% of the authorised share capital was issued.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 7 November 2008, the Company was authorised to purchase up to 6,524,191 of its ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company at 30 June 2008.
No shares were purchased under this authority during the financial year.
A resolution will be put to Shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to renew this authority for a further period of one year.
Under the proposed authority shares purchased may be either cancelled or held in treasury.
The Directors require authority from Shareholders to allot unissued share capital to the Company and to disapply shareholders statutory pre-emption rights.
Such authorities were granted at the 2008 Annual General Meeting and resolutions to renew these authorities will be proposed at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Results and Dividends The results for the year and financial position at 30 June 2009 are shown in the consolidated income statement on page 68 and balance sheet on page 69.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 6.10p per share which, if approved by Shareholders, will be paid on 11 December 2009 to Shareholders registered at 13 November 2009.
An interim dividend of 3.00p per share was paid on 9 April 2009, making a total dividend for the year of 9.10p 2008: 8.25p.
Directors The Constitution of the Board and of its Committees, together with biographical notes on the Directors, is shown on page 38.
Details of Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings and a statement on Board Evaluation is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 to 48.
The Company Articles of Association require one-third of the Board to retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and also if they have held office for more than 36 months since appointed or last elected.
Therefore, Simon Evans and Malcolm Diamond retire by rotation and, 40 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Stock code: DPH www.
com being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Further detail in respect of the proposed re-elections can be found in the enclosed Circular to Shareholders.
The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 58.
During the year no Director had a disclosable material interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Information in relation to the Directors remuneration is disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 58.
The Articles of Association state that a Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the Shareholders or by the Directors, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board but so that the total number of Directors does not exceed the maximum number of Directors allowed pursuant to the Articles of Association.
The maximum number of Directors currently allowed pursuant to the Articles of Association is ten.
The Articles of Association also state that the Board of Directors is responsible for the management of the business of the Company and in doing so may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant legislation and the Companys constitutional documentation.
The powers of the Directors set out in the Articles of Association include those in relation to the issue and buy-back of shares.
Articles of Association Amendments to the Articles of Association must be approved by a general meeting of the Shareholders in accordance with current legislation.
The Directors are proposing to adopt new Articles of Association in order to update the Companys constitutional documents, primarily to take account of changes in English Law.
Details of the resolution to adopt new Articles of Association are included in the Circular to Shareholders.
A copy of the proposed new Articles of Association will be available for inspection at the offices of DLA Piper UK LLP, 3 Noble Street, London, EC2V 7EE, during normal business hours from 16 September until the date of the Annual General Meeting on 6 November 2009.
A copy will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Political and Charitable Contributions Charitable donations made during the year amounted to 2,921 2008: 2,040.
No political donations were made during the year 2008: Nil.
Research and Development The Group has a structured development programme with the aim of identifying and bringing to market new pharmaceutical products.
Investment in development is seen as key to further strengthen the Groups competitive position.
The expense on this activity for the year ended 30 June 2009 was 3,433,000 2008: 2,408,000 and a further 785,000 less 267,000 amortisation 2008: 1,331,000 less 123,000 amortisation was capitalised as development costs.
Employees The Group has a policy of offering equal opportunities to employees at all levels in respect of conditions of work.
Throughout the Group it is the intention of the Directors to provide possible employment opportunities and training for disabled people and employees who become disabled, having due regard to aptitude and abilities.
Further details can be found in the Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities Statement on pages 59 to 62.
Acquisitions There have been no acquisitions during the year under review.
41 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Report continued Suppliers The Company does not follow any code of practice or standard regarding the payment of suppliers but seeks to agree the terms of payment with suppliers prior to the placing of business and it is the Companys policy to settle liabilities by the due date.
At 30 June 2009, the Group had an average of 65 days 2008: 73 days purchases outstanding in creditors.
The Company had an average of nil days 2008: nil days purchases outstanding in creditors.
Significant Agreements The Company has entered into a number of significant agreements which ordinarily would be terminable upon a change of control of the Company, such as: Banking facilities agreement: and Various distribution, supply and manufacturing agreements.
Substantial Shareholdings In accordance with the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority, as at 21 August 2009 the Company had been notified of the following interests exceeding the 3% notification threshold: % of No.
of Shares Shares Held Schroder Investment Management 13,521,778 20.62 Legal & General Investment Management 4,074,706 6.21 Rathbone Unit Trust Management 3,403,066 5.19 BlackRock Investment Management 3,117,067 4.75 Artemis Investment Management 2,516,913 3.84 Insight Investment 2,422,405 3.69 Threadneedle Investments 2,417,881 3.69 Standard Life Investments 2,060,318 3.14 Invesco Perpetual 2,031,616 3.10 As at 1 September 2009 the Company had not been notified of any further changes in holdings.
Audit Information Each of the Directors who held office at the date of the approval of this Directors Report confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have undertaken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Conflicts of Interest At the 2008 Annual General Meeting the Shareholders approved a resolution to amend the current Articles of Association so as to enable the Directors to authorise any actual or potential conflict of interest which could arise.
There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only Independent Directors i. e. those who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors will also be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
During the year under review no actual or potential conflicts have arisen.
com Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements can be found on page 63.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 14 to 35.
The principal risks that may affect the Groups future performance are set out on page 35.
As described in notes 20 and 21 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Group had total committed bank facilities of 52.5 million at 30 June 2009 including an unutilised overdraft facility of 10 million.
The Group also had cash balances of 26.8 million.
The overdraft facility is renewable on 31 August 2010.
All other bank facilities are committed until at least December 2012.
Although the Group has been affected by the current economic conditions, trading has continued to be robust with strong improvements in profitability and cash flow being recorded.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Directors and Officers Liability The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance whereby Directors are indemnified against liabilities to third parties to the extent permitted by the Companies Act.
The Directors also benefited from qualifying third party indemnity provisions in place during the financial year and at the date of this report.
A copy of the indemnity provisions will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
The contracts of employment or letters of appointment of the Directors and employees of the Company do not provide for compensation for loss of office that occurs because of a takeover.
Annual General Meeting The 2009 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 9.00 am on 6 November 2009.
In accordance with the Combined Code the notice of the meeting together with the Annual Report and financial statements are posted to Shareholders at least 20 working days before the Annual General Meeting.
The package sent to Shareholders includes a summary of the business to be covered at the Annual General Meeting.
A separate resolution is prepared for each substantive matter.
Where a vote is taken on a show of hands, the level of proxies received for and against the resolution and any abstentions are disclosed at the meeting and will be made available as soon as reasonably practicable after the meeting on the Company website at www.
The notice of meeting, which includes the special business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting, is included within the Circular to Shareholders.
By order of the Board Zoe Goulding Company Secretary 1 September 2009 43 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
