Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 36 About this report Reporting programme We have published corporate citizenship reports annually since 2003, the last being dated Scope September 2008.
No fundamental This report covers the global changes have been made to the business or our reporting this year operations of Diageo plc in the fi financial year ended 30 June 2009 that would invalidate comparison with the 2008 report.
and was published in September 2009.
Dates refer to fi financial years The corporate citizenship report is one element of Diageos unless otherwise stated.
Financial and employee information applies regular reporting.
Further A GRI content index, which locates information, which may help in to the whole of Diageo on the information within the report with same basis as in Diageos annual understanding the sustainability of reference to GRI requirements, Diageos business, is given in other report.
Community data cover is available on our website.
G3 wholly-owned Diageo businesses documents including the annual Stakeholder views defi fines a number of application report and material published on as well as locally-quoted levels for reports and allows selfcompanies and joint ventures in our website.
We welcome stakeholders views assessment against them.
We have The corporate citizenship which Diageo has a controlling on our report and on our approach assessed our report as A. share: environmental data cover report on the website includes to sustainability.
org production and distribution sites numerous links to additional includes a card on which readers and large offi ce locations those at supporting material including can rate how well it meets the GRI External assurance which at least 50 employees are videos, sound recordings principles mentioned above.
There based within the same businesses and documents.
is also a response page on the To provide added confi dence in and include the Gleneagles Hotel website.
We received 131 responses the quality of the information in in Scotland.
concerning last years report, Reporting standards this report, we commissioned mostly from shareholders.
When Corporate Citizenship to give an We aspire to best practice in asked if they would prefer to be Audience and content external opinion as to whether reporting and aim to provide an sent a summary of the report with Diageos performance and account of Diageo that allows The report is intended for all of the the full version available only on progress during the year have companys stakeholders.
Copies are readers to track our performance the internet, 38% said yes, 52% said been accurately portrayed as well over time and make comparisons made available to employees and no and 10% were undecided.
as point out the strengths and shareholders and distributed with other companies.
We have To give your comments on weaknesses of the document to prepared this report with reference selectively to other stakeholder this report, use the reply card help us improve our reports in the groups.
It is available through the to the third version of the GRI which can be returned from any future.
This assessment is given in Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Diageo website.
country without a postage stamp summary on page 37 and in full on We have prepared this report known as G3.
In addition, we have by applying the G3 guidelines of write to: Director of corporate asked Corporate Citizenship to the Global Reporting Initiative GRI.
social responsibility, Diageo plc, comment on whether the GRI G3 Our aim was to cover all signifi cant 8 Henrietta Place, London sustainability reporting guidelines topics of common concern to our W1G 0NB, United Kingdom.
In determining these, we have been guided by the GRI principles of materiality including Ratings of the Corporate Citizenship whats important, stakeholder Report 2008 % inclusiveness responding to the Materiality reasonable interests of all groups, sustainability context presenting Stakeholder performance against a background inclusiveness of sustainability and completeness including suffi cient information.
Sustainability context Topics included and the emphasis they have been given in Designed by sasdesign.
co. uk Completeness the report were determined by Photography of cover and pages 6 and 18 by Mark Tomaras, Tim Bishop senior specialists within Diageo, Style and Chris Moyse.
whose task was to interpret our Printed by CTD on behalf of RR Donnelly values, policies and strategy, on Munken Polar, an FSC Mixed Sources Diageos stakeholder views and broader product group from well managed forests citizenship societal expectations.
It was 0 25 50 75 100 produced at a mill that is certifi ed to the A small number of errors in Very good ISO14001 environmental management reporting or calculation have made Good standard and to the EMAS environmental OK it necessary to restate some data management standard No S-000248.
The eff ect of Very poor these changes was minimal.
