Profile Society Environment Economy Governance 1 Co m m i tte d to our values Our values We are passionate about consumers Our curiosity and consumer insights drive our growth.
We cherish our brands: we are creative and courageous in When we are faced with a challenging business climate, this is not the time pursuing their full for panic measures.
Rather, it is an opportunity to reaffi rm our commitment potential.
These fundamental principles guide us in setting policy, our innovative, constantly ways of working and our dealings with others in good times and in bad.
We value each other The sustainability of a business is rightly a matter of concern to its stakeholders.
We seek and benefi t from Employees put a high price on job satisfaction, investors look for dependable diverse people and returns, while communities and governments value a stable and supportive perspectives.
We strive business presence in their economies.
Such stakeholders often ask whether the to create mutually fulfi lling relationships and work we do in support of sustainability for example, encouraging responsible partnerships.
drinking, making environmental improvements or supporting our communities will be cut back in times of fi financial uncertainty.
We give ourselves the The answer is that all business decisions including those that involve freedom to succeed investing in these areas must be made in the light of available resources, We trust each other, we are open and seek and these are inevitably more stretched when economic growth falters.
challenge, and we Nevertheless, such pressures will not deafen us to stakeholders concerns, respond quickly to the compromise our values, divert us from our policies or commitments or opportunities this creates.
undermine our principles of responsible business.
At the core of this report is an account of these values and the actions we have taken, and continue to take, We are proud of what we do and how we do it to support the sustainability of our business through whatever economic We act responsibly with conditions we encounter.
the highest standards We know that we cannot change the world on our own.
participation and continuing support for the UN Global Compact and its CEO Water Mandate, we can both learn from others and show leadership for We strive to be the best example, through the huge ambition of our Learning for Life programme and We are always learning, always improving.
We set 1 Million Challenge described on pages 1112 and the big strides we have made high standards, we stretch and plan to make in relation to the environment starting on page 18. to exceed them and we We know the power of acting with others.
Our community investment and celebrate success.
responsible drinking programmes benefi t hugely from the expertise that NGO, industry, government and other partners can bring.
And this year we endorsed a number of business declarations that called on world leaders to take action.
These included one to mark the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and two on climate change the Poznan Communiqu and Caring for Climate.
That challenging times are an opportunity to reaffi rm a commitment to fundamental values is as true for governments as it is for companies.
We recently joined with others to urge the leaders of the G20 nations, meeting in London in April 2009, to renounce protectionist measures and instead to stimulate world We know the trade which, for six decades, has done so much to reduce poverty and create the power of working with others conditions in which the Millennium Development Goals might be achieved.
In total, we hope this report paints a compelling picture of Diageo as a good corporate citizen.
We welcome your views on the way weve reported the issues that interest or concern you, and on our development as a sustainable business.
Dr Franz B Humer, Chairman Paul S Walsh, Chief executive
