Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 26 Investment and creating value Distribution of cash value added 2009 Other Income Creating value We use a cash value added statement to demonstrate the value we add to the goods and services we buy in the course of creating our brands.
The statement also shows Cash received how this value is distributed to our Goods and stakeholders in return for their from other Diageo services contribution to our business.
In this customers section we examine the three most signifi cant recipients of cash value added governments, investors and employees.
Community R&D 0.2% 0.3% As well as these three groups, value fl ows to banks and other lenders as well as to community investment.
We invest the remaining cash value added for the benefi t of Cash value Retained Lenders stakeholders in the future either 7.2% 7.9% for growth added in research and development or by retaining it in our business for growth, acquiring new businesses or brands and capital spending on plant and buildings.
4% In its own 2009 Value Added Scoreboard, the UK Department for Business Innovation & Skills ranked Governments the top 750 European companies 49.9% according to the wealth they created, as measured by value added using a measure slightly diff erent from ours.
This year, Diageo was the fourth biggest creator of value in the beverage sector, behind AB InBev, SABMiller and Heineken, and came top for wealth creation effi ciency value added divided by the cost of labour and equipment.
Cash value added statement 2009 2008 2007 million million million Cash from customers 12,283 10,643 9,917 Other income 214 155 131 Subtotal 12,497 10,798 10,048 Cost of goods and services 5,344 4,540 4,123 Cash value added 7,153 6,258 5,925 Alcohol taxes 2,972 2,553 2,436 Other taxes 595 447 436 Subtotal paid to governments as tax 3,567 3,000 2,872 Paid to employees for their services 1,247 1,122 999 Paid to investors for providing capital 1,224 1,865 2,263 Retained for growth 562 146 525 Paid to lenders as return on borrowings 513 376 278 Community investment 23 24 21 Research and development 17 17 17 Distribution of cash value added 7,153 6,258 5,925 Note: cash value added is calculated using income statement amounts for the year and does not represent cash received during the year.
Profile Society Environment Economy Governance Investment and creating value 27 T he rationalisation of the excise tax regime has focused on achieving simplicity in administration and enforcement, ensuring a steady stream of revenue, Arranging our discouraging tax evasion tax aff airs and smuggling, curtailing We have responsibilities to the consumption of governments as well as other harmful products and stakeholders and acknowledge removing the distortions.
this by seeking to conduct our tax Mr Kwadwo Baah-Wiredu, aff airs according to clear principles.
Ghanaian minister of fi finance We are committed to pay tax Returns for investors and economic planning, according to the law: to protect Budget Statement, November 2008 Over 90% of Diageo stock is owned and grow value for shareholders: by institutions, the remainder and to maintain good and honest being held by private investors working relationships with tax including thousands of current and The complex alcohol taxation authorities, sharing our views on Governments former employees.
As a return on system in Ghana levied high taxes tax laws with them either directly and public policy the capital they provide to the on premium brands, which we or through trade associations.
business, shareholders received Payments to governments, in the thought was unfair.
We worked Where we have a choice as to the third biggest slice of the value form of taxation, accounted for the with the government to show that where in the world our operating added distribution in 2009, in the largest slice of the added value basing tax on the alcohol content profi ts and hence tax liabilities form of dividends 870 million we generated during the year, of beverages rather than on their arise, we make the decision on and share buy-backs 354 million.
amounting to 3.6 billion or 50% sales value would make it easier to a combination of commercial We set the balance between the of the total.
In some countries, collect and yield at least as much strategy, the business implications level of dividends and number of the tax Diageo pays represents revenue.
Having implemented the and levels of taxation.
The resulting share buy-backs at a point that a signifi cant proportion of the change, the Ghanaian Revenue profi ts are made in the territories makes the total return to investors governments income.
Agencies Governing Board where our assets, activities and as effi cient as possible.
A total of In addition to this direct presented Diageo with a platinum risks are located.
21.2 billion has been returned to contribution to the public purse, award for tax compliance and for Transactions between shareholders in dividends and our businesses pay other taxes our contribution to excise revenue Diageo subsidiaries based in buy-backs since Diageo was such as local and business taxes: mobilisation.
diff erent countries are priced on formed 12 years ago.
our consumers pay sales taxes We deal with government an arms-length basis as if the Investors who wish to take a such as VAT: our employees and departments either directly or subsidiaries were unrelated companys corporate citizenship investors pay income taxes: and through trade associations which companies, in accordance with approach and performance into our suppliers and customers pay provide us with a platform to the OECD Model Tax Convention.
account when selecting shares corporate taxes which arise as a share our views on industry-wide Consequently, the authorities in issues for example, the Scotch have a number of sources of result of the business we generate the two countries receive a fair information including the indices in these companies.
In aggregate, Whisky Association, Gin & Vodka allocation of tax from the profi ts Association, British Beer & Pub described on page 35, which aim these direct and indirect arising from the transaction to compare companies based contributions, which we have not Association, Alcohol Beverage and the same profi ts are not Federation of Ireland, Distilled on published and requested quantifi ed, represent the total tax taxed twice.
Spirits Council of the United States, European Spirits Organisation, Some Diageo companies Fair systems and levels of tax off er a proportion of their shares are an important issue for our Distilled Spirits Industry Council of Australia, Association of Canadian on local stock markets, providing conversations with governments access to their equity to local around the world as are other Distillers and many others.
In April the leaders of the G20 investors, including employees.
issues that impact our business We value the participation of these such as barriers to free market countries held a summit meeting in London, hosted by the UK prime shareholders as they bring local access, the regulation of the market knowledge to the business and for alcohol beverages, community minister, Gordon Brown.
Diageo played a leadership role in framing strengthen direct contacts with programmes, national alcohol the community.
policies see page 10 and and advocating a clear industry stance on reigniting world trade responsible drinking campaigns.
