Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 28 28 The year in pictures Scotland Our winter road safety campaign is run with Central FM and the Central Scotland Police, who have reported 18% fewer drivers over the limit in the last three years success that won a Prince Spain Michael International Road Safety Award.
Lewis Hamilton is Our campaign Si sales fide pictured with offi cers leading noche, transprtate bien the campaign, which is now Travel safely at night, run extended to Northern and in partnership with the Grampian regions.
Madrid government, was hailed one of the best social responsibility initiatives Caribbean of 2008 at the Actualidad Econmica Best-ofWith NGO Habitat for Innovation Awards.
Humanity we helped needy families in Guyana, Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago.
The project provided families variously with the construction skills and discounted materials to build or improve their homes and enhance their employment prospects.
Taiwan Local hero and Yankees baseball star Wang Chien-Ming has become a Diageo responsible drinking USA ambassador.
Working also with the Taiwan Beverage More than 350 Alcohol Forum and the employees took part Automobile Safety in the Diageo Chateau Association, Wang & Estate Wines encouraged fans never community day in to drink and drive.
Events Bulgaria included assembling We estimate our Celebrate 2,700 HIV Aids responsibly!
Consume in prevention kits for moderation!
Never drink young people in the and drive!
campaign in San Francisco Bay area.
Partnering with the Bulgarian Industry Confederation, we urged Nigeria 430 member companies Renovating the primary to adopt workplace alcohol policies.
school in Oregbeni, Benin will help raise skill levels in the community from Argentina which our brewery recruits employees.
When we The fi first Project Tourism replaced the roof and toilets course in our Learning and provided books for the for Life programme 2,000 pupils, the king of kicked off in Mendoza.
Benin praised the project The qualifi cation will as a great example of help graduates fi nd community support.
employment in the hospitality industry in this important tourist region.
