Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 16 The year in pictures Colombia A team of 80 Diageo employees with 30 distributors spent a day building 14 houses for disadvantaged families in southern Bogot, changing the lives of 79 people.
Haiti Thailand Hurricane Hanna killed more than 600 people, left 800,000 When fl oods hit the in need of aid and made up central Ayudhya province, to a million homeless.
With contaminating water our local Guinness brewer supplies, employees we distributed aid in two volunteered to distribute communities where crops food and 10,000 bottles had been damaged.
Russia A three-month road safety campaign supported by the Diageo-chaired Alcoholic Beverages Committee and endorsed by the Ministry of the Interior encouraged development of a national alcohol policy in Russia.
Britain Like many employees from Diageo businesses around the world who volunteered in their communities, a team Norway of corporate relations colleagues took on We published a booklet for reconstruction chores USA bartenders on the principles to improve a London and practice of responsible nature reserve.
Our aim was to help Vineyards aerial tram, create positive change and which carries more than Kenya to show that the beverage 200,000 visitors a year industry has a key role to Over the holiday season, to our Napa Valley play in reducing alcoholwinery, is now powered we supplied 33 Nairobi related harm.
taxis with signs bearing by the sun, saving around 30 tonnes of responsible drinking messages.
Supporting greenhouse gas emissions annually.
billboards declared Designate yourself, be the hero, be someone for the road.
Profile Society Environment Economy Governance Developing our people 17 Such conversations take place formally twice a year but may be held informally at any time.
The P4G process off ers an opportunity for employees identifi ed as capable of more senior positions or of enhancing their skills in a diff erent I wa s attracted by area to be suitably prepared.
We GGBLs reputation for nominate successors for senior valuing employees, the positions to ensure business numerous opportunities continuity, with open posting of vacancies to encourage talented that exist for career candidates to apply.
development and As part of an The Diageo Academy, our the fact that, in Ghana, is well equipped to weather inter-government online learning site, also provides initiative, nine Chinese economic storms.
But we are not GGBL is the most development opportunities.
The graduates joined immune to them and we have celebrated business.
Diageo for a years many topics it hosts include people asked more of our people in terms overseas business management, leadership, coaching, Graduate recruit, of commitment and determination.
experience Guinness Ghana Breweries compliance, technical, change We know that ours is already a high management, functional expertise performance culture, so this is a and career development.
This year Reward and recognition Engaging our employees signifi cant request to make.
employees booked 11,000 But to be sustainable we have With the aim of keeping our We believe that when employees classroom training sessions through also needed to make cost savings, businesses competitive in every are closely engaged and committed the site, completed 13,500 some of which have come from market, we compare our to Diageos success and when they e-learning sessions and restructuring parts of the business remuneration packages with those believe that Diageo is a special place downloaded 14,500 sets of with an inevitable loss of jobs.
This off ered by comparable employers.
to work, this will lead to superior self-development material.
As in the An element of most employees levels of performance and We want to give talented past when redundancies have been pay is performance-related.
We increasingly take a employees the chance to develop necessary, we have tried to treat some employees with specialist holistic view of the employee their careers within Diageo.
Our everyone aff ected with respect responsibilities, remuneration is experience and seek to create the online Career Shop allows people to and compassion and make their linked to the achievement of social conditions in which people can submit their CVs, in fi five languages, transition to activities outside or environmental goals.
Specifi c activities have to be considered when suitable Diageo as easy as possible.
example, responsible drinking included wellbeing programmes, roles become available.
Over 52,700 We have grievance procedures objectives are crucial for many increasing face-to-face 2008: 62,000 applications were for resolving issues that may arise marketing and corporate communication with managers, made during the year, 91% of them between employees and their relations colleagues.
recognition schemes, developing from external candidates.
In the UK and Ireland, There are a number of great people managers, and 2,300 2008: 3,800 roles were fi lled, an independently-run, confi dential schemes that enable employees working in partnership with people 63% of them by internal candidates.
helpline called tlk2 provides free to benefi t from the growth of the to release their potential and meet In some regions, we have counselling and legal and fi financial business by acquiring shares at a their personal goals.
We have graduate schemes that induct advice on issues such as workdiscount.
At year-end, 16,000 past ambitious targets for engagement new talented recruits into our related stress and changes at work.
and present employees held around and measure our progress in businesses and through which Across the world, all Diageo 1.2% 2008: 1.2% of Diageos issued this area through our global we hope to build a strong pool of employees are free to join trades ordinary share capital.
In Europe our new unions: membership is not Kite scheme brings together a monitored.
Employee share ownership range of personalised, accelerated 2009 2008 2007 development programmes for key Global values survey managers to prepare them for Countries operating schemes 26 26 16 progression to more senior roles.
Employees holding shares 15,964 17,974 14,714 The importance of eff ectively With a philosophy of real job, Employees holding more than engaging our people makes our real accountability, the pan-African 1,000 shares 50% 47% 49% annual values survey, which programme provides graduates Shares held by employees 34m 33m 31m monitors Diageo employee with authentic, stretching job opinion around the world, a Past and present.
In the fi first year, valuable tool in shaping strategy 57 graduates joined the three-year and designing ways of working.
Through its investment decisions, For much of the year we have been programme.
Based in Cameroon, Now held in July, the results of this the Diageo UK pension scheme has operating in markets aff ected to Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, Uganda and years survey will be published in the potential to encourage good a greater or lesser extent by the our London Africa hub, participants next years report.
citizenship in other companies and worst economic downturn in a complete three 12-month it is a requirement of the schemes generation.
Diageo is a resilient modules, including working active investment managers to take company whose business model in another location.
social, ethical and environmental Our engagement target aspects into account when By 2011 Progress to date assessing investments.
Super-engaged employees From 29% to 50% 42% Target is compared with 2007 fi gure.
Measurement is via global values survey, with progress given for 2008, the most recent result.
The survey tracks agreement with six engagement statements: super-engaged employees are those who give the most favourable response to all six.
Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 18 18 Picture: Removing 0.002% case dividers and Diageo greenhouse cartons where they re gases as a proportion not needed has saved of total world emissions tonnes of cardboard and is part of our drive to Source: EIA 2009, based make packaging more on 2006 emissions from sustainable page 23 fuel use Managing We depend on environmental a healthy and stable impacts environment for the water and natural ingredients we need to make our brands.
We work to reduce the environmental impacts of our operations and set stretching targets for continuous improvement We design our packaging so that, throughout its lifecycle, its impact on the environment is minimised
