Profile Society Environment Economy Governance 29 The value chain Supplier relationships also go beyond commercial considerations and involve issues such as labour relations, health and safety, environmental management and business integrity.
The standards we expect in these areas are set out in our supplier standards policy document Partnering with Suppliers, compliance with which is a formal part of our qualifi cation process for raw material suppliers.
Weve held conferences with key suppliers in Europe and North We aim to maintain high standards America, which provided an opportunity for us to explain not only in our own operations our policies, communicate our but also among the other businesses ambitions for the future and help Our economic impact suppliers understand their role in that supply us and deliver our brands on the value chain our ability to achieve our goals.
The conferences enabled us to pool One of the most signifi cant our collective expertise to identify impacts of our business on Demand for our brands creates economic opportunity new opportunities that will take local economies is to provide for other businesses in the value chain in agriculture, this aspect of our business employment.
This year, around 17% manufacturing, services, distribution and retailing.
We want relationship to the next level.
of the value added to raw materials our relationships with these companies to be fair and mutually by our business passed to our own benefi cial.
We favour businesses with standards of citizenship Supplier standards employees, underlining their at least as good as our own and often work with business importance.
A further indirect partners on issues to help raise standards in our value chain.
To confirm that our suppliers economic benefi t comes from maintain adequate standards we the employment created by the use the independent Suppliers suppliers and customers in our Ethical Data Exchange, or Sedex, value chain.
We estimate that the through which participating people whose livelihoods depend suppliers post self-assessments on the economic value created by online.
These can be accessed by Diageos business number in the any of their customers signed up hundreds of thousands.
to the scheme, eliminating the duplication of reporting separately Supplier relationships to each.
Of the approximately 20,000 Procuring the many goods and businesses that supply Diageo, services needed to make and the 5% we judge as presenting market our brands is a complex the highest risk are in the process process.
We source some supplies of posting self-assessments.
globally or regionally for example, A sample will be independently some grain for fermentation audited against Ethical Trading while we can obtain others more Initiative standards of human economically from local suppliers.
rights, labour conditions and We aim to develop strong health and safety and gaps relationships with our suppliers to identifi ed for improvement.
help ensure that the availability of We have played a leading part goods and services is sustainable in AIM-Progress, a consumer goods and that we can obtain the best industry initiative to make the value in terms of cost, quality, assessment of suppliers consistent service and innovation.
As part across all member companies.
of a series of reviews across the The benefi ts of collaboration are organisation this year, we have becoming apparent as an simplifi ed a complex situation increasing number of suppliers are by working with our suppliers found to be common and their to standardise payment terms input is being simplifi ed.
As one for all suppliers to 60 days.
supplier put it, We have had over 20 requests for the same information and we really welcome this initiative.
We are also now planning on rolling this out to our suppliers too.
be Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 30 The value chain Retailers Bars, hotels and Wholesalers restaurants Diageo Supply: Diageo Major Suppliers manufacturing, Demand: on-trade of goods Consumers packaging and marketing and offtrade and services warehousing and sales retailers Joint venture Cash-and - or contract Small retailers carries manufacturing Bars, hotels and restaurants Responding appropriately to any shortcomings revealed by such assessments presents a number of dilemmas.
Simply withdrawing our custom from a non-compliant supplier could displace the problem rather than solving it.
In a small community, the suppliers loss of business could have wide Supporting suppliers economic implications.
Our aim is In some cases, we work with to balance these risks and work suppliers to develop their with suppliers assessed as commercial capabilities.
This can non-compliant to help them help them provide goods or Trucks delivering our improve.
In cases where the brands were used in services that were not previously supplier fails to move towards the USA as rolling available or improve the quality compliance, we retain the sanction billboards to promote of their off ering or the reliability of seeking alternative sources responsible drinking of supply.
In Cameroon, we are The existence of an ethical engaged in the latest of a series sustainable communities and assurance programme is one of the of projects to encourage farmers stronger stakeholder relationships.
considerations that we take into to supply our breweries with In September, the International account when selecting suppliers: local grain, so aiding economic Chamber of Commerce recognised this was a factor recently in the development in Africa.
The the benefi ts of our project with a selection of a new supplier of project is in support of the UK World Business and Development branded merchandising materials.
governments Business Call to Award.
Action which we signed last year In North America, we have to show our commitment to the been working to encourage eighth Millennium Development diversity amongst suppliers, Goal see page 13 to support a including small businesses certifi ed global partnership for development.
as minority-owned or womenThe project, which will provide a owned, by ensuring that we sustainable local source of provide equal opportunities to bid sorghum grain for our brewery in for our procurement contracts.
Cameroon, will also provide work for local farmers, train them in new skills, resulting in higher incomes for rural families.
Diageo will also benefi t from more prosperous and Profile Society Environment Economy Governance The value chain 31 D iageo is miles ahead of its main competitor.
Alexandre Knabben, National commercial manager, Walmart Brazil Customer relationships In the USA, we partnered with our Perfect Plant makes information Our customers are the businesses distributor the Charmer Sunbelt on quality, environmental initiatives that distribute and retail our brands.
Group in campaigns against and waste reduction more We create business for customers alcohol misuse.
The company used accessible, providing new forums by providing them with our brands its delivery trucks to deliver the for learning and accelerating the and by off ering commercial skills messages Make responsibility a sharing of manufacturing and resources to grow our mutual family matter and Support zero information.
It also encourages business responsibly and maximise tolerance for underage drinking learning from leaders in customers returns.
We continually and drunk driving.
Together, we manufacturing excellence outside review our products and also supported Tailgaters Urging Diageo.
Success is measured promotions and seek to meet Responsibility & Fun TURF, a through a set of performance both customers and consumers programme to promote indicators that also encourage changing needs.
We invested responsibility at pre-football benchmarking and the sharing of 17 million in research and game barbecues so-called best practice between our sites.
Our success at transforming Our aim is to provide our www.
org insights into consumers needs into customers with the best overall commercial value is essential to our service in every market.
We foster a culture of Our brands and areas we survey major customers, creativity, in which new products consumers distributors and our own are introduced or existing brands employees annually to monitor the developed in response to Consumer confi dence in the In Brazil we strength of our relationships and consumers changing tastes or partnered with quality of our brands is essential to allow customers views to be taken Walmart on a to serve new market segments the sustainability of our business.
into account in our decisionscheme to put or territories.
Each Diageo supply business has a making.
The survey covers bottle collection Sterling Vineyards in California quality management system that points in stores customers perceptions of our this year innovated by launching aims to ensure, among other leadership, expertise, performance Chardonnay and Sauvignon blanc things, that our people are properly We encourage high standards of and partnership.
The results have wines made with organic grapes trained, responsibilities for quality corporate citizenship throughout enabled us to focus on what really and pledged to donate 1% of are clear, quality is monitored and the demand side of our value chain matters to our distributors and proceeds from the line to targets are set for improvement.
and see our strategic relationships retail customers and so push our environmental causes.
As part of our Licence to Operate with major customers as a way of capability to a higher level.
We use a range of measures programme see page 34, we advancing this.
For example, Following feedback from to deter counterfeiters, such as regularly review ways of working Walmart, one of our largest customers around the world, we covert pack markings and anti-refi ll at our manufacturing sites for customers, is working with us have put in place a comprehensive fi tments in bottles.
We work to compliance with legislation and and other key suppliers to ensure sales strategy with ambitious raise awareness among legislators our own quality management that the products they buy are objectives for improving all aspects and support law enforcement standards.
manufactured to high of our relationships with customers agencies by training their offi cers Issues raised about our environmental standards and in particular, sales execution, and supporting action against brands by consumers or customers that brand containers and outer customer development and criminals.
are investigated, resolved to their packaging are minimised and service, and trade investment.
The relationships we develop satisfaction where possible, and sustainable.
This is being reinforced with consumers are based on trust.
where necessary corrective action by Walmart introducing a When reaching consumers by is taken to prevent recurrence.
sustainability scorecard that email, text or direct mail, we This year we recorded a total assesses each product line for include a chance to opt out of of 39.5 complaints per million its environmental impacts.
We take steps to equivalent units of production In Brazil we worked with ensure that we only contact people eg, a case of spirits.
We changed Walmart to put bottle collection over the legal purchase age and we the measure this year, so this fi gure points in stores to encourage glass do not sell or trade personal data.
is not comparable with previous recycling.
As an example of a We provide consumers with years, but we will report our responsible drinking partnership information about our brands on progress on reducing it in future.
with a customer, we also labelling or online to help them Through our Perfect Plant developed an alliance with taxi make informed choices.
Our programme, we aim to create and drivers at Walmart stores in Brazil, information policy applies to all maintain a culture of continuous providing free rides home to Diageo-owned alcohol beverage improvement in the eff ectiveness purchasers of Diageo products.
brands and specifi es coverage of and quality of our manufacturing.
The purpose was to raise allergens, alcohol content serve The programme, launched in 2008, awareness of taxis as a means of size, as well as a responsible now applies to over 60% of the being able to go out, drink, and drinking reminder and mention 186 processes identifi ed at our have fun but not drive, thereby of the website DRINKiQ.
not violating Brazils zero tolerance approach to drink-driving.
