Profile Society Environment Economy Governance 35 Many other independent bodies Independent seek to evaluate the sustainability policies and performance of views of Diageo companies on behalf of particular audiences, in particular investors.
We prioritise four of these evaluations the Business in the Community BITC, FTSE4Good and Dow Jones general indices and the specialist Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
We not only use the results to compare our performance with other companies: we also fi nd the assessments useful in keeping our strategy in tune with best practice and stakeholder concerns.
As in China, Business in the Community We have participated in the Carbon our businesses placed Diageo in the gold band around the Disclosure Project since it began in world received At the National the second of four of its corporate 2000.
CDP challenges the worlds many accolades Business Awards, responsibility index, an improvement largest companies to measure and for their good Paul Walsh received over silver last year.
We were rated report on their carbon emissions and citizenship the Daily Telegraph platinum for environment, up from integrate the cost of climate change award for a Decade of Excellence gold in 2008. into their assessments of their bitc.
In 2008, Diageo was the Business leaders chose Diageo as top-scoring alcohol beverage Britains Most Admired Company company of the eight that BITC indices: Diageo scores % in the 2008 Management Today participated and the only one to be 100 survey, rising from 9th place the included in the projects Climate previous year.
net 80 For the last fi five years, Diageo has Our businesses in some individual 70 been on the Global 100 list of most markets were assessed in a similar sustainable companies, which 60 way.
In both Greece where no evaluates businesses according 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 platinum or gold awards were made to how eff ectively they manage Corporate responsibility and Australia we were rated silver their environmental, social and Environment in corporate responsibility indices governance opportunities and this year.
Around the world, our risks.
Diageo was the only alcohol For six years Diageo shares have businesses received many accolades beverage company to be included.
been selected for some of the for their good citizenship.
org leading socially responsible was the only international company investment indices, including to be hailed an exemplary alcohol Diageo was ranked 36th out of 350 FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones business by the China National in the Observer Good Companies World and STOXX indices.
SAM, the Association for Liquor Circulation.
Guide for reporting risks, managing research organisation behind Dow And we were the only alcohol impact, governance and Jones, judged Diageo to be in the company in China to receive a Best addressing industry-specifi c issues.
top three companies in our sector, Corporate Citizenship Award in a all of which were classifi ed as ranking by the 21st Century Herald, bronze the third of three.
com were promoting responsible drinking .
com in China, our Water of Life projects and our support for relief and Dow Jones corporate reconstruction after the Sichuan sustainability assessment % earthquake.
