Profile Society Environment Economy Governance 25 Diageo was hailed the Best Global Investment and Business in Africa at this years Africa Business Awards.
The success of creating value our operations on the continent provides a clear example of the economic impact that business can have.
We brew or distil in 22 sub-Saharan countries, either through subsidiaries, joint ventures We provided Safe Ride or licence arrangements.
Our 4,500 shuttles for Jouvert Diageo Africa employees represent carnival-goers on a fi fifth of our global workforce.
St Thomas to mark our new relationship with Africans drink more than one-third US Virgin Islands of all the Guinness in the world.
We communities also produce many other iconic Our businesses and their supply African brands such as Tusker beer Business Reporting Awards as a in East Africa, Star beer in Ghana chains are a source of economic practical contribution to boosting and the non-alcoholic Malta opportunity and development in the investor sentiment by recognising Guinness in many markets.
excellence in reporting on Africas To show that commercial many markets in which we operate.
commercial environment and success is not the only measure promoting a more balanced view of a great company, this year we Diageo businesses around the world provide jobs and of doing business there than is develop the skills of our people, create opportunity for published Diageo in Africa, an sometimes available in the press.
overview of our extensive other businesses in the value chain, generate revenue In Asia Pacifi c, a region of for governments and invest in capital projects.
By doing corporate citizenship programme increasing importance to our in the continent.
all this in a responsible way, we make our most signifi cant business, we provide employment contribution to the sustainable development of the Our business in East Africa for 3,000 people, while many more this year supported its hundredth communities in which we operate.
jobs are maintained in 11 joint student through university since ventures and 15 third-party the scheme began seven years distributors of our brands.
Over Supporting economic ago, and announced 20 more 80 jobs are sustained at our development scholarships for this year.
We off er distribution hub in Singapore the support to bright, disadvantaged including Asias largest bonded Wherever we invest in new students wishing to study business, warehouse which handles facilities, such as the distilleries in IT, engineering or food science at deliveries of our brands to Roseisle, Scotland and the US Virgin university in Kenya, Uganda or Asian markets.
Islands, or our new joint venture Tanzania and this covers tuition, Being a good corporate brewery at Sedibeng, South Africa, books, accommodation and a citizen is an important aspect of we create jobs in constructing, monthly stipend.
developing great relationships with operating and servicing the plant.
In Nigeria we contributed to governments, business partners, Although it may be the new the development of infrastructure employees and consumers in the projects that make the headlines, by building two new sections of region.
We have summarised our investment in our existing road.
At Oregbeni, Benin, where the activities in Enriching Diverse operations is just as important in route was impassable during the Communities, a review of our creating economic opportunity rainy season, we built 340 metres citizenship programme in and supporting development.
of road, while at Egbeluowo, Aba Asia Pacifi c. In 2008 we announced our we surfaced a 400-metre untarred plan to build a new rum distillery section, supporting economic and maturation warehouse on the activity in these communities.
island of St Croix in the US Virgin We want other companies to Islands.
The facilities, which will invest in Africa and so help support begin production in 2011 and, T his agreement marks development there.
This year we by the following year, will be published a study that showed the greatest single supplying all the rum for Captain how African business media fi financial step forward Morgan in the USA, will provide a infl uence sentiment among both in this territory in 50 major stimulus to the Virgin Islands local private equity investors and years.
It will bring jobs economy.
Constructed according overseas institutional investors.
We to Leadership in Energy and and a long-term source sponsored the sixth annual Africa Environmental Design principles, of funds that will go the distillery will have a closed-loop far towards solving water system and derive energy many of the challenges from waste.
To show we intend to we face.
play a full part in the community, at the early-morning Jouvert festival John P deJongh, Jr, Governor of the US Virgin on the island of St Thomas this year, Islands, on Diageos new we worked with the police and rum distillery on St Croix other partners to provide Safe Ride shuttles and remind carnival-goers to drink responsibly.
