Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information 33 Business review Volume has been measured on an equivalent units basis to nine litre cases of spirits.
An equivalent unit represents one nine litre case of spirits, which is approximately 272 servings.
A serving comprises 33ml of spirits, 165ml of wine, or 330ml of ready to drink or beer.
Therefore, to convert volume of products, other than spirits, to equivalent units, the following guide has been used: beer in hectolitres divide by 0.9, wine in nine litre cases divide by fi five, ready to drink in nine litre cases divide by 10 and certain pre-mixed products that are classifi ed as ready to drink in nine litre cases divide by fi five.
Organic movements in volume, sales, net sales, operating profi t and operating margin are measures not specifi cally used in the consolidated fi financial statements themselves non-GAAP measures.
The performance of the group is discussed using these measures.
In the discussion of the performance of the business, organic information is presented using pounds sterling amounts on a constant currency basis.
This retranslates prior period reported numbers at current period exchange rates and enables an understanding of the underlying performance of the market that is most closely infl uenced by the actions of that markets management.
The risk from exchange Introduction rate movements is managed centrally and is not a factor over which local managers have any control.
Residual exchange impacts are Information presented reported within Corporate.
Diageo is the worlds leading premium drinks business and operates on Acquisitions, disposals and exceptional items also impact on the an international scale selling all types of beverage alcohol.
It is one of a reported performance and therefore the reported movement in any small number of premium drinks companies that operate across spirits, period in which they arise.
Management adjusts for the impact of such beer and wine.
Diageos brands have broad consumer appeal across transactions in assessing the performance of the underlying business.
geographies: as a result, the business is organised under the business The underlying performance on a constant currency basis areas of North America, Europe, International and Asia Pacifi c and the and excluding the impact of exceptional items, acquisitions and business analysis is presented on this basis.
The following discussion is disposals is referred to as organic performance.
Organic movement based on Diageos results for the year ended 30 June 2009 compared calculations enable the reader to focus on the performance of the with the year ended 30 June 2008, and the year ended 30 June 2008 business which is common to both periods.
compared with the year ended 30 June 2007.
Diageos strategic planning and budgeting process is based on In the discussion of the performance of the business, net sales organic movements in volume, sales, net sales and operating profi t, and are presented in addition to sales, since sales include signifi cant these measures closely refl ect the way in which operating targets are components of excise duties which are set by external regulators defi ned and performance is monitored by the groups management.
and over which Diageo has no control.
Diageo incurs excise duties These measures are chosen for planning, budgeting, reporting throughout the world.
In some countries, excise duties are based on and incentive purposes since they represent those measures which sales and are separately identifi ed on the face of the invoice to the local managers are most directly able to infl uence and they enable external customer.
In others, it is eff ectively a production tax, which is consideration of the underlying business performance without the incurred when the spirit is removed from bonded warehouses.
In these distortion caused by fl uctuating exchange rates, exceptional items countries it is part of the cost of goods sold and is not separately and acquisitions and disposals.
identifi ed on the sales invoice.
Changes in the level of excise duties can The groups management believes these measures provide signifi cantly aff ect the level of reported sales and cost of sales, without valuable additional information for users of the fi financial statements in directly refl ecting changes in volume, mix or profi tability that are the understanding the groups performance since they provide information variables which impact on the element of sales retained by the group.
on those elements of performance which local managers are most The underlying performance on a constant currency basis and directly able to infl uence and they focus on that element of the core excluding the impact of exceptional items, acquisitions and disposals brand portfolio which is common to both periods.
They should be is referred to as organic performance, and further information on viewed as complementary to, and not replacements for, the the calculation of organic measures as used in the discussion of the comparable GAAP measures and reported movements therein.
business is included in the organic movements calculation and in the notes to that calculation.
Presentation of information in relation to the business In addition to describing the signifi cant factors impacting on the income statement compared to the prior year for both of the years ended 30 June 2009 and 30 June 2008, additional information is also presented on the operating performance and cash fl ows of the group.
There are eight principal fi financial key performance indicators which are non-GAAP measures used by the groups management to assess the performance of the group in addition to income statement measures of performance.
These are volume, the organic movements in volume, sales, net sales and operating profi t, return on average total invested capital, economic profi t and free cash fl ow.
These key performance indicators are described below: Diageo Annual Report 2009 34 Business review Return on average total invested capital is a non-GAAP measure that is Free cash fl ow is a non-GAAP measure that comprises the net cash fl ow used by management to assess the return obtained from the groups from operating activities as well as the net purchase and disposal of asset base.
This measure is not specifi cally used in the consolidated investments and property, plant and equipment that form part of net fi financial statements, but is calculated to aid comparison of the cash fl ow from investing activities.
The groups management believes performance of the business.
the measure assists users of the fi financial statements in understanding The profi t used in assessing the return on total invested capital the groups cash generating performance as it comprises items which refl ects the operating performance of the business after applying the arise from the running of the ongoing business.
underlying tax rate for the period stated before exceptional items and The remaining components of net cash fl ow from investing interest.
Average total invested capital is calculated using the average activities that do not form part of free cash fl ow, as defi ned by the derived from the consolidated balance sheets at the beginning, middle groups management, are in respect of the purchase and disposal and end of the period.
Capital employed comprises net assets for the of subsidiaries, associates and businesses.
The groups management period, excluding post employment benefi t liabilities net of deferred regards the purchase and disposal of property, plant and equipment tax and net borrowings.
This average capital employed is then as ultimately non-discretionary since ongoing investment in plant and aggregated with the average restructuring and integration costs net machinery is required to support the day-to-day operations, whereas of tax, and goodwill written off to reserves at 1 July 2004, the date of acquisitions and disposals of businesses are discretionary.
However, free transition to IFRS, to obtain the average total invested capital.
cash fl ow does not necessarily refl ect all amounts which the group either has a constructive or legal obligation to incur.
Where appropriate, Underlying tax rate is a non-GAAP measure that refl ects the adjusted separate discussion is given for the impacts of acquisitions and disposals tax charge on profi t from continuing businesses before exceptional items of businesses, equity dividends paid and the purchase of own shares, as a percentage of profi t from continuing businesses before exceptional each of which arises from decisions that are independent from the items.
The underlying tax rate is also used by management for their own running of the ongoing underlying business.
planning, budgeting, reporting and incentive purposes since it provides The free cash fl ow measure is used by management for their own information on those elements of performance which management is planning, budgeting, reporting and incentive purposes since it provides most directly able to infl uence.
information on those elements of performance which local managers The groups management believe the measure assists users of the are most directly able to infl uence.
fi financial statements in understanding the groups eff ective tax rate as it refl ects the tax arising on the profi ts from the ongoing business.
The components of the reported tax charge which do not form part of the adjusted tax charge, as defi ned by the groups management, relate to: exceptional tax items: movements on deferred tax assets arising from intra group reorganisations which are due to changes in estimates in expected future utilisation: any other tax charge or credit that arises from intra group reorganisations: and items which are off set by credits or debits in discontinued operations.
Economic profi t is a non-GAAP measure that is used by management to assess the groups return from its asset base compared to a standard cost of capital charge.
The measure is not specifi cally used in the consolidated fi financial statements, but is calculated to aid comparison of the performance of the business.
The profi t used in assessing the return from the groups asset base and the asset base itself are the same as those used in the calculation for the return on average total invested capital see above.
The standard capital charge applied to the average total invested capital is currently 9%, being managements assessment of a constant minimum level of return that the group expects to generate from its asset base.
Economic profi t is calculated as the diff erence between the standard capital charge on the average invested assets and the actual return achieved by the group on those assets.
