Diageo Annual Report 2009 6 Regional overview Europe 5 % Net sales North America 6 % Volume 1 % Net sales 1 4% Marketing spend 0% Volume 1 % Operating profi t 9 % Marketing spend 0% Operating profi t 2,750m Europe 3,290m North America 910m Asia Pacifi c 2,286m International 2009 reported net sales by region Asia Pacifi c 4 % Net sales International 1 1% Volume 7% Net sales 5% Marketing spend 4 % Volume 0% Operating profi t 3 % Marketing spend Excluding corporate net sales 75m 10% All information is organic movement before Operating profi t exceptional items unless stated otherwise.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Regional overview 7 North America International Top 3 brands by net sales 1 Crown Royal 2 Smirnoff 3 Captain Morgan Top 3 brands Asia Pacifi c by net sales Despite the diffi cult economic 1 Johnnie Walker environment, North America 2 Guinness delivered net sales growth.
3 Buchanans Total spirits volume grew 1% with 3 percentage points of Europe price mix.
Smirnoff vodka, Volume growth in Africa and Captain Morgan and Jos price increases in both Africa Cuervo positioned in the more and Latin America drove net resilient premium segment sales growth of 7%.
contributed most to net Volume and net sales growth Top 3 brands sales growth.
in Venezuela, Mexico and Brazil, by net sales Vodka remained the largest and 1 Johnnie Walker the three largest markets in most resilient of the major Latin America off set declines in 2 Windsor Premier categories in the United States.
3 Guinness the duty free channel in Latin Top 3 brands Diageo out-performed the America and in the Caribbean.
by net sales category as a whole, growing Strong growth in beer with 1 Guinness N et sales declines were net sales 16% led by Smirnoff volume up 5% and net sales primarily driven by the impact 2 Johnnie Walker in the premium segment and up 17%.
3 Smirnoff of the excise duty increase Croc and Ketel One vodka Pressure on the Global Travel on ready to drink products at higher price points.
business due to declining in Australia.
Stock levels of beer and malt passenger numbers and The region was severely Declining consumer based ready to drink brands customer fide-stocking.
impacted by the economic confi dence and supply chain were reduced adversely Marketing spend effi ciencies downturn, with conditions inventory reductions have impacting mix.
in Latin America and the in Spain and Ireland impacted performance Stock levels of spirits have transition of spend on ready to deteriorating signifi cantly.
particularly in China and reduced across the supply chain.
drink, cider and beer brands into Great Britain out-performed South East Asia.
Innovation launches contributed the new South Africa joint a declining total beverage Top and bottom line growth signifi cantly to overall venture off set increases on beer alcohol market, growing net in Korea and share gains performance as the focus on and ready to drink elsewhere sales despite the diffi cult for Windsor following the premium spirits line extensions in Africa.
return to in-market and pre-mixed cocktails Russia net sales grew 1% company distribution.
Regional brands include: following a strong fi first half Price mix benefi t of Ketel One vodka performed Pampero, Red Stripe, although the worsening 7 percentage points came Malta Guinness ahead of expectations.
economic conditions in the from the return to in-market Marketing spend decreased second half led to consumers distribution in Korea and as a result of media effi ciencies trading down driving negative strong price increases on and a refocus away from beer mix.
In response to this trend, scotch brands off set by and ready to drink, however smaller bottle sizes at lower negative product mix from Diageo share of voice in price points were introduced.
lower volume in the higher spirits improved.
In a declining beer category, net sales per case ready to Net sales growth of 7% in Guinness performed well with drink segment.
Canada was led by strong fl at net sales across the region Marketing spend decreased performances of Captain and grew share in the on-trade 5% although investment Morgan rum of 19% and in Great Britain and Ireland behind spirits grew 7% Smirnoff vodka of 10%.
supported by the 250th refl ecting the importance of Anniversary and Alive Inside Regional brands include: this category to future growth campaigns.
Ketel One vodka, Bulleit of the region.
Bourbon, Sterling Vineyards Regional brands include: Regional brands include: Pimms, Cacique, Gordons Gin, Bundaberg, Sharktooth, Classic Malts Benmore
