Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business review 67 Business related credit risk Trade and other receivables exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the customer.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables as the group has a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed.
The maximum credit risk exposure of the groups fi financial assets as at 30 June 2009 and 30 June 2008 was as follows: 2009 2008 million million Derivative fi financial assets 240 70 Other investments 231 168 Trade and other receivables 1,755 1,941 Cash and cash equivalents 914 714 Total 3,140 2,893 Commodity price risk The group uses long term purchase and commodity futures contracts to hedge against price risk in certain commodities.
Long term purchase contracts are used to secure prices with suppliers to protect against volatility in commodity prices.
All commodity futures contracts hedge a projected future purchase of raw material.
Commodity futures contracts are held in the balance sheet at fair value.
To the extent that they are considered an eff ective hedge, the fair value movements are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense and recycled into the income statement at the same time as the underlying hedged transaction aff ects the income statement.
Realised net losses recognised in the income statement in the year ended 30 June 2009 were 5 million 2008 4 million gains.
There were no open deals on the balance sheet at 30 June 2009 2008 nil as all commodity futures contracts had been sold before that date.
Insurance The group purchases insurance for commercial or, where required, for legal or contractual reasons.
In addition, the group retains insurable risk where external insurance is not considered an economic means of mitigating these risks.
Market risk sensitivity analysis This section on market risk sensitivity analysis forms part of the audited fi financial statements.
The group has used a sensitivity analysis technique that measures the estimated impacts on the income statement and on equity of either an instantaneous increase or decrease of 1% 100 basis points in market interest rates or a 10% strengthening or weakening in sterling against all other currencies, from the rates applicable at 30 June 2009, for each class of fi financial instrument with all other variables remaining constant.
The sensitivity analysis excludes the impact of market risks on net post employment benefi t obligations and taxation.
This analysis is for illustrative purposes only, as in practice interest and foreign exchange rates rarely change in isolation.
The sensitivity analysis is based on the following: Financial instruments are valued at the balance sheet date using discounted cash flow techniques.
Changes in interest rates affect the interest income or expense of variable interest financial instruments.
Changes in interest rates only affect interest income or expense in relation to financial instruments with fixed interest rates if these are recognised at their fair value.
Changes in interest rates affect the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments and all interest rate hedges are expected to be highly effective.
Changes in the fair values of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets and liabilities are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using rates prevailing at the year end.
All net investment and foreign currency cash flow hedges are expected to be highly effective.
The amounts generated from the sensitivity analysis are estimates of the impact of market risk assuming that specifi ed changes occur.
Actual results in the future may diff er materially from these results due to developments in the global fi financial markets which may cause fl uctuations in interest and exchange rates to vary from the hypothetical amounts disclosed in the following table, which therefore should not be considered a projection of likely future events and losses.
As at 30 June 2009 and 30 June 2008, hypothetical changes in other risk variables would not signifi cantly aff ect the fair value of fi financial instruments at those dates.
