Diageo Annual Report 2009 74 Directors remuneration report Governance The substantial increase in the transfer value of executive Dear Shareholder 71 Board of directors and pensions reflects changes in the calculation methodology executive committee I am pleased to present the remuneration report for the 2009 adopted by the pension trustees during the year as well as 74 Directors financial year.
the impact of changing market conditions, interest rates and remuneration report The unprecedented global economic downturn has created increases to pensionable pay, age and service.
The remuneration 86 Corporate an unusually challenging economic environment over the past governance report committee has made no changes to pension policy nor made year.
The business has nevertheless delivered a resilient set of 94 Directors report any enhancement to the executive directors pension benefits results while taking significant measures to protect sustainability during the year.
and to promote long term growth.
The following report provides further explanation of the The most important objective of our remuneration policy is current remuneration arrangements for executive directors to reward Diageos people, at all levels and in all countries, fairly and and the reward outcomes for the 2009 performance year.
competitively, in line with performance, to enable your company Finally, we will be submitting several resolutions relating to to attract and retain the very best talent available.
The strength share plans for shareholder approval at the companys October and stability of the executive team at Diageo and the companys 2009 AGM.
Details are included in the Notice of Meeting.
impressive operating performance over the last decade testify We look forward to receiving your support at the AGM to the robustness of the remuneration policies in place.
The remuneration committee has been mindful of the uncertain environment both in assessing performance outcomes for this year and in seeking to ensure that remuneration policies remain appropriate.
This process, supported by Deloitte LLP as the remuneration committees appointed independent adviser, has led the remuneration committee to conclude that the remuneration levels and the mix between fixed and variable Lord Hollick of Notting Hill compensation continue to be appropriate for the context in Senior non-executive director and which the company is operating and, following the implementation chairman of the remuneration committee of two new long term incentive plans in 2008, no changes to the overall remuneration mix are proposed this year.
The tougher environment is reflected in the reward outcomes for the year ended 30 June 2009: total direct Remuneration Summary for the year ended compensation delivered to the executive directors is significantly 30 June 2009 lower compared to 2008 bonus payments are substantially lower than last year and performance share awards due to vest in Base salary September 2009 lapsed in full demonstrating a clear alignment Base salaries for the executive directors were increased in between company performance, shareholder interests and the October 2008 as part of the normal annual review.
With effect executive remuneration arrangements that are in place.
In addition, from 1 October 2008, the annual salaries payable to the chief the remuneration committee has made some adjustments to executive and the chief financial officer were 1,155,000 and remuneration arrangements for the forthcoming year that reflect 673,000, respectively.
In light of current economic conditions, the changed environment in which the company is currently no annual review for executive directors and senior management operating.
These include: will occur in October 2009 and salaries will therefore remain at no salary increases for executive directors and senior 2008 levels.
management in 2009: the recalibration of the adjusted EPS growth targets together Summary of salary reviews for executive directors with a reduction in the proportion of grant delivered for Oct 2009 Oct 2008 threshold performance for new options to be granted under % % the SESOP in September 2009, so that the plan continues increase increase to incentivise participants to deliver stretching business NC Rose 0% 6% performance in the current climate: and PS Walsh 0% 5% increasing individual accountability through the introduction of an additional measure in the annual bonus plan that will Short term incentive plans provide focus on specific measurable business objectives that The committee set stretching performance targets based on support the long term growth of the business.
a mix of profit, net sales and free cash flow measures for the performance year ended 30 June 2009.
The business delivered a resilient set of results in the context of the current economic The remuneration committee will closely monitor developments climate, and the challenges presented by this changing in the external environment over the months ahead with a view to maintaining remuneration programmes that continue to be environment are reflected in the level of bonus payout achieved.
During the last year the In the year ended 30 June 2009, profit and sales were below target, but the free cash flow targets were exceeded, therefore remuneration committee has consulted with major shareholders the executive directors received payments under the annual on a number of aspects of remuneration policy and is committed to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders.
In this regard, I am incentive plan that were equivalent to 44% of their 2008 base pleased to note that the new long term incentive plans for salary.
No discretionary adjustments were made for individual performance or the exceptional circumstances in which the executive directors, which were put to shareholders at last years business was operating.
