Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Outstanding brands 5 About the brands Captain Morgan delivered a strong Ketel One vodka performance mainly driven by In June 2009, Diageo and the share gains in North America which Nolet family celebrated the fi first accounts for almost 90% of net anniversary of their 50 50 sales.
The brands introduction in company to promote Ketel One The breadth and depth of our range markets in Europe and International super premium vodka around the of great brands have enabled us to continued successfully.
Combining generations with Captain Morgan 100 in North of spirits distilling expertise from manage through the diffi cult trading America, together with price within the Nolet family with environment.
The heritage and the increases drove overall price mix Diageos marketing and strong characteristics of our brands improvement.
distribution network, the fi first year along with their positioning will help A decline in net sales in Baileys has been focused on integration Diageo to emerge stronger.
driven by weakness in Spain and and expansion extending the fide-stocking was partially off set by brand equity from predominantly Paul Walsh growth in Great Britain.
the US brand to one available and Chief executive Share gains on Jos Cuervo recognised around the world.
Gold plus a successful launch of Diageo has worked hard in Jos Cuervo Silver in North America educating its sales forces and led to volume and net sales growth customers about the unique of the brand.
qualities and characteristics of Tanquerays performance was this distinguished brand.
impacted by the weakness in North America although the brand grew Bushmills Irish Whiskey in Europe and Asia Pacifi c. During the year Bushmills Irish Brand performance Growth of Guinness was Whiskey celebrated a signifi cant The economic downturn aff ected driven by the continued date in the heritage of the brand all of Diageos markets, and had a momentum of the brand in Africa the 400th anniversary of the varied impact on brand where net sales were up 18%.
The license to distill, granted to the performance.
brands performance in Asia Pacifi c Bushmills area.
The celebrations Despite this diffi cult trading continued to improve and sales commenced with the launch of a environment, brands within the stabilised in Ireland.
Outnew special edition, Bushmills vodka category performed well.
For an interview with the performance in the declining 1608.
This award winning, limited Strong net sales growth in North chief marketing offi cer on-trade GB beer market delivered edition whiskey uses a America, International and Andy Fennell go to further on-trade share gains in its groundbreaking process of Australia off set weakness in Europe www.
distillation using crystal malt to for Smirnoff.
The performance of deliver an exceptionally smooth Smirnoff Black in all its markets taste.
The anniversary A year to celebrate along with price increases which programme also included the were taken in the majority of Guinness 250 brands fi first ever-global markets delivered 4 percentage 2009 is the year in which Diageo advertising campaign, Welcome, will celebrate 250 years of Guinness.
In the United featuring employees from the To mark this special anniversary States, Ketel One vodka is Old Bushmills Distillery, bringing exceeding expectations and 250 years since the signing of the to life the people, the place and contributed to reported growth, 9,000 year lease on St Jamess Gate the craft of the distillers.
In a fi tting in Dublin a year long programme while Croc is now positioning tribute to Bushmills and its legacy, of celebrations is planned.
itself as a leading ultra premium the Old Bushmills Distillery also vodka brand.
Throughout the year Diageo will be featured on new look 5, 10 and fide-stocking at a wholesaler giving consumers the chance to 20 notes the fi first time in enjoy remarkable events and and retailer level has had a major 18 years that the Bank of Ireland experiences.
Continuing the impact on the overall performance has re-designed its local notes.
For Johnnie brands philanthropic tradition, www.
com Walker, the reduction in passenger Diageo is launching a new Arthur Guinness Fund, which will focus on numbers has led to a decline in supporting entrepreneurialism.
The sales through travel retail outlets: customer fide-stocking of this high centrepiece of the programme is a value brand and a reduction in unique series of music events taking place on Arthurs Day 24th business entertaining and September, featuring some of the consumption in traditional on-trade outlets in Asia Pacifi c has worlds biggest artists and acts with led to a decline in net sales.
The celebrations taking place simultaneously in the on-trade in weakness of the Spanish scotch four cities around the world: Dublin, market was the primary driver of the decline in J&B.
Lagos, Kuala Lumpur and Yaound.
