Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate governance report 89 Activities of the nomination committee specific time spans and success criteria.
He has also created The principal activities of the nomination committee during committees, intended to have an ongoing remit, including the year were: the review of individual performance: a review the following.
of the executive committee structure, membership and succession planning for it: and the consideration of potential Audit and risk committee non-executive directors.
Chaired by the chief executive and responsible for: overseeing In respect of the appointment of PB Bruzelius to the the approach to securing effective internal control and risk board during the year, the recruitment process included the management in the group: reviewing the adequacy of the development of a candidate profile and the engagement of groups sources of assurance over the management of key risks: a professional search agency specialising in the recruitment reviewing managements self-assessment process over internal of high calibre non-executive directors.
Reports on potential controls: reviewing the effectiveness of the groups compliance appointees were provided to the committee, which after programme: and reporting periodically on the above to the audit careful consideration, made a recommendation to the board.
committee or to the board.
In addition, the audit and risk committee is responsible Remuneration committee for promoting the culture and processes that support effective Role of the remuneration committee compliance with the groups codes of conduct, business The role of the remuneration committee and details of how guidelines and marketing practices throughout the business and the company applies the principles of the Code in respect supports the audit committee, board and executive committee of directors remuneration are set out in the directors in satisfying its corporate governance responsibilities relating to remuneration report.
internal control and risk management within the group.
The chairman and the chief executive may, by invitation, attend remuneration committee meetings, except when their Corporate citizenship committee own remuneration is discussed.
No director is involved in Chaired by the chief executive and responsible for making determining his or her own remuneration.
decisions or, where appropriate, recommendations to the board or executive committee, concerning corporate citizenship strategy, policies and issues.
This includes such matters as: Executive direction and control corporate citizenship performance, measurement and reporting: Executive committee community affairs: environmental matters: and other emerging The executive committee, appointed and chaired by the corporate citizenship issues.
Progress in these areas is reported chief executive, consists of the individuals responsible for the periodically to the board and publicly through a separate key components of the business: North America, Europe, corporate citizenship report, which is subject to external International and Asia Pacific markets, global supply and global assurance.
That report and the groups social, ethical and functions.
During the year, membership of the committee environmental policies are published on the Diageo website.
was increased, bringing even greater focus to every aspect A copy of the corporate citizenship report is available of the planning, orchestration and delivery of the operating on request.
performance of the business and providing better representation Two executive working groups one on alcohol and of the breadth of markets across which the business operates.
responsibility and one on environmental performance assist The members of the committee and their biographies are set out the committee with its work on specific issues.
They bring above in the Board of directors and executive committee together the key executives from the business and functional section of this Annual Report.
It met six times during the year, representatives involved in developing and achieving Diageos including an off-site executive strategy meeting and the joint commitments in these key areas.
annual strategy conference with the board, and spent most of its time discussing strategy, people, performance including brands Finance committee and governance.
One of the meetings was held in the United Chaired by the chief financial officer and including the States and the remainder in the United Kingdom.
In addition, chief executive, this committee is responsible for making scheduled interim update meetings were held by teleconference recommendations to the board on funding strategy, capital throughout the year.
Responsibility and authority within the structure and management of financial risks and the policies and financial limits set by the board are delegated by the chief control procedures including financial issues relating to treasury executive to individual members of the executive committee and taxation required to implement the companys financial who are accountable to him for the performance of their strategy and financial risk management policies.
specific circumstances, the board has delegated authority to the Executive direction and control procedures include finance committee to make decisions in these areas.
Treasury approval of annual strategic plans submitted by each business activity is managed centrally within tightly defined dealing unit executive and periodic business reviews.
These reviews are authorities and procedures recommended by the finance generally attended by the regional president responsible for the committee and approved by the board.
market and in certain cases additional members of the executive committee and are held in the relevant market.
The reviews Filings assurance committee focus on business performance management and specific Chaired by the chief financial officer and including the chief issues around brands, people, key business decisions and executive, this committee is responsible for implementing and risk management.
monitoring the processes which are designed to ensure that the The chief executive has created several executive working company complies with relevant UK, US and other regulatory groups to which are delegated particular tasks, generally with reporting and filing provisions, including those imposed by SOX or derived from it.
As at the end of the period covered by this
