Diageo Annual Report 2009 90 Corporate governance report report, the filings assurance committee, with the participation operational, compliance and reputational risk.
Specific processes of the chief executive and chief financial officer, carried out an are also in place to ensure management maintain adequate evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of internal control over financial reporting, as separately reported disclosure controls and procedures.
These are defined as those on below.
Governance controls and procedures designed to ensure that information A network of risk management committees is in place, 71 Board of directors and required to be disclosed in reports filed under the Exchange which has overall accountability for supporting the audit and executive committee Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within risk committee in its corporate governance responsibilities by 74 Directors specified time periods.
As of the date of the evaluation, the chief working with business units to proactively and effectively remuneration report executive and the chief financial officer concluded that the manage risk and monitor the effectiveness of internal controls.
86 Corporate governance report design and operation of these disclosure controls and procedures Processes are in place to ensure appropriate action is taken, 94 Directors report were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed where necessary, to remedy any deficiencies identified through in the reports that the company files or submits under the the groups internal control and risk management processes.
Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the The global audit and risk function: gives the audit management, including the companys principal executive committee, board and executive committee visibility and and principal financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely understanding of the groups key risks and risk management decisions regarding disclosure.
capability: oversees the groups compliance programme: and provides assurance over the quality of the groups internal control and management of key risks in line with a plan agreed by the Additional information audit committee.
Internal control and risk management The above risk management processes and systems of internal control, together with the filings assurance processes, are Diageos aim is to manage risk and to control its business and designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to financial activities cost-effectively and in a manner that enables it achieve the groups strategic objectives.
It should be recognised to: exploit profitable business opportunities in a disciplined way: that such systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, avoid or reduce risks that can cause loss, reputational damage or assurance against material misstatement or loss.
business failure: support operational effectiveness: and enhance The company has in place internal control and risk resilience to external events.
To achieve this, an ongoing process management systems in relation to the companys financial has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing reporting process and the groups process for preparation of risks faced by the group.
This process, which complies with the consolidated accounts.
These systems are described above and requirements of the Code, has been in place for the full financial under the headings Filings assurance committee, Audit and risk year and up to the date the financial statements were approved committee and Managements report on internal control over and accords with the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting financial reporting.
Diageos filings assurance committee and Council in October 2005, Internal Control: Revised Guidance for audit and risk committee are each responsible for overseeing Directors on the Combined Code, also known as the Turnbull elements of these internal control and risk management systems.
guidance as amended by the Flint review.
The board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Compliance programme companys systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The board confirms that, Diageo is committed to conducting its business responsibly through the activities of the audit committee described above, and in accordance with all laws and regulations to which its it has reviewed the effectiveness of the companys systems of business activities are subject.
The board has a well established internal control and risk management described below.
compliance programme to support achievement of this All significant business units and the executive committee commitment.
This year, an updated code of business conduct are required to maintain a process to ensure key risks are has been introduced, which provides greater clarity and identified, evaluated and managed appropriately.
This process guidance in respect of Diageos expectations of its businesses is also applied to major business decisions or initiatives, such and employees in relation to issues such as conflicts of interest, as systems implementations, new product development, entertainment and gifts, confidentiality, improper payments, business combination activity or significant business strategy competition and antitrust, as well as providing the standards implementation.
Additional risk management activity is against which these expectations are to be met.
The introduction focused directly towards operational risks within the business, and roll-out of this updated code is supported by a including health and safety, product quality and environmental comprehensive mandatory training programme, which has risk management.
to date been focused on senior employees and will be cascaded Business unit risk assessments, and the activities planned throughout the organisation on an ongoing basis.
The Diageo to manage those risks, are reviewed by relevant executives, for marketing code establishes the principles that Diageo follows in example at periodic business reviews.
The oversight of primary relation to advertising and promotion of its products.
risks, as detailed in the executive committee risk assessment, is In addition, in accordance with the requirements of SOX allocated as appropriate between the board, board committees and related SEC rules, Diageo has adopted a code of ethics and the executive committee.
The executive committee risk covering its chief executive, chief financial officer, regional assessment, and selected key risk assessments, are reviewed by presidents and other identifiable persons in the group, including the audit and risk committee and by the audit committee.
those performing senior accounting and controller functions.
In addition, business units are required to self-assess the No amendments to, or waivers in respect of, the code of ethics effectiveness of the design of their internal control framework.
were made during the year.
The full texts of the code of Relevant executives review the results of these self-assessments conduct, marketing code and other codes that comprise the and summary reporting is provided to the audit and risk compliance programme are available on the companys website committee and audit committee.
Risk management and internal at www.
control processes encompass activity to mitigate financial,
