Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information 19 Business description Strategy Diageo is the worlds leading premium drinks business and operates on an international scale.
It is one of a small number of premium drinks companies that operate across spirits, beer and wine.
Diageo is the leading premium spirits business in the world by volume, by net sales and by operating profi t and it manages eight of the worlds top 20 spirits combating alcohol misuse: setting world-class standards brands as defi ned by Impact for responsible marketing and Databank.
Diageos beer brands include the only global stout innovation: and promoting a brand, Guinness, and together shared understanding of what Diageo is the worlds leading premium drinks responsible drinking means these beer brands account for business with a collection of international in order to reduce alcoholapproximately 22% of net sales while Diageos wine brands related harm.
Diageo was the eighteenth largest represent approximately 6% of publicly quoted company in the United Market participation Diageos net sales.
Diageo targets its geographical Kingdom in terms of market capitalisation on Diageos size provides for scale effi ciencies in production, priorities in terms of the major 26 August 2009, with a market capitalisation selling and marketing.
This regional economies in which it of approximately 25 billion.
These markets are enables cost effi ciencies and the managed under four business dissemination of best practices in business operations across areas: North America, Europe, Diageo plc is incorporated as a public limited company in England markets and brands, allowing International and Asia Pacifi c. and Wales.
Diageo plcs principal executive offi ce is located at The North American business area Diageo to serve its customers 8 Henrietta Place, London W1G 0NB and its telephone number is comprises the United States and and consumers better.
All of the above factors Canada.
The European business Diageo is a major participant in the branded beverage alcohol enable Diageo to attract and area comprises Great Britain, industry and operates globally.
It brings together world-class brands Ireland, Iberia, Northern Europe, retain talented individuals with and a management team committed to the maximisation of Southern Europe, and Russia and the capabilities to contribute to the shareholder value.
The management team expects to continue its delivery of Diageos strategy, which Eastern Europe.
The International strategy of investing in global brands, expanding internationally and is to focus on premium drinks to business area comprises Latin launching innovative new products and brands.
America and the Caribbean grow its business through organic Diageo produces and distributes a leading collection of branded including Mexico, Africa and the sales and operating profi t growth premium spirits, beer and wine.
The wide range of premium brands it and the acquisition of premium Global Travel and Middle East produces and distributes includes Smirnoff vodka, Johnnie Walker drinks brands that add value business.
The Asia Pacifi c business scotch whisky, Baileys Original Irish Cream liqueur, Captain Morgan rum, area comprises India, The Peoples for shareholders.
J&B scotch whisky, Tanqueray gin and Guinness stout.
In addition it also Republic of China, South Korea, Diageos brands have has the distribution rights for the Jos Cuervo tequila brands in North broad consumer appeal across Japan and other Asian markets, America and many other markets.
geographies, and the company Australia and New Zealand.
North America accounts for the and its employees are proud of the largest proportion of Diageos responsible manner in which the brands are marketed and the role operating profi t. that moderate consumption of Product off ering these brands plays in the lives of Diageo manages its brands in many people.
Diageo acknowledges that terms of global priority brands, like many other products when local priority brands and category brands.
Acting as the main focus misused, alcohol may lead to for the business, global priority health or social problems for the individual or society as a whole.
brands are Diageos primary Diageo seeks to be at the forefront growth drivers across markets.
Local priority brands have leading of industry eff orts to promote positions in the markets in which responsible drinking and works with other stakeholders to combat they are distributed.
Diageos approach growth on a signifi cant scale but with a narrower geographical is based on three principles: reach than the global priority brands.
Category brands comprise the smaller scale brands in Diageos collection.
