Diageo Annual Report 2009 20 Business description Other spirits brands include: Crown Royal Canadian whisky Business eff ectiveness Buchanans scotch whisky Over the long term, Diageos Gordons gin and vodka strategy continues to focus on Windsor Premier scotch whisky driving growth and increasing Seagrams whiskey shareholder value.
Cacique rum Diageo also brews and sells other Old Parr scotch whisky companies beer brands under Incorporation Bells scotch whisky licence, including Budweiser and Diageo was incorporated as Arthur In the year ended 30 June 2009, Bundaberg rum Carlsberg lagers in Ireland, Guinness Son & Company Limited Diageo sold 113.4 million Bushmills Irish whiskey Heineken lager in Jamaica and on 21 October 1886.
The group equivalent units of spirits Ketel One vodka Tiger beer in Malaysia.
was formed by the merger of including ready to drink, 24.7 exclusive worldwide Grand Metropolitan Public million equivalent units of beer distribution rights Global priority brands Limited Company GrandMet and 3.2 million equivalent units Diageo has eight global priority and Guinness PLC the of wine.
In the year ended 30 June Wine brands include: brands that it markets worldwide.
2009, ready to drink products Blossom Hill Diageo considers these brands contributed 6.2 million equivalent Sterling Vineyards to have the greatest current and units of total volume, of which Beaulieu Vineyard future earnings potential.
Each Premium drinks Smirnoff ready to drink variants Chalone Vineyard global priority brand is marketed Diageo is engaged in a broad accounted for 4.1 million Rosenblum Cellars consistently around the world, range of activities within the equivalent units.
Volume has been Barton & Guestier and therefore can achieve scale beverage alcohol industry, with measured on an equivalent units Piat dOr benefi ts.
The group manages products trading in approximately basis to nine litre cases of spirits.
and invests in these brands on 180 markets around the world.
An equivalent unit represents one Other beer brands include: a global basis.
Figures for global Its operations include producing, nine litre case of spirits, which is Malta Guinness priority brands include related distilling, brewing, bottling, approximately 272 servings.
non-alcoholic malt ready to drink products, unless packaging, distributing, A serving comprises 33ml of spirits, Harp lager otherwise indicated.
developing and marketing a range 165ml of wine, or 330ml of ready to Smithwicks ale In the year ended 30 June of brands.
Diageo markets a wide drink or beer.
Therefore, to convert Tusker lager 2009, global priority brands range of recognised beverage volume of products other than Red Stripe lager accounted for 58% of total alcohol brands including a spirits to equivalent units, the volume 81.7 million equivalent number of the worlds leading following guide has been used: Diageos agency agreements vary units and contributed net sales spirits and beer brands.
In calendar beer in hectolitres divide by 0.9, depending on the particular of 5,131 million.
year 2008, the Diageo brand range wine in nine litre cases divide by brand, but tend to be for a fi xed Smirnoff achieved volume of included 17 of the top 100 fi five, ready to drink in nine litre number of years.
Diageos principal 28.6 million equivalent units in the premium distilled spirits brands cases divide by 10 and certain agency brand is Jos Cuervo in year ended 30 June 2009.
pre-mixed products that are North America and many other vodka volume was 24.5 million References to ready to drink classifi ed as ready to drink markets with distribution rights equivalent units.
It was ranked, products in this document include in nine litre cases divide by fi five.
There can be by volume, as the number one progressive adult beverages in the The collection of premium no assurances that Diageo will be premium vodka and the number United States and certain markets drinks comprises brands owned able to prevent termination of one premium spirit brand in the supplied by the United States.
by the company as a principal and distribution rights or rights to world.
Smirnoff ready to drink References to Smirnoff ready to brands held by the company manufacture under licence, or volume totalled 4.1 million drink include Smirnoff Ice, Smirnoff under agency or distribution renegotiate distribution rights equivalent units.
Black Ice, Smirnoff Twisted V, agreements.
They include: or rights to manufacture under Johnnie Walker scotch Smirnoff Mule, Smirnoff Spin, licence on favourable terms whiskies comprise Johnnie Walker Smirnoff Storm, Smirnoff when they expire.
Red Label, Johnnie Walker Black Caipiroska, Smirnoff Signatures Label and several other brand and Smirnoff Cocktails.
During the year ended to Smirnoff Black Ice include 30 June 2009, Johnnie Walker Red Smirnoff Ice Triple Black in the Label sold 9.2 million equivalent United States and Smirnoff Ice units, Johnnie Walker Black Label Double Black in Australia.
sold 4.6 million equivalent units and the remaining variants sold 0.7 million equivalent units.
The Global priority brands Johnnie Walker franchise was Smirnoff vodka and Smirnoff ready ranked, by volume, as the number to drink products one premium scotch whisky and Johnnie Walker scotch whiskies the number three premium spirit Baileys Original Irish Cream liqueur brand in the world.
Captain Morgan rum Jos Cuervo tequila agency brand in North America and many other markets J&B scotch whisky Tanqueray gin Guinness stout Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 21 Baileys was ranked, by volume, units and contributed 1,326 as the number one liqueur in the million to Diageos net sales in world, having sold 6.7 million the year ended 30 June 2009. equivalent units in the year ended Examples of category spirits 30 June 2009. brands are Gordons gin all Captain Morgan was ranked, markets except Europe in which it by volume, as the number two is a local priority brand, Gordons premium rum brand in the world vodka, The Classic Malt whiskies with volume of 8.6 million and White Horse scotch whisky.
equivalent units in the year ended In the year ended 30 June 30 June 2009.
2009, Diageo sold 13.5 million Guinness is the groups only equivalent units of beers other global priority beer brand, and for than Guinness, achieving net sales the year ended 30 June 2009 of 894 million.
Other beer volume achieved volume of 11.1 million was mainly attributable to owned equivalent units.
brands, such as Red Stripe, Pilsner, Other global priority brands Tusker and Harp lager, with a were also ranked, by volume, have a consistent marketing minority being attributable to among the leading premium strategy around the world for beers brewed and or sold under distilled spirits brands by Impact such brands.
For the year ended licence, such as Tiger beer in Databank.
These include: Jos 30 June 2009, local priority brands Malaysia and Heineken lager Production Cuervo, ranked the number one contributed volume of 27.3 million in Jamaica.
Diageo owns production facilities premium tequila in the world: J&B equivalent units, representing 19% In addition, Diageo produces including maltings, distilleries, scotch whisky comprising J&B of total volume, and net sales of and markets a wide selection of breweries, packaging plants, Rare, J&B Reserve, J&B Exception 2,148 million.
These include well known maturation warehouses, and J&B Jet, ranked the number priority brands include Crown labels such as Beaulieu Vineyard, cooperages, vineyards, wineries three premium scotch whisky in Royal Canadian whisky in North Sterling Vineyards, Rosenblum and distribution warehouses.
the world: and Tanqueray, ranked America, Buchanans scotch Cellars and Chalone Vineyard in Production also occurs at plants the number four premium gin whisky in International, Windsor the United States, Blossom Hill in owned and operated by third brand in the world.
During the year Premier scotch whisky in Asia the United Kingdom, and Barton & parties and joint ventures at ended 30 June 2009, Jos Cuervo, Pacifi c, Gordons gin in Europe, Guestier and Piat dOr in Europe.
a number of locations J&B and Tanqueray sold 5.1 million, Bundaberg rum in Asia Pacifi c, For the year ended 30 June 2009, internationally.
5.2 million and 1.9 million Cacique rum in Europe, Malta other wine volume was 2.4 million Approximately 80% of total equivalent units, respectively.
Guinness non-alcoholic malt in equivalent units, contributing net production including third party International, Tusker lager in sales of 291 million.
production is undertaken in fi five Other brands International, Seagrams 7 Crown Diageo production areas, namely Diageo manages its other brands whiskey and Seagrams VO whisky the United Kingdom, Baileys, by category, analysing them in North America, Bells scotch Guinness, Santa Vittoria and North between local priority brands whisky in Europe and Sterling America centres.
The majority of and category brands.
Vineyards wines in North America.
these production centres have Local priority brands The remaining brands are several production facilities.
The represent the brands, apart from grouped under category brands.
locations, principal activities, the global priority brands, that Category brands include spirits, products, packaging production make the greatest contribution beer and wine brands and for the capacity and packaging to operating profi t in a business year ended 30 June 2009, these production volume in 2009 of area North America, Europe, category brands contributed these principal production centres International or Asia Pacifi c, rather volume of 32.3 million equivalent are set out in the following table: than worldwide.
Diageo manages units, representing 23% of total and invests in these brands within volume, and net sales of 2,032 its business areas and, unlike the million.
Of this, spirits achieved global priority brands, may not volume of 19.8 million equivalent Production Production volume in capacity in 2009 in millions of millions of equivalent equivalent Production centre Location Principal products units units United Kingdom United Kingdom Scotch whisky, gin, vodka, rum, ready to drink 62 42 Baileys Ireland Irish cream liqueur, vodka 10 8 Guinness Ireland Beers 11 8 Santa Vittoria Italy Vodka, wine, rum, ready to drink 7 5 North America United States, Canada Vodka, gin, tequila, rum, Canadian whisky, American whiskey, progressive adult beverages, wine, ready to drink 48 40 Capacity represents ongoing production capacity at any production centre.
Diageo Annual Report 2009 22 Business description Diageo produces a range of ready to drink products mainly in the United Kingdom, Italy, South Africa, Australia, the United States and Canada.
Diageos principal brewing facilities are at the St Jamess Gate fl avours such as juniper berries, brewery in Dublin and in Kilkenny, agave, chocolate and herbs.
These Waterford and Dundalk in the are sourced from suppliers around Republic of Ireland, and in Nigeria, the world.
Kenya, Ghana, Cameroon, Malaysia The majority of products are and Jamaica.
Ireland is the main supplied to customers in glass export centre for the Guinness bottles.
Glass is purchased from brand.
In other countries, Guinness suppliers located around the is brewed by third parties under world, the principal supplier being licence arrangements.
All Guinness Draught Diageo has a supply production is at the St Jamess agreement with Casa Cuervo SA Gate brewery in Dublin in the fide CV, a Mexican company, for the Republic of Ireland.
Guinness supply of bulk tequila used to Draught in cans and bottles, which make the Jos Cuervo line of uses an in-container system to tequilas and tequila drinks in the Spirits are produced in distilleries replicate the taste of Guinness United States.
The group Draught, is packaged at Runcorn agreement extends to June 2013. owns 29 whisky distilleries in and Belfast in the United Kingdom.
Diageo has a supply Scotland, an Irish whiskey distillery The Runcorn facility performs the agreement with Destilria Serralls in Northern Ireland, two whisky kegging of Guinness Draught, bottling and administration Inc, a Puerto Rican corporation, for distilleries in Canada, and gin transported to the United facilities spread across the groups the supply of rum used to make distilleries in the United Kingdom Kingdom in bulk for the Great worldwide operations, as well as the Captain Morgan line of rums and the United States.
vineyards and wineries in the and rum drinks in the United produces Smirnoff vodka Diageos principal wineries United States.
The supply agreement is internationally, Popov vodka and are in the United States, France and and 20% of the book value of for 10 years from 2002 and can be Gordons vodka in the United Argentina.
For European markets, Diageos land and buildings terminated either 1 in the last States, and Baileys in the Republic wines are mainly bottled in comprise properties located in 18 months before the expiration of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Wines are the United Kingdom and the of the 10-year term, on notice of Rum is blended and bottled in the sold both in their local markets United States, respectively.
the shorter of one year or the time United States, Canada, Italy and the and overseas.
remaining until the expiration of United Kingdom, and is distilled, Raw materials the original 10-year term, or 2 on blended and bottled in Australia Property, plant and equipment The group has a number of three years notice once the and Venezuela.
All of Diageos Diageo owns or leases land and contracts for the forward original 10-year term has expired.
maturing scotch whisky is located buildings throughout the world.
purchasing of its raw material in warehouses in Scotland.
The principal production facilities requirements in order to minimise On 1 July 2009, the group are described above.
As at 30 June the eff ect of raw material price announced a restructuring of its 2009, Diageos land and buildings fl uctuations.
Long term contracts operations in Scotland.
The plans were included in the groups are in place for the purchase of include the consolidation of consolidated balance sheet at a signifi cant raw materials including distilling, packaging and net book value of 818 million.
glass, other packaging, tequila, warehousing activities into fewer Diageos largest individual facility, bulk whisky, neutral spirits, cream, sites and involve the closure of a in terms of net book value of rum and grapes.
In addition, packaging plant, a distillery and a property, is St Jamess Gate forward contracts are in place for cooperage over a two-year period.
Approximately the purchase of other raw New investment is concentrated 96% by value of the groups materials including sugar and in the production sites in Leven in properties are owned and cereals to minimise the eff ects of Fife and in Shieldhall near Glasgow.
approximately 3% are held short term price fl uctuations.
In June 2008, Diageo and under leases running for 50 years Cream is the principal raw the government of the US Virgin or longer.
Diageos properties material used in the production of Islands announced a public are primarily a variety of Irish cream liqueur and is sourced private initiative for the manufacturing, distilling, brewing, from Ireland.
Grapes are used in construction and operation of a the production of wine and are high capacity distillery in St Croix.
sourced from suppliers in the This new facility, expected to open United States, France and in 2010, will have the capacity to Argentina.
Other raw materials distil up to 20 million proof purchased in signifi cant quantities gallons per year and will supply all for the production of spirits and bulk rum used to produce Captain beer are tequila, bulk whisky, Morgan branded products for the neutral spirits, molasses, rum, United States.
cereals, sugar and a number of Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 23 North America North America is the largest market for Diageo in terms of operating profi t, and the largest market for premium drinks in the world.
Diageo markets its products Marketing and distribution through four operating units: Diageo is committed to investing US Spirits, Diageo-Guinness USA, in its brands.
In the year ended Diageo Chateau & Estate Wines 30 June 2009, 1,312 million was Company and Diageo Canada.
spent worldwide on marketing The US Spirits business, while Across the United States, Diageos distributors and brokers have over brands.
Diageo aims to maintain managed as a single business unit, and improve its market position by executes sales and marketing 2,300 dedicated sales people enhancing the consumer appeal activities through 14 teams or focused on selling its spirits and of its brands through consistent clusters.
National brand strategy wine brands.
Diageo has pursued a distribution strategy centred high investment in marketing and strategic accounts marketing support focused around the eight are managed at the corporate around consolidating the global priority brands, which North America level.
The spirits distribution of Diageos US spirits accounted for 65% of total clusters market the majority of Within the United States, there are and wine brands into a single distributor or broker in each state marketing expenditure in the year Diageos collection of spirits generally two types of regulatory ended 30 June 2009.
Diageo including Smirnoff vodka, Baileys environments: open states and where possible.
The strategy makes extensive use of magazine, Irish Cream liqueur, Jos Cuervo control states.
In open states, spirits is designed to provide a newspaper, point of sale and tequila, Johnnie Walker scotch companies are allowed to sell consolidated distribution network, which will limit the duplication of poster and billboard advertising, whisky, Captain Morgan rum, spirits, wine and beer directly to and uses radio, cinema, television Tanqueray gin, J&B scotch whisky, activities between Diageo and the independent distributors.
In these and internet advertising where Crown Royal Canadian whisky, open states, Diageo generally distributor, improve Diageos and appropriate and permitted by law.
Seagrams 7 Crown American trades through a three tier distributors selling capabilities and enable a number of alternative Diageo also runs consumer whiskey, Seagrams VO Canadian distribution system, where the promotional programmes in the whisky, Buchanans scotch whisky approaches to optimise product product is initially sold to on trade for example, licensed and Ketel One vodka across the distributors, who then sell it to on distribution.
To date, Diageo has bars and restaurants.
Diageo-Guinness and off trade retailers.
In most consolidated its business in 41 markets 40 states plus uses sponsorship to market its USA distributes Diageos US beer control states, Diageo markets its brands and is a sponsor of Formula brands including Guinness stout, Washington DC, representing spirits products to state liquor One Team Vodafone McLaren Harp lager, Red Stripe lager and control boards through the over 80% of Diageos US spirits Mercedes, a NASCAR racing team Smithwicks ale as well as the bailment warehousing system, and wine volume.
The remaining states will be consolidated as and the Johnnie Walker golf groups progressive adult and from there to state or agency championships.
beverages including Smirnoff Ice opportunities arise.
There are variations Diageo markets and and Captain Morgan Parrot Bay for example, certain states now focused on building the distributes its brands under Tropical Malt Beverage.
Diageo control distribution but not retail capabilities and selling tools of the distributors dedicated sales forces a business area organisation Chateau & Estate Wines owns and sales.
Generally, wines are treated comprising North America, operates wineries in California and in the same way as spirits, and creating a more effi cient and Europe, International and Washington State including although most states that are eff ective value chain.
Asia Pacifi c. Beaulieu Vineyard, Sterling control states for spirits are open Vineyards, Chalone Vineyard and states for wines.
Beer distribution Business analysis Provenance Vineyards and generally follows open states In the year ended 30 June 2009, markets these and other wines regulation across the United States.
North America, Europe, across the United States.
The In Canada, beer and spirits International and Asia Pacifi c Canada business unit distributes distribution laws are generally contributed 41%, 30%, 23% and the groups collection of spirits, consistent and similar to those of 6%, respectively, of the groups wine and beer brands across all control states in the United States.
operating profi t before Canadian territories.
Diageo, however, has some exceptional items and licences to deliver keg beer directly corporate costs.
to licensed accounts, which An analysis of net sales and account for approximately 20% of operating profi t by market for Diageos beer business in Canada.
the year ended 30 June 2009 is as follows: Operating profi t loss before Operating exceptional Net sales profi t loss items million million million North America 3,290 1,131 1,156 Europe 2,750 790 856 International 2,286 623 645 Asia Pacifi c 910 128 164 Corporate 75 229 208 Total 9,311 2,443 2,613 Diageo Annual Report 2009 24 Business description In Russia, Diageo previously sold Asia Pacifi c and marketed its products Diageo Asia Pacifi c comprises through a company in which India, the Peoples Republic of Diageo owned a 75% interest, and China, South Korea, Japan, this company was the exclusive Thailand, Vietnam, Singapore, distributor of Diageo spirits brands Malaysia and other Asian markets, International in Russia.
In December 2008, Australia and New Zealand.
Diageo purchased the remaining Diageo International comprises Diageo works with a number 25% interest and now operates Latin America and the Caribbean of joint venture partners in Asia in Russia through its wholly including Mexico, Africa and Pacifi c. In Singapore, Malaysia, the Global Travel and Middle owned subsidiary.
Hong Kong and Macau, the Across the remainder East business.
Peoples Republic of China, of mainland Europe, Diageo In Latin America and the Thailand and Japan, Diageo distributes its spirits brands Caribbean, distribution is achieved distributes the majority of its spirits through a mixture of Diageo primarily through its own brands through joint venture distribution companies.
companies and third party arrangements with Mot Europe Exceptions to this are: distributors.
Diageo has established Diageo Europe comprises six France, where Diageo sells owns a controlling interest in in-market companies in China for operating units: Great Britain, Desnoes & Geddes Limited, its spirits and wine products brands not included in the joint Ireland, Iberia, Northern Europe, through a joint arrangement the Jamaican brewer of Red venture such as Smirnoff and Southern Europe, and Russia and with Mot Hennessy, and Stripe lager.
Baileys and Vietnam for all Eastern Europe.
its beer products through Africa excluding North Africa brands.
In South Korea and In Great Britain, Diageo sells is one of the longest established Brasseries Kronenbourg Taiwan, Diageos own distribution and markets its products via three part of the Carlsberg group : and largest markets for the companies distribute the majority business units: Diageo GB spirits, the Baltic states, Hungary, Guinness brand, with the brewing of Diageos brands.
In Japan, beer and ready to drink, Percy Fox Czech Republic, Slovakia, of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout in during the year ended 30 June & Co wines and Justerini & Brooks a number of African countries, Romania, Bulgaria, Cyprus, 2009, Diageo and Kirin Brewery Co Retail private client wines.
Malta, various territories in the either through subsidiaries or Ltd formed a joint venture to Products are distributed both via Balkans and Israel, where under licence.
Diageo has a expand distribution of Diageo independent wholesalers and Diageo sells and markets its three-way venture with Heineken products and contribute to the directly to the major grocers, and Namibia Breweries Limited in brands via local distributors: and growth objectives of both convenience and specialist stores.
the Nordic countries, where South Africa for a combined beer, companies.
Kirin now distributes In the on trade for example, Diageo has sales offi ces in cider and ready to drink collection Guinness beer and Smirnoff Ice.
licensed bars and restaurants, Sweden, Norway and Denmark, of brands.
Diageo also has a 25% Other spirits and wine brands, products are sold through the equity interest in a venture with and representation through which are not distributed major brewers, multiple retail third party distributors in Heineken which is constructing a by either the Mot Hennessy joint groups and smaller regional Finland and Iceland.
In all brewery in Gauteng, South Africa.
venture or Kirin, are handled by independent brewers and Nordic markets except Diageo has a wholly-owned third parties.
The customer subsidiary in Cameroon and also Denmark, off premise sales are own and third party beers are base in Great Britain has seen controlled by state monopolies, has majority-owned subsidiaries brewed and distributed by a listed consolidation in recent years with alcohol tax rates among in Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Uganda, business Guinness Anchor in both the on trade and home the highest in the world, and Runion and the Seychelles.
Berhad in which Diageo and its consumption channels.
In Global Travel and Middle border trade and duty free are partner, Asia Pacifi c Breweries, particular, Great Britains top four important sources of purchase.
East GTME encompasses a sales have a majority share through national multiple grocers together and marketing organisation a jointly controlled joint venture make up over 40% of home A specialist unit has been which targets the international company.
In Singapore, Diageos consumption total spirits volume.
consumer in duty free and travel established for the distribution of beer brands are brewed and Ireland comprises the Diageos beer brands in mainland retail outlets such as airport shops, distributed by Asia Pacifi c Republic of Ireland and Northern Europe in order to achieve airlines and ferries around the Breweries.
In both territories, Diageo synergies in the marketing and world, and distribution of Diageo of both imported and locally sells and distributes directly to brands in the Middle East and distribution of Guinness and produced products is achieved both the on trade and the off trade Kilkenny brands.
The global nature through a combination of Diageos for example, retail shops and of these brands is managed by this of the travel channel and its own distribution company and wholesalers through a telesales specialist unit with particular focus organisation structure allows a third party distributors.
A joint operation, extensive sales calls to specialist Diageo management on the markets in Germany, Russia venture has been formed with outlets and third party logistics and France, which are the largest team to apply a co-ordinated Radico Khaitan to manufacture providers.
The Guinness, Smirnoff mainland European beer markets approach to brand building and distribute certain premium and Baileys brands are market by size for Diageo.
initiatives and to build on local spirits, the fi first of which leaders in their respective consumer insights in this trade was Masterstroke.
categories of long alcoholic drinks, channel, where consumer vodka and liqueurs.
Budweiser and behaviour tends to be diff erent Carlsberg lagers, also major from domestic markets.
In the products in the Diageo collection Middle East and North Africa, of brands in Ireland, are brewed distribution is achieved through and sold under licence in addition third party distributors.
Lebanon to the other European local priority is an exception, where a Diageo brands of Smithwicks ale and subsidiary distributes most of the Harp lager.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 25 Generally, the remaining markets in Asia are served by third party distribution networks monitored by regional offi ces.
In Australia, Diageo has its own production and distribution allows Diageo, at group-wide, Diageo strives to keep its company, which handles the majority of products sold in the function and team levels, to assess employees well informed on and Australian market.
It also has how the business is tracking engaged with the companys production and distribution against the long term goals of strategy and business goals as a engaging employees and high priority, focusing on dialogue arrangements with VOK Beverages and a licensed brewing consistently bringing Diageos and consultation both formal and arrangement with Fosters.
Independent informal on changes that aff ect Zealand, Diageo operates through research has shown a strong its employees.
correlation between high levels In light of the current third party distributors and has a licensed brewing arrangement of employee engagement and economic environment, Diageo with Lion Nathan.
conducted a review of its Diageo aims to be amongst organisation and cost base during the most admired companies in the year ended 30 June 2009.
The Corporate Corporate costs which cannot be all key geographies.
Consistent objectives of the review were to directly allocated to the business with this, Diageo has increased achieve signifi cant cost effi ciencies areas are reported separately participation in independent as well as to create a more effi cient surveys during the last year and and eff ective organisation, and, as within Corporate in the analysis of business performance.
Also has achieved Top 10 ratings in 10 Strong and inspiring leadership a result, a restructuring of elements included in Corporate are the published best company results is critical to the success of the of Diageos global business is in the revenues and costs related to rents around the world.
To this end, the Diageo process of being implemented.
best performance in these awards Leadership Performance The restructuring will mean the receivable in respect of properties not used by Diageo in the since the company was formed.
Programme was developed and loss of a number of valued manufacture, sale or distribution Further to this aim, Diageo 900 leaders participated and colleagues from the business.
of premium drink products and endeavours to create a workplace completed the programme in the Throughout this process, as always, that is both welcoming and years ended 30 June 2008 and the company and its leadership the results of Gleneagles Hotel.
The aim is for Diageo to be have endeavoured to treat all Seasonal impacts Diageo values diversity in its recognised for the outstanding Diageo employees with The festive holiday season workforce and works to ensure quality of its business leaders and compassion and respect.
that the group is inclusive of all their ability to deliver great provides the peak period for sales.
Approximately 43% of annual net people, regardless of their performance for the group.
Environmental, social and sales occur in the last four months background or style.
To enhance Consistent with the desire community matters of each calendar year.
diversity, Diageo aims to create that its people have a stake in the Diageo realises that it is an opportunities that are attractive companys performance, Diageo increasingly important factor for Employees to a wide range of candidates, currently has share plans in place investors to understand not only Diageos people, its culture and including those with disabilities, in the United Kingdom, North its fi financial performance, but also its values are at the heart of the and seeks to make working for America and Ireland.
Employees the manner in which it manages Diageo compatible with a variety in 22 additional countries are able and operates its business.
Diageo companys strategy and Diageos directors believe this to be a source of lifestyles.
The group also seeks to participate in Diageos seeks to fulfi l its responsibilities of competitive advantage.
to design and adjust roles to International Sharesave Plan, as a corporate citizen in a number Employee engagement is a accommodate people.
Not only giving them the opportunity to of areas, including through is this approach to inclusion and take a stake in the companys examining its impact on the key element of Diageos people strategy.
Diageos values are diversity consistent with Diageos future.
Implementation of a new environment and its policies embedded in the business and values, it is also believed to be share match plan for international relating to employees as well as guide how all employees operate important for the long term health participants is planned for 2010. social and community matters.
These plans are created and and behave.
A values survey, which includes a measure of administered by employees for employee engagement, is employees with a view toward conducted with employees every both uniting and motivating Diageos people.
Now in its seventh year, this survey provides an annual insight Diageos average number into what employees are thinking of employees during each of the and feeling about the business.
three years ended 30 June 2009 was as follows: The employee values survey Average number of employees 2009 2008 2007 Full time 23,802 23,908 22,086 Part time 468 465 434 Total 24,270 24,373 22,520 Diageo Annual Report 2009 26 Business description and other stakeholders.
Diageo alcohol products, although focuses on projects that develop the form of such taxation varies skills, increase access to water, signifi cantly from a simple promote conservation, support application to units of alcohol by employees and respond to volume, to advanced systems Diageo has set stretching targets natural disasters.
based on imported or wholesale to reduce its impact on the Diageo takes pride in its value of the product.
Several environment, and to benefi t the record of community investment.
countries impose additional planet, the communities in which Most of this investment comes import duty on distilled spirits, it operates and the business.
The from Diageo businesses around Research and development often discriminating between Diageo executive environmental the world in the form of cash, The overall nature of the groups categories such as scotch whisky working group is responsible for in-kind donations and volunteer business does not demand or bourbon in the rate of such setting policy.
It also includes grants from substantial expenditure on tariff s. Within the European Union, working group revised and the Diageo Foundation and research and development.
such products are subject to re-issued Diageos environmental support for the community However, the group has ongoing diff erent rates of excise duty in policy to refl ect the increased aspects of responsible drinking programmes for developing new each country, but within an overall ambition the company has for projects from Diageos drinks products.
In the year ended European Union framework, there environmental improvement.
30 June 2009, the groups research are minimum rates of excise duties policy is supported by Diageos risk In addition to global and development expenditure that can be applied.
management framework which initiatives, Diageo supports direct amounted to 17 million 2008 Import and excise duties can sets implementation criteria and involvement by employees to 17 million: 2007 17 million.
have a signifi cant impact on the provides a mechanism for benefi t local communities.
In Research and development fi final pricing of Diageos products monitoring compliance.
As stated diffi cult economic circumstances, expenditure is generally written off to consumers.
These duties have in Diageos policy, the companys Diageo employees chose World in the year in which it is incurred.
an impact on the competitive actions on the environment are Water Day to show their position versus other brands.
planned in light of prevailing commitment to the companys Trademarks The group devotes resources to scientifi c knowledge and do community programme through Diageo produces and distributes encouraging the equitable not depend on having absolute co-ordinated activities in support branded goods and is therefore taxation treatment of all beverage proof of specifi c damage, thus of Diageos Africa Water of Life substantially dependent on the alcohol categories and to reducing supporting the concept of a programme.
There were 30 Make maintenance and protection of government-imposed barriers to precautionary approach.
a Splash events in 20 countries for its trademarks.
All brand names fair trading.
The release of greenhouse employees and their families to mentioned in this document are Advertising, marketing and gases notably carbon dioxide enjoy, including half marathons, trademarks.
The group also holds sales of alcohol are subject to generated by burning fossil fuels fun days, writing contests and numerous licences and trade various restrictions in markets has an impact on climate change water conservation games.
More secrets, as well as having around the world.
These range which, either directly or indirectly, than 1.7 million was raised and substantial trade knowledge from a complete prohibition of presents considerable risk both to donated to the Water of Life related to its products.
The group alcohol in certain countries and business and the planet.
The risks 1 Million Challenge and other believes that its signifi cant cultures, through the prohibition include impacts on the agriculture community water projects.
trademarks are registered and or of the import of spirits, wine and on which the company depends otherwise protected insofar as beer, to restrictions on the for raw materials, disruption of the Competition legal protections are available advertising style, media and companys operations or those of Diageo competes on the basis of in all material respects in its most messages used.
In a number of commercial partners, and changes consumer loyalty, quality and price.
countries, television is a prohibited to the nature or distribution of In spirits, Diageos major medium for spirits brands and consumer demand.
Diageo global competitors are Pernod Regulations and taxes in other countries, television assumes that the risks from climate Ricard, Bacardi, Fortune Brands Diageos worldwide operations advertising, while permitted, is change could be mitigated if and Brown-Forman, each of which are subject to extensive regulatory carefully regulated.
releases of greenhouse gases has several brands that compete requirements regarding Spirits, beer and wine are also were suffi ciently diminished and, directly with Diageo brands.
production, product liability, regulated in distribution.
In many as such, has worked for many years In addition, Diageo faces distribution, importation, countries, alcohol may only be to reduce direct emissions from competition from local and marketing, promotion, sales, sold through licensed outlets, both fuels and indirect emissions regional companies in the pricing, labelling, packaging, on and off premise, varying from from electricity.
countries in which it operates.
advertising, labour, pensions and government or state operated Diageo recognises that its In beer, the Guinness brand environmental issues.
In the United monopoly outlets for example, success in the future will depend competes globally as well as on a States, the beverage alcohol Canada, Norway, and certain US in part on the prosperity of the regional and local basis with the industry is subject to strict federal states to the common system communities in which the profi le varying between regions and state government regulations of licensed on premise outlets company operates and the with several competitors, covering virtually every aspect of for example, licensed bars and strength of its relationships including AB InBev, Heineken, its operations, including restaurants which prevails in with those communities.
SABMiller, Coors Brewing Carling production, distribution, much of the western world for Supporting long term and Carlsberg.
marketing, promotion, sales, example, most US states and the sustainable initiatives in the In wine, the market is pricing, labelling, packaging European Union.
In about communities where Diageo does fragmented with many producers and advertising.
one-third of the states in the business advances development and distributors.
Spirits, beer and wine are United States, price changes must of those communities, engages subject to national import and be fi led or published 30 days employees, builds the companys excise duties in many markets to three months, depending reputation and enhances its around the world.
Most countries on the state, before they relationships with governments impose excise duties on beverage become eff ective.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 27 Associates Diageos principal associate is Mot Hennessy.
It also owns shares in a number of other associates.
Labelling of beverage alcohol In the year ended 30 June 2009, products is also regulated in many the share of profi ts of associates markets, varying from health after tax was 164 million 2008 warning labels to importer 177 million: 2007 149 million, identifi cation, alcohol strength of which Mot Hennessy and other consumer information.
accounted for 151 million 2008 As well as producer, importer or 161 million: 2007 136 million.
bottler identifi cation, specifi c Diageo owns 34% of Mot warning statements related to the Hennessy, the spirits and wine risks of drinking beverage alcohol subsidiary of LVMH Mot products are required to be Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA On 29 February 2008, Diageo included on all beverage alcohol LVMH.
LVMH is based in France acquired Rosenblum Cellars in products sold in the United States.
and is listed on the Paris Stock North America for a total cost of 54 Following the end of the voluntary Exchange.
Mot Hennessy is also million including acquisition costs.
restrictions on television based in France and is a producer On 1 May 2008 Diageo advertising of spirits in the United and exporter of a number of formed a new venture with States, Diageo and other spirits brands in its main business areas Heineken and Namibia Breweries companies have been advertising of champagne and cognac.
Its Limited NBL for their combined products on the air on local cable principal champagne brands are beer, cider and ready to drink television stations.
Expressions of Mot & Chandon including Dom businesses in South Africa, called political concern signify the Prignon, Veuve Clicquot and DHN Drinks Pty Limited DHN uncertain future of beverage Mercier, all of which are included Acquisitions and disposals Drinks.
The new venture builds alcohol products advertising on in the top 10 champagne brands Diageo has made a number of on the success of brandhouse network television in the United worldwide by volume.
Mot acquisitions of brands, distribution Beverages Pty Limited States.
Further requirements for Hennessy also owns Hennessy, rights and equity interests in brandhouse, the parties existing warning statements and any which is the top cognac brand premium drinks businesses venture in South Africa, which was prohibitions on advertising and worldwide by volume, and including the following: formed in July 2004.
Diageo and marketing could have an adverse Glenmorangie, a malt whisky.
On 3 July 2006, Diageo Heineken each own 42.25% of impact on sales of the group.
Since 1987, a number of joint acquired a 75% stake in the DHN Drinks and NBL owns 15.5%.
Regulatory decisions and distribution arrangements have company that owns the Smirnov The original cost of this acquisition changes in the legal and been established with LVMH, brand in Russia.
This company was 43 million, with further regulatory environment could principally covering distribution unites the Smirnoff Smirnov deferred consideration of increase Diageos costs and of Diageos premium brands of brands in Russia under common 3 million paid in the year ended liabilities or impact on its scotch whisky and gin and Mot ownership and is the exclusive 30 June 2009.
Each party shares in business activities.
Hennessys premium champagne distributor of Smirnov and the profi ts of DHN Drinks in and cognac brands in the Asia Diageos spirits brands in Russia.
Business services Pacifi c region and France.
Diageo In December 2008, Diageo Brandhouse continues to market Diageo continues to standardise and LVMH have each undertaken purchased the remaining 25% and distribute the parties its key business activities with not to engage in any champagne stake in the company, and products in South Africa.
On 1 May customers, consumers, suppliers or cognac activities competing Diageo currently operates in 2008 Diageo and Heineken also and the processes that summarise with those of Mot Hennessy.
The Russia through this wholly entered into a second venture in and report fi financial performance.
arrangements also contain certain owned subsidiary.
South Africa called Sedibeng In that regard, global processes provisions for the protection of On 27 January 2007, Diageo Brewery Pty Limited whereby have been designed, built and Diageo as a minority shareholder completed the acquisition of a 43% a brewery and bottling plant is implemented across a number of in Mot Hennessy.
The operations equity stake in Sichuan Chengdu being constructed in Gauteng markets and operational entities.
of Mot Hennessy in France are Quanxing Group Co Limited province, South Africa, which will Diageo uses shared services conducted through a partnership Quanxing.
Quanxing then held produce Amstel and certain other operations to deliver transaction in which Diageo has a 34% interest 39.48% of the equity in Sichuan key brands.
Heineken owns 75% processing and certain central and, as a partner, Diageo pays ShuiJingFang Joint Stock Co and Diageo owns 25% of fi finance activities, using captive any tax due on its share of the Limited ShuiJingFang, a leading Sedibeng Brewery Pty Limited.
A captive results of the partnership to the maker of premium Chinese white The cost of this acquisition in the business service centre in tax authorities.
ShuiJingFang is year ended 30 June 2008, was Budapest, Hungary performs listed on the Shanghai Stock 8 million, with an additional cost various process tasks for markets Exchange.
The agreed purchase of 19 million recognised in the and operational entities.
Diageo price for the 43% equity interest in year ended 30 June 2009. uses third party service centres in Quanxing was RMB517 million Manila, Shanghai and Bucharest to 37 million.
Quanxing perform these tasks for basic subsequently increased its equity processes.
Certain central fi finance stake in ShuiJingFang to 39.7%.
activities, including elements of On 30 July 2008, Diageo acquired group fi financial planning and a further 6% of the equity of reporting and treasury, are Quanxing.
Diageo now owns performed in the business service 49% of Quanxing and continues to centre in Budapest.
equity account for this investment.
