Diageo Annual Report 2009 72 Executive committee Gilbert Ghostine President, Diageo 2 Asia Pacifi c Lebanese 49 Key to committees Appointed president, Diageo 2.
Executive comprising Asia Pacifi c on 1 July 2009, senior management having previously been Joined the executive managing director, Diageo committee during the Ronald Ron Anderson Continental Europe since year ended 30 June 2009 2 Chief customer offi cer July 2006.
He was formerly British 53 managing director, Northern Europe and president, US Appointed chief customer Major Markets and held offi cer of Diageo plc in July various senior managerial 2008, having previously roles in Africa, Asia, Europe held various senior sales and and the United States, having general management roles in joined International Distillers Andrew Andy Fennell the United Kingdom, Canada & Vintners in 1995.
He Chief marketing offi cer joined the company in 1985, British 42 prior to which he worked for Tesco and Gillette.
Appointed chief marketing James Jim Grover offi cer of Diageo plc in Global business support September 2008, and has held 2 director a number of marketing roles British 51 in the United Kingdom and internationally with Guinness David Gosnell Appointed global business and Diageo, prior to which he Managing director, support director of Diageo worked in various sales and global supply and global plc in February 2004, having marketing roles with Britvic 2 procurement been strategy director since and Bass plc.
Formerly Blazquez he held a number of senior Managing director, Appointed managing director, strategy positions in GrandMet 2 Diageo Africa global supply and global and worked as a management British 48 procurement, Diageo plc consultant with Booz-Allen in January 2003.
He joined & Hamilton Inc and OC&C Appointed managing Diageo in 1998 as European Strategy Consultants.
director, Diageo Africa in supply director, then headed August 2004, prior to which up Guinness & European RTD Stuart Fletcher he was managing director, supply, prior to which he spent President, Diageo Diageo Asia Key Markets.
20 years in various roles with 2 International He held various managerial Heinz.
He is a non-executive positions in United Distillers British 52 director of Brambles plc.
Appointed president, Diageo International in October 2004, Deirdre Mahlan having been president, Key Deputy chief fi financial Markets since September 2000.
2 offi cer He held a number of senior American 47 management positions with Guinness, after joining the Appointed deputy chief company in 1986, including fi financial offi cer of Diageo plc managing director of in May 2009, prior to which she Developing and Seed Markets, was head of tax and treasury, and previously held various Diageo plc and chief fi financial fi financial positions with Procter offi cer, Diageo North America.
She joined the group in 2001, having held various senior fi finance positions in Joseph E Seagram & Sons Inc since 1992, and having formerly been a senior manager with Price Waterhouse.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information 73 Timothy Tim Proctor 2 General counsel American British 59 Appointed general counsel of Diageo plc in January 2000.
Formerly he was director, worldwide human resources of Glaxo Wellcome and Ivan Menezes senior vice president, human President, Diageo North resources, general counsel and secretary for Glaxos US America: chairman, 2 operating company.
He has Diageo Asia Pacifi c over 25 years international American 50 legal experience, including 13 years with Merck and six years Appointed president, Diageo with Glaxo Wellcome.
He North America in January 2004, resigned as a non-executive having been chief operating director of Wachovia offi cer, Diageo North America Corporation in the United since July 2002.
In October States during the year.
2008, he was also appointed Randolph Randy Millian chairman, Diageo Asia Pacifi c. Managing director, Formerly he held various senior Gareth Williams Diageo Latin America management positions with Human resources 2 Guinness and then Diageo and Caribbean 2 director and worked across a variety of American 56 British 56 sales, marketing and strategy roles with Nestl in Asia, Appointed managing director, Appointed human resources Robert Rob Malcolm Booz-Allen & Hamilton Inc in Diageo Latin America and retired as president, global director of Diageo plc in Larry Schwartz North America and Whirlpool Caribbean in 2005, having January 1999.
Formerly he marketing, sales and 2 in Europe.
He is also a nonPresident, Diageo USA joined United Distillers & held a number of senior innovation in December 2008. executive director of Coach Inc American 56 Vintners Brazil in 1995 as its personnel management in the United States.
Prior to John Pollaers resigned as positions with GrandMet joining Diageo, he held senior Appointed president, Diageo and then United Distillers president, Diageo Asia Pacifi c USA in September 2008, prior management positions with & Vintners and spent 10 with eff ect from 30 June 2009. to which he was president, American Express, Scheringyears with Ford of Britain in Diageo North America key Plough, Personal Care Group a number of personnel and USA and Pepsi in a number market hub, and president of employee relations positions.
He of territories, including Latin joined the company in 2001 as America, Europe and Asia.
president of Joseph E Seagram & Sons, having held a variety of senior management positions with Seagram.
Ian Wright Corporate relations Andrew Morgan 2 director 2 President, Diageo Europe British 51 British 53 Appointed corporate relations Appointed president, Diageo director of Diageo plc in July Europe in October 2004, 2004, having held a number of having been president, public relations positions with Venture Markets since July public relations consultancies 2002.
He joined United and The Boots Company.
Distillers in 1987 and held various senior management positions with Guinness and then Diageo, including group chief information offi cer and president, New Business Ventures for Guinness United Distillers & Vintners and director, global strategy and innovation for United Distillers & Vintners.
