Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information 71 Board of directors and company secretary Peggy Bruzelius Non-executive 1,3, 4 director H Todd Stitzer Swedish 59 Non-executive 1,3, 4 director Appointed a non-executive American 57 director of Diageo plc in Dr Franz Humer April 2009.
She is chairman of Appointed a non-executive Chairman, Lancelot Asset Management director of Diageo plc in June 3 non-executive director and vice chairman of AB 2004.
He is chief executive of Maria Lilja Swiss Austrian 63 Electrolux, both in Sweden, Cadbury plc to which offi ce Non-executive Nicholas Nick Rose and sits on the boards of Akzo he was appointed in 2003 1,3, 4 director Appointed chairman of Diageo Nobel NV in the Netherlands, Chief fi financial offi cer, and formerly held a number plc in July 2008, having been 2 Syngenta AG in Switzerland, Swedish 65 executive director of marketing, sales, strategy a non-executive director Husqvarna AB in Sweden and general management British 51 and the Stockholm School since April 2005.
He is also Appointed a non-executive posts subsequent to joining chairman of F. Hoff mann-La of Economics, as well as director of Diageo plc in Appointed chief fi financial the company in 1983 as an Roche Ltd in Switzerland and chairing the Swedish Board November 1999.
She was offi cer of Diageo plc in July assistant general counsel.
He a non-executive director of of Higher Education.
She formerly head of American has been a member of the 1999.
He has served in a was formerly managing Allianz Versicherungs AG in Express Europe having board of trustees for Business number of fi finance roles since Germany.
He was formerly director of ABB Financial played a leading role in joining GrandMet in June 1992, in the Community since 2008. chief operating director of Services AB and headed the building Nyman & Schultz, a including group treasurer Glaxo Holdings plc and has asset management arm of long-established Scandinavian and group controller and Skandinaviska Enskilda held a number of other nontravel management company, was appointed to the Diageo executive directorships.
which was acquired by plc board in June 1999.
He is the year, he resigned as a American Express and has also a member of the main director of Chugai in Japan.
held a number of other noncommittee of the 100 Group executive directorships.
of Finance Directors and was formerly a non-executive director of Scottish Power plc.
Paul Walker Non-executive 1,3, 4 director British 52 Laurence Danon Non-executive Appointed a non-executive Paul Walsh 1,3, 4 director director of Diageo plc in June Philip Scott Chief executive, French 53 2002.
He is chief executive of 2 Non-executive executive director The Sage Group plc to which 1, 3,4 Lord Clive Hollick Appointed a non-executive director British 54 offi ce he was appointed in director of Diageo plc in British 55 of Notting Hill 1994, having previously been Appointed chief executive of January 2006.
She is a member Senior nonfi finance director and was Diageo plc in September 2000, of the executive board of Appointed a non-executive 1,3, 4 formerly a non-executive executive director Edmond fide Rothschild having been chief operating director of Diageo plc director of MyTravel Group plc.
British 64 offi cer since January 2000.
Corporate Finance in France and chairman of the audit He has served in a number and is also a non-executive committee with eff ect from Appointed a non-executive of management roles since director of Plastic Omnium 17 October 2007.
He is chief director of Diageo plc in and Rhodia SA, both in France, joining GrandMets brewing fi financial offi cer of Aviva plc, December 2001 and senior division in 1982, including and a non-executive director to which position he was non-executive director and chief executive offi cer of The of Experian Group Limited, appointed in July 2007 and chairman of the remuneration Pillsbury Company.
He was from which offi ce she will from which offi ce he will committee in September resign at the end of December appointed to the GrandMet retire at the end of December 2004.
He is a senior adviser to board in October 1995 and 2009.
He began his career Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Paul Tunnacliff e to the Diageo plc board in non-executive director of with Norwich Union as a is also a member of the Company secretary December 1997.
He was BPCE, Frances second largest trainee actuary in 1973 and supervisory board of banking group, in July 2009. appointed a non-executive subsequently held a number British 47 ProSiebenSat.
1 Media AG, director of Unilever PLC in May Formerly she served with the of senior roles with that a non-executive director 2009 and is also a member of French Ministry of Industry company and its successor Appointed company secretary of Honeywell International the Council of the University and Energy, held a number Aviva, including that of group of Diageo plc in January 2008.
Inc in the United States and of senior management posts of Reading, a member of the executive director.
He was formerly company a founding trustee of the Business Council for Britain, with Total Fina Elf and was secretary of Hanson PLC to Institute of Public Policy chairman of the Scotch Whisky chairman and chief executive which offi ce he was appointed Research.
He was formerly Association and a nonoffi cer of France Printemps.
in 1997 where he previously chief executive of United During the year, she resigned executive director of FedEx served as assistant company Key to committees Business Media plc and Corporation in the United as a non-executive director of secretary, having joined the 1.
Audit has held a number of other States.
During the year, he Lafuma SA.
resigned as a non-executive senior management During the year, he resigned as director of Centrica plc.
Nomination a member of the supervisory as a non-executive director of 4.
Remuneration board of The Nielsen Company.
Chairman of committee Diageo plc in April 2009.
