Diageo Annual Report 2009 86 Corporate governance report Governance differences from the NYSE corporate governance standards Dear Shareholder 71 Board of directors and are summarised below and on the companys website at executive committee www.
On behalf of the board, I am pleased to present the corporate 74 Directors The way in which the Codes principles of good governance governance report for the year ended 30 June 2009. remuneration report Reputation is critical to commercial success and can only be and relevant provisions of SOX are applied is described within this 86 Corporate governance report enhanced by behaviours of which we are proud.
At Diageo, we corporate governance report.
94 Directors report strive to have the highest standards of integrity in the way we behave towards our consumers, customers, employees, public officials, suppliers, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Diageos board and executive committee are therefore committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance, being a responsible corporate citizen in the communities of which we are part and applying the PD Tunnacliffe appropriate level of risk management when directing and Company Secretary controlling the business.
The activities of the board and executive committee as Board of directors described in this report underpin the companys commitment Membership of the board and board committees, other to achieving these aspirations.
directorships and attendance at meetings We share the view, expressed in the preamble to the Code The chairmen, senior non-executive director and other members as defined below, that good corporate governance will of the board, audit committee, nomination committee and contribute to better company performance as it helps a board remuneration committee are as set out above in the biographies discharge its duties in the best interests of shareholders.
of directors and members of the executive committee.
Good governance will also facilitate efficient, effective and The directors biographies also show the significant other entrepreneurial management that can deliver shareholder commitments of the chairman and other directors and whether value over the longer term.
there have been any changes to them during the year.
Directors The principal corporate governance rules applying to UK attendance during the year at board meetings, meetings of the companies listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE are audit, nomination and remuneration committees and at the contained in The Combined Code on Corporate Governance Annual General Meeting was as set out in the table at the end as updated and published by the Financial Reporting Council of this report.
in June 2008 the Code and the UK Financial Services Authority The board considers that it is beneficial for the executive FSA Listing Rules, which require companies listed on the Main directors to hold an external directorship to broaden their Market of the LSE to describe, in their annual report, their experience and normally this would be limited to one company.
corporate governance from two points of view: the first dealing The chief executive, PS Walsh, holds a UK non-executive generally with their adherence to the Codes main principles directorship in Unilever PLC having retired from his nonand the second dealing specifically with non-compliance with executive directorship of Centrica plc during the year and any of the Codes provisions.
The two descriptions together a US non-executive directorship in FedEx Corporation.
The board are designed to give shareholders a picture of governance considers that, given the importance of the United States to the arrangements in relation to the Code as a criterion of good companys business, the FedEx directorship is of benefit to practice.
Diageo has complied with both the main principles set Mr Walsh in terms of market awareness, US business practices out in section 1 of the Code and the provisions set out in section 1 and networking and that the time commitment is not onerous of the Code throughout the year.
The Code is publicly available as the meetings can be combined with other business trips to under the heading Corporate Governance at the website of the the United States.
The chief financial officer, NC Rose, does not Financial Reporting Council, www.
currently have an external directorship.
Diageo must also comply with corporate governance rules There is a clear separation of the roles of the chairman and contained in the FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules as well the chief executive.
The chairman, Dr FB Humer, is responsible for as certain related provisions in the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
the running of the board and for ensuring all directors are fully As well as being subject to UK legislation and practice, as a informed of matters sufficient to make informed judgements.
company listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, Diageo As chief executive, PS Walsh has responsibility for implementing is subject to the listing requirements of the NYSE and the rules of the strategy agreed by the board and for managing the group.
the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
Compliance with He is supported in this role by the executive committee.
the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 SOX, as it The non-executive directors, all of whom the board has applies to foreign issuers, is continually monitored.
Whilst the determined are independent, are experienced and influential directors believe that the groups corporate governance policies individuals from a range of industries and countries.
Their mix are robust, changes have been and will continue to be made to of skills and business experience is a major contribution to the ensure compliance with the rules that are in place at any point proper functioning of the board and its committees, ensuring in time.
Diageo follows UK corporate governance practice: that matters are fully debated and that no individual or group dominates the boards decision-making processes.
Through the nomination committee, the board ensures that plans are in place for the succession of the executive and non-executive directors.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate governance report 87 A summary of the terms and conditions of appointment of the In order to fulfil their duties, procedures are in place for directors non-executive directors is available at www.
com or on to seek both independent advice and the advice and services of request from the company secretary.
the company secretary who is responsible for advising the board, through the chairman, on all governance matters.
Activities of the board The non-executive directors meet independently without It is the responsibility of the chairman and the company secretary the chairman present, and also meet with the chairman to work closely together in planning the annual programme and independently of management, on a regular basis.
During the year, six scheduled board The non-executive directors fulfil a key role in corporate meetings were held, all in the United Kingdom.
The remits and membership of the audit, the a joint annual strategy conference was held off-site with the full nomination and the remuneration committees of the board are executive committee at which the groups strategy was reviewed set out below.
The company secretary acts as secretary to all of in depth.
The terms of reference of the committees are When directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are available on the companys website at www.
advised of the matters to be discussed and given an opportunity to make their views known to the chairman prior to the meeting.
Training The board manages overall control of the companys affairs There is a formal induction programme for new directors: they with reference to the formal schedule of matters reserved for the meet with the executive committee members individually and board for decision.
The schedule is reviewed annually and was receive orientation training from the relevant senior executive in last revised in June 2009. relation to the group and its business, for example in relation to The board makes decisions and reviews and approves key its assurance processes, environmental policies and corporate policies and decisions of the company, in particular in relation responsibility policies and practices.
to: group strategy and operating plans: corporate governance: All directors are provided with the opportunity, and compliance with laws, regulations and the companys code of encouraged to go, for training to ensure they are kept up to date business conduct: business development, including major on relevant legal developments or changes and best practice investments and disposals: financing and treasury: appointment and changing commercial and other risks.
Typical training or removal of directors and the company secretary: risk experience for all directors includes attendance at seminars, management: financial reporting and audit: corporate citizenship, forums, conferences and working groups and during the year ethics and the environment: and pensions.
also included training from the companys global audit and risk The Act sets out directors general duties concerning function on the updated code of business conduct.
conflicts of interest and related matters.
Following the coming into effect of these provisions of the Act in October 2008, the Performance evaluation board agreed an approach and adopted guidelines for dealing During the year, the board, audit committee, nomination with conflicts of interest and agreed to add responsibility for committee and remuneration committee each undertook a authorising conflicts of interest to the schedule of matters formal evaluation of its own performance and effectiveness reserved for the board.
The board confirmed that it was aware and reviewed its terms of reference.
Internally produced of no situations that may or did give rise to conflicts with the questionnaires were used for the performance evaluation interests of the company other than those that may arise from process.
The board questionnaire included: the extent to which directors other appointments as disclosed in their biographies the groups strategy was clear, viable, understood and above.
In accordance with the articles, the board authorised communicated: the effectiveness of the board in monitoring the chairman or the company secretary, as appropriate, to receive the implementation of the groups strategy, and in assessing the notifications of conflicts of interest on behalf of the board and to operating and financial performance of the group: the structure make recommendations as to whether the relevant matters composition of the board and its committees in terms of mix should be authorised by the board.
The company has complied of knowledge, experience and skills: the performance of the with these procedures during the year since they were put committees: how effectively the internal board relationships in place.
were working: how well the board related to the business: how All directors are equally accountable for the proper well the board had responded to the unforeseen and rapid stewardship of the companys affairs.
changes in the economic environment: the processes for The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility formulating strategy and the effectiveness of the annual strategy for ensuring that the business strategies proposed are fully conference: the effectiveness of board meetings: and how well discussed and critically reviewed.
This enables the directors to informed the board was of business activity.
The board promote the success of the company for the benefit of its concluded that appropriate actions had been identified to shareholders as a whole, whilst having regard to, among other address areas that could be improved and that the board and matters, the interests of employees, the fostering of business its committees continued to operate effectively.
relationships with customers, suppliers and others, and the The performance of each director, who met individually impact of the companys operations on the communities in with the chairman, was evaluated by the chairman based on which the business operates and the environment.
input from the other directors.
The chairmans performance was The non-executive directors also oversee the operational evaluated by the directors, using an internally produced performance of the whole group.
To do this they have full and questionnaire which was completed and returned to the senior timely access to all relevant information, with updates also non-executive director, who discussed the feedback in a meeting provided on governance and regulatory matters affecting the with the non-executive directors and then privately with the company.
In addition, executive committee members and other chairman.
A report on the individual performance evaluation senior executives are invited, as appropriate, to board and process was given to the nomination committee.
Following the strategy meetings to make presentations on their areas of performance evaluation of individual directors, the chairman has responsibility.
Non-executive directors are also invited to attend confirmed that the non-executive directors standing for the executive committee members senior leadership meetings re-election at this years AGM continue to perform effectively and to gain further insight into different aspects of the business.
Diageo Annual Report 2009 88 Corporate governance report demonstrate commitment to their roles.
It is the boards intention During the year, the audit committee reviewed the external audit to continue to review annually its performance and that of its strategy and the findings of the external auditor from its review of committees and individual directors.
A decision is taken each year the interim announcement and its audit of the annual financial on the performance evaluation process to be used.
The audit committee also met privately with the Governance the coming years evaluation process, no decision has yet been external auditor.
71 Board of directors and made whether to continue with the same method of internal Following a review by the audit committee in December executive committee evaluation or to engage an external facilitator.
2007, the board agreed in June 2008 to recommend to 74 Directors During the year the remuneration committee commissioned shareholders at the annual general meeting in 2008, the remuneration report an independent evaluation of its own effectiveness.
This evaluation re-appointment of the external auditor for a period of one year.
86 Corporate governance report was carried out by Deloitte and covered the role of contributors, The current overall tenure of the external auditor dates from 1997.
94 Directors report process, topics covered on the annual agenda, papers produced Any decision to open the external auditor to tender is taken on and the quality of decisions.
The committee noted the areas the recommendation of the audit committee, based on the highlighted and will keep them under review.
results of the effectiveness review described below.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the companys current choice Audit committee of external auditor.
Role of the audit committee The audit committee assessed the ongoing effectiveness of The audit committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing: the external auditor and audit process on the basis of meetings the integrity of the financial statements, including a review of and a questionnaire-based internal review with finance, global the significant financial reporting judgements contained audit & risk staff and other senior executives.
In reviewing the in them: independence of the external auditor, the audit committee the effectiveness of the groups internal control and risk considered a number of factors.
These include: the standing, management and of control over financial reporting: experience and tenure of the external audit director: the nature the effectiveness of the global audit and risk function, and level of services provided by the external auditor: and including the programme of work undertaken by confirmation from the external auditor that it has complied with that function: relevant UK and US independence standards.
the groups policies and practices concerning business The group has a policy on the use of the external auditor for conduct and ethics, including whistleblowing: non-audit services, which is reviewed annually, most recently in the groups overall approach to securing compliance with laws, June 2009.
Under this policy the provision of any service must be regulations and company policies in areas of risk: and approved by the audit committee, unless the proposed service is the companys relationship with the external auditor, including both expected to cost less than 250,000 and also falls within one its independence and managements response to any major of a number of service categories which the audit committee has external audit recommendations.
These pre-approved service categories may be summarised as follows: For the purposes of the Code and the relevant rule under the US accounting advice, employee benefit plan audits, and audit Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Exchange Act, the board has or other attestation services, not otherwise prohibited: determined that PG Scott is independent and may be regarded due diligence and other support in respect of acquisitions, as an audit committee financial expert.
disposals, training and other business initiatives: and The chairman, the chief financial officer, the group controller, certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, tax the head of global audit and risk, the director of technical planning and related implementation advice in relation to accounting and the external auditor are normally invited to acquisitions, disposals and other reorganisations.
The audit committee met privately with the external auditor Nomination committee and with the head of global audit and risk as appropriate.
Role of the nomination committee The nomination committee is responsible for keeping under Work of the audit committee review the composition of the board and succession to it, and During the year, the audit committee formally reviewed the succession planning for senior management positions.
It makes annual reports and associated preliminary year-end results recommendations to the board concerning appointments to the announcement, focusing on key areas of judgement, board, whether of executive or non-executive directors, having provisioning and complexity, critical accounting policies and any regard to the balance and structure of the board and the required changes required in these areas or policies.
In addition, the audit blend of skills and experience.
committee also reviewed the interim results announcement and The nomination committee also makes recommendations the companys interim management statements.
The audit to the board concerning the re-appointment of any noncommittee also reviewed the work of the filings assurance executive director at the conclusion of his or her specified term committee described below and was updated on litigation risks and the re-election of any director by shareholders under the by the groups general counsel.
retirement provisions of the companys articles of association.
No The audit committee received detailed presentations from director is involved in determining his or her own re-appointment certain senior executives on the management of key risk and or re-election.
control issues in their respective business areas, reviewed the Any new directors are appointed by the board and, in effectiveness and findings from internal control and risk accordance with the companys articles of association, they must management processes described below and reviewed the be elected at the next AGM to continue in office.
They must retire, work of the compliance programme and the work of the audit and may stand for re-election by the shareholders, at least every and risk committee, described below.
The audit committee had available to it the resources of the global audit and risk function, the activities of which are described below.
