Diageo Annual Report 2009 28 Business description If there is an extended period of On 9 June 2008, Diageo It is possible that the pursuit completed the acquisition of constraint in the capital markets, of this strategic focus on premium Ketel One Worldwide BV KOW, with debt markets in particular drinks could give rise to further experiencing a lack of liquidity, a 50:50 company based in the acquisitions including associated Disposed businesses at a time when cash fl ows from Netherlands, with the Nolet Group, fi nancing, disposals, joint ventures owners of the Ketel One brand.
Diageos business may be under or partnerships.
There can be Pillsbury General Mills The company owns the exclusive pressure, this may have an impact no guarantee that any such Diageo acquired an investment on Diageos ability to maintain and perpetual global rights to acquisition, disposal, joint venture in the shares of General Mills on current long term strategies, with market, sell and distribute Ketel or partnership would deliver the the disposal of Pillsbury to General One vodka products, including a consequent eff ect on the groups benefi ts intended.
On Ketel One vodka, Ketel One Citroen growth rate.
Such developments Similarly, there can be no 4 October 2004, Diageo sold may adversely aff ect shareholder vodka and any line extensions of assurance that the cost-saving 50 million shares of common stock returns or share price.
Additionally, Ketel One vodka and Ketel One or restructuring programmes in General Mills and transferred Citroen vodka.
The business is continued volatility in exchange implemented by Diageo in order a further 4 million shares to the operated pursuant to a global rates used to translate foreign to improve effi ciencies and deliver Diageo UK pension fund and currencies into pounds sterling agreement and ancillary cost-savings will deliver the Diageo ceased to be an affi liate may have a signifi cant impact on agreements relating to intellectual expected benefi ts.
of General Mills for US federal property, supply, distribution Diageos reported results.
securities laws purposes at that services and certain other matters.
Decreases in the trustees Systems change programmes time.
In November 2005, Diageo valuations of Diageos pension Diageo paid a total of 472 million may not deliver the benefi ts sold its remaining 25 million shares plans may also increase pension including acquisition costs for a intended and systems failures of common stock of General Mills.
50% equity stake in the company funding requirements.
could lead to business disruption and is entitled to certain Certain change programmes Burger King Diageo faces competition governance rights under the designed to improve the Diageo completed the disposal of that may reduce its market global agreement.
Diageo eff ectiveness and effi ciency Burger King on 13 December 2002. consolidates the company with a share and margins of end-to-end operating, minority interest.
The Nolet Group Diageo faces substantial administrative and fi financial Risk factors competition from several has an option to sell their stake in systems and processes continue Diageo believes the following international companies as well the company to Diageo for $900 to be undertaken.
This includes million 545 million plus interest to be the principal risks and as local and regional companies in moving transaction processing from 9 June 2011 to 9 June 2013. uncertainties facing the group.
the countries in which it operates.
from a number of markets to If any of these risks occur, Diageos Diageo competes with drinks If the Nolet Group exercises this business service centres.
There business, fi financial condition and companies across a wide range option but Diageo chooses not to can be no certainty that these buy their stake, Diageo will pay results of operations could suff er of consumer drinking occasions.
programmes will deliver the $100 million 61 million and the and the trading price and liquidity Within a number of categories, expected operational benefi ts.
consolidation or realignment is Nolet Group may then pursue a There is likely to be disruption In the current global fi financial still possible.
Consolidation is also sale of their stake to a third party, caused to production processes subject to rights of fi first off er and crisis and uncertain economic taking place amongst Diageos and possibly to administrative last refusal on Diageos part.
environment, certain risks may customers in many countries.
and fi financial systems as further gain more prominence either Increased competition and On 16 June 2009, Diageo changes to such processes are individually or when taken unanticipated actions by acquired the remaining 80% of eff ected.
They could also lead to equity in Stirrings LLC for 6 million together.
The following are competitors or customers could adverse customer or consumer examples of ways that any of and provided 7 million as lead to downward pressure on reaction.
Any failure of information the risks below may become prices and or a decline in Diageos deferred consideration payable.
systems could adversely impact so exacerbated.
Demand for market share in any of these Diageo initially acquired a 20% on Diageos ability to operate.
equity stake for 5 million in the beverage alcohol products, in categories, which would adversely As with all large systems, Diageos particular luxury or super premium year ended 30 June 2007. aff ect Diageos results and hinder information systems could be products, may decrease with a its growth potential.
penetrated by outside parties reduction in consumer spending intent on extracting information, levels.
Costs of operations may Diageo may not be able to derive corrupting information or increase if infl ation were to the expected benefi ts from its disrupting business processes.
become prevalent in the strategy to focus on premium Such unauthorised access could economic environment, resulting drinks or its cost-saving and disrupt Diageos business and or in an increase in the costs of raw restructuring programmes lead to loss of assets.
These factors may also designed to enhance earnings concentration of processes in lead to intensifi ed competition for Diageos strategy is to focus on business service centres also market share, with consequential premium drinks to grow its means that any disruption arising potential adverse eff ects on business through organic sales from system failure or physical volumes and prices.
The fi financial and operating profi t growth plant issues could impact on and economic situation may have and the acquisition of premium a large portion of Diageos a negative impact on third parties drinks brands that add value for global business.
with whom Diageo does, or may shareholders.
There can be no do, business.
Any of these factors assurance that Diageos strategic may aff ect the groups results of focus on premium drinks will result operations, fi financial condition in opportunities for growth and and liquidity.
