Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate governance report 91 Compliance programme guidelines specify the manner in which Charitable and political donations any potential violations of these codes should be dealt with, During the year, total charitable donations made by the group including line manager reporting and an independent SpeakUp were 23.4 million 2008 23.9 million.
UK group companies help line.
The latter is operated independently and reports to the made donations of 11.2 million 2008 10.7 million to global compliance and ethics director for escalation to the audit charitable organisations including 1.1 million 2008 1.0 million committee as required.
There is an annual certification to the Diageo Foundation and 7.4 million 2008 7.1 million to requirement for all senior employees to confirm compliance with the Thalidomide Trust.
In the rest of the world, group companies the code of business conduct or to identify areas of possible nonmade charitable donations of 12.2 million 2008 13.2 million.
compliance to the global compliance and ethics director.
Training The group has not given any money for political purposes and education including e-learning activities are also in the United Kingdom.
During the year, Diageo Deutschland undertaken.
Both the audit and risk committee and the audit GmbH, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the group, made a political committee review the operation of the compliance programme.
donation to the German Young Christian Democrat Union by way of non-cash support for its summer event in Berlin with a Relations with shareholders total value of approximately 7,000.
Otherwise, the group made The company values its dialogue with both institutional no donations to EU political organisations and incurred no EU and private investors.
The boards primary contact with political expenditure during the year.
The group made institutional shareholders is through the chief executive and contributions to non-EU political parties totalling 0.7 million chief financial officer.
These were all made, The chief executive and chief financial officer are supported consistent with applicable laws, to federal and state candidates by the investor relations department, who are in regular contact and committees in the United States, where it is common with institutional shareholders and sell-side analysts.
Coverage of practice to make political contributions.
With respect to the EU the company by sell-side analysts is circulated to the board.
The political donation and the contributions to non-EU political board also ensures that all directors develop an understanding of parties, no particular political persuasion was supported and the views of major institutional shareholders through an contributions were made with the aim of promoting a better independent survey of shareholder opinion.
In addition, major understanding of the group and its views on commercial matters, shareholders are invited to raise any company matters of interest as well as a generally improved business environment.
to them at an annual meeting with the chairman and senior nonexecutive director.
The chief executive and chief financial officer Supplier payment policies and performance are normally also present and available to take questions and the Given the international nature of the groups operations, there is chairman reports on the meeting to the board.
no group standard in respect of payments to suppliers.
Operating Investor seminars and analyst presentations, including those companies are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions for following the announcement of interim results and preliminary their business transactions when orders for goods and services year end results, are webcast and other presentations made to are placed, so that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment institutional investors are available on the companys website.
and the relevant terms are included in contracts where For the year ended 30 June 2009, Diageo produced a shortappropriate.
These arrangements are adhered to when making form summary review and an annual report, which are available payments, subject to the terms and conditions being met by the to all shareholders on its website, by election or on request.
Creditor days have not been calculated, as Diageo plc alternative to receiving shareholder documents through the post, had no material trade creditors at 30 June 2009.
The companys shareholders may elect to receive email notification that the invoices for goods and services are settled by subsidiaries acting documents are available to be accessed on the companys on behalf of the company.
Shareholders can also choose to receive email notification when new company information is published on www.
The website also provides private Going concern shareholders with the facility to check their shareholdings online The groups business activities together with significant risk and to send any questions they may have to the company.
factors are set out above in the Business description.
The liquidity Private shareholders are invited to write to the chairman position, capital resources and risk management processes or any other director and express their views on any issues of covering exposure to currency, interest rate, credit, liquidity concern at any time and the AGM provides an opportunity for and price risk are described above in the Business review.
private shareholders to put their questions in person.
The The group has significant financial resources, strong cash company also holds an annual presentation to the UK generation from operations and good access to debt markets.
Consequently, the directors believe that the group is well placed The chairmen of the audit, nomination and remuneration to manage its business risks despite the current uncertain committees are normally available at the AGM to take any economic outlook.
relevant questions and all other directors attend, unless illness or The directors confirm that, after making appropriate another pressing commitment precludes them from doing so.
enquiries, they have reasonable expectation that the company At general meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for cast is made available to all shareholders and is published on the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the www.
The company proposes a separate resolution going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
on each substantially separate issue and does not bundle resolutions together inappropriately.
Resolutions on the receipt of the reports and accounts and the approval of the directors remuneration report are put to shareholders at the AGM.
