Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors remuneration report 85 Other than disclosed in this report, no director had any interest, Additional information beneficial or non-beneficial, in the share capital of the company.
Emoluments and share interests of senior management Save as disclosed above, no director has or has had any interest The total emoluments for the year ended 30 June 2009 of the in any transaction which is or was unusual in its nature, or which executive directors, the executive committee members and is or was significant to the business of the group and which was the company secretary together, the senior management of effected by any member of the group during the financial year, Diageo comprising base salary, annual performance bonus, or which having been effected during an earlier financial year, share incentive plan and other benefits were 12,097,780 remains in any respect outstanding or unperformed.
Note that the executive committee been no material transactions during the last three years to which increased in membership during the year.
any director or officer, or 3% or greater shareholder, or any relative The aggregate amount of gains made by the senior or spouse thereof, was a party.
There is no significant outstanding management from the exercise of share options and from the indebtedness to the company from any directors or officer or vesting of awards during the year was 6,737,903.
In addition, they 3% or greater shareholder.
were granted 2,665,917 options during the year at a weighted average share price of 879 pence, exercisable by 2018.
They were Compliance also initially awarded 1,845,542 shares under the PSP in October This report was approved by the remuneration committee, 2008, which will vest in three years subject to the performance which is a duly appointed and authorised committee of the tests described above.
Two members of the executive board of directors, on 25 August 2009 and was signed on its committee were also awarded an exceptional grant of 164,952 behalf by Lord Hollick who is senior non-executive director and deferred shares under the Discretionary Incentive Plan DIP chairman of the remuneration committee.
As required by the in October 2008.
There are performance conditions attached to Companies Act 2006, a resolution to approve the directors the release of this award and it will vest, subject to achievement remuneration report will be proposed at the AGM and will be of the performance conditions, in three equal instalments in subject to an advisory shareholder vote.
The board has followed and complied with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 with reference to Senior management options over ordinary shares Schedules 5 and 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies At 10 August 2009, the senior management had an aggregate and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and beneficial interest in 2,734,243 ordinary shares in the company section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance in and in the following options over ordinary shares in the company: preparing this report and in designing performance-related remuneration for senior executives.
Weighted KPMG Audit Plc has audited the report to the extent average exercise required by the Regulations, being the sections headed Number price Directors remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2009, Long of options in pence Option period term incentive plans, Directors share options over ordinary NC Rose 1,023,473 911 Sep 08 Oct 18 shares, Directors interests in PSP and TSR plan awards and PS Walsh 2,811,145 835 Oct 05 Oct 18 Executive directors pension benefits.
In addition, the following Other 7,017,758 1036 Sep 03 Oct 18 sections form part of the audited financial statements: Share 10,852,376 and other interests and Key management personnel related party transactions.
Other members of the executive committee and the company secretary.
Terms defined in this remuneration report are used solely herein.
Key management personnel related party transactions Key management personnel of the group comprises the Definitions executive and non-executive directors, the members of the AGM annual general meeting of shareholders executive committee and the company secretary.
As previously EPS earnings per share disclosed, Lord Hollick, PS Walsh, NC Rose and G Williams have Adjusted EPS for the purpose of the SESOP, an underlying informed the company that they have purchased seasonal measure of EPS is used to ensure that items such as exceptional developments at Gleneagles from a subsidiary of the company, items and movements in exchange rates are excluded from year Gleneagles Resort Developments Limited.
The transactions on year comparisons of performance.
were priced on the same basis as all the external seasonal NRA the normal retirement age for pension purposes is age 62. development transactions and were at arms length.
The values RPI the retail prices index is a UK government index that of the transactions at the date of purchase were as follows: Lord measures changes in cost of living.
Hollick 25,000, PS Walsh 43,000, NC Rose 11,600 and TSR for the purpose of the PSP and TSR plan, total shareholder G Williams 19,400.
Each director continued to hold these return is the percentage growth in Diageos share price assuming seasonal developments at 30 June 2009. all dividends and capital distribution are reinvested.
Diageo plc has granted rolling indemnities to the directors and the company secretary, uncapped in amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur in the course of acting as directors or company secretary as applicable of Diageo plc or of one or more of its subsidiaries.
These indemnities continue to be in place at 30 June 2009.
