Diageo Annual Report 2009 76 Directors remuneration report Executive remuneration philosophy and principles The plans in which Diageos executive directors and senior management participate are designed to reflect the principles detailed below: What Why How Governance 71 Board of directors and Performance-related It influences and supports Short and long term incentives conditional upon executive committee compensation performance and the creation of achieving stretching performance targets.
remuneration report 86 Corporate Rewarding sustainable It is at the heart of Diageos A balanced mix of absolute and relative performance governance report performance corporate strategy and is vital measures for short and long term incentives that reflect 94 Directors report to meeting investors goals.
sustainable profit and underlying financial performance.
Shareholding requirements that align the interests of senior executives with shareholders and that are a condition of full participation in share award and share option plans.
Measuring performance over It aligns with the time cycle over Long term incentives that comprise a combination three years which management decisions of share option grants and share awards in each year are reflected in the creation of and vary with three-year EPS and TSR performance value in this business.
Providing a balanced mix It enables focus on long term Base salary, benefits, pension, short term cash incentives of remuneration value creation while avoiding and long term equity incentives.
Providing a competitive total It helps Diageo attract and Reward levels considered against the total remuneration remuneration opportunity retain the best global talent.
packages paid in the top 30 companies in the FTSE 100 by market capitalisation, excluding those in the financial services sector.
Total remuneration positioned between the median and upper quartile of this group, reflecting the size and complexity of Diageos business globally.
Simplicity and transparency It allows targets to be Targets that are within a sphere of direct influence motivating and demonstrably and that align with the companys short and long linked to company term goals.
Pay for performance The board of directors sets stretching performance targets for the business and its leaders.
To achieve these targets and deliver performance requires exceptional business management and strategic execution.
This approach to target setting reflects the aspirational performance environment that Diageo wishes to create.
The annual incentive plan aims to reward the delivery of short term performance goals with commensurate levels of remuneration.
Long term incentive plans aim to reward long term sustained performance.
Under both sets of plans, if the demanding targets are achieved, high levels of reward may be earned.
All incentives are capped in order that inappropriate business risk-taking is neither encouraged nor rewarded.
Fixed and variable remuneration The balance between fixed and variable elements of remuneration changes with performance.
The anticipated normal mix between fixed and variable remuneration for executive directors is that for 100 of remuneration earned, 32 will be fixed remuneration and 68 will be performance-related remuneration, excluding pensions and other benefits.
This mix is illustrated in the following chart.
In some years, the variable element may be higher or lower depending on the performance of the business.
Executive directors remuneration mix 1 3 2 1 32% Variable short term 2 36% Variable long term 3 32% Fixed base salary
