Diageo Annual Report 2009 94 Directors report Governance The directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual Report Purchases of own shares 71 Board of directors and for the year ended 30 June 2009. executive committee At the 2008 AGM, shareholders gave the company renewed 74 Directors authority to purchase a maximum of 252 million ordinary shares.
Annual General Meeting remuneration report During the year ended 30 June 2009, the company purchased 86 Corporate The AGM will be held at The Institution of Engineering and 44 million ordinary shares nominal value 13 million, representing governance report Technology, Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL at 2.30pm on approximately 1.6% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding 94 Directors report treasury shares at 10 August 2009, for a consideration including Wednesday, 14 October 2009. expenses of 417 million.
Of the shares purchased, 38 million were purchased and subsequently cancelled and 6 million were held as Dividends treasury shares for the hedging of grants made under employee Diageo paid an interim dividend of 13.9 pence per share on 6 April share plans.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 22.2 pence per share.
Subject to approval by shareholders, the final dividend will Business review be paid on 19 October 2009 to shareholders on the register on 11 September 2009.
Payment to US ADR holders will be made on The review of the business of the company and the description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company, prepared 23 October 2009.
A dividend reinvestment plan, which enables ordinary shareholders to invest their dividends in ordinary shares, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, comprises the is available in respect of the final dividend and the plan notice date following sections of the Annual Report: the Chief executives is 28 September 2009. review, the Business description and the Business review.
Directors Corporate governance statement The directors of the company who served during the year The corporate governance statement, prepared in accordance are shown in the section Board of directors and executive with rule 7.2 of the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, committee above.
comprises the following sections of the Annual Report: the LM Danon, Lord Hollick and PS Walsh retire by rotation at Corporate governance report and the Additional information the AGM in accordance with the articles and, being eligible, offer for shareholders.
M Lilja will retire immediately after the AGM and will therefore not seek re-election.
PB Bruzelius, who Signifi cant agreements change of control was appointed since the last AGM, retires in accordance with The following significant agreements contain certain termination the articles and, being eligible, offers herself for election at the and other rights for Diageos counterparties upon a change of AGM.
The non-executive directors proposed for election and control of the company.
re-election do not have service contracts.
Under the agreement governing the companys 34% Further details of directors contracts, remuneration and their investment in Mot Hennessy SNC MH and Mot Hennessy interests in the shares of the company at 30 June 2009 are given in International SAS MHI, if a competitor as defined therein the directors remuneration report above.
directly or indirectly takes control of the company which, for these purposes, would occur if such competitor acquired more Auditor than 34% of the voting rights or equity interests in the company, The auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is willing to continue in office and LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA LVMH may require the a resolution for its re-appointment as auditor of the company company to sell its shares in MH and MHI to LVMH.
will be submitted to the AGM.
The master agreement governing the operation of the groups regional joint ventures with LVMH states that upon a change of control of the company being, for these purposes, Disclosure of information to the auditor the acquisition by a third party of 30% or more of the issued share The directors who held office at the date of approval of this capital having voting rights in the company, LVMH may either directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is appoint and remove the chairman of each joint venture entity no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is governed by such master agreement, who shall be given a casting unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought vote, or require each joint venture entity to be wound up.
to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any Agreements for the distribution of the Jos Cuervo tequila relevant audit information and to establish that the companys brands allow Casa Cuervo SA fide CV Cuervo the right to auditor is aware of that information.
terminate such agreements upon a change of control of the company, if Cuervos advance written consent to the change of control is not obtained.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors report 95 Other information Other information relevant to the directors report may be found in the following sections of the Annual Report: Information Location in Annual Report Amendment of memorandum and articles Additional information for shareholders Memorandum and articles of association of association Charitable and political donations Corporate governance report Corporate citizenship Corporate governance report Directors appointment and powers Additional information for shareholders Memorandum and articles of association Directors indemnities and compensation Directors remuneration report for loss of office Employment policies Business description Premium drinks Employees Events since 30 June 2009 Financial statements note 33 Post balance sheet events Future developments Business review Trend information Purchase of own shares Business review Liquidity and capital resources and Financial statements note 26 Total equity Research and development Business description Premium drinks Research and development Share capital structure, voting and Additional information for shareholders Share capital and other rights Memorandum and articles of association Share capital employee share plan Financial statements note 32 Employee share compensation voting rights Shareholdings in the company Additional information for shareholders Share capital Supplier payment policies and performance Corporate governance report The directors report of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2009 comprises these pages and the sections of the Annual Report referred to under Directors, Business review, Corporate governance statement and Other information above, which are incorporated into the directors report by reference.
The directors report was approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the board of directors on 26 August 2009 and signed on its behalf by PD Tunnacliffe, the company secretary.
