21 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are consolidated financial statements for Dignity plc listed on page 20 of the Annual Report, confirm that, and its subsidiaries for the 52 week period ended to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: 25 December 2009.
The Group and parent Company financial statements, The company registration number of Dignity plc prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the is 4569346.
EU and UK GAAP respectively, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of Statement of Directors responsibilities the Group: and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Report on Directors Remuneration and the The Directors report contained in the Annual Report financial statements in accordance with applicable law includes a fair review of the development and performance and regulations.
of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial it faces.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements Principal activities and business review in accordance with International Financial Reporting The principal activity of the Group is the provision of Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, funeral services including funeral directing, crematoria and have elected to prepare the parent company financial operation and the marketing and administration of statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally pre-arranged funeral plans.
The principal activity of Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting the Company is that of a holding company.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements The principal activities and key performance indicators unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair of the Group are also described on pages 16 to 18 of view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company the Financial Review.
A review of the development of the and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In business in 2009, events affecting the Group since the preparing these financial statements, the Directors are end of the financial year and likely future developments required to: are referred to in the Business Review, which is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The review of business activities in the Business Review, Financial Review and the Directors Statement of Corporate Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Governance are in line with the requirements of the prudent: and Companies Act 2006.
State whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been Principal risks and uncertainties followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Operational risks are considered on page 19. and explained in the Group and parent Company financial statements respectively.
An assessment of the Groups exposure to financial risks and a description of how these risks are managed are The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate included in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable Share capital accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company The issued share capital of Dignity plc at 25 December and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial 2009 consisted of 63,737,653 Ordinary Shares of statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply 9 pence each.
All the Ordinary Shares carry the same with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group rights and obligations.
There are no other class or type financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable During the period, the Group issued 253,518 Ordinary steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Shares of 9 pence each.
253,482 Shares of 9 pence each irregularities.
were issued to satisfy Long Term Incentive Plan share awards vesting in the period and 36 shares were issued The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and to satisfy options exercised under the Save As You Earn integrity of the Groups websites.
Legislation in the United Scheme.
The Long Term Incentive Plan awards were made Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of in 2006 and the SAYE options were granted in 2007. financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
22 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors report continued A special resolution passed at the last Annual General Directors and their interests Meeting on 5 June 2009 gives Dignity plc the authority Details of the Directors of the Company who served to purchase up to 3,186,881 Ordinary Shares of 9 pence during the period are shown in the Report on Directors each at not less than nominal value and not more than Remuneration on page 27.
In accordance with the Articles 5 per cent above the average middle market quotation for of Association, at the Annual General Meeting, Richard the preceding 5 business days.
At the same meeting the Portman, Bill Forrester and Mike McCollum retire as Company was also given authority to allot Ordinary Shares Directors of the Company and, being eligible, offer up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,912,129 of which themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting up to 286,819 may be for cash.
These authorities will on 4 June 2010. expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting on 4 June 2010.
It is the intention of the Directors to seek During the period, the Company maintained liability renewal of these authorities at that Annual General Meeting.
insurance for its Directors and Officers.
The Directors of each of the Companys subsidiaries, have the benefit Results of an indemnity provision in the Companys Articles of The results for the period are set out in the Consolidated Association.
The indemnity provision, which is a qualifying Income Statement on page 37.
Group profit before tax third-party indemnity provision as defined by section 234 amounted to 37.5 million 2008: 35.4 million.
of the Companies Act 2006, was in force throughout the period and is currently in force.
Dividends An interim dividend of 4.03 pence per share was paid Substantial shareholdings on 30 October 2009.
The Board has proposed a final As at 10 March 2010, the Company had been notified of dividend of 8.07 pence per share, which, subject to the following interests of 3 per cent or more of the issued approval at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on share capital: 25 June 2010 to shareholders on the register at close Number of % of issued of business on 28 May 2010.
This makes a total of Holder Ordinary Shares share capital 12.1 pence per share for the period.
Lloyds Banking Group plc 5,688,190 8.92% Tiger Global Management LLC 4,247,634 6.66% Payments policy Standard Life Investments 3,155,528 4.95% The Group has no formal code or standard that deals Baillie Gifford and Co 3,136,178 4.92% specifically with the payment of suppliers.
However, the BlackRock Inc 3,115,321 4.89% Groups policy on the payment of all creditors is to ensure Aegon Asset Management UK plc 3,114,884 4.89% that the terms of payment as specified by, and agreed Legal and General Investment Management Ltd 2,545,764 3.99% with, the supplier are not exceeded, provided all trading Montanaro Group 2,344,663 3.68% terms and conditions have been complied with.
The UBS Global Asset Management Ltd 2,175,289 3.41% average creditor payment period for the Group was BAM & Oppenheimer Funds 1,925,679 3.02% 25 days 2008: 31 days.
The Company has no trade creditors.
The takeover directive Key contractual arrangements The Group has one class of share capital, Ordinary The Directors consider there to be one key contractual Shares.
All of the shares rank pari passu.
There are no arrangement in relation to the supply and maintenance special control rights in relation to the Groups shares.
This company is responsible for supplying The rules governing the appointment and replacement of and installing the cremator abatement equipment.
If this Board members and changes to the Articles of Association company ceased to trade, the Group may have difficulties accord with usual English company law provisions.
The in installing the necessary equipment by the end of 2012.
Board has authority to purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming Annual Employment policies General Meeting within the limits set out in the notice During the period the Group has maintained its of that meeting.
There are no significant agreements obligations to develop and improve arrangements to which the Group is party which take effect, alter or aimed at involving employees in its affairs.
Methods of terminate in the event of change of control of the Group.
communication used include an in-house newsletter, an employee website, bulletins and management briefings.
Health and safety policy This is discussed in more detail in the Corporate and The Groups operations are designed at all times in such Social Responsibility Report on pages 12 to 15. a way as to ensure, so far as reasonably practical, the health, safety and welfare of all of our employees and all Employment policies are designed to provide equal other persons who may be attending our premises.
This opportunities irrespective of age, sexuality, colour, ethnic is discussed in the Corporate and Social Responsibility or national origin, religion, nationality, sex or marital Report on pages 12 to 15. status.
Full consideration is given to the employment, training and career development of disabled persons, subject only to their aptitudes and abilities.
The Group endeavours to treat disabled persons equally with others.
23 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all live is an important concern for the Group.
This is discussed in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages 12 to 15 alongside other social and ethical considerations.
Donations The Group made charitable donations amounting to 0.1 million 2008: 0.1 million during the period.
There were no political donations.
Further information can be found on page 14.
Going concern The Directors receive and review regularly management accounts, cash balances, forecasts and the annual budget together with covenant reporting.
After careful consideration, and mindful of the current market conditions, the Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
The Directors formally considered this matter at the Board meeting held on 4 March 2010.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
Post balance sheet events Please refer to note 32 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
Auditors and disclosure of information to Auditors A resolution for the reappointment of  LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors at the time when the report is approved, the following applies: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and The Directors have taken appropriate steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors is aware of that information.
Corporate Governance Statement The information that fulfils the requirements of a corporate governance statement in accordance with note 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found in this Directors Report and in the Directors Statement on Corporate Governance on pages 31 to 35.
By order of the Board Richard Portman Company Secretary 11 March 2010
