20 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Board of Directors 1 23 4 5 67 a Member of the Audit Committee n Member of the Nomination Committee r Member of the Remuneration Committee 89 n a n r 1.
James Newman 60 Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Director Peter has extensive experience of the industry having been James is Chairman of a number of AIM listed companies and appointed Chief Executive of Plantsbrook Group plc in 1991. a Non-Executive Director of Scott Wilson Group plc as well as a Following the acquisition of Plantsbrook Group plc and Great Governor of Sheffield Hallam University.
He was formerly Deputy Southern Group plc by SCI in 1994, he was appointed CEO of Chief Executive and Group Finance Director of Kelda Group plc SCI UK.
He subsequently led a management buy out of the and a number of other public companies.
He has also been Group from SCI in 2002.
The Company was then floated on the Chairman of Waste Recycling Group plc and a Non-Executive Stock Exchange in 2004.
Peter became Non-Executive Chairman Director of Richmond Foods plc before their respective takeovers in January 2009.
Before entering the funeral service industry, in 2003 and 2006.
James is a Chartered Accountant and Peter spent 25 years in retailing, holding senior positions in Member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Debenhams, Burtons and Harris Queensway.
Mike McCollum 42 Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Bill is the Chairman of Nuaire Group Ltd and a Director of Brittpac Mike joined Dignitys former parent, SCI, in 1995 from KPMG Limited.
Prior to this he was Group Chief Executive of SIG plc, Corporate Finance in London.
He was appointed Finance Director Europes largest distributor of insulation, ceiling, partitioning and at the end of 2001 and became Chief Executive at the beginning roofing products and Chairman of John Laing plc, the infrastructure of 2009.
He has a law degree from Birmingham University LL.
He was also the Managing Director at Kuwait is a solicitor and also holds an MBA from Warwick University.
Insulation Manufacturing Company and the Sales and Marketing Director at BP Rockwool Limited.
Ishbel Macpherson 49 Non-Executive Director Steve joined the Group in 1999 from KPMG.
He was appointed Finance Director at the beginning of 2009, having spent the Ishbel was appointed to the Board on 12 January 2009. previous two years as Financial Controller, being responsible for Ishbel is a Non-Executive Director of GAME Group plc and Senior the Group's finance function.
Steve was closely involved in the Independent Director of Hydrogen Group plc and Speedy Hire plc.
management buy out, the whole business securitisation, the IPO Prior to those roles she held senior positions with Barclays fide and most recently, the further debt issue and return of value in Zoete Wedd, Hoare Govett and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
Steve is an FCA and holds a mathematics degree from a n r Warwick University.
Andrew Davies 48 Alan was appointed to the Board on 12 January 2009.
Alan is a Operations Director Non-Executive Director of Trafficmaster plc, Cattles plc, Alphameric Andrew joined his family owned business in 1979 and worked plc, Haygarth Group Ltd and is Non-Executive Chairman of as a funeral director and embalmer until the business was Constantine Group plc.
Prior to these roles Alan was Marketing sold to Great Southern Group in 1993.
He then held various Director of Marks and Spencer plc and prior to that held senior management positions within Great Southern Group and following positions with Kingfisher plc and Thomson Consumer Electronics.
the acquisition by SCI in 1994, held senior operational positions within SCI UK.
He became Operations Director in 2001 and was a member of the management buy out team in 2002.
Richard Portman 48 Corporate Services Director Richard joined SCI from HSBC as Chief Accountant in 1999.
In 2001 he was appointed Head of Finance and was responsible for the running of Dignity's finance department.
Richard was part of the team that took Dignity through the management buy out in 2002, the whole business securitisation in 2003 and the IPO in 2004.
Following the IPO Richard was appointed as Company Secretary and became Corporate Services Director in 2006.
Richard is an FCA, holds a geography degree from Birmingham University and is a Member of the Chartered Management Institute and of the Investor Relations Society.
