4 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 Business overview The Group operates in the Information and Communications Technology ICT industry.
We are a recognised global leader in the provision and management of specialist IT infrastructure solutions and services, where we seek to differentiate through exceptional client service.
Businesses by revenue 81% Systems Integration 59% Product Systems Integration 9% Breakdown Express Data 6% 26% Internet 4% Managed services Solutions Plessey 15% 41% Professional services Services Systems Integration The Groups Systems Integration SI business comprises 81% of our Group revenue and provides solutions and services around core IT infrastructures, including the network, voice and data communications incorporating telephony and video, data centres, contact centres, operating systems and business productivity applications.
We offer our clients a full lifecycle of IT services, drawing on the experience and expertise embedded in our Network Integration, Security Solutions, Data Centre and Storage Solutions, Converged Communications, Customer Interactive Solutions and Microsoft Solutions lines of business.
Furthermore, we constantly seek to improve the performance of our clients IT infrastructures, ensuring our solutions are structured to deliver real business benets, today and into the future.
The SI business has a well established multi-national footprint: we have a direct presence in 48 countries and we extend our services beyond that through our preferred partner programme.
We are a leading Global Cisco Gold Partner and a Microsoft Gold Partner on five continents, which emphasises the value we put on strong collaborative relationships with the leaders in our industry.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 5 Lifecycle of services We provide a full lifecycle of services to our clients, incorporating the professional services, product fullment and managed services that are required to deliver the optimum performance of their IT operations.
The Services Continuum describes the lifecycle of services, incorporating six critical stages of service delivery.
Services Continuum Plan Build Support Manage Improve Innovate Identify Business Implement Break Fix and Full Lifecycle Support of Strategy and Commercialisation LUL[Z Product Monitoring Infrastructure and Systems Evolution of New Ideas Procure IT Alignment Breakthrough Consult Maintain Service Delivery Deploy Service Use of Design Monitor Service Support Integrate Benchmarking Technology Our professional services incorporate the plan and build service functions, and range from high value consulting and assessment services to technical design and architecture through product deployment and integration.
In addition, we ensure that we manage the global supply chain and logistics requirements for our clients around the world.
Our product procurement services are a key component of the Systems Integration business.
Supported by long standing relationships with market leading vendors and world class logistical capabilities, we successfully procure product for clients across the globe.
Our managed services incorporate the support, manage, improve and innovate services functions and extend from pure maintenance services including device moves, adds, changes and deletes, performance assessments and licence renewals to more advanced services where we take responsibility for monitoring and managing our clients IT infrastructure.
At a maintenance level we offer our clients service level agreements, which is a value-added support.
Our managed services are supported by our five Global Service Centres using our delivery platform, the Global Services Operating Architecture, which ensures that we deliver a consistent service to clients around the world.
The lines of business To pursue the market opportunity from a technology perspective we have six lines of business, of which Network Integration is the largest and the core around which the Systems Integration business has been built.
We have an extensive track record of implementing and managing some of the most complex Internet Protocol IP networking projects in the world.
The network is increasingly accepted as a critical business platform and is at the heart of the communication and interaction that defines todays business landscape.
This line of business is centred on creating a secure, manageable and optimised infrastructure, incorporating the local and wide area network and wired and wireless technologies, and focuses on ensuring excellence in end user experience and network performance.
6 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 Business overview continued The Converged Communications line of business helps clients integrate traditional communication tools, like telephony and email, with collaboration technologies, such as instant messaging and video conferencing, to provide new ways to communicate from any location, using any device and accessing any application.
The Microsoft Solutions line of business provides licencing solutions, professional services and managed services around five related areas: unied communications, collaboration, desktop and server infrastructure, systems management and software asset management.
The business supports our unied communications offering through its ability to integrate and support core Microsoft productivity and desktop applications, including Exchange, Ofce Communication and SharePoint.
The Data Centre and Storage Solutions line of business provides services around the data centre, including storage, archiving, backup and recovery, virtualisation and consolidation.
Our Customer Interactive Solutions line of business designs and builds contact centre solutions, leveraging the experience and skills resident in Merchants, the Groups outsourced contact centre business.
Finally, the Security Solutions line of business designs and supports security solutions across all of our clients IT infrastructure, helping them to minimise threats to IT assets ranging from information theft to malicious code and unauthorised access.
Internet Solutions Internet Solutions provides IP-based connectivity, communications, data centre and carrier services throughout Africa.
We serve large public and private sector organisations, medium-sized organisations and, through our channel programme, smaller organisations and consumers.
Lines of business by revenue 21% 10% Data Centre Communications RVWLQJ 0RELOH VRLFH 6HFXULW RWVSRWV $SSOLFDWLRQV 11% 58% Carrier Connectivity 6DWHOOLWH 931 THOFR 6HUYLFHV, QWHUQHW $FFHVV %URDGEDQG Internet Solutions connectivity solutions include corporate Internet access, virtual private networks, community-based connectivity services and broadband.
The business uses its IP-enabled network to facilitate person-to-person communications, with services including voice, messaging, facsimile, mobility, and xed-mobile convergence.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 7 Our data centre services provide both physical computing infrastructure and applications in the cloud, primarily though the use of services such as lodging, hosting, and virtualisation of servers and storage.
Internet Solutions carrier offerings include the self-provision of physical connectivity services in cases where we are unable, through normal supplier relationships, to source these services at a competitive price or service level, or where attractive niche opportunities exist.
Existing solutions include self-provisioning of wireless, satellite and local loop services and participation in undersea, national and metropolitan bre networks.
Plessey Plessey provides project management, engineering and logistical services to African telecommunications service providers.
We have regional ofces in 12 African countries from which we deliver a range of services, from core base station infrastructure to connectivity solutions.
Base station infrastructure solutions include the provision of civil works, equipment shelters, towers and masts, rectier systems, generators, site electrication, solar systems and site fencing and security.
These services ensure permanent uptime for service providers, particularly in regions where easy access to utilities can be challenging.
Plessey offers a number of connectivity solutions.
Firstly, our broadband wireless solutions enable service providers to reach businesses and consumers in areas which are poorly serviced by xed line networks.
Secondly, we provide cable installation - both copper and bre - for telecommunication network operators, as well as for water and power utility companies.
Plesseys optical solutions are typically applied to transmission backbones and metro networks, although we also provide solutions for security monitoring, industrial control and highway communication.
Finally, we offer broad geographic satellite coverage capabilities, particularly into remote areas where terrestrial networks are inadequate.
Express Data Express Data is a distributor in Australia and New Zealand, distributing ICT technologies from a range of leading vendors.
For many of these vendors, Express Data represents their largest channel to market in the region.
Express Data operates a world class distribution system and is recognised as a leader in networking infrastructure, unied communications, Software as a Service SaaS, data centres, security, storage and server-centric computing.
Typically, the technologies represented by Express Data are relatively complex to implement and support.
This allows us to add value by managing the needs of the reseller channel at a lower cost than the vendors could achieve themselves.
In addition, many resellers have migrated to a services led model in recent years, outsourcing more of the product fullment tasks to Express Data.
The rationale for vendors selling through the channel is further strengthened by the market trend away from capital expenditure towards utility based models.
Here Express Data acts as an aggregator for the reseller channel, and provides billing, administration and collection services across multiple software and service providers.
8 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 Dimension Datas solutions - changing the world as we know it connection between the Flyers operation room, the Singapore IP phones and monitoring web cameras in each of the individual capsules.
However, the situation presented significant technical Systems Integration challenges.
Typical WLAN deployments and signal Network Integration strength propagation are horizontal in nature and due to the structure of the Singapore Flyer, normal methods Scaling new heights to survey and implement the WLAN could not be used.
Standing at a commanding height of 165 metres, the Furthermore, the effective range of a typical WLAN Singapore Flyer a giant observation wheel with 28 network is 100m, which is insufficient to cover the xed, fully air-conditioned passenger capsules is entire observation wheel.
set to become one of Asias biggest iconic tourist attractions.
Datacrafts ability to conceptualise a new technological idea and translate it into a reality was critical to the During the leisurely 30 minute ride, passengers on successful implementation of the Singapore Flyer the Singapore Flyer are treated to a panoramic view project.
Through detailed planning and evaluation, of the city and the breathtaking sights of neighbouring technical expertise and innovative project management, Indonesian islands.
In addition to the impressive Datacraft succeeded in designing, developing and hardware and awesome vista, the passengers enjoy deploying a WLAN solution that is exible, scalable an in-capsule, state-of-the-art audio and video and standards based.
The WLAN deployment project entertainment system which plays continuously on the Singapore Flyer marks the first time that any during the ride.
This is linked to an advanced vendor has implemented a wireless solution for such wireless local area network WLAN infrastructure a massive and continuously moving structure.
As a for which the builder - Mitsubishi Heavy Industries result of the success, MHI is able to gain competitive MHI - turned to Datacraft to design, develop and advantage as the first manufacturer to build a fully install.
The WLAN solution had to ensure a smooth functional landmark moving object.
