Directors Report: Strategic Summary Risks to achieving the Groups objectives The Corporate Governance Report on pages 45 to 48 forecasting or unfavourable economic conditions could describes the processes through which the directors assess, have a disproportionately adverse effect on the Groups manage and mitigate risk.
The Board reviews regularly the financial performance or results of operations for the year.
The directors consider that the Competition major risks to achieving the Groups objectives are those The Group operates in a highly competitive environment.
The Board recognises that the profile of risks There are few barriers to new entrants to markets for the changes constantly and additional risks not presently known, sale of electrical goods.
Businesses therefore join and leave or that are currently deemed immaterial, may also impact on the market and or expand or reduce their product ranges in attainment of the Groups business objectives.
Different channels to market i Macroeconomic factors have different cost structures and different appeal to customers.
Economic environment The Group continuously monitors the activities of its competitors The Groups operating and financial performance is influenced and potential competitors in each of its markets and takes by the economic conditions in each of the countries in which appropriate action in terms of, for example, its product and it operates.
The economic environment impacts on consumer service offering and pricing to maintain and strengthen its spending on electrical and computing goods in many ways.
The Group actively manages its brands through Consumer confidence is an important influence on spending advertising, promotions and enhancing the retail experience on electrical and computing goods, which is largely discretionary.
with the goal of ensuring the Groups stores are seen as the Unemployment levels, interest rates, consumer debt levels, primary destination for electrical goods.
availability of credit, costs of food, fuel and energy, taxation and many other factors influence consumer confidence and Market margin pressure customer spending decisions.
In addition, house moves and The level of margins in electrical retailing is governed by home improvements, which are influenced by the economic a combination of the market and buying prices.
Consumer environment, impact on consumer spending on domestic demand, manufacturer supply, competition from store appliances.
and internet channels, regulation and taxation all impact on margins.
The Group is focused on protecting margins The Group recognises that the current difficult economic through maximising its international buying scale, maintaining climate may affect individual countries and regions, which an efficient supply chain and placing continued emphasis has resulted in a general reduction in consumer confidence on strong selling skills.
The Group actively manages its cost and spending.
Management therefore monitors economic structures to mitigate the impact of product margin erosion.
metrics and works closely with suppliers to adjust forecasts of demand.
Stock orders are realigned and, where possible, Price deflation selling capacity and support services are flexed in response Price deflation has been a common feature across most to changing expectations.
electrical goods categories for a number of years, primarily driven by improving efficiencies in production throughout Meeting customers needs the life cycle of a product.
The Group works closely with its What differentiates specialist electrical retailers is the wide suppliers to bring products to the mass market to meet the range of products stocked and the provision of services increased sales volume driven by price deflation.
Where the that customers want, in a convenient location with staff effect of price deflation is not countered by an increase in that provide excellent service at competitive prices.
Giving sales volumes, the importance of strong cost and expense outstanding service is a key ingredient of the Groups management, as well as stock management, in maintaining Renewal and Transformation plan.
or growing money margins, is increased.
Regular surveys of customer satisfaction are conducted ii Store portfolio across all stores.
The results are used to assess store Quality and location of store portfolio performance and to drive high standards across each chain.
The quality and location of the Groups store portfolio is Customer feedback is used to shape our ranges and to a key contributor to the Groups performance and growth understand where the Group can be more responsive to strategy.
The Group principally operates from large out of customers needs.
town stores in convenient locations that are accessible to Seasonality substantial numbers of customers.
The Group continually The Groups business is highly seasonal, with a substantial reviews its store portfolio in both the UK and overseas proportion of its revenue and operating profit generated and its business is dependent on identifying and securing during its third financial quarter, which includes the Christmas favourable new sites, reformatting existing stores at an and New Year season.
In addition, in Southern Europe, hot acceptable return on investment and assigning, sub-leasing summer periods encourage sales of air conditioning units or terminating lease obligations at an acceptable cost where and, accordingly, this forms a second peak period of trading.
it no longer wishes to operate.
Any factors negatively affecting the Group during, in The Group will continue to actively manage its store portfolio particular, the third financial quarter of any year including to optimise the location, size and costs of each of its stores.
adverse weather, product sourcing issues, incorrect stock In areas where the population catchment is lower, franchising 36 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Business Overview Performance Review Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders of the Groups brands offers the potential for market growth.
The Placing and Rights Issue The Group has franchised brands in Norway Elkjp, Italy and refinancing announced on 30 April 2009 has provided UniEuro, Sweden El Giganten, Greece Kotsovolos, the Group with a stronger financial base to provide comfort Cyprus Kotsovolos, Finland Gigantti, Iceland Elko, to the Groups suppliers and their credit insurers with regard Greenland Pisiffik and the Faroe Islands El Ding.
to the Groups working capital position.
iii Employees v Entering new markets The Group is dependent on its senior management to The Group enters new markets by introducing new types operate its business and execute its strategies.
It has a of business in the countries where it already operates for decentralised management structure with many high-level example, the development of its product support services management responsibilities devolved to regional or country business, The TechGuys, in the UK and by launching management.
The Group has a strong reputation for developing its existing businesses in new countries such as Turkey.
retail leaders with entrepreneurial spirit.
All retailers also Expansion can be through acquisition or the establishment face the challenge to attract, develop and retain the right of new businesses.
As with store openings, the entry into calibre of staff for their business.
Through the Groups retail new markets results in increased revenue, but also results reputation, development and incentive programmes and in upfront or start-up costs to the Group.
the career opportunities afforded by its size and diversity The Group has utilised its considerable experience of of operations, the Board believes that the Group is well developing new retail chains through both start-ups and placed to build on its success.
A review of the long term acquisitions.
Start-ups usually commence with a small incentive arrangements used to retain employees has been number of stores, which involves relatively smaller upfront carried out by the Remuneration Committee and is discussed costs, with a larger roll-out if the start-up proves successful on pages 53 to 55. such as Electro World in Turkey.
iv Supply of product and product life cycles The Groups growth through acquisition has been either in Responding to changing technology or consumer stages such as the acquisition of Kotsovolos in Greece or as preferences outright purchases in a single stage such as the acquisition of The Groups success largely depends on its ability to the Elkjp Group.
anticipate and introduce new products, services and technologies to consumers, as well as on the frequency vi Treasury risks and policies of such introductions, the level of consumer acceptance Treasury operations are managed centrally within of new products, and the related impact on the demand for policies approved by the Board and are subject to existing products, services and technologies.
Some electrical periodic independent internal and external reviews.
Group and computing products sold by the Group are subject to Treasury reports regularly to the Audit Committee and the rapid technological change, which shortens their life cycle Tax & Treasury Committee.
The major treasury risks to which and may negatively impact sales of existing stock by the the Group is exposed relate to market risks movements in Group as consumers may elect to purchase newer products foreign exchange and interest rates, liquidity risk and credit or defer their decision to purchase once technological risk.
Areas where risks are most likely to occur are evaluated changes have been announced.
The Group uses financial instruments and derivatives to manage these risks in accordance with defined policies.
As new technologies become more widely recognised Throughout the period under review, in accordance with and valued by consumers and sales volumes and availability Group policy, no speculative use of derivatives, foreign increase, these types of products have historically tended exchange or other instruments was permitted.
to suffer a level of price deflation.
Careful management is required by the Group to avoid a decrease in the value of its The Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives inventory and the risk of stock obsolescence when products are set out in note 1.16 to the financial statements.
are superseded by those that have newer or more popular Exchange rate risk technology or design, which could lead to a write-off or The Group is exposed to exchange movements on recognised write-down of stock.
assets and liabilities, overseas earnings and translated values Responding to changes in the credit insurance market of foreign currency assets and liabilities.
The Groups principal It is important for the Group to be able to source the electrical translation currency exposures are the euro and Norwegian and computing goods it requires from its suppliers.
Taking into account the cost of hedging, the Groups in the electrical goods and computing products market policy is to match, in whole or in part, currency earnings with have traditionally taken out credit insurance to protect their related currency costs and currency assets with currency receivables against the risk of bad debt.
However, as a result liabilities through the use of appropriate hedging instruments.
of the current economic downturn, many credit insurers have The Group is also exposed to certain transactional currency reduced or withdrawn the availability of insurance to electrical exposures.
Such exposures arise from purchases in currencies and computing product suppliers, which may impact on the other than in the functional currency of the entity.
The Groups Groups working capital.
The management team engages in principal transactional currency exposures are the US dollar discussions with its suppliers and, in some cases, the credit and euro.
It is Group policy to minimise the currency exposures DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 37 Directors Report: Strategic Summary Risks to achieving the Groups objectives continued on such purchases through the use of appropriate hedging exposure is equal to the book value of receivables.
Sales to instruments such as forward exchange contracts.
Such retail customers are made predominantly in cash or via major contracts are designed to cover exposures ranging from credit cards.
It is Group policy that all customers who wish to one month to one year.
trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
New credit customers are assessed using an external rating Interest rate risk report which is used to establish a credit limit.
Such limits are The principal interest rate risks of the Group arise in respect reviewed periodically on both a proactive and reactive basis, of sterling cash, investments and borrowings, hedged internal for example, when a customer wishes to place an order in Norwegian krone liabilities and euro borrowings.
Potential excess of their existing credit limit.
Receivable balances are exposure to interest rate movements is mitigated by the monitored regularly with the result that the Groups exposure Groups policy to match to the extent possible the profile of to bad debts is not significant.
Management therefore believe interest payments with that of its interest receipts.
Taking into that there is no further credit risk provision required in excess account the cost of hedging, further mitigation is achieved of the normal provision for doubtful receivables.
with interest based credit commissions received and through the use of interest based hedging instruments.
Such matching Capital risk management is evaluated regularly to ensure that risks are minimised.
It is the Groups policy to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and Liquidity risk to sustain the future development of the business.
The Group It is Group policy to maintain a balance of funds, borrowings, is subject to certain externally imposed capital requirements committed bank and other facilities sufficient to meet anticipated in the form of banking covenants involving borrowing ratios short term and long term financial requirements.
In applying which it met throughout the period.
this policy the Group continuously monitors forecast and actual cash flows against the maturity profiles of financial The Board has delegated responsibility for routine capital assets and liabilities.
Uncommitted facilities are also maintained expenditure to a Capital Committee, which has approval and used if available on advantageous terms.
It is Group responsibility for: Group long term and budgeted capital treasury policy to ensure that a specific level of committed spend, setting capital assessment criteria, new store facilities is always available based on forecast working capital approval, subsidiary company funding, business capital requirements.
acquisitions, business disposals and contingent liabilities such as guarantees.
The Committee also approves routine Cash forecasts identifying the Groups liquidity requirements statutory and internal delegated powers of authority in relation are produced and are stress tested for different scenarios to capital expenditure.
including, but not limited to, reasonably possible decreases in profit margins and increases in interest rates on the Groups The Group considers the manner in which funds are borrowing facilities and the weakening of sterling against other distributed to shareholders by assessing the performance of functional currencies within the Group.
the business, the level of available net funds and the short to medium term strategic plans concerning future capital spend Credit risk as well as the need to meet banking covenants and borrowing The Groups exposure to credit risk on liquid funds, investments ratios.
Such assessment will influence the level of dividends mainly bank deposits and floating rate notes and derivative payable as well as consideration from time to time of market financial instruments arises from the risk of non-performance purchases of the Groups own shares.
of counterparties, with a maximum exposure equal to the book value of these assets.
The Group limits its exposure to The Group monitors available net funds on a regular basis credit risk through application of Group treasury policy which and this is affected by Free Cash Flow, one of the Groups restricts counterparties to those with a minimum Moodys key performance indicators see page 35. long term credit rating of Aa3, bank financial strength rating vii Pension risk and policies of C and short term credit rating of P1.
In the prior period, The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is the policy on investment restricted counterparties to those the UK defined benefit scheme.
with a minimum Moodys long term credit rating of Aa3, short term credit rating of P1 and bank financial strength rating This scheme is subject to risks regarding the relative amount of B-.
The Group also has policies that limit the amount of of the schemes assets, which is affected by the value of credit exposure to any single financial institution.
The Group investments held by the scheme and the returns derived continuously reviews the credit quality of counterparties, the from such investments, as compared to its liabilities, which limits placed on individual credit exposures and categories of are affected by changes in life expectancy, inflation and future investments.
The Group does not anticipate non-performance salary increases.
In the short term, the difference between the of counterparties and believes it is not subject to material value of liabilities and assets may vary significantly, potentially concentration of credit risk given the policies in place.
resulting in an increased deficit having to be recognised on the Groups balance sheet.
In the current overall volatile market The Groups receivable balances comprise a large number environment, there is an increased risk that large deficits may of individually small amounts from unrelated customers, arise on the Groups pension schemes and that overall deficits of spread across diverse industries and geographical areas.
the UK defined benefit scheme in particular may increase further.
Concentration of risk is therefore limited and maximum 38 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Business Overview Performance Review Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders In recent years, the pension trustee, in consultation with The Group regularly reviews and assesses these risks, takes the Company, has implemented changes to the schemes action to mitigate the likelihood and cost of potential incidents investment strategy to mitigate the volatility of liabilities and and has insurance in place to cover material exposures.
Business continuity plans are in place to respond to major disruption to the business.
viii Systems failure In common with other large businesses, the Group relies xi Legislative, reputational and regulatory risks heavily on its information technology systems to enable its The Group is subject to a range of legal and regulatory customers to purchase products in store, online and over requirements originating from the UK and the European the phone as well as record and process transactions and Union, particularly in the areas of consumer protection, manage its operations.
These systems provide information product safety, competition, extended warranties, health regarding most aspects of financial and operational and safety, taxation, the environment, labour and employment performance, including sales and stock information and, practices and transportation.
given the number of transactions that are completed and Compliance with these laws and regulations may result in the importance of the efficient management of stock, it significant costs for the Group and changes in such laws is vital to maintain continuous operation of the computer and regulations or the policies regarding enforcement may hardware and software systems.
Notwithstanding efforts have an adverse impact on the Group in terms of cost, to prevent an information technology failure or disruption, changes to business practices or restrictions on activities.
the Groups systems may be vulnerable to damage or In addition, legal, regulatory and other developments affecting interruption from fire, telecommunications failures, floods, the countries in which the Group operates may have a material physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, power adverse effect on the Groups business.
The Group engages outages and other malfunctions or disruptions.
with governmental bodies in the UK and Europe through trade The Group has developed emergency procedures that are associations such as the CBI and British Retail Consortium, regularly tested.
The Group carries out evaluation, planning or directly, where it considers it appropriate to do so.
and implementation analysis before updating or introducing Tax laws that apply to the Groups businesses may be new systems that have an impact on critical functions.
amended by the relevant authorities, for example, as a result ix Outsourcing insourcing of changes in fiscal circumstances or priorities.
Such potential The Group outsources a proportion of its UK call handling, amendments and their application to the Group are regularly IT and HR services including payroll.
While these contracts monitored and, if relevant, appropriate actions taken to ensure produce significant cost savings, the Group recognises ongoing efficiency.
the increased dependency on third parties, in particular the Social, environmental and ethical risks that might impact on relationships with its IT partner, HCL, and its payroll provider, the Groups reputation are annually monitored by the Board.
Northgate, to deliver core activities and has put in place appropriate service level agreements within the contracts.
xii Customers confidential information The Group is bringing the operations of its outsourced call The Group must comply with restrictions on the use of centres in Nottingham and Sheffield in-house on 10 July 2009. customer data and ensure that confidential information The Group recognises the risk of failing to properly integrate including financial and personal data is transmitted in a these services back into the operations and is managing this secure manner over public networks.
Controls have been put process closely.
in place to ensure the confidentiality, availability and integrity of customer and company data.
They are under constant review x Damage to property and consequential business to ensure we prevent a successful attack from computer interruption programmes that attempt to penetrate the network security The Group operates from a large number of sites, all of and misappropriate confidential information.
However, due to which are subject to the risks of fire, weather and water advances in these programmes, computing capabilities and damage and in some cases are subject to earthquake and other developments, there is no guarantee that the Groups other specific risks.
The Group also operates from a small security measures will be sufficient to prevent breaches.
number of distribution and administrative sites, all of which are subject to the risks of fire, weather and water damage and, in some cases, earthquakes.
The Groups ability to distribute merchandise to its stores and to sell and distribute merchandise to its customers is reliant on its operational infrastructure, particularly the efficient functioning of its distribution centres and distribution network.
Failures or unavailability of such infrastructure caused, for example, by fire, structural damage, natural disaster, industrial action or terrorist activity could result in disruptions to the Groups ability to deliver products to its stores or its customers.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 39
