Directors Report: Corporate Governance Board of Directors 1234 5678 1 Sir John Collins 5 Count Emmanuel dAndr Chairman Non-Executive Director Sir John Collins 67 joined the Board in September 2001 as Deputy Count Emmanuel dAndr 72 joined the Board in February 2002.
He is a Chairman and was appointed Chairman in September 2002.
He is also member of the strategic committee of Ernst & Young France.
He is Chairman a director of Rothschild Continuation Holdings AG.
He joined Shell in of the Royaumont Foundation, and the Crativalle Association.
His previous 1964 and was Chairman and Chief Executive of Shell UK, 1990 to 1993. positions have included membership of the advisory committee of Banque fide He was Chief Executive of Vestey Group from 1993 to 2001.
Previous France, Chairman and CEO of Trois Suisses International Group, Chief Executive appointments include Chairman of National Power plc, Chairman of Cantab of Lapaud International, senior consultant with Arthur D. Little, Paris, Development Pharmaceuticals, a non-executive director of NM Rothschild & Sons Limited, Director of the Express Group and international manager of Camping Gaz.
The Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company plc, BSkyB, Stoll He is a non-executive director of La Mondiale, the Holder Group and Praxis.
Moss Theatres and the London Symphony Orchestra.
Sir John has also served He was previously a non-executive director of Auchan Group, and Sidel.
as Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Business and the Environment, He will retire from the Board of DSG international plc in September 2009.
Chairman of the DTI DEFRAs Sustainable Energy Policy Advisory Board, 6 Rita Clifton President of the Energy Institute, Chairman of the DTIs Energy Advisory Non-Executive Director Panel and as a governor of Wellington College.
He is Chairman of the Rita Clifton 51 joined the Board in September 2003.
She is Chairman of Groups Nominations Committee.
Sir John has announced that he will be Interbrand, non-executive Chairman of Populus Ltd, the opinion pollster to stepping down as Chairman of DSG international plc in September 2009.
The Times, and was non-executive director of Emap plc prior to its sale in 2 John Allan 2008.
She previously spent 18 years in the advertising industry, including Non-Executive Director positions with Saatchi & Saatchi and J Walter Thompson.
She has been a John Allan 60 joined the Board on 23 June 2009.
He was previously member of the UK Governments Sustainable Development Commission, is CFO of Deutsche Post, having been appointed to the Management Board a Trustee of WWF World Wide Fund for Nature and is on the Assurance and following its acquisition of Exel plc in December 2005 where he had been Advisory board for BPs carbon offset programme targetneutral.
She is also Chief Executive since September 1994.
John started his career in marketing, a Visiting Professor at Henley Management College and has recently been at Lever Brothers, moving to Bristol-Myers Company Ltd and then Fine Fare appointed President of the Market Research Society.
He joined BET plc in 1985 and was appointed to the board in 1987.
He 7 Andrew Lynch FCA is a member of the Supervisory Boards of both Lufthansa AG and Deutsche Non-Executive Director Postbank and a member of the University of Edinburgh Campaign Board.
Andrew Lynch 52 joined the Board in May 2003.
He is Chairman of the Audit John was previously Chairman of Samsonite Corporation and a non-executive Committee and the Boards designated Senior Independent Director.
Andrew director of PHS Group plc, Wolseley plc, Hamleys plc and Connell plc.
is Chief Executive Officer of SSP, the travel concessions catering company He will be appointed Chairman of the Board of DSG international plc in formerly part of Compass Group plc.
He was a director of Compass Group from September 2009.
1997 to 2005 where he held the position of Group Finance Director from 1997 to 3 John Browett 2003 and Chief Executive Officer of SSP from 2003.
His earlier career included Chief Executive corporate finance and financial management positions with Prudential Corporation John Browett 45 joined the Group as Chief Executive in December 2007. plc and KPMG.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
He is also a non-executive director of easyJet plc.
He was formerly Operations 8 John Whybrow Development Director at Tesco, responsible for the design and improvement Non-Executive Director of the Tesco operating model.
Prior to this, he was CEO of Tesco.
com, Group John Whybrow 62 joined the Board in June 2003.
He is Chairman of the Strategy Director, and held a senior position at Boston Consulting Group, Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman of Wolseley plc, having been a where he worked with a variety of clients specialising in consumer goods and non-executive director between 1997 and 2002, and is also Chairman of retail.
A graduate of Cambridge University, he has an MBA from the Wharton Petworth Cottage Nursing Home.
He was Chairman of CSR plc between Business School.
He joined Philips in 1970, becoming President of Philips 4 Nicholas Cadbury Lighting NV and Executive Vice President of Royal Philips Electronics BV.
Group Finance Director He received the Polish Order of Merit in 2002.
Nicholas Cadbury 43 was appointed to the Board on 17 July 2008 and took over the role of Group Finance Director on 14 August 2008.
Nicholas joined Member of the Audit Committee the Group in 1993 and has held various roles including Finance Director and Commercial Director of PC World, Managing Director of Dixons Tax Free, Member of the Nominations Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee and, most recently, International Finance Director.
He qualified as a chartered accountant with Price Waterhouse.
Independent non-executive director 40 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09
