Business Overview Performance Review Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Key Performance Indicators KPIs The successful delivery of the Groups strategic objective is monitored by the Board through KPIs and the periodic review of Group operations.
Financial and operational Definition Total sales Growth in total sales Like for like sales The ability to grow sales in stores in the Group is an important measure of a brands appeal to customers and its competitive position.
The Board measures like for like sales as sales in stores that have been open for a full financial year both at the commencement and end of the financial period.
Customer support agreement sales are excluded from all UK like for like calculations to remove the distorting effect of the introduction of pay-as-you-go agreements.
Sales targets and growth are set relative to the market and expected economic conditions.
Market position In line with the Groups strategy to be the leading specialist electrical retailer in Europe, this is an important measure of how well customers are being engaged by the Groups brands in each market.
Retailing operations should be, or be capable of becoming, the number one or number two specialist electrical retailer in that market, measured by market share.
Underlying operating profit Continued growth of underlying operating profit enables the Group to invest in its future and provide a return for shareholders.
Targets are set relative to expected market performance.
Underlying profit before tax Continued growth of underlying profit before tax represents a measure of total Group performance to external investors and shareholders.
Free Cash Flow The Group defines Free Cash Flow as net cash generated from operations, plus net finance income, less taxation and net capital expenditure and excluding certain discrete items such as special pension contributions.
The management of cash usage, in particular, working capital employed in the business, optimises resources available for the Group to invest in its future growth and to generate shareholder value.
Shareholder Definition Underlying diluted The level of growth in underlying diluted earnings per share EPS provides a suitable measure of earnings per share the overall financial health of the Group and its ability to deliver returns to shareholders each year.
The Group targets growth in EPS at fixed increments over the annual Retail Prices Index RPI.
Total Shareholder Return TSR This metric provides a relative performance measure over the longer term of the Groups ability to deliver returns for shareholders.
The Group seeks to outperform the FTSE 350 index over a three year period.
Waste electrical equipment collected and recycled from customers We have reviewed during the year the KPIs which the Group 6. Business waste recycled monitors in the Corporate Responsibility CR area and the CR 7.
Group carbon emissions Committee has agreed to monitor the following KPIs on an ongoing 8.
Contributions to the community basis, initially concentrating on monitoring in the Groups biggest business in the UK and via the Groups central buying function.
Details are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review The plan would be to extend monitoring of the KPIs to the other on pages 28 to 33.
Group businesses over time, these are: KPIs are monitored by the CR Committee on behalf of the Board 1.
Staff diversity age, gender and ethnicity of employees and the Board considers Corporate Responsibility issues on an 2.
Health and safety employee accidents and injuries annual basis.
The CR Committee assists the Board in identifying 3.
Performance on ethical supply chain audits risks to achieving the Groups objectives and mitigating action.
Customer satisfaction DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 35
