Business Overview Performance Review Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Executive Committee The Executive Committee is an international, cross functional executive team responsible for the implementation of strategy and the day to day management of the Groups business.
Steve Ager Keith Jones Commercial Director Group Retail Director Steve Ager 49 joined the Group in October 2008 from Tesco, where he Keith Jones 44 was appointed as Group Retail Director UK in January held a number of commercial and buying roles both in the UK and globally.
Prior to this he held the position of Managing Director, PC World.
While at Tesco, Steve set up operations in Asia and Central Europe: he was He has also held the positions of Managing Director PC City Europe and responsible for the creation of the Tesco Express format and he masterminded Managing Director PC City Spain when the Ei System chain of stores was the Tesco Finest range.
His previous role was as Managing Director of the Groups airport trading business.
Keith completed a full time International Katie Bickerstaffe MBA at Manchester Business School and held various senior retail positions Group Director Marketing, People & Property including roles at B&Q and Virgin.
He spent the early part of his career with Katie Bickerstaffe 42 joined the Group as Director of Marketing, People & Currys and Dixons Stores Group in the 1980s.
She was previously Managing Director of Kwik Save, and Group Retail Director and Group HR Director at Somerfield.
Her earlier Andrew Milliken career included roles at Dyson, PepsiCo and Unilever.
Transformation Director Andrew Milliken 38 was appointed Transformation Director in January 2009.
Ronny Blomseth He joined the Group in 2002 as Corporate Development Director, moving Managing Director Nordics to Managing Director of Airport Retail in 2004.
He spent his early career Ronny Blomseth 40 was appointed as Nordics Managing Director with The Boston Consulting Group and BBC Worldwide, and holds an MBA in January 2009.
Prior to this he was Managing Director, Elkjp Nordic.
He has worked for Elkjp for 20 years, having previously held positions as Managing Director and Sales Manager in Elkjp Norway and various Jean-Emile Rosenblum positions in different stores for eight years.
Prior to this, Ronny completed Internet Managing Director a full time Economics degree at the Norwegian School of Management.
Jean-Emile Rosenblum 30 was appointed Internet Managing Director in January 2009.
He has been Vice President of PIXmania since buying John Browett out the business with his brother and investment fund support in 2001.
Chief Executive PIXmania was acquired by the Group in 2006.
Jean-Emile Rosenblum See page 40. holds a Bachelors degree in Commerce from ISG, Paris.
Nicholas Cadbury Steve Rosenblum Group Finance Director Internet Managing Director See page 40.
Steve Rosenblum 35 was appointed Internet Managing Director in January Helen Grantham 2009.
He was previously Divisional Director, e-commerce division, and joined Company Secretary & General Counsel the Executive Committee in January 2007.
He has been CEO of PIXmania Helen Grantham 44 is the Groups Company Secretary & General Counsel.
since buying out the business with his brother and investment fund support She joined the Group in 2007 from William Hill plc, where she was Company in 2001.
PIXmania was acquired by the Group in 2006.
Steve holds a Secretary and General Counsel.
She has also served as Company Secretary Bachelors degree in Commerce from Concordia University, Montreal, at Chubb plc and Hepworth plc.
Earlier in her career she was an in-house Canada.
lawyer at Boots, and qualified as a solicitor with Hammonds.
Fernando fide Vicente Sebastian James International Managing Director Services Director Fernando fide Vicente 42 was appointed as International Managing Director Sebastian James 42 was appointed Services Director in January 2009 in January 2009.
Prior to this he was Managing Director for DSGi South-East having previously managed the Currys Transformation Programme as Group Europe.
He joined the Group in June 2001 as Finance Director of PC City Development Director from April 2008.
Prior to working at the Group he Spain and became Managing Director of PC City Spain in January 2003 and was Chief Executive of Synergy Insurance Services Limited, a private equity was appointed as Managing Director for Kotsovolos in July 2006.
He has wide retail experience as Strategy he held a number of senior financial positions including Finance Director Director responsible for developing and implementing the turnaround for Electrolux and Dole Food Espaa.
He studied Business and Economics strategy at Mothercare plc.
He started his career at The Boston Consulting Studies at the Universidad Complutense in Madrid and has an IESE MBA.
Group having completed an MBA at INSEAD.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 41
