Directors Report: Performance Review Other International continued On 29 December 2008, the Group acquired a further 10% Central Europe interest in Kotsovolos for a cash consideration of 28.1 million 27.5 million following the exercise of a put option by Fourlis In Central Europe, Electro World saw sales decline Holdings SA.
The consideration was calculated in accordance by 15% at constant exchange rates, growing by 10% with the pricing formula agreed at the time that the Group in sterling to 160.4 million 2007 08 145.6 million.
acquired a controlling interest in Kotsovolos in September Underlying operating losses were 9.9 million 2007 08 2004.
This acquisition takes the Groups total interest in 2.8 million.
Central Europe results are stated excluding Kotsovolos to 99% of the issued share capital.
the operations in Hungary, which have been sold.
Spain Operations in the Czech Republic continue to perform well, PC City sales in Spain were down 13% at constant despite the weak consumer environment.
During the year exchange rates and up 3% in sterling at 224.3 million the Group opened its first stores in Slovakia and these have 2007 08 217.4 million.
An extremely tough economic performed in line with expectations.
environment has impacted consumer demand.
Management On 19 May the Group announced that it had sold the are implementing a plan to reduce costs, manage stocks and operations of Electro World in Hungary for a consideration preserve cash.
As at 9 May 2009, 11 stores had been closed of 1.
The sale involved the transfer of all nine stores, and management believe that losses will be materially reduced operations and employees to the purchaser, EW Electro as well as position the business better for when the Spanish Retail Ltd.
The important operations in the Czech Republic economy recovers.
and Slovakia, which continue to perform well in their markets, Turkey remain as part of the Group.
Management is planning to The Group now operates eight stores in Turkey under restructure the central office operations based in the Czech the Electro World brand with its local joint venture partner.
Republic to meet the needs of customers in these two countries These new stores are based on the Groups new large space better.
The operations in Poland remain under review.
format, providing a greater product range and exciting retail environment for customers.
Initial results from these stores have been positive with further stores planned.
Kotsovolos, Thessaloniki, Greece 22 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09
