Directors Report: Corporate Governance Statutory Information The Directors Report is set out on pages 1 to 62.
The Performance Review contained therein, which can be found on pages 14 to 33, is based on many of the principles contained in the best practice statement Reporting Statement: Operating and Financial Review issued by the Accounting Standards Board ASB.
Reference to information that fulfils the business review requirements of section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 together with other disclosures required in the Directors Report are set out below: Section of Directors Report Page Appointment and retirement of directors Statutory Information 43 Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors Statutory Information 44 Business performance Performance Review 14-27 Charitable donations Corporate Responsibility Review 33 Chairmans Statement Business Overview 9 Chief Executives Statement Business Overview 10-13 Conflicts of interest Statutory Information 43 Directors Board of Directors Statutory Information 40 43 Directors Responsibilities Directors Responsibilities 62 Directors and officers liability insurance Statutory Information 43 Dividends Statutory Information 44 Employees including diversity and equal opportunities Corporate Responsibility Review 30-31 Environmental matters Corporate Responsibility Review 32-33 Essential contracts Strategic Summary Outsourcing 39 Factors likely to affect future performance Chief Executives Statement Outlook 13 Financial position at end of the year Performance Review 24-27 Going concern Statutory Information 44 Key Performance Indicators Strategic Summary 35 Objectives and strategy of the Group Chief Executives Statement 10-13 Payment of suppliers Statutory Information 44 Political donations Statutory Information 44 Principal activities Strategic Summary 34 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic Summary 36-39 Share capital structure Statutory Information 42 Social and community issues Corporate Responsibility Review 33 Substantial share interests Statutory Information 43 Pages 1 to 62, together with any sections of this Annual Report and Accounts which have been incorporated by reference, comprise a directors report which has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable company law in England and Wales.
The liabilities of the directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Share capital at a subscription price of 14p following the period end.
Details of the Companys share capital and changes to the The first two resolutions remain valid until the conclusion issued share capital during the period, including share options of the next AGM on 2 September 2009. exercised, are given in note 23 a to the financial statements.
As part of the announcement of the now completed Placing At the AGM on 3 September 2008, shareholders approved and Rights Issue, the directors made a profit forecast the a resolution for the Company to make purchases of its own Profit Forecast.
As required by Listing Rule 9.2.
18R, this shares to a maximum number of 177 million ordinary shares.
forecast information is reproduced as follows whereby the This resolution remains valid until the conclusion of this years directors forecast that the Groups underlying profit before AGM.
No shares were purchased by the Company following tax would be not less than 42 million and underlying profit the AGM and until the date of publication of this report.
before tax less losses before tax from businesses to be closed On 30 April 2009, the Group announced its plans to raise Markantalo and PC City Sweden would be not less than an additional 310.6 million via a Placing and Rights Issue 30 million.
Furthermore, the directors also forecast that the of shares.
At the EGM on 18 May 2009, shareholders Group would have losses before tax from businesses to be considered three resolutions necessary to proceed with closed and net non-underlying charges of 195 million to this equity raising and approved the resolutions: granting 215 million over the same period.
authority to allot shares up to a maximum of 1,837,458,762 The actual figures reported in the Groups income statement new ordinary shares: granting authority for the disapplication show underlying profit before tax of 50.5 million, underlying of pre-emption rights in respect of the new shares: and profit before tax less losses before tax from businesses to be approving the placing and listing of the new shares on the closed Markantalo and PC City Sweden of 36.4 million as London Stock Exchange.
The Company issued 333,333,333 well as losses before tax from businesses to be closed and shares via a placing at a subscription price of 30p per placing net non-underlying charges before tax of 190.9 million.
share and a further 1,504,125,429 shares via the Rights Issue 42 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Business Overview Performance Review Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders The actual underlying profit before tax and the underlying appointment as Chairman designate was made after a search profit before tax less losses before tax from businesses to led by the Senior Independent Director with the assistance of be closed are consistent with the statement made in the the other non-executive directors and The Zygos Partnership, Profit Forecast but are improved by a significant margin an external search firm.
The Board considers that John Allan owing to the treatment of the Groups Hungarian business is a highly-regarded executive with a strong track record.
He which was sold on 18 May 2009 and which has consequently brings to the Group a wealth of large multinational company been treated as a discontinued operation such that its trading experience from areas including marketing, service, and losses before tax of 4.6 million have now been excluded corporate management.
from the measures stated in the Profit Forecast.
Concerning Count Emmanuel dAndr will retire from the Board following the losses before tax from businesses to be closed and net the AGM on 2 September 2009. non-underlying charges before tax, the figures in the Profit Forecast included charges to impair the Groups Hungarian The interests of the directors in the share capital of the business of 16.9 million.
For the same reasons as described Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 57. above, these charges before tax, together with the post-tax No director had any beneficial interests in the shares of any losses of the business have now been disclosed separately subsidiary undertaking or in any contract or arrangement as discontinued operations.
Had this business not been apart from contracts of service to which the Company or disposed and these impairment charges remained as part any subsidiary was a party during or at the end of the of net non-underlying charges before tax, the actual figures financial period.
would have been within the range stated in the Profit Forecast.
All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating Substantial share interests to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of DTR5 we have received notification as at 25 June 2009 of the control, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions following interests in voting rights of 3% or more in the issued where applicable.
share capital of the Company: Directors and officers liability insurance Percentage of issued Pursuant to Article 159 of the Memorandum and Articles share capital at of Association, the directors, secretary and other officers of 25 June 2009 the Company are entitled to be indemnified by the Company Schroder Plc 11.55% out of its own funds against liabilities arising from the conduct Standard Life Investments Ltd 11.17% of the Groups business to the extent permitted by law.
The Capital Research and Management Company 7.78% Group has purchased appropriate directors and officers UBS Global Asset Management 6.40% insurance cover which in general terms indemnifies individual Legal & General Group Plc 5.28% directors and officers personal legal liability and costs for Includes Tameside MBC which has a holding of 3.11%.
claims arising out of actions taken in connection with the Groups business.
Directors The names of the directors in office at the date of this report, Conflicts of interest their biographical details and other information, are shown The Articles of Association were amended at the 2008 on page 40.
All of the directors served throughout the period, AGM with effect from 1 October 2008 to permit the Board except for John Allan and Nicholas Cadbury who were to consider and, if appropriate, to authorise situations where a appointed on 23 June 2009 and 17 July 2008 respectively.
director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict Kevin OByrne served from the start of the period until his with the interests of the Company.
resignation from the Board on 14 August 2008.
The Board has a formal system in place for directors to In accordance with the Articles of Association, Rita Clifton declare conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those and John Browett will retire by rotation at the AGM and, directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
being eligible, will offer themselves for reappointment.
Rita In deciding whether to authorise a conflict and potential Clifton was appointed a non-executive director, pursuant conflict those directors deciding the matter are requested to to a letter dated 1 September 2003 and her term of office act in the way they consider would be most likely to promote has subsequently been extended for two additional three the success of the Company and may impose limits and year terms.
The Board is satisfied that the directors retiring conditions when giving authorisation.
by rotation are qualified for reappointment by virtue of their The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit skills, experience and contributions to the Board.
Committee to review on an annual basis the conflicts John Allan was appointed to the Board on 23 June 2009 previously authorised by the Board and to consider whether and, in accordance with the Articles of Association, will retire any authority provided should remain in place, whether any at the first AGM following his appointment.
He has a letter terms and conditions should be imposed or amended and of appointment with DSG international plc which is available whether such authority should be revoked and to make from the Company Secretary upon request.
John Allans such recommendations to the Board accordingly.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 43 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Statutory Information continued Corporate activity After reviewing the Groups expenditure commitments, current On 29 December 2008, following the exercise of a put financial projections and expected future cash flows, together option held by Fourlis Holdings SA, the main minority with the available cash resources and undrawn committed shareholder of DSGi South-East Europe A. E. V. E. formerly borrowing facilities the directors have considered that P. Kotsovolos S. A. Kotsovolos, the Group acquired a adequate resources exist for the Group to continue in further 10% stake in Kotsovolos for cash consideration operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The acquisition increases the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in the Groups total interest in Kotsovolos to 99.2%.
On 19 May 2009 the Group announced the sale of Political donations Electro World Hungary to EW Electro Retail Ltd for a The Company made no payments 2008 09 nil which consideration of 1.
The sale saw the transfer of all nine constituted EU Political Expenditure.
A resolution to authorise stores, operations and employees to EW Electro Retail Ltd. the directors to incur EU Political Expenditure in the coming year to an aggregate amount not exceeding 25,000 will be Dividends proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
A final dividend of 3.43p per share in respect of the 3 May 2008 financial period was paid on 26 September 2008 to shareholders Payment of suppliers on the register at the close of business on 15 August 2008.
It is the Groups policy to agree terms of payment with its Total dividends paid to shareholders on 26 September 2008 in suppliers.
Payments are made in accordance with these respect of the 3 May 2008 financial period were 60.7 million.
terms provided that the supplier has complied with all the relevant contractual obligations.
Trade creditors at 2 May No dividend will be paid for the year ended 2 May 2009.
2009 represent 50 days of annual purchases made during Going concern the period 3 May 2008 51 days.
In considering the going concern basis for preparing the Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors financial statements, the directors have considered the Groups On 1 December 2008, Deloitte & Touche LLP changed its objectives and strategy, risks to achieving its objectives name to Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte LLP are willing to continue including treasury risks and its review of business performance in office as auditors to the Company.
Resolutions for their which are all set out in the Directors Report and Business reappointment and to authorise the directors to agree their Review section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Over the course of 2008 09, the current difficult consumer In accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the and retail environment has placed significant pressure on Companies Act 2006, each of the directors at the date the Groups revenue, profits, cash flows and overall liquidity.
of approval of this report confirms that to their knowledge This together with the cost of restructuring the Group, higher and belief, and having made appropriate enquiries of other finance costs and pressures on working capital due to officers of the Group: structural changes to the credit environment, has contributed to an increase in the Groups indebtedness.
The continued so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information uncertainty over the economic outlook has made it necessary of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and for the Group to take steps to improve the capital structure they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken of the Group to sustain the business through the current as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant economic cycle.
For these reasons, on 30 April 2009 and audit information and to establish that the Companys as described in note 35 to the financial statements, the auditors are aware of that information.
Group announced a Placing and Rights Issue to raise gross proceeds of 310.6 million as well as agreeing with its lending Annual General Meeting banks to amend terms of the Revolving Credit Facility and The AGM will be held on 2 September 2009 at the Watford Letter of Credit Facility Agreements.
Further details of the Colosseum, Rickmansworth Road, Watford WD17 3EX at Groups liquidity and funding arrangements are described 10.30am.
Notice of the meeting, together with full details in notes 17 and 22 f to the financial statements.
The Placing and an explanation of the business to be considered, is and Rights Issue completed on 9 June 2009 and its proceeds given in a separate letter accompanying this report.
have significantly improved the Groups liquidity position since By Order of the Board 2 May 2009.
In conjunction with applying the Groups policies in relation to liquidity risk as described in the section on risks to achieving the Groups objectives referred to above, the directors believe that these amendments will provide Helen Grantham the Group with significant covenant and liquidity headroom Company Secretary under these facilities for the foreseeable future.
25 June 2009 44 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09
