Directors Report: Strategic Summary Group Overview The long term objectives of the Group are described in the the e-commerce division is engaged in pure-play internet Chief Executives Statement on pages 10 to 13. retail sales, primarily through the PIXmania brand which operates in 26 countries across Europe and the Dixons.
The market in which the Group operates The European market for electrical goods and related services Overview of products and services sold by the Group is estimated to be in excess of 130 billion per annum.
It is highly competitive and is characterised by a Products relatively small number of global manufacturers supplying The principal products sold by the Group are categorised goods to local, regional and national and international as brown goods, white goods, computing products and electrical retailers.
Specialist electrical retailers are the predominant destination for Brown goods include: vision products, such as televisions customers.
Buying groups, general merchants and independents and DVD players: audio products, such as stereos and MP3 also have a retail presence in most European markets.
players: imaging products, such as cameras and camcorders: gaming products, such as games consoles and related The internet delivers enhanced product information and facilitates essentials and accessories.
Whilst this creates new challenges in terms of margin maintenance, it also provides White goods include: major domestic appliances such as a significant opportunity.
The Group believes that over time washing machines and dryers, refrigerators, freezers as well internet demand will polarise towards the larger retailers with as gas and electric cookers: and small domestic appliances scaleable distribution and systems, together with proven aftersuch as microwave ovens, vacuum cleaners, kettles, coffee sales service and support.
makers, toasters, irons and breadmakers.
Computing products include desktop computers, laptop computers, netbooks, printers and a wide range of related Principal activities essentials and accessories.
DSGi is a specialist electrical and computing retailer which Mobile phones include prepaid and contract mobile phones, sells consumer electronics, personal computers, domestic mobile broadband modems and related accessories.
appliances, photographic equipment and communication products.
It is a multi-channel retailer, selling products in Brown goods, computing products and mobile phones are stores, over the internet and by phone and provides product generally characterised by rapid technological advances that support services to its customers.
It also undertakes business offer major improvements in quality, functionality, interactivity to business B2B sales and services.
White goods tend to benefit from innovation, fashion and improved design and are typically heavily The Group is organised into four divisions: UK & Ireland, dependent on the replacement cycle in most markets.
Nordics, Other International and e-commerce.
Each division offers a full range of the Groups products and services.
In addition to selling third party branded products, the Group sells a number of own-branded products such The activities of each division are described as follows: as Advent in computing.
the UK & Ireland division comprises UK & Ireland Services Electricals and UK Computing.
Both UK & Ireland Electricals The Group offers a broad range of product support services.
and UK Computing engage in multi-channel retail sales The most important of these, which represent a substantial and provide product support services to their customers.
proportion of the revenue from support services provided by In addition, UK Computing also engages in B2B sales the Group, are customer support agreements for repairs and of computer hardware, software and services: protection against breakage, fault and accidental damage, the Nordics division, which operates primarily in Norway, and after-sales support for products bought from the Group.
Sweden, Finland and Denmark, engages in multi-channel In addition, the Group provides a range of technical support, retail sales and provides related product support services repair, installation and other services, predominantly in relation to its customers.
It also engages in B2B sales of computer to computing products.
The Group also offers a range of hardware, software and services and has franchise home delivery and installation services for its products, operations across the Nordic region: including deliveries within specified time frames, collection of customers old appliances, gas appliance installation and the Other International division comprises operations in television installation and set-up.
In the UK these services Southern Europe Italy, Greece, Spain, Cyprus and Turkey are provided through a network of customer service centres: and Central Europe the Czech Republic, Poland and The TechGuys clinics in PC World stores: laptop and TV repair Slovakia.
The Other International division engages in retail centres: and a dedicated The TechGuys telephone support sales including multi-channel sales in some countries and team.
The Group also has arrangements with a number of provides related product support services to its customers.
third parties for the repair of products purchased at DSGi It also engages in B2B sales of computer hardware, stores, particularly white goods.
software and services in Italy, Spain and Greece and has franchise operations in Italy, Greece and Cyprus: and 34 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09
