Directors Report: Performance Review UK & Ireland continued PC World was trading against a strong comparative period UK Computing in the first half of the year as laptop overstocks were cleared and as the year progressed was also impacted by the weaker UK Computing comprises PC World, DSGi Business consumer environment.
However, careful margin and stock and The TechGuys.
Total sales were down 14% at management as well as a number of initiatives described 1,570.8 million 2007 08 1,818.7 million with like for below have limited the impact of the weaker sales like sales down 13%.
Underlying operating profit was environment on profit performance.
PC World extended its range of connectivity solutions.
Underlying sales million Get Connected, the market-beating mobile broadband 2008 09 1,570.8 proposition, offers the biggest range of subsidised or free laptops and netbooks in the UK, tailored to suit customers 2007 08 1,818.7 needs.
A number of the new format store teams are trialling a dedicated zone to demonstrate connectivity solutions for Underlying operating profit million the household.
Netbooks are now established as a new 2008 09 41.0 product range and PC World has swiftly established clear market leadership in this new area.
2007 08 63.2 The PC World store refurbishment has progressed well, with 41 stores 25% of the PC World portfolio converted in time for Christmas trading.
DELL inspiron laptop Attractive, stylish and popular.
Part of the widest range of laptops available in the UK.
18 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Business Overview Business Overview Performance Review Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders The TechGuys continues to be a valued differentiator providing service and expertise to customers.
The TechGuys service desk is now operational in all PC World stores and has been incorporated in the Currys Megastores and some trial Currys stores.
Improvements are being made to The TechGuys operations to provide improved choices and services for customers with new propositions planned to be rolled out during the course of the year.
The Group expects to innovate further with other subscription products and service offers for customers.
DSGi Business sales were 325.8 million 2007 08 397.0 million.
It continued to perform in line with expectations in a challenging environment.
DSGi Business is making good progress with its transformation programme to deliver an efficient, customer-focused organisation which will be even more competitive going forward.
Customers are already benefiting from a more specialist solution, tailored to their needs.
Squeezebox Duet Media streaming products help customers enjoy music, pictures and video in any room in their home by accessing files stored on their computer.
PC World, Stevenage DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 19
