ANNUAL REPORT AND 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 What are the most significant advances the The last thing the employees of Domino GROUP Group has made during your tenure as needed was a reduction programme in Managing Director?
It was very sad to have to lose MANAGING The most significant change that the any staff, but it was best to deal with the management of Domino has brought about situation once and once only so that DIRECTORS is a robust consistency in the performance of everybody could get back to doing their QUESTION AND the Group in the period since 1997.
We have usual excellent job without a fear about delivered consistent growth in sales, profits when the next wave of cuts was going to ANSWER and cash generation over an extended come.
In doing so we have elevated the we have protected our reputation for service reputation of the Group in the opinion of and customer support and continued to customers, suppliers, shareholders and deliver what our customers want when they employees.
We have achieved this through a want it.
number of key foundation strategies.
At the heart of the success of the Group has been a Are you seeing any signs of a recovery in continual stream of new products and your marketplace: if so how is it product enhancements, keeping the business manifesting itself?
This has been The period from November 2008 to backed up by the acquisition of a number of February 2009 was the lowest point.
It new businesses to expand our product seemed that just about everybody had portfolio, so that we now provide customers stopped spending and everybody was in our industry with a full range of products squeezing stock out of the pipe-line, all in an and solutions to their variable data printing effort to conserve cash at a time when bank needs.
Behind the products has been a huge lending and finance facilities were restricted.
effort by the staff of the Group to continue Since then we have seen a gentle upturn in to build and enhance our reputation for business which is now at a consistent and excellent customer and technical service, a stable level.
Recovery would be too strong a key attribute of the Group that has won us word, in parts of our business the local many contracts with the leading management is more optimistic about the manufacturers in the industries that near future, and this would be true of our we serve.
Asian businesses and one or two specific Nigel R Bond countries elsewhere.
How has Domino coped with the recent global economic downturn?
How important is it for Domino to Like many companies, the global economic continue to innovate and develop new downturn has had a big impact on our generation products?
The hardware that we sell is used Innovation and the development of new by manufacturers to put variable information products is at the heart of what makes on their packaged products.
That means they Domino a successful business.
Both through usually purchase products from Domino out our very active acquisition programme and of their capital expenditure budgets.
With through internal development, where we many companies putting freezes or severe spend a healthy proportion of our restrictions on capital expenditure to revenues, we have a major focus on conserve their cash positions, new hardware product leadership.
Whilst our products sales have been significantly reduced over may be only a small fraction of the cost the past 12 months or so.
The fluids, spares manufacturers spend in building their and services sales to the installed equipment production lines, our products are essential base around the world has held up better, to the operation of those lines and have the but with production output down and some potential to add so much efficiency to the fide-stocking, even this part of our business way a production line performs.
Giving our has dropped during 2009.
I believe we customers the capabilities that they are detected the impending recession as quickly looking for is what our development as anybody and responded faster than most.
Even in these Yes, we did reduce our cost base, through a more difficult economic times, our number of factory relocations back to our investment levels in innovation and HQ in Bar Hill and other redundancies.
In all development remain high: it is essential for we reduced our workforce by over 200 Domino to come out of the recession with people in November 2008, 10% of the the product range to continue our journey Group.
I was totally committed that this of success.
would be a one-off reduction and realignment of cost to anticipated revenues.
ANNUAL REPORT AND DOMINO PRINTING SCIENCES PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 9 BUSINESS CORPORATE FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS How has Domino managed to stand apart Has the profile of your export markets Can we expect to see more acquisitions from the American acquisitions of most of shifted over the years?
the Cambridge ink jet cluster and remain The Group now sells in almost every country Im sure Domino will continue to spend the a world leader?
of the world: I would struggle to name a cash it generates wisely on further Many Cambridge-based businesses have country where we dont have customers.
We technologies and opportunities to enhance been acquired by American corporations, have representation globally either through the business.
Things have been a bit quieter and others, for a multitude of different our own offices or through distributor this year as we also take a breather, look reasons.
At Domino we are determined not partners, many of whom have been with us after cash flow and make sure we take the to be acquired purely because somebody since the early days.
With all the acquisitions opportunity to achieve the goals of recent sees an opportunity to buy a company for a we have completed recently we now have acquisitions.
Im sure things will return to the bargain price.
We have performed hundreds of distributors around the world.
In previous hectic pace in the future.
That said, consistently and strongly for many years, our my time with Domino, there has been a we set out on a very deliberate path a shareholders have been hugely supportive definite shift East in our potential markets.
number of years ago to expand our and the relationship has worked well.
Our Back in the early 1990s the Americas portfolio, and at the end of 2008 we had share price reflects that.
I like to think that represented over 35% of the turnover, today been very successful in not only acquiring the we run the business as well as anybody that is less than 25%: conversely Asia would technologies and products we wanted, but could, therefore our shareholders see no have been about 5% 20 years ago, now it is doing so by buying companies with need to sell and potential buyers dont see approaching 25%.
Over 25% of our the same ethics, values and high quality the big opportunity many look for to take employees are either Chinese or Indian: these reputation in their field as we have in huge amounts of cost out of the Group.
We two countries now lead our volume league Domino.
So the onset of recession coincided already run very efficiently.
We have an expanding business in The with the end of a particular phase in our Middle East and, although still relatively small, acquisition programmes rather than being Domino has stayed faithful to Cambridge a number of African countries are emerging the cause of a period of fewer acquisitions.
as an administrative and innovation hub.
as markets for our products.
How does a Cambridge presence benefit What aspects of business if any, keeps the business?
Are there still new territories or markets you awake at night?
Cambridge is a great city and a fantastic that Domino can conquer?
I am able to do so because all place to be.
The obvious benefits are the We are present in all territories, strong in around the world we have great people led by wealth of technology companies and many and market leader in some.
So whilst an excellent management team working within consultancies in and around the city, the there are no new territories to enter, we a framework built out of a common vision for quality of the people here and the quality of want to improve our market share and the business.
Clearly not everything goes 100% life for our employees in the East of England.
We must always to plan every day, but as long as I know people With its history and tradition, our overseas look to do better, serve our customers better are doing their best, have the skills to deal with visitors are always impressed by the city and and enhance our reputation and position.
issues as they arise and are committed to enjoy visiting the area.
Cambridge is still a China and Russia were relatively small markets seeing the Group grow and achieve its relatively small city so a company like us can 20 or so years ago, today they are large and ambitions, then I can sleep peacefully.
build a good reputation as an employer major contributors to our growth.
Im sure in because, given our size, we are well known, the future we will see other countries develop which would not be the case in a London or their manufacturing base and become an Birmingham.
That reputation means we important market, that is why we have people attract good people and people with ideas.
regularly travelling in regions of the world that The support services and infrastructure in are not immediately recognisable as industrial Cambridge are used to dealing with centres today.
Domino wishes to be truly technology companies which helps and again, global, providing value to customers wherever Domino is an attractive business for them they are.
In terms of market sectors, we serve Nigel R Bond BSc ACA to get involved with.
We have recently a huge variety, food, beverage, Group Managing Director transferred a number of production lines pharmaceuticals, cable and wire being some 22 January 2010 from overseas back to Cambridge, which of the larger ones.
In a world where amongst other things, demonstrates our identification, assurance, security and belief in the quality and competence of the traceability continue to become more people in the Cambridge area.
important, more market sectors will have a need for our products and services.
Our challenge is to identify them and work with the companies in those markets to help them achieve their goals: so yes, there are many more markets in the future for us to conquer.
