Board of Directors Driven to deliver... strong experienced leadership 1 2 7 6 10 9 8 5 3 4 1.
Colin Halpern Executive Chairman Non-Executive Vice Chairman 2.
Nigel Wray Chief Executive Of cer Non-Executive Director 3.
John Hodson Chief Financial Of cer Independent Non-Executive Director 7.
Peter Klauber Independent Non-Executive Director 8.
Michael Shallow Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 9.
Dianne Thompson Independent Non-Executive Director 10.
Adam Batty Company Secretary 28 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Stephen Hemsley 52 Nigel Wray 61 Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Stephen became Executive Chairman at the beginning of Nigel was appointed to the Board in 1999.
He joined Dominos as Finance Director in 1998 Chairman of Southern Bear plc, Saracens Ltd and British and saw the Company through its otation on AIM in Seafood Group Holdings Ltd and a Non-Executive Director 1999.
In 2001 he was appointed Chief Executive Of cer of Prestbury Investment Holdings Ltd, Play Holdings Limited, and in subsequent years saw the Company through a Networkers International plc, English Wines Group plc and period of rapid growth.
Stephen is a chartered accountant several other private companies.
and previously spent nearly nine years at 3i, latterly as Investment Director.
John Hodson 63 Non-Executive Director z Colin Halpern 73 John was appointed to the Board in 2005, having Non-Executive Vice Chairman } previously been Chief Executive Of cer of Singer and Colin acquired the Dominos Pizza MFA for the UK and Friedlander Group.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of the Republic of Ireland in 1993 through his company Cenkos Securities plc and Strategic Equity Capital plc and International Franchise Systems Inc.
In November 1999, is a Director of Prestbury Group.
John is Chairman of the with Colin as Chairman, the Company was taken public and Remuneration Committee.
Colin is the Chairman of Cheval Property Finance Plc, Dayenu Ltd and several other companies.
Michael Shallow 55 Non-Executive Director } z Chris Moore 50 Michael was appointed to the Board in 2006 and is Chief Executive Of cer Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Michael is also a Chris was promoted to Chief Executive Of cer in January Non-Executive Director at Britvic plc and Spice plc and 2008.
He joined Dominos Pizza Inc in 1990 to set up has worked in the food and drinks sector for the past the Companys European Marketing Department and has 15 years.
Michael was previously the Finance Director concentrated on the UK and Ireland since 1993 when he for Greene King plc.
joined Dominos Pizza Group Limited.
He became a Board Director of the Company in 1999, and Chief Operating Dianne Thompson 59 Of cer in October 2005.
Chris was awarded an MBA Non-Executive Director } z from the London Business School in 1996.
Dianne was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in 2006.
She is the Chief Executive Of cer of Lee Ginsberg 52 the National Lottery operator Camelot Group plc and a Chief Financial Of cer Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
In 2006 she received Lee joined the Company in 2004 as Finance Director the Chartered Management Institutes Gold Medal and, and Company Secretary.
He previously held the post of in the same year, she was awarded a CBE.
Dianne is the Group Finance Director for Health Club Holdings Limited, Chairperson of the Nomination Committee.
formerly Holmes Place plc, where he also served 18 months as Deputy Chief Executive.
Lee is a chartered accountant Peter Klauber 54 by profession.
Non-Executive Director z Peter was appointed to the Board in September 2008.
Peter is a chartered accountant and has worked in private practice for 30 years, 10 years of which were at Ernst & Young where he was a senior partner.
Peter is the NonExecutive Chairman of the Hotel Chocolat Group and Conforto Financial Management Limited.
Adam Batty 37 General Counsel & Company Secretary Adam joined the Company in 2008 from leading pub company Mitchells & Butlers plc, where he was the Director of Legal Affairs.
He is a quali ed solicitor and Key to Committees has previously held the position of Corporate Lawyer at Six Continents plc and Norton Rose.
z Member of the Audit Committee } Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Indicates Chairman of Committee Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 29 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
