46 Drax Group plc annual report and accounts 2009 board of directors 1 2 5 charles berry dorothy thompson tim barker chairman chief executive senior independent age 57 age 49 non-executive director age 69 Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: 15 december 2005 and was appointed chairman 20 october 2005, having joined drax Appointment to the Board: on 17 april 2008. in september 2005.
20 october 2005, having joined drax in June 2004, and was appointed as the senior Committee Membership: Committee Membership: independent director on 15 december 2005.
executive and Health and safety.
Committee Membership: External Appointments: External Appointments: remuneration chairman, audit and the non-executive chairman of eaga plc and a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey plc.
a non-executive director of securities trust Previous Experience: of scotland plc and of impax environmental External Appointments: dorothy was previously the head of the Markets plc.
a non-executive director of several other european business of interGen NV, the power companies including an early stage company Previous Experience: generation subsidiary of shell NV and bechtel developing a new energy storage technology, charles has extensive experience within the inc. responsible for the management and the UK subsidiary of a Us investment bank and UK power sector.
He joined scottishPower operation of four gas-fired power plants, one of the largest housing associations in the UK.
in 1991 and was appointed to the board in totalling some 3,160MW of capacity across 1999. from 2000 to 2005, charles was chief the UK and the Netherlands.
Prior to joining Previous Experience: executive of the companys UK operations, interGen NV in 1998, dorothy was initially in from 1993, tim was Vice chairman of with responsibility for over 6,200MW of banking and subsequently was assistant group Kleinwort benson Group plc and from 1998, generating capacity as well as the trading treasurer for Powergen plc.
until his retirement in 2000, he was Vice business, energy retailing and strategic chairman of dresdner Kleinwort benson.
Qualifications: transactions, such as renewables development.
Notably, he was involved with a number of bsc Hons and Msc in economics.
charles is also a former non-executive director clients in the energy sector and was an adviser and chairman of tHUs Group plc.
to the UK Government on the privatisation of the electricity sector.
in the mid-1980s, Qualifications: tim was director General of the city Panel bsc Hons in electrical engineering and on takeovers and Mergers.
He is a former a Msc in Management.
chairman of robert Walters plc and was the senior independent non-executive director of electrocomponents plc.
3 4 tony Quinlan Peter emery 5 finance director Production director age 44 age 47 Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: 1 september 2008.
20 october 2005, having joined drax in June 2004.
Committee Membership: executive and Health and safety.
External Appointments: a director of the association of electricity Previous Experience: Producers.
tony qualified as chartered accountant with coopers & Lybrand and subsequently joined Previous Experience: Marks & spencer where he went on to hold Peter joined esso Petroleum upon leaving a number of senior positions within internal university and held a number of analyst and audit, corporate finance, investor relations managerial roles in the UK before moving to 3 and financial control.
from 2005, he was essos parent, exxon in the Us to co-ordinate director of finance, the deputy to the Group its downstream marketing and distribution finance director.
investments outside North america and canada.
Peter returned to essos fawley oil Qualifications: refinery in 1992 as plant technical services bsc Hons joint degree in chemistry and manager.
in 1997, he became refinery business studies and an associate of the maintenance manager and in 2002, he was institute of chartered accountants in england appointed operations manager with full and Wales aca.
management and operational responsibility for fawley oil refinery, the UKs largest refinery.
He was also a member of exxon Mobils european leadership team for refining.
Qualifications: bsc Hons in Mining engineering, fiMMM and completed the advanced Management Programme at iNsead in 2007.
Drax Group plc annual report and accounts 2009 47 6 7 8 Jamie dundas Mike Grasby david Lindsell independent non-executive director independent non-executive director independent non-executive director age 59 age 66 age 62 Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: 15 december 2005.
20 october 2005, having joined drax 1 december 2008. in december 2003.
Committee Membership: Committee Membership: audit, Nominations and remuneration.
Committee Membership: audit chairman, Nominations and Health and safety chairman, Nominations remuneration.
the non-executive chairman of Jupiter External Appointments: investment Management Group, a nonExternal Appointments: a non-executive director of Premier oil plc, a executive director of standard chartered PLc, a non-executive director of oPG Power non-executive director of Gartmore Group and chairman of Macmillan cancer support.
Venture plc, a director of executive recruitment Limited and deputy chairman of the financial business, strategic dimensions technical reporting review Panel.
Jamies career has been in merchant banking, Previous Experience: finance and the property sector.
Jamie spent Previous Experience: david was a partner at ernst & Young for 19 years with Morgan Grenfell Group, including Mike retired from international Power in february nearly 30 years.
He specialised in audit and ten years as a director of Morgan Grenfell 2002 after 36 years in the power industry.
during assurance services and has extensive experience & co Limited.
Jamie was finance director of his career he held a number of senior positions across a range of industry sectors.
He has served the airport authority, Hong Kong between in the UK and international power industry with on a number of professional bodies relating to 19921996 before joining MePc plc in 1997, the ceGb and National Power.
He was manager financial reporting, including the standards initially as finance director and from 1999 of drax Power station between 1991 and 1995, advisory committee of the international 2003 as chief executive.
He is also a former and director of operations for National Powers accounting standards board, the auditing non-executive director of J sainsbury plc.
portfolio, with responsibilities for over 16,000MW Practices board, the turnbull committee and the of generating capacity, until 1998.
Mike was european financial reporting advisory Group.
Qualifications: also a director of power companies in Portugal, Ma oxon in Law and a barrister Qualifications: turkey and Pakistan.
fellow of the institute of chartered accountants of National Power, he joined international Power in england and Wales fca.
as a senior vice-president, continuing with his international directorships and leading a major consortium in the czech republic.
Qualifications: chartered engineer, fiet and fiMeche.
