48 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report for Drax Group plc, together with the consolidated financial statements of the Drax group of companies, for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held on 21 April 2010, at The City Presentation Centre, 4 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4UP at 11.00am.
A separate document accompanying this report contains the notice convening the AGM and a description of the business to be conducted.
Corporate governance The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance, details of which are given in this Directors report and the Corporate governance, Audit Committee, Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee reports set out on pages 54 to 75.
The various sections of this report contain in summary certain provisions of the Companys current Articles of Association the Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 2006.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.
Business review A review of the development and performance of the business of the Group during the year ended 31 December 2009, including the financial performance during the year, an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year, key performance indicators, a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, and forward looking statements can be found in the Chairmans introduction on pages 4 and 5.
The Business review on pages 2 to 45 incorporates the Chairmans introduction, Chief Executives statement, How were performing, Marketplace, Operational and financial performance, Principal risks and uncertainties and the Corporate responsibility review and the reports under the broad heading of Corporate governance as referred to above.
The Business review is a constituent part of this Directors report.
The purpose of this Annual report and accounts is to provide information to members of the Company.
It contains certain forward looking statements relating to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can differ from those anticipated.
Nothing in this Annual report and accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
Principal activities Drax Group plc is the holding company of the Drax group of companies.
The principal activities of the Group are the generation and sale of electricity at the Drax Power Station, Selby, North Yorkshire and the sale of by-products of the electricity generation process.
On 6 March 2009, the Groups principal subsidiary, Drax Power Limited, acquired the entire issued share capital of Haven Power Limited, an electricity supply business serving business customers, from Welsh Power Group Limited.
The consideration for the business was 12 million which included a power trading book position worth 4 million, reflecting the mark-to-market value at that time.
Results The Group results for the year are shown in the Consolidated income statement on page 78.
Going concern The Groups business activities, financial position, and key risks and uncertainties are set out in the Business review as referenced above.
In addition note 17 of the consolidated financial statements includes details of the Groups borrowings, financial instruments, and hedging activities, together with its exposure to credit and liquidity risk and how it manages its capital.
The directors consideration of the going concern basis is set out specifically on page 32.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within its available facilities.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these consolidated and company accounts.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 49 Risk identification, assessment and management A summary of the Groups position regarding risk identification, assessment and management and use of financial instruments is contained in the Audit Committee report on pages 60 to 62 and also in the Business review on pages 34 and 35.
Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
Details of the dividends paid and proposed on the ordinary share capital by financial year to which these relate are shown below: 2009 2008 m m Interim and final dividends Interim dividend paid on 7 October 2009 of 4.1 pence per share 8 October 2008: 5.0 pence per share 15.0 17.0 1 Proposed final dividend to be paid on 14 May 2010 of 9.6 pence per share 22 May 2009: 38.3 pence per share 35.0 130.0 Special dividends Paid on 8 October 2008 of 9.7 pence per share 32.9 Notes: 1 Subject to approval by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Share capital The Company has only one class of equity shares, which are ordinary shares.
There are no known restrictions on the voting rights of the ordinary shares.
16 At 1 January 2009, 339,398,968 ordinary shares of 11 29 pence each in the Company were in issue and at 31 December 16 2009, 364,853,890 ordinary shares of 11 29 pence each in the Company were in issue.
The following details the changes to the share capital during the year.
Issue of shares Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act relating to authority and pre-emption rights and of any resolution of the Company in a general meeting, all unissued shares of the Company shall be at the disposal of the directors and they may allot with or without conferring a right of renunciation, grant options over or otherwise dispose of them to such persons, at such times and on such terms as they think proper.
16 On 23 June 2009, a total of 25,454,922 new ordinary shares of 11 pence each the Placing Shares in the Company 29 were placed by Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch at a placing price of 425.0 pence per share, raising gross proceeds of approximately 108.2 million less expenses of 2.7 million.
The closing mid market price on the day of the Placing was 436.5 pence per share.
The Placing Shares issued represented 7.5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital prior to the Placing.
No other new shares issued during the year.
Authority to purchase own shares At the AGM of the Company held on 28 April 2009, shareholders resolved to authorise the Company to make market purchases of up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital.
At the forthcoming AGM, shareholders will be asked to renew this authority.
Details are contained in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during 2009 and the Company held no Treasury shares during 2009.
Details of the share capital as at 31 December 2009, and shares issued during the year, are given in note 20 on page 101.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in the Articles.
The Articles may only be changed by the shareholders by special resolution.
It is proposed that the Company adopt new Articles of Association at the forthcoming AGM.
Further details relating to this are set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Variation of rights Subject to statute, the Companys Articles specify and the proposed new Articles of Association will specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate 50 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT General Meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate General Meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as Treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Transfer of shares All transfers of shares which are in certificated form may be effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors and may be under hand only.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the register.
All transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form may be effected by means of the CREST system.
The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer relating to shares in certificated form unless it: a is in respect of only one class of share: and b is lodged at the transfer office duly stamped if required accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on his her behalf, the authority of that person so to do.
The directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason therefore, refuse to register any transfer of shares not being fully paid shares provided that, where any such shares are admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer, they shall send within two months after the date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company, to the allottee or transferee, notice of the refusal.
A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to take place.
The proposed new Articles of Association provide that directors must give reasons for any refusal to register a transfer of shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
Shares in uncertificated form Directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated form and title to such shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system or that shares of any class should cease to be held and transferred.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the CREST Regulations and every other statute, statutory instrument, regulation or order for the time being in force concerning companies and affecting the Company together, the Statutes, the directors may determine that any class of shares held on the branch register of members of the Company resident in South Africa or any other overseas branch register of the members of the Company may be held in uncertificated form in accordance with any system outside the UK which enables title to such shares to be evidenced and transferred without a written instrument and which is a relevant system.
The provisions of the Articles and the proposed new Articles of Association shall not apply to shares of any class which are in uncertificated form to the extent that the Articles are inconsistent with the holding of shares of that class in uncertificated form, the transfer of title to shares of that class by means of a relevant system or any provision of the CREST Regulations.
Substantial shareholdings As at 22 February 2010, the Company has been notified in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company: Number of voting Number of voting Total number % of the issued Date last TR1 rights directly rights indirectly of ordinary shares ordinary share Notification made held held held capital held Invesco plc 18.02.2010 105,789,646 105,789,646 28.99 Black Rock Inc. 08.12.2009 28,366,464 28,366,464 7.77 AXA S. A.
17.12.2009 1,704,050 14,952,477 16,656,527 4.57 Legal & General Group Plc 29.06.2009 13,827,458 13,827,458 3.79 Total shares held by substantial shareholders 15,531,508 149,108,587 164,640,095 45.12 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 51 Directors The current directors are Tim Barker, Charles Berry, Jamie Dundas, Peter Emery, Mike Grasby, David Lindsell, Tony Quinlan and Dorothy Thompson.
Biographical notes of the directors appear on pages 46 and 47.
No other person served as a director or as an alternate director at any time during the year.
Jamie Dundas has stated that he intends to step down from the Board due to other work commitments.
He will resign as a director at the conclusion of the AGM on 21 April 2010.
In accordance with the Companys Articles, Peter Emery and Mike Grasby will retire by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The evaluation of the Board described on page 56 concluded that the directors offering themselves for re-election continue to demonstrate commitment to their particular role and perform effectively.
The re-election of each director is recommended by the Board.
Details of the relevant terms of appointment and service agreements appear on page 71.
The rules relating to the appointment or replacement of directors and the powers of directors are highlighted in the Corporate governance report on page 55.
A director is not required to hold any shares of the Company by way of qualification.
Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are shown on page 75.
Directors interests, indemnity arrangements and other significant agreements Other than a deed of indemnity between each director, the Company and each of its subsidiaries in respect of claims made and personal liability incurred as a result of the bona fide discharge of the directors responsibilities and a service contract between the executive directors and a Group company, or as noted in the Remuneration Committee report, no director had a material interest at any time during the year in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Details of directors remuneration, service contracts and interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 64 to 75.
There are no agreements between the Group and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Under an 800 million credit facility agreement dated 27 October 2005, as amended on 6 December 2005 and further amended and restated on 3 August 2009, between, amongst others, Drax Finance Limited, Drax Power Limited and Barclays Bank PLC as facility agent, on a change of control, if any lender requires, it may, by giving notice to Drax Finance Limited and the facility agent within 30 days of receiving notice from Drax Finance Limited that a change of control has occurred, cancel its commitments and require payment of its share of any outstanding amounts within three business days of such cancellation notice being given.
Under a 100 million credit facility dated 11 May 2006, as amended and restated on 3 August 2009, between, amongst others, Drax Finance Limited and Lloyds TSB plc as facility agent, on a change of control, if any lender so requires, it may, by giving notice to Drax Finance Limited and the facility agent within 30 days of receiving notice from Drax Finance Limited that a change of control has occurred, cancel its commitments and require payment of its share of any outstanding amounts within three business days of such cancellation notice being given.
Under a 235 million forward start credit facility dated 3 August 2009 between, amongst others, Drax Finance Limited, Drax Power Limited and Barclays Bank PLC as facility agent, on a change of control, if any lender so requires, it may by giving notice to Drax Finance Limited and the facility agent within 30 days of receiving notice from Drax Finance Limited that a change of control has occurred, cancel its commitments and require payment of its share of any outstanding amounts within three business days of such cancellation notice being given.
The forward start credit facilities are currently undrawn: of these, the 135 million term loan element can be drawn from 1 July 2010 to 31 December 2010, whilst the 100 million revolving credit facility can be drawn at any time to December 2012.
Under the terms of the three credit facility agreements, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of Drax Group plc.
There are no other significant agreements to which the Group is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Group following a takeover bid providing that the Groups credit rating is maintained.
52 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT Employees A commentary on employee involvement and the Groups commitment to its employees is set out within the Corporate responsibility review on pages 42 to 44 and details of employee involvement through share participation are contained in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 64 to 75.
Shares awarded under the Groups Share Incentive Plan are registered in the name of the Trustee.
Voting rights attached to those shares are at the direction of individual employee participants.
Drax uses a wide variety of communication methods in order to create a common awareness on the part of all employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Company.
For example, team briefings are held once a month where wide-ranging information is communicated throughout the organisation.
In addition, plant-wide meetings are held on a regular basis and cover, inter alia, the financial and market factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Details of the communication methods used are provided in the Our people section of the report on corporate responsibility on pages 42 to 44.
It is the Groups policy to give full and fair consideration to suitable applications for employment from people with disabilities having regards to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
In the event of a member of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training and rehabilitation is provided.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical with that of other employees.
The Group is committed to a policy of equal opportunities and ensures that country of origin, colour, gender, religious belief, sexual orientation, age or disability, are not barriers to working at Drax.
The Group provides a wide range of development opportunities to help employees develop the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to realise their performance potential.
Corporate responsibility Details of the Groups corporate responsibility policies and operations are set out on pages 38 to 45.
There are Group policies for environment, health and safety and human resources as well as a code of business ethics.
The internal control processes described on pages 57 and 58, takes account of social, environmental and ethical risks.
Charitable donations The Group has continued to support community initiatives and charitable causes.
The total charitable donations made by the Group in the year were 88,041 2008: 99,952.
More information on the charitable donations made is contained within the Corporate responsibility review on pages 38 to 45.
Political donations No political donations were made in the UK or elsewhere during the year 2008: nil.
It is the Boards policy not to make donations to political organisations or for political causes.
The Corporate responsibility review explains that the Groups activities in the political sphere are aimed only at the promotion of its business interests.
However, the definitions of EU political expenditure are broad and there is widespread doubt about the extent to which normal business activities, which might not be thought to be political expenditure in the usual sense, could be considered to be political expenditure within the meaning of the legislation.
The Board wishes to avoid any inadvertent infringement of the legislation and is, therefore, seeking the authority of shareholders to incur expenditure for the Company and its subsidiaries for such purposes of 50,000 during the next 12 months.
A resolution to that effect is contained within the Notice of Meeting for the AGM.
The Board does not believe that the Group has incurred any political expenditure in the past year.
Creditor payment policy and practice Terms of payment are agreed with suppliers when negotiating each transaction and the policy is to abide by those terms and pay creditors when sums owing fall due for payment, provided that the suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and conditions.
Drax Group plc, the holding company of the Group, has no trade creditors.
In respect of Group activities, the amounts due to trade creditors at 31 December 2009 represented approximately 23 days of average daily purchases through the year 2008: 21 days.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 53 Auditors and the disclosure of information to the auditors So far as each person who is a director at the date of approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information needed by the auditors in connection with preparing the report, of which the auditors are unaware.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors, each director has taken all the steps that he she is obliged to take as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act.
In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act, a resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company.
A resolution will also be proposed authorising the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the auditors, the auditors effectiveness and relationship with the Group, including the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditors.
Further details on the work of the auditors and the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 60 to 62.
Voting Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached by or in accordance with the Articles to any class of shares, on a show of hands every member who is present in person at a general meeting shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he she is the holder.
It has been the Companys practice since incorporation to hold a poll on every resolution at Annual General Meetings and Extraordinary General Meetings.
Where shares are held by trustees nominees in respect of the Groups employee share plans and the voting rights attached to such shares are not directly exercisable by the employees, it is the Companys practice that such rights are not exercised by the relevant trustee nominee.
Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a corporate representative.
The Company is aware of the debate concerning Section 323 of the Companies Act, related to the voting rights of corporate representatives.
Drax Group plc is committed to ensuring all investors have the opportunity to exercise their voting rights and, to this end, has adopted the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators available at www.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Votes are exercisable at a General Meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Restrictions on voting No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, be entitled in respect of any share held by him her to vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to shareholders meetings if any call or other sum presently payable by him her to the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he she has been served with a notice after failing to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Philip Hudson Company Secretary 22 February 2010 Registered Office: Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Registered in England No.
