BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING Our financial objective in Packaging remains to generate an adjusted Our longer-term financial objective for Office Products Wholesaling is return on average capital employed over the business cycle in excess of to generate a return on average capital employed in excess of 20%.
the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital, which we estimate FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES to be 11.8%.
Due to the prevailing market conditions we are currently Our aim is to generate enhanced returns and cash flows for our investors well below this target.
We believe that the actions we have planned, over the longer term, while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
We and those we have currently under way, will ensure we are well placed recognise that there is a significant degree of cyclicality in parts of our to meet our financial objectives when the economy improves.
portfolio and the effects of this are particularly apparent as a result of OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING the current downturns in both the general economic and the CCM sector Our strategy is to be a pan-European, highly efficient wholesaler of office cycles.
Our strategy and operational actions are designed to manage the products.
Our primary aim is to support our network of dealers in growing negative impacts of the volatility of the Groups results through the cycle, their share of the market.
We especially concentrate on developing our while ensuring that there is sufficient profit growth in the less cyclical parts fulfilment service for those dealers who outsource their logistics and also on of our packaging operations to achieve long-term progress.
supplying products that resellers choose to sell but not to stock.
We provide We measure the financial success of our strategy using the financial this support through: offering a wide range of both traditional office key performance indicators KPIs described below.
Our performance products and electronic office supplies: cost-effective purchasing, both on in 2008 09 was significantly affected by the deterioration in trading a local and pan-European basis: stocking, breaking bulk and distributing conditions.
Our action plans are designed to improve the Groups small quantities cost-efficiently: the production of catalogues and other performance against these KPIs within the context of the economic marketing tools and giving access to highly effective e-commerce packages.
Today, approximately 50% of our sales are in the UK and Ireland, with the other half spread across the major markets of France and Benelux, where we have significant market shares, and Germany, Spain and Italy, where our businesses are in a development phase.
We are prepared to consider further geographic expansion but in the short term our emphasis will be on: raising profits substantially in the UK and Ireland: strengthening further our market positions in the continental European markets in which we have an established position: and extending our businesses in our developing markets, especially Germany and Italy.
OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ADJUSTED RETURN ADJUSTED EBITDA ADJUSTED EARNINGS NET DEBT ON AVERAGE CAPITAL MARGIN PER SHARE ADJUSTED EBITDA EMPLOYED Target: to achieve an Target: to generate an Target: to achieve Target: to maintain a adjusted return on average adjusted EBITDA margin an improved adjusted healthy balance sheet, capital employed over which enables us to grow earnings per share sufficient to support our the business cycle that is our dividend while between one business dividend through the comfortably in excess of the providing funds for cycle and the next.
Denition: net profit Denition: net debt cost of capital, which we Denition: earnings attributable to shareholders divided by earnings estimate to be 11.8% before interest, tax, before exceptional items before interest, tax, before tax.
depreciation, amortisation divided by the weighted depreciation, amortisation Denition: operating and exceptional items average number of shares and exceptional items.
profit before exceptional divided by revenue, outstanding see note 8 on items divided by average expressed as a percentage.
page 69. capital employed, expressed as a percentage.
