BUSINESS REVIEW STRENGTH AND ACTION The strength of DS Smith today and the actions we are taking will position the Group well for the future.
Our action programme, in response to the present tough trading environment, is firmly focused on the essentials of cost reduction and cash generation.
At the same time, we continue to develop the Group and find new ways of adding value for our customers and shareholders.
Some examples of how the actions we are taking are strengthening our position for tomorrow are shown in the following pages.
STRENGTH ACTIONS FOR TODAY TOMORROW 1MARKET POSITIONS 1DEVELOPING OUR MARKET POSITIONS Our strategic objective to be a significant force in the markets in which we operate is assisting To ensure the Groups future success, we us in weathering the current difficult trading continue to invest in, and strive to grow, our conditions.
The market positions we have built market positions.
We pursue opportunities give us a strong base from which to compete.
to strengthen our product and service range, improve our competitive position and grow geographically.
2OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY Our continuing focus on operational improvement 2COST REDUCTION has strengthened our businesses for facing todays more challenging times.
In addition to our ongoing drive to reduce costs, we have taken action to establish a substantially lower cost base to ensure 3CASH AND FINANCING the Groups future competitiveness and profitability.
We have particularly focused We have an established record of close attention on lowering the Groups structural costs.
to cash management and maintaining a sound balance sheet.
Our financing facilities were prudently renewed in the summer of 2008.
3ADDING VALUE While focusing on the costs and efficiency of 4MANAGEMENT our operations, our businesses also continually strive to add value for their customers.
They The Groups executive teams have considerable use their considerable expertise and resources experience of managing in tough trading to provide solutions that improve the efficiency conditions.
They have demonstrated their and profitability of their customers businesses.
capabilities in handling the challenges of changing circumstances and highly competitive situations.
4CASH GENERATION A key element of our action programme is the maintenance of good cash generation.
We are focusing on the reduction of working capital and are curtailing capital expenditure to reflect the demands of the present situation.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING EXPANDED SERVICES Severnside Recycling is growing its business, using its specialist skills to add high-profile names to its customer list.
It offers a developing range of waste management and recycling services which help businesses avoid escalating landfill costs.
PACKAGING DESIGN At our Impact and Innovation Centre we demonstrate to customers and retailers how we are able to add value for them.
We create packaging that will increase sales through stronger visual identity and improve supply chain efficiency in handling and transportation.
NEW PRODUCTS Our 100 million investment at Kemsley Mill has enabled us to add high-quality lightweight corrugated case material CCM to our product range.
This type of CCM is in strong demand today and will be an essential element of any future CCM product range.
GEOGRAPHIC GROWTH Spicers has expanded its business in continental Europe by over 50% in the last three years.
The German and Italian businesses both made particularly strong progress in 2008 09.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 5
