BUSINESS REVIEW DESCRIPTION OF THE GROUP supermarkets and third-party waste merchants.
In addition, Severnsides  facilities management function provides general recycling and waste disposal services for customers in a number of sectors.
Severnsides  main sources of waste paper include large supermarket groups and other retailers, other commercial and industrial organisations and local The Groups activities of Packaging and Office Products Wholesaling authorities.
The largest single source of waste paper accounts for 16% of are managed through a decentralised structure covering four segments: the total amount sourced.
Severnside particularly concentrates on sourcing used corrugated packaging, referred to as old corrugated containers OCC, which is the most suitable form of waste paper for producing recycled CCM.
Severnside supplies all of the 1.2 million tonnes of waste paper required by the St Regis paper mills and it sells 0.5 million tonnes on the open market.
PACKAGING St Regis four paper mills produce approximately 1.0 million tonnes of 100% recycled paper.
St Regis is the leading UK producer of CCM, UK PAPER AND CORRUGATED which accounts for over 70% of the paper it produces, and is a leading European producer of plasterboard liner, which accounts for approximately A leading position in the whole UK corrugated 15% of its production: the remainder comprises other speciality paper packaging supply chain.
The Groups Corrugated Packaging operations account for around 55% of St Regis CCM sales.
St Regis external sales are made to around This segment comprises three businesses: Severnside Recycling, which 340 customers: no single external customer accounts for more than 5% collects waste paper and other materials for recycling: St Regis, which of the Groups total UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging revenue.
processes the waste paper to produce recycled paper, the majority of which is corrugated case material CCM used in the manufacture of DS Smith Packaging produces 1.1 billion square metres per annum of corrugated packaging: and DS Smith Packaging, which converts CCM corrugated packaging at 31 factories located throughout the UK.
It is the into corrugated board and boxes.
These three businesses operating in the leading supplier of corrugated packaging to the UK market with a market corrugated packaging supply chain are heavily interdependent, although share of around 25%.
Approximately 65% of sales go into the fast-moving all three maintain open-market positions to ensure competitiveness.
consumer goods FMCG sector, predominantly for food and beverages, with the remainder being principally for the consumer durables and Severnside Recycling is the leading UK collector and merchant of waste industrial sectors.
DS Smith Packaging supplies many of the leading FMCG paper, the principal raw material for producing recycled paper.
In total, companies: no individual customer accounts for more than 2% of the total annually it sources 1.7 million tonnes of waste paper by means of collections through its 16 UK depots and open-market purchases from UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging revenue.
THE CORRUGATED PACKAGING SUPPLY CHAIN DS Smith operates in all parts WASTE PAPER CORRUGATED of the corrugated packaging CORRUGATED CASE PACKAGING PAPER MATERIAL CCM BOXES supply chain waste paper, paper and boxes but the balance between these is different in the UK and continental Europe.
In total, the Group is a net buyer of CCM, its box-making RECYCLED operations using more CCM than the Group produces.
In the UK, we collect more DS Smith UK Severnside Recycling St Regis Paper DS Smith Packaging waste paper than we require Annual volume Waste paper collected 1,700 CCM 750 Boxes and board 600 000 tonnes Other speciality papers 250 for our paper mills and we produce more CCM than we DS Smith DS Smith Kaysersberg DS Smith Kaysersberg Continental Europe France and Turkey France, Italy, Poland, Turkey, consume in making boxes.
Annual volume Czech Republic and Slovakia In continental Europe we Solid board and speciality 000 tonnes are predominantly a box Boxes and board 400 papers 220 manufacturer and a large net buyer of CCM.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING The division purchases a wide range of polymers and plastic lms, principally CONTINENTAL EUROPEAN CORRUGATED polypropylene, high density polyethylene and polycarbonate.
This segment has a widely spread customer base and no single customer accounts for Strong positions in chosen national markets.
more than 5% of DS Smith Plastics total revenue.
In continental Europe, DS Smith Kaysersberg produces 0.5 billion square metres per annum of corrugated packaging at 13 factories located in France, Italy, Poland, Turkey, Czech Republic and Slovakia.
The bulk of its CCM requirements are sourced from third parties.
It has estimated market shares of 6% in France, 3% in Italy, 8% in Poland and 4% in Turkey.
The business has been growing strongly in Poland and the Czech Republic.
DS Smith Kaysersberg produces 0.2 million tonnes of recycled paper OFFICE PRODUCTS principally solid board for use in the manufacture of detergent boxes WHOLESALING at two mills in France and one mill in Turkey.
DS Smith also owns 49.6% of the leading paper and corrugated packaging business in Ukraine: the results of this business are reported under associates.
The leading European office products The Groups continental corrugated packaging operations are particularly wholesaler.
strong in heavy-duty and litho-laminated packaging.
Approximately 45% of sales are to the FMCG sector and the remainder is to the consumer Spicers is the number one European wholesaler of office products: it has leading positions in each of the UK, Ireland, France and the Benelux durables, industrial and other sectors.
This segment has a large and region, and it is building its position in continental Europe with development diverse range of customers, none of which accounts individually for more businesses in Germany, Spain and Italy.
Its network of distribution centres than 6% of Continental European Corrugated Packagings total revenue.
comprises: UK 9: Ireland 1: France 6: Benelux 1: Germany 2: Spain 2: and Italy 1.
Spicers provides a wholesaling service to its customer base of office products dealers and resellers, who principally supply small and mediumsized offices.
It supplies approximately 12,500 dealers throughout Europe and no single dealer customer accounts for more than 4% of Spicers total revenue.
Spicers product range supplied across Europe of up to 22,000 product lines comprises its own 5-Star brand and other branded products of traditional stationery items, electronic office supplies, office furniture, PLASTIC janitorial supplies and office catering and vending provisions.
Its range is communicated to its dealers and the offices they supply through printed Focused on two plastic packaging markets.
catalogues and electronic systems: orders are now principally submitted to Spicers on-line or by other electronic means.
DS Smith Plastics holds a major European position in industrial returnable transit packaging RTP and is a leading worldwide supplier of liquid Spicers offers its dealer customers a same-day or an overnight, next-day packaging and dispensing systems LP&D.
delivery service: it also provides the dealers with marketing and promotional support.
The business is highly  with approximately The Group is a leading European supplier of RTP.
Its extensive product 700,000 line-items being processed weekly.
The maintenance of reliable range includes reusable containers, boxes and pallet systems, injectionand efficient systems that are capable of handling the high volume of moulded crates and semi-nished extruded sheet.
These products are customer orders received daily, either on-line or by telephone, is a key supplied to the automotive, beverage, pharmaceutical and other markets feature of the business.
Spicers business model is explained further on from ten locations in the UK, France, Belgium, Spain, Poland, Czech page 21.
In LP&D, it is ranked as number two globally in bag-in-box packaging systems and injection-moulded taps and dispensers, which are supplied worldwide to the soft drinks, wine, food and other industry sectors from eight locations in the UK, Germany, Bulgaria, the USA, Australia and New Zealand.
Additionally, the segment contains two small speciality businesses: Packaging Management, which provides logistics services, particularly for pallet and plastic layer pad pools: and a development business, StePac, which specialises in modied atmosphere packaging for preserving the quality of fresh fruit and vegetables in transit.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 13
