BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY Our strategic goals are: We believe that progress in the  packaging, concentrated on corrugated and plastic packaging: implementation of our strategy to be an overall net purchaser of CCM: in the UK, however, to be has contributed to our robust a strong net supplier of CCM: and performance in 2008 09. to safeguard the supply and minimise the cost to our paper-making operations of their key raw material by managing a total quantity of waste paper greater than is used internally: the balance being sold GROUP STRATEGY to other users.
The Group has two distinct activities, Packaging and Office Products In the UK we are seeking to maintain our leadership positions in all three Wholesaling.
The Board regularly reviews the structure of the Group.
parts of the paper and corrugated supply chain, through both organic Each activity has a well-established strategy.
The key elements of these development and acquisition.
We believe that a combination of scale strategies are outlined below.
We believe that progress in implementation and the interaction between our three businesses will allow us to meet has contributed to our robust performance in 2008 09.
This progress has our target cost of capital through the industry cycle.
included the development of our recycling business, the enlargement of our Severnside is the UKs leading collector and processor of waste paper.
corrugated box business, particularly through growth in products for the fastmoving consumer goods FMCG sector, and the continued development of St Regis is the leading and most cost-competitive UK producer of our Office Products Wholesaling operations in continental Europe.
The recent commissioning of a machine to make lightweight CCM completes our range of packaging papers and gives us a high In addition, in the current difficult economic environment, we believe our specification product in a growth sector of the market.
Despite the strategies have established a strong base from which we can develop further when activity levels improve.
significant volumes of CCM used in our UK corrugated business, we remain a net CCM supplier in the UK.
Additionally, we are a leader We will continue to drive for progress in the implementation of our in the supply of top quality plasterboard liner to the European strategies, but given the current outlook for the trading environment, the construction industry.
pace of development is likely to be slower.
In the short term, we will focus on maximising returns from our existing strong market positions, cost DS Smith Packaging is the UK market leader in the production and marketing of corrugated packaging.
We will continue to increase reduction and cash conservation.
Capital investment will be limited, highly our capability to supply the FMCG sector of the market, which is selective and focused on optimising our current asset base.
We will exit more resilient than the industrial sector.
businesses that are non-core, or are not expected to meet our financial objectives through the industry cycle.
A significant element of our Packaging strategy continues to be the drive for growth both in the UK and in selected geographical markets in PACKAGING STRATEGY continental Europe.
We will concentrate on the production and marketing Our strategy is to: of corrugated packaging, rather than CCM, since our objective is for the enhance our leadership position in cost-efficient supply chain solutions Group, as a whole, to be a net buyer of CCM.
In light of the fluctuation across our chosen geographies, particularly in relation to retail-ready in CCM prices we believe this net buyer status will provide us with a packaging, decorative promotional packaging for the retail market more consistent earnings profile through the industry cycle.
and heavy-duty packaging for the industrial segments: The Group is developing sizeable and highly profitable businesses in increase our leadership position across the supply chain in the UK France, Italy and Poland.
Our Polish business now acts as a hub for and to build strong businesses in selected continental European supply into other East European countries.
We also have a market-leading countries, concentrating on the production and marketing of associate company in Ukraine.
corrugated packaging:  provide a range of innovative and cost-efficient returnable transit ,  packaging RTP solutions for selected industrial and retail market  to both local and export markets.
Through our segments: investment in   within our European portfolio.
The FMCG market be a high specification, low-cost supplier of corrugated case material segment is growing and we believe it will be less impacted by overall CCM for the packaging industry and plasterboard liner for the economic factors than the industrial packaging sector in the longer term.
construction industry: and In our Plastic Packaging business we are focused on two sectors: liquid extend our recycling capability to ensure that we have a cost-effective packaging and dispensing LP&D : and RTP.
We are number two globally supply of waste paper for our paper operations and a market-leading in LP&D with leading market positions in Europe, the USA and Australasia.
The RTP market is highly fragmented but we have built good positions in our selected market sectors.
Going forward, we will seek to consolidate our existing positions and grow further in RTP.
