Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 18 Directors report and business review The Directors present their report together with the audited There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the financial statements for the year ended 4 July 2009.
Together with Company other than certain restrictions imposed by laws and certain information in the reports from the Chief Executive and the regulations such as insider trading and marketing requirements Finance Director on pages 3 to 9 above which are incorporated relating to close periods and requirements of the Listing Rules into this report by reference, this report satisfies the requirements whereby Directors and certain employees of the Company require of the Companies Act 2006 to produce a Business Review.
Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
The purpose of this Business Review is to provide to shareholders Change of control a review of the Groups business over the period, and to describe The Company is not party to any significant agreements which the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
take effect, alter or terminate solely on a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Group is that of a specialist UK There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors homewares retailer selling to customers through stores and or employees providing for additional compensation for loss of over the internet.
office or employment whether through resignation, redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Review of business and future developments A review of the business and future developments of the Group is Results and dividends given in the Chief Executives Review on pages 3 to 5.
The consolidated profit for the year after taxation was 37.6m 2008: 33.7m.
The results are discussed in greater detail in the Shareholder and voting rights Finance Directors review on pages 7 to 9.
All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
On a show of hands at a A final dividend of 4.0p per share 2008: 3.5p is proposed in general meeting every member present in person shall have one respect of the year ended 4 July 2009 to add to an interim vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy dividend of 2.0p per share paid on 1 May 2009 2008: 2.0p per shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The final dividend will be paid on 11 December 2009 to shareholders on the register at 27 November 2009.
On 2 October 2006, Jean Adderley, Bill Adderley and Will Adderley all shareholders entered into a Relationship Agreement with the Directors Company, pursuant to which each of Jean Adderley, Bill Adderley Details of the Directors in office at the year end are set out on and Will Adderley undertook to the Company that, for so long as, page 10 and 11. individually or together, they are entitled to exercise, or to control the exercise of, 30 per cent or more of the rights to vote at general Directors serving at the year end and their interests in the shares meetings of the Company or they are able to control the of the Company were: appointment of directors who are able to exercise a majority of At At votes at Board meetings of the Company, they will: 4 July 2009 29 June 2008 a conduct all transactions and relationships with any member 1p ordinary 1p ordinary of the Group on arms length terms and on a normal shares shares commercial basis: WL Adderley 50,000,000 50,000,000 b not take any action which precludes or inhibits any member D Stead 430,085 430,085 of the Group from carrying on its business independently of G Cooper 181,611 181,611 Jean and Bill Adderley and their associates as defined in the M Sears 100,000 100,000 Listing Rules : S Emeny 19,000 5,000 c not exercise any of their voting rights or other powers to procure any amendment to the Articles of Association of the Company which would be inconsistent with or undermine any On 14 August 2009, Nick Wharton was appointed as a Director of of the provisions of the Relationship Agreement: the Company.
d abstain from voting on any resolution to which LR11.7.
R 4 of the Listing Rules applies involving Jean Adderley, Bill Adderley There were no changes in the Directors shareholdings between or Will Adderley or any of their associates as the related party: the year end and 15 September 2009. e not carry on other than through their holding of securities of the Company or have any financial interest other than a Details of share options held by Directors at the year end are given financial interest in securities which are held for investment in the Remuneration Report.
purposes only in any person who carries on a business as a homewares retailer, to the extent that it would be inconsistent Geoff Cooper and David Stead are retiring by rotation at the 2009 with or undermine any provisions of the Relationship Annual General Meeting and will be offering themselves for Agreement: and re-election.
Nick Wharton is retiring in accordance with the Articles f only enter into, amend or terminate any transaction, agreement of Association of the Company and is offering himself for election.
or relationship between themselves or any of their associates Biographical details of these Directors are set out on pages 10 and and any member of the Group with the approval of a majority 11 and details of their service contracts are in the Remuneration of the independent Non-Executive Directors.
Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 19 Share capital and treasury shares Employees The Company has only one class of shares, ordinary shares of Dunelm employs 5,414 staff engaged throughout the Groups 1p each.
stores, distribution and head office locations and in a range of disciplines including Buying, Marketing, Warehousing, IT, Finance, The issued share capital of the Company has not changed during HR as well as many customer facing roles.
The Group is a growing business and offers competitive benefits At 4 July 2009 the Company held 837,135 shares in treasury.
During as well as personal and career enhancement opportunities.
We the period the Company purchased 127,000 ordinary shares into have recently launched our Dunelm Directions programme to treasury and 241,365 shares were transferred to employees on the support the development of talented staff and management.
We exercise of share options.
Details of option exercises are set out in also offer further support for employees to obtain relevant note 11 to the Parent Company accounts on page 50. professional skills and qualifications.
The remaining shares in treasury are held by the Company for the The Group is an equal opportunities employer.
We are committed purpose of delivery to employees under employee share schemes.
to recruit, develop, promote and retain skilled and motivated people regardless of disability, race, religion, gender, colour, Substantial shareholders nationality, sex, sexual orientation, marital status or age.
At 15 September 2009 the following had notified the Company of a disclosable interest in 3% or more of the nominal value of the The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its Companys ordinary shares: employees and continues its practice of consulting with employees on matters likely to affect their interests, through its partners council.
Percentage Ordinary of share Information on matters of concern to employees is also given shares capital through bulletins, reports and an in-house newsletter.
W Adderley 83,670,000 41.7 WL Adderley 50,000,000 24.9 Health and safety Dunelm is responsible for the health and safety of our employees, contractors, customers and any other visitors to our premises.
Powers of Directors Specific powers of Directors in relation to shares and the The Group recognises that a high standard of health and safety Companys Articles of Association are referred to in the Corporate management is fundamental to a successful business and has Governance Report at page 12. created the post of Health and Safety Manager to safeguard these high standards.
Corporate Social Responsibility The Group recognises its duty to behave responsibly to all During the past year the number of reported accidents was 56 stakeholders.
The Board places particular emphasis on 2008: 49. maintaining good relationships with its customers, employees and suppliers: on ethical sourcing: on environmental issues: and on The Group has engaged with our risk management partners to charitable contributions.
identify further areas where it can focus on improved health and safety management.
We employ a rigorous self-auditing The Chief Executive reports regularly to the Board on all of programme to enforce our policies and identify any weakness in these issues.
Customers Suppliers The Group is committed to delivering consistently high standards Dunelm seeks to encourage contractors and suppliers to manage of customer service and satisfaction.
We constantly strive to the environmental impact of their activities and to support the provide high quality, safe products at a fair price supported by our Groups environmental policy.
Simply Value For Money ethos.
The Group has a firm policy on ethical sourcing which all suppliers The Group aims to ensure that it complies fully with relevant are required to sign up to.
Independent audits of suppliers facilities, legislation in all areas affecting its customers including marketing, particularly in the Far East are carried out on a regular basis.
product quality, the environment and customer data.
Payment policy and average payment period The Group has a dedicated Customer Service team that deals with Whilst it does not follow any published code or standard, the customer contact whether it is by letter, e-mail, fax or phone and Groups and Companys policy concerning the payment of supports the store teams in delivering a strong customer experience.
suppliers is to agree terms of payment at the start of business with each supplier or to ensure the supplier is made aware of the Weekly communications are sent to all stores highlighting areas of Groups standard payment terms.
The number of days purchases good customer service and also areas where we can improve.
outstanding for payment at 4 July 2009 was 33 days 2008: 27 days.
This increase stems from the additional weeks liabilities in the 53 weeks of 2009 against 52 weeks in 2008.
Annual General Meeting Financial statements Governance Business review Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 20 Directors report and business review continued Environment This year we have sourced some of our energy from Green Dunelm recognises that the world in which we do business is Energy supplies such as combined heat and power sources changing.
We have a responsibility to ensure that our actions as a where CO emissions are 30% lower than the national average.
We 2 business always have a consideration for the environment and that have also opened all new stores with low energy lighting and look we enable our customers to do the same when it comes to buying at our route planning and vehicle fill levels in our transport fleet to our products for their home.
Dunelm is therefore committed to achieving high standards of This year we will look to re-lamp our Distribution Centre and will environmental performance in all aspects of its business activities, survey our stores to identify facilities that can be targeted to including complying with all relevant legislation.
The Group has an Environmental Committee chaired by Tim Slade Dunelm will be one of 5,000 companies reporting under the new Central Operations Director, comprising a number of senior Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC legislation.
This committee reviews the environmental impact of business activities in all areas and sets targets for improvement.
Our target for the forthcoming year is to reduce absolute CO 2 These cover the following specific areas: levels year on year.
Increasing the proportion of waste which is recycled Charitable donations All Dunelm operations are required to separate plastic and paper The Groups charity of the year in the last financial year was materials for recycling.
Collections are made in stores for the We have a desire to minimise the consumption of raw materials nominated charity throughout the financial year, specific fundand promote the use of recycled materials or material from raising events are organised and the Group makes its own sustainable sources.
The total value of donations made by the Group in the year ended 4 July 2009 was 49,000 2008: 46,000.
Our target for the forthcoming year is to reduce the cube volume of waste sent to landfill by 10%.
The Group made no donations to political parties in either financial year.
Reducing the level of product packaging The Group is constantly working with suppliers to reduce the level of Dunelm will continue to work towards improving the social, packaging in its products.
A trial has recently been launched to environmental and economic issues within our direct or introduce reusable delivery totes into our supply chain to eliminate the indirect control.
need for external product packaging and improve vehicle fill levels.
Treasury and risk management In addition we have introduced eco-bags in prominent positions in The Groups approach to treasury and financial risk management our stores to promote reusable customer packaging and reduce is explained in the Finance Directors Review.
the number of carrier bags consumed.
The number of carrier bags used during the Financial year declined by 16%, despite the Going concern increase in business.
The Directors have considered the principal strategic, operational and financial risks to the business in the context of the Groups Our target for the forthcoming year is to reduce the number of expected future results and various scenarios have been modelled carrier bags used per store by a further 10%.
to determine the likely impact on both profitability and cash flow.
Reducing energy consumption across all locations As a consequence the Directors have formed a judgement at the Dunelm is focused on minimising the consumption of energy time of approving the financial statements that there is a through detailed monitoring and targeting of investment reasonable expectation that the Group had adequate resources to throughout the estate.
We have invested in new electricity meters continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
at all stores to provide detailed, half-hourly consumption data to help us challenge and reduce high usage.
This programme will be For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern extended to gas meters in the forthcoming year.
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Our target for the forthcoming year is to reduce electricity and gas Disclosure of information to auditors usage by 10% on a like-for-like basis.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there 4.
Carbon Reduction CO is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are 2 Dunelms energy carbon footprint for the period ended 4 July 2009 unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought was 21,537 tonnes of CO Companys Independent energy to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any 2 advisers.
We are constantly looking at ways to reduce our relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups carbon footprint.
auditors are aware of that information.
Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 21 Disclaimer notice.
This resolution will allow the Company to continue to do This Directors Report and Business Review and the Financial so, and will be effective until the next Annual General Meeting Statements contain certain forward-looking statements with when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
respect to the financial condition, results, operations and business The Company will also need to meet the requirements for of Dunelm Group plc.
These statements and forecasts involve risk electronic voting under the Regulations before it can call a and uncertainty because they relate to events, and depend upon meeting on 14 days notice.
circumstances, that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ The Notice of Annual General Meeting is set out on pages 53 materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardto 55. looking statements and forecasts.
Nothing in this Directors Report and Business Review or in these Financial Statements should be Auditors construed as a profit forecast.
KPMG Audit Plc offer themselves for reappointment as auditors in accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday 12 November 2009 at 10.30 am at The Hilton Hotel, Leicester.
By order of the Board Special business at the Annual General Meeting will be: Requesting authority pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, to issue shares to the value of one third of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
The nominal amount of shares covered by this authority is 666,514 66,651,421 ordinary shares, 33.3% of the issued David Stead share capital at 15 September 2009.
At that date the Company Company Secretary also held 837,135 ordinary shares in treasury, which represents 15 September 2009 approximately 0.41% of the total ordinary share capital.
This authority will lapse at the 2010 Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, on 29 December 2010.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise this authority except to issue shares pursuant to the Groups employee share schemes.
Requesting authority pursuant to section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 to distribute ordinary shares to the value of 100,395 10,039,570 ordinary shares, which constitutes 5% of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares at 15 September 2009, without offering them to existing shareholders.
The Directors do not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company for cash on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three year period without prior consultation with the Investment Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
Requesting that the Directors be authorised pursuant to section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to buy up to 19,000,000, approximately 10% of issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares in the Company, less the number of shares held in treasury at the date of this report.
The Directors will only exercise this authority if it enhances earnings per share and is in the interests of shareholders generally.
Shares purchased may be cancelled or held in treasury.
If held in treasury and used to satisfy share options, the NAPFs National Association of Pension Funds guidelines would be complied with.
Authorising the Board to convene a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting on at least 14 days notice.
The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations require that all meetings other than an Annual General Meeting must be held on at least 21 days notice unless shareholders agree to a shorter period.
Under the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association, the Company can call meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 days Annual General Meeting Financial statements Governance Business review
