Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 10 Directors Bill Adderley Founder and Life President Bill Adderley founded Dunelm along with his wife Jean in 1979.
He led the development of the business successfully for many years, then took a non-executive role before retiring in February 2008.
He and Jean remain passionate Dunelm supporters and major shareholders.
Geoff Cooper Marion Sears Will Adderley Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Chief Executive Geoff Cooper, joined the Board in Director Will Adderley, joined the business in 1992.
Chairman of the Audit Marion Sears, joined the Board in July 2004.
He has worked in and is familiar with all Committee and Member of the Chairman of the Remuneration and major areas of the business and took over Remuneration and Nominations Nominations Committees and Member of the day-to-day running of the Group from Committees.
He is currently Chief the Audit Committee.
She is also a his father in 1996.
Executive of Travis Perkins plc, and is a Non-Executive Director of Zetar Plc.
former Director of Gateway now Somerfield plc and has also been Finance Director and then Deputy Chief Executive of Alliance UniChem plc.
Focused on leadership Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 11 David Stead Simon Emeny Nick Wharton Finance Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director David Stead, joined the Group in 2003.
Simon Emeny, joined the Board Nick Wharton, joined the Board in August Previously he spent 14 years at Boots where in June 2007.
Member of the Remuneration and he was Finance Director of Boots The Remuneration and Nominations Nominations Committees and will become Chemists and Finance Director of Boots Committees.
Simon is an Executive Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Director of Fuller Smith and Turner P. L. C. Finance Director of Halfords Group plc.
where he is responsible for the Fullers Inns division.
Annual General Meeting Financial statements Governance Business review
