26 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board of Directors Executive Directors Drew Ian Dave Johnson McLeod Routledge Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director Organisational Development Director Dave Routledge, Joseph Drew Johnson, Organisational Development Director age 51 Chief Executive Officer age 50 Dave joined eaga in 2002 and was appointed to the Drew joined eaga in 1991 having previously worked for Board in 2004.
He is responsible for strategic organisational British Coal in supply chain management and logistics.
development, human resources, risk management and He was appointed to eagas Board in 1999.
Drew has had corporate and Government affairs.
Dave previously held responsibility for eagas commercial strategy, focusing on the main board level responsibilities for human resources and identification, development and delivery of opportunities for operations within the pharmaceutical sector.
both organic and acquisitive growth and from 27 April 2009 took up the role of CEO upon John Cloughs retirement.
Ian McLeod, Group Finance Director age 41 Ian joined eaga in 2004 and was appointed to the Board in 2005.
He is responsible for all aspects of financial management and reporting.
Ian spent fourteen years with  LLP prior to joining eaga, during which time he gained extensive experience in advising companies across a broad range of market sectors.
Board Committees Audit Remuneration Nomination Malcolm Simpson Chair Tracy Clarke Chair Charles Berry Chair Quintin Oliver Malcolm Simpson Quintin Oliver Tracy Clarke Quintin Oliver Roger Aylard 1 Roger Aylard Roger Aylard Dave Routledge Drew Johnson 1 Dave Routledge stepped down from the Nomination Committee on 23 July 2009 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27 Non-Executive Directors Charles Malcolm Quintin Tracy Roger Berry Simpson Oliver Clarke Aylard Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Chairman and Senior Independent Director Tracy Clarke, Charles Berry, Non-Executive Director age 42 Non-Executive Director and Chairman age 57 Tracy was appointed to eagas Board as a Non-Executive Charles was appointed to eagas Board as a Non-Executive Director in 2007.
She is currently Group Head of Human Director and Chairman in 2006.
He has extensive experience Resources at Standard Chartered plc and a member of in the UK power sector as a former board member of its Group Management Committee, having previously ScottishPower plc where he served as UK Chief Executive.
undertaken a variety of operational and strategic roles for Charles is a Non-Executive Director of Securities Trust the bank.
Until 2008, she was also a Non-Executive Director of Scotland plc, Impax Environmental Markets plc and of SC First Bank, following Standard Chartereds acquisition Chairman of Drax Group plc.
Malcolm Simpson, Roger Aylard, Non-Executive Director age 67 Malcolm was appointed to eagas Board as a Non-Executive Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Director in 2007, he is a former Finance Director of Greggs plc.
age 55 At Greggs Malcolm oversaw a period of strong growth as the Roger was appointed to eagas Board as a Non-Executive company expanded both organically and acquisitively and Director and Senior Independent Director on 1 April 2009. achieved flotation on the London Stock Exchange.
He retired as Head of UK Investment Banking at Deutsche Bank in August 2007 after a career encompassing ten years Quintin Oliver, in the oil industry, six years as a research analyst and fifteen Non-Executive Director age 54 years in corporate broking and corporate finance.
During Quintin was appointed to eagas Board as a Non-Executive this time he acted as senior advisor to a wide range of Director in 2004.
He lives and works in Belfast, Northern Ireland, major UK companies.
leading Stratagem the first dedicated lobbying and public affairs company to emerge after the Northern Ireland peace process following the Good Friday agreement.
