About eaga eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 Specialist Support Services Through a range of innovative Specialist Support Services products and services, eagas provides products and services activities are helping to save into the CERT market that offer millions of tonnes of carbon on low cost, high volume carbon behalf of a range of customers saving and also houses our every year.
eaga works with all programmes, delivering This segment draws on measures, such as energy six energy suppliers in a mixture of energy eagas established delivery saving lighting, can be helping them to meet efficient lighting and platform and customer delivered at scale in this their commitment under ground-breaking residential base and provides a segment through our the CERT programme.
carbon saving measures diverse range of innovative fulfilment operation.
Building such as eaga ShowerSmart, carbon saving services and on both the Schemes For example, eaga has consistently providing products.
delivered in Managed worked with NPower for NPower with a proven, Services and our CERTmore than 7 years on cost effective means Innovative Carbon Saving facing commitments, our their commitments under of meeting carbon Solutions fulfilment business last year CERT and predecessor saving targets.
Our Specialist Support supplied over 14 million Services segment has energy efficient light bulbs developed and now across the UK.
delivers a wide spectrum of innovative carbon saving Central Heating Aftercare measures, including the Our aftercare services eaga ShowerSmart and include the provision of a Powerdown device, insurance-backed twothe Standbyoff.
The year warranties for heating eaga ShowerSmart is an systems installed under fuel innovative device that can poverty Schemes.
Annual be fitted to a non-electric service visits and repair shower and will save 12,000 and maintenance work litres of water per year, are undertaken chiefly by which equates to 30 off WarmSure, supported by both gas and water bills third party providers.
and one tonne of CO2 for an average four person household.
eagas nationwide delivery platform also means that other carbon saving 9% Specialist Support Services Revenue contribution to eaga
