About eaga eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 09 Managed Services The Switchover Help Scheme Managed Services is a will offer support and advice market leader in delivering to millions of homes across large scale complex the country as we move from outsourced programmes.
eaga delivers the Switchover The support they can obtain This segment delivers a The growth in our advice Help Scheme on behalf of includes: number of high profile services business has the BBC.
The Scheme has outsourced programmes been entirely organic, been set up by the BBC across a broad and diverse with success driven by the help to chose the right through an agreement with contract base.
quality of advice provided equipment: Government to make sure and the levels of customer easy to use equipment that that those who need it most Warm Front service delivered.
As global suits individual needs: benefit from practical Warm Front is the UKs economic conditions support and advice during largest grant-funded become increasingly installation, including new the digital switchover programme for tackling uncertain: the impact on aerial if required: and process.
More than 7m fuel poverty and is funded personal finances, debt dedicated helpline.
eligible people are expected by the Department for and affordability of basic to qualify for assistance Energy and Climate essentials are all drivers under the scheme.
The Scheme has for potential growth in our eagas experience provided central heating advice services work.
in dealing with this The Switchover Help Scheme and insulation measures, customer group and offers to convert one as well as income checks Digital Switchover our understanding of television set per eligible and energy advice to over Help Scheme the specific dynamics household between now 750,000 households in the As noted overleaf the BBC of providing sensitive and 2013.
Eligible customers last three years.
has chosen eaga to deliver and appropriate service include those aged over 75, the Switchover Help Scheme, in this area, underpins our partially sighted or in receipt The Home Energy Efficiency we estimate that there delivery of the Scheme of certain disability benefits.
Scheme in Wales are more than 7m eligible across the country.
We deliver a similar scheme people in the UK that can to Warm Front in Wales the be assisted by the Scheme.
Home Energy Efficiency Scheme, HEES Wales on behalf of the Welsh Assembly Government.
The Scheme offers a similar range of measures to Warm Front and has helped more than 100,000 households across Wales since it was launched in 2000.
Advice Services 51% We have over 170 Partners delivering telephone based advice to a variety of customers focusing on benefit entitlement, debt, Managed Services housing and legal advice.
Revenue contribution to eaga Delivering innovative carbon savings
