28 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2009.
Principal Activities and Business Review The Company and Group continue to provide outsourced services and products that help households and families deal with many different aspects of environmental, social, economic and technological change.
The Group also provides installation services including heating, insulation and renewable technologies, together with the development and fulfilment of carbon saving measures.
In doing so, it serves a broad customer base which includes central and local Government, utility companies, private sector organisations and the BBC.
Details of the Groups activities and a review of the business are set out in the Chairmans Statement, Operational Review and Financial Review on pages 2 to 25.
The Financial Review includes: details of the Key Performance Indicators used by the Directors to assist in the management of the business being revenue, EBITA and EBITA margin: and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Financial Results and Dividends The Groups results are shown in the Group Income Statement on page 46.
The Directors are recommending the payment of a final dividend of 2.4p per Ordinary Share to be paid on 13 November 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 16 October 2009 which, together with the interim dividend of 1.1p per Ordinary Share paid on 23 March 2009, results in a total dividend for the year of 3.5p per Ordinary Share 2008: 3.0p.
Interests in Shares During the year ended 31 May 2009 the Company had a general right to purchase all or any of its own shares subject to compliance with its articles of association and the specific right conferred by the resolution passed at the AGM of 16 October 2008 to acquire up to 10% of the Companys issued Ordinary Share Capital.
The Company is aware of or has been notified under Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FSA of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: Number of Percentage of Direct Shares Direct Shares % eaga Partnership Trustee Two Ltd 46,509,368 18.5 eaga Partnership Trustee Ltd 46,496,183 18.5 Brewin Dolphin Ltd 11,583,280 4.6 Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 9,956,110 4.0 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 8,002,741 3.2 All of the above shares are held directly.
The Company has not been notified of any indirect holdings.
Directors Details of the Directors who currently hold office are listed on pages 26 and 27.
During the year Roger Aylard was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director on 1 April 2009 and John Clough MBE retired on 27 April 2009.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association, one third or the nearest whole number below one third of the Directors are required to retire at each annual general meeting AGM, together with Directors appointed by the Board since the date of any notice convening the previous AGM.
In addition, under the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code, Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders every three years and Non-Executive Directors who have served more than nine years are subject to annual re-election.
Having been appointed since the publication of the notice for the last AGM, Roger Aylard will retire from the Board and, being eligible, will offer himself for election.
Drew Johnson and Malcolm Simpson will retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The termination provisions in respect of the Executive Directors contracts are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 38. Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29 The interests of the Directors in the Ordinary Share Capital of the Company as at 31 May 2009 and the date of signature of this report are: Number of Shares Roger Aylard 50,000 Charles Berry 55,249 Tracy Clarke Nil Drew Johnson 5,082,472 Ian McLeod 3,982,472 Quintin Oliver 24,861 Dave Routledge 5,157,472 Malcolm Simpson 88,149 Corporate Social Responsibility Information relating to the Companys activities in this area is included in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 44.
Directors Indemnities The Directors have the benefit of qualifying third party indemnity provisions contained in the Companys Articles of Association, which were in force throughout the financial year and remain in force as at the date of signing this report.
Donations During the year the Company and the Group made charitable donations of 245,000 2008: 135,000 principally to the independent eaga Charitable Trust and the eaga Community Fund managed for eaga by the Community Foundation.
No political donations were made in the year to 31 May 2009 2008: Nil.
Payment of Suppliers The Groups UK operating companies follow the CBI Prompt Payers Code.
This Code requires the Company to agree the terms of payment with suppliers, to ensure suppliers are aware of those terms and to abide by them.
The Groups creditor days outstanding as at 31 May 2009 were 36 days 2008: 34 days.
Employment Issues and Policies The Group regards its engagement with its Partners as a vital constituent of continued success.
The Company has a unique structure for a UK listed company.
Approximately 37% of the Companys shares are owned by the two eaga Partnership Trust companies ePT which, together with other assets are held in trust for a beneficial class which includes current Partners.
As the Companys largest shareholder, ePT is wholly independent, but the interrelationship between the Company, ePT and the eaga Partners Council ePC is a key element in ensuring the values-driven nature of the business is retained and preserved.
ePC is comprised of elected Partners, meets regularly with the Board and acts as the representative body of the Partners to make enquiries, raise issues and make representations to the Board on behalf of the Partners.
ePT invests in a range of initiatives and programmes that are designed solely to promote the welfare of Partners and to provide direct benefit to Partners as a result of their employment with eaga.
During the year such benefits included the acquisition of a number of holiday homes for Partners use and the funding of the acquisition of shares for an all Partner Share Incentive Plan established by the Company, financed through a waiver of dividends by ePT.
Such waiver is wholly discretionary and ePTs independent board of directors have sole responsibility for such decisions in this regard.
The Group has a range of initiatives to enhance and develop Partner engagement and participation: our values and culture are driven and supported by the eaga Cares programme, which underpins our performance and development process and enables us to embed our value set throughout Partner behaviours: the annual Partner Engagement Survey PES is a vital tool in collating feedback from Partners.
The results of the PES are shared with all Partners and improvement action plans formulated with team leaders: ePC is at the centre of all issues involving the Partners and has been instrumental in the development of the Groups people policies.
The divisional ePC representative also sits on the relevant information and consultative committee referred to as Partners Voice which are active in each division and ensure a cohesive information flow: our internal publication Switched On goes from strength to strength and continues to attract external critical acclaim.
It is circulated to all Partners at their home address and aims to keep Partners and their families up to date with latest developments and key areas of focus across the business.
The magazine has a strong interactive feel which encourages Partners to participate and provide content of their own: 30 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors Continued eaga Stars, the Groups Partner recognition scheme seeks to identify and reward those Partners who demonstrate role model behaviour in keeping with the eaga values and go beyond what would ordinarily be expected of them in a work situation: and our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR agenda also provides an opportunity for our Partners to participate on and contribute to a diverse range of innovative projects.
Further details of our CSR activities can be found on page 44.
Equal Opportunities All of the Groups employment decisions are based on objective criteria, sound human resources principles and are demonstrably free from bias.
The Groups Equal Opportunities and Dignity at Work policy strives to ensure all Partners work in an environment that is free from discrimination, harassment and victimisation, with equality of treatment regardless of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, marital status, sexual orientation or religion.
The Group has a willingness to consider appropriate positive action to optimise opportunities for those with disabilities, offering training and career development and a range of flexible and home-working arrangements.
If Partners become disabled, the Group continues employment wherever possible and arranges retraining.
The Group is a certified Two Ticks employer.
Work life balance is also important to the Group as is demonstrated by enhanced policies for maternity, paternity and adoption.
Remuneration Report The Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 38 will as required by Section 420 of Companies Act 2006 be put to the shareholders for approval at the AGM.
Power to Allot Shares and Authority for the Company to Purchase Its Own Shares The Directors propose to renew the general authority of the Company to make market purchases of its own shares to a total of 25m Ordinary Shares representing approximately 10% of the issued Ordinary Share Capital of the Company and within the price constraints set out in the special resolution to be proposed at the AGM.
Articles of Association The latest version of the Companys articles of association was adopted by special resolution on 28 January 2009.
It is intended to further amend the articles of association to reflect the final round of changes to be implemented by the Companies Act 2006 on 1 October 2009.
Details of these proposed changes are contained in the Appendix to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Financial Instruments A summary of the Groups treasury policies and objectives relating to financial risk management, including exposure to associated risks, is included in the Financial Review on pages 22 to 25.
Additional Information for Shareholders Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into UK law, the following description provides the required information for shareholders where not already provided elsewhere in this report.
Share Capital The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into Ordinary Shares of 0.001 each.
Rights and Obligations Attaching to Shares In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the articles of association and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached to any class of shares in the Company of which there are none, the holders of the Ordinary Shares are entitled to one vote in a poll for every Ordinary Share held.
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held if any call or other sum then payable in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 October 2009 are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
If the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator may, with the authority of a special resolution of the Company and any other authority required by the Statutes as defined in the articles of association : divide among the members in specie the whole or any part of the assets of the Company: or vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of members as the liquidator, with the like authority, shall think fit.
Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31 Transfer of Shares Subject to the articles of association, any member may transfer all or any of their certified shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion, decline to register any instrument of transfer of a certified share which is not a fully paid share or on which the Company has a lien.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certified share unless the instrument of transfer is: i left at the office, or at such other place as the Board may decide, for registration: and ii accompanied by the certificate for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence if any as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the intending transferor or right to transfer the shares.
The Board may permit any class of shares in the Company to be held in uncertified form and, subject to the articles of association, title to uncertified shares to be transferred by means of a relevant system and may revoke any such permission.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertified share may be refused where permitted by the Statutes.
Appointment and Replacement of Directors Directors shall be no less than two and no more than fifteen in number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next following Annual General Meeting and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors to hold employment or executive office for such period subject to the Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
At every Annual General Meeting of the Company, any Director in office who a has been appointed by the Board since the previous Annual General Meeting or b at the start of business on the date which is thirty clear days prior to the date of the notice convening the Annual General Meeting had held office for more than thirty months since he or she was elected or last re-elected shall in either case retire from office but shall be eligible for election or re-election by the shareholders.
The Company may by special resolution or by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given remove and the Board by unanimous decision may remove any Director before the expiration of his term of office.
The office of Director shall be vacated if: i he or she resigns: ii he or she is or may be suffering from a mental disorder: iii he or she is absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that the office is vacated: iv he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors generally: v he or she is prohibited by law from being a Director: or vi he or she is removed from office pursuant to the articles of association.
Powers of the Directors The business of the Company will be managed by the Board who exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Companys memorandum of association, the articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
Auditors The auditors,  LLP have signified their willingness to continue in office and a resolution reappointing them as auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
On behalf of the Board Christopher Judd, Company Secretary 1 September 2009
