About eaga eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 05 Our Partners Our Values All eaga Partners are recruited and assessed against strong corporate values.
The values are supported by Corporate Standards and Performance Management.
More than 37% of the shares in eaga are held in trust on eagas values, combined with a commitment to behalf of Partners by ePT.
This means that our Partners co-ownership, are at the centre of what makes the business are the biggest shareholder in eaga.
Our commitment a success and drives the performance and outstanding to a co-owned business model drives engagement, an customer service of our employees.
entrepreneurial spirit and significant added value from our Partners, and we believe this structure offers the Our values are: strongest route to drive our future success.
eaga is defined by its culture and the values and We are a behaviours that our Partners display.
We each share an obligation to care for our Partners, customers and winning team communities with integrity, respect and enthusiasm.
As we grow as a business, so our reach and impact We are across our business locations widens and the imperative on each of us to continually re-energise and revitalise our customer focused culture remains strong.
Corporate responsibility is not an add-on to eagas business, it is at the heart of everything We are dedicated to we do and our desire to make a positive difference in continuous improvement the communities around us is what drives us forward.
Our operating culture and our co-owned business We have a model are key factors in focusing the minds of our sense of urgency Partners on delivering excellent customer service.
We believe passionately in giving our Partners the We act tools, the investment and the freedom to focus on and meet the needs of our customers.
responsibly and safely As with any business of our size, there is a challenge We are in maintaining our culture as we expand and develop into new markets.
At all levels of the organisation, we are professionals committed to reinforcing, reinvigorating and renewing our values as we continue our growth plans.
We embrace change and will maintain a sense of fun Making heating more efficient across the country
