About eaga eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 07 Our business is structured in three inter-related segments: Installation Services, Managed Services and Specialist Support Services.
Installation Services Installation Services is eagas fastest growing segment.
Through both organic growth and acquisitions we have built up one of the UKs largest delivery platforms for the installation and maintenance of energy efficient heating Leeds City Council is just one of systems, domestic insulation the customers for whom eaga and renewable technologies.
provides heating servicing, maintenance and repair, ensuring that their tenants are Our customers in this brand.
This strategic segment typically consolidation of our able heat their homes efficiently.
include social landlords, branding brings together a Government-funded number of well-established, programmes, energy utilities proven businesses under and able to pay customers.
eaga provides central eaga has successfully heating installation, retained the Leeds contract The increasing demand eaga Insulation repair and maintenance based on a track record of for energy efficiency eaga Insulation is one of the services to a wide range understanding the clients improvements has enabled largest installers of loft and of customers across the needs in providing effective eaga to build a business cavity wall insulation and public and private sector.
delivery and ensuring of significant scale and related energy efficiency One of these customers excellent service to the our Installation Services measures in the UK.
There is Leeds City Council, with end customer in the home.
segment has more than are significant opportunities whom eaga has a five 3,500 of our Partners in the domestic insulation year contract to provide across the UK.
market, particularly given heating breakdown and the Governments stated annual service cover for eagaheat commitment to insulate over 7,000 homes across The domestic heating 6m homes across the UK by the Leeds area.
The increasing scale of approximately 5bn programmes such as CERT annually and is currently will drive this opportunity.
served by a highly fragmented supply chain.
As well as domestic Through our workforce of insulation we also provide qualified heating engineers a range of external wall we are well placed to insulation offerings for both capitalise on the significant domestic and commercial opportunities in this market customers through our place.
This scale enables us Horrocks and Howe to install over 40,000 central subsidiaries.
heating systems annually and provide service and breakdown cover to over 400,000 households across the UK.
40% During 2009 we have rebranded the majority of our heating businesses under the eagaheat Installation Services Revenue contribution to eaga Supporting the switch to digital
