WhAT WE DO OuR businEss Aggreko provides power and temperature control We are not exposed to the fortunes of any single solutions to customers who need them either very end-user market.
All businesses use power, and quickly, or for a short or indeterminate length of time.
Our equipment We have two business models: in the Local business, and services are transferable between end-user we hire our equipment to customers, who then operate segments, so the generator used today in a it for themselves, although we retain responsibility for pharmaceutical plant may be on a film set servicing and maintaining it.
In the International Power tomorrow and a building site the day after.
Projects business, we operate as a power producer.
We install and operate power plants and we charge We operate globally.
This means that we can our customers both for providing the generating respond to events as they happen anywhere capacity, and for the electricity we produce.
around the world and can move our equipment to wherever it can deliver the best returns.
We do this on a global basis, with 144 service centres and offices in 34 countries: in 2009 we We are organised to address all types of served customers in about 100 countries.
opportunity, from the rental of a single chiller for a weekend, to managing huge projects worth The solutions we provide range from the simple many millions of pounds.
to the very complex, for example: We are experts.
We are focussed on a very narrow generating power for entire countries in times range of products power and temperature control, of severe power shortfall: and that means we have technical expertise, equipment, skills and experience on a scale, and multi-million pound projects to help increase to a depth, that we believe nobody else can rival.
production in petrochemical plants by providing additional power and liquid cooling: We design and manufacture our own fleet which means that we are able to optimise it the design and operation of the temporary power for the specific requirements of our customers infrastructure for major public events such as the and of the rental business.
Olympic Games: We keep our equipment for its useful life, providing temperature control in an office after so the longer the life, the more money we make.
the air-conditioning has broken down: We therefore take enormous care to build and maintain our equipment to the highest standards.
installing chillers to provide the cooling for temporary ice-rinks: and By developing these competitive advantages, Aggreko has grown over the last thirty years to be renting a generator for a few days to a power the world market leader, with outstanding people, utility while it carries out improvements to strong customer relationships, a powerful brand and transmission lines.
We have also developed a business large enough to enjoy economies of scale, The distinguishing features of our business are: which has enabled us to deliver highly attractive returns to shareholders while delivering outstanding The products and services we provide are missionvalue and service to our customers.
Power and temperature control are utility services without which our customers cannot operate.
Most customers use our services only occasionally but when they do, they rely on us to keep their business or even whole cities and countries functioning and safe.
They are therefore likely to be more interested in service quality than price.
6 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
