Directors Report Key Performance Indicators The Group uses a large number of performance section page 31 and under Corporate Social indicators to measure operational and financial Responsibility pages 42 and 43.
FAR was as follows: activity in the business.
Most of these are studied on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
A well-developed Frequency Accident Rating management accounts pack, including profit and loss 2009 0.76 statements, as well as key ratios related to capital productivity and customer satisfaction scores, are 2008 0.46 prepared for each profit centre monthly.
In addition 2007 0.50 every general manager in the business receives a weekly and monthly pack of indicators which are 2006 0.75 the basis of regular operational meetings.
2005 0.98 There are five Key Performance Indicators KPIs Returns on average capital employed which we use as measures of the longer-term health of In a business as capital-intensive as Aggrekos, the business and which we use to monitor progress in profitability alone is a poor measure of performance: it implementing the Groups strategic objectives.
They are: is perfectly possible to be generating good margins, but poor value for shareholders, if assets and in particular, Safety fleet are being allocated incorrectly.
We believe that, Returns on average capital employed by focussing on return on average capital employed Earnings per share ROCE, we measure both margin performance Customer loyalty and capital productivity, and we make sure that unit Staff turnover managers are tending their balance sheets as well as their profit and loss accounts.
We calculate ROCE by Safety dividing operating profit for a period by the average Our business involves the frequent movement of heavy of the net operating assets as at 1 January, 30 June equipment which, in its operation, produces lethal and 31 December.
ROCE was as follows: voltages and contains thousands of litres of fuel.
Rigorous safety processes are absolutely essential if we are Returns on average capital employed % to avoid accidents which could cause injury to people and damage to our reputation and property.
Safety 2009 29.0 processes are also a basic benchmark of operational 2008 28.5 discipline and there is, in our view, a close correlation between a well-run business and a safe business.
2007 26.7 2006 22.1 The main KPI we use to measure safety performance is the internationally recognised Frequency Accident 2005 18.6 Rating FAR which is calculated as the number of lost time accidents multiplied by 200,000 being the Earnings per share base for 100 employees working 40 hours per week, Measuring the creation or destruction of shareholder 50 weeks per year divided by the total hours worked.
value is a complex and much-debated topic.
We believe A lost time accident is a work related injury illness that Diluted EPS, while not perfect, is an accessible that results in an employees inability to work the day measure of the returns we are generating as a Group for after the initial injury illness.
our shareholders, and also has the merit of being auditable and well understood.
So, for the Group as a whole, the After several years of improvement, the Groups key measure of short-term financial performance is diluted performance deteriorated during 2009 but is still earnings per share pre-exceptional items Adjusted significantly better than the benchmark statistic EPS.
Adjusted EPS is calculated based on profit reported for US rental and leasing industries published attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude by the US Department of Labor which was 1.4 FAR in exceptional items divided by the diluted weighted 2008.
Further discussion of Health & Safety matters can average number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend be found in this report in the Risks and Uncertainties during the relevant period.
Adjusted EPS was as follows: Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27 Key Performance Indicators continued Within this score, our North American business Adjusted EPS Pence was slightly down on last year but still delivering levels comparable to or better than many of the best 2009 62.42 performers across all industries in the United States.
2008 45.56 Our European & Middle East business and our 2007 30.02 International business scores have improved on last year and, while respectable, show that there 2006 19.87 is still room for further improvement.
2005 13.72 Staff turnover Customer loyalty In a service business such as Aggreko, it is the The Group deals every year with thousands of customers, attitude, skill and motivation of our staff which and we have developed a process by which we can makes the difference between mediocre and excellent objectively measure the performance of our business units, performance.
Staff retention therefore is a reasonable not only in financial terms but also the extent to which proxy for how employees feel about our Company.
We they are making customers feel inclined to return to us the monitor staff turnover which is measured as the number next time they need the services we provide.
We believe of employees who left the Group other than through that near real-time measurement of our performance, as redundancy during the period as a proportion of the seen by our customers, gives us visibility of operational total average employees during the period.
Staff issues which might otherwise take months to emerge turnover was as follows: through the profit-and-loss account.
Accordingly, we use the Satmetrix system, whereby we send customers Staff turnover % an email immediately after a contract closes asking them to fill out a detailed questionnaire of how they thought we 2009 12.2 performed.
This data is then collated to conform to the 2008 15.1 same management structure as our profit and loss accounts 2007 16.2 so that, in monthly management accounts, we see not only a teams financial performance but also their 2006 14.9 operational performance as measured by how well their 2005 15.2 customers think they have done for the same period.
The level of staff turnover in 2009 was lower than These questionnaires generate enormous amounts the previous four years which is not unexpected given of data about how customers view our processes and the economic climate, however nonetheless pleasing performance and, in order to distil this down into given the pressure that our people have been under to a single usable indicator, we track a ratio called the deliver good results under difficult trading conditions.
Broadly speaking the NPS measures the relative weight of people who As well as measuring staff turnover, the Group carried think we do an excellent job against those who think out its second global opinion survey, conducted by a we are average or worse.
In 2009, around 30,000 third party, in which every employee was invited to questionnaires were sent out and we received over say what they thought about Aggreko.
The results put 2,700 replies: we believe that the scale of the response Aggreko in the top quartile of employee satisfaction.
we get enables us to have confidence in this KPI.
Notably, of the 2,804 responses received, 91% of In aggregate, our NPS over the last four years was: respondents said that they enjoyed their work and 89% of respondents said that they were proud to work Net Promoter Score for Aggreko.
28 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
