Directors Report Management of Resources This section describes how we manage our key The Companys remuneration policy, which is described resources to deliver the strategy outlined above.
on pages 60 to 71, is aligned with the key objectives of growing earnings and delivering strong returns on People capital.
To underline this point the Groups long term Aggreko has 3,600 permanent employees around the incentive scheme, and many senior managers annual world, and they are united by a unique culture.
Phrases bonuses, are based on targets set against both earnings such as customer focussed, can-do, completely per share and returns on capital employed.
dependable capture part of the ethos of Aggreko employees.
We have captured our culture in three Physical assets words: performance, passion and pace.
This culture has Many rental businesses provide standard products developed through the years, and derives from the fact to their customers.
The car or hammer-drill you that very often Aggreko is helping people and businesses rent is the same as the one you can buy.
Aggrekos to recover from, or to avoid, emergencies or disruption.
equipment is different: manufacturers of generators Customers are often dependent on Aggreko people to and temperature control equipment generally design keep things running, sometimes under very difficult their product to be installed and stay in the same circumstances.
Our people are highly skilled, and many location for its working life.
For our business, however, of them have years of experience.
They are used to this equipment has to be lifted and transported hundreds reacting quickly, getting the job done professionally of times during its working life.
It must be able to work and safely, and they respond well in a crisis.
in extreme conditions the same generator might be working in -40C on an oil rig in Russia one week, Taking into account the environment in which we and in 50C in the Saudi Arabian desert the next.
operate, it is essential that our people are properly Designing and building equipment that can do this trained, given the correct level of responsibility and while remaining safe, quiet, reliable and compliant accountability to make decisions on a timely basis and with environmental and safety regulations is a key are remunerated and incentivised appropriately.
Unusually for a rental company we part of the business has training programmes in place design and manufacture most of our equipment, and to ensure that our employees have the necessary skills our specialist in-house teams based in Dumbarton, to perform their roles to a high level.
This training Scotland understand intimately the requirements of is a combination of on-the-job learning and specific the environment in which the fleet operates.
Not only skill development through training courses.
A major do we have industry-leading equipment, we also have component of this training is related to Environmental a great deal of it 1,379 million worth at original Health and Safety EH&S issues.
More detail of our cost as at 31 December 2009.
EH&S policies is given on pages 42 to 46.
Unlike most other rental businesses, we have a policy In the last few years Aggreko has taken a number of of keeping equipment for its useful life.
This gives us a tangible steps to improve the capability of its people.
powerful incentive to maintain it well, which gives it A talent management system has been introduced and both longer life and better reliability.
We have a large the 130 senior managers in the business have attended number of skilled engineers, well-equipped workshops a management education programme specifically and rigorous servicing regimes to ensure that our tailored to Aggreko at IMD in Lausanne.
We have equipment is maintained to the highest standards.
also during 2009 given in depth training to around 80 employees in continuous improvement techniques in support of the operational excellence programme which was launched during the year.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25 Management of Resources continued Taking well-judged fleet investment decisions is a Supply chain key part of Aggrekos management task.
All material During 2009, Aggrekos capital expenditure totalled investments are judged by reference to internal rates 160.9 million.
Of this, 72% was assembled by our of return, and we monitor utilisation daily.
Fleet is design and assembly operation which is based in frequently moved between countries to optimise Dumbarton, Scotland.
The remainder of the capital utilisation, and our ERP system gives us the ability expenditure was sourced direct from third party to manage our fleet on a real time basis across the manufacturers to Aggreko specification and managed world which, in turn, will enable us to optimise by our supply chain team in Dumbarton.
Aggrekos its deployment and returns.
supply chain capability in managing suppliers of both finished product and components for assembly is a key One measure of how we are doing in terms of part of our business capability.
We have long standing managing our physical assets is the return on average relationships with many of our suppliers, notably capital employed.
This measure is one of the key Cummins, which supplies a number of engine ranges performance indicators shown on page 27. and alternators.
We have also developed new supplier relationships in countries such as China and India Financial resources where we work very closely with the supplier to ensure The Group maintains sufficient facilities to meet its that the components produced comply with Aggrekos normal funding requirements over the medium term.
Currently we are working These facilities are primarily in the form of committed closely with our supply chain to ensure that the bank facilities totalling 524.1 million at 31 December current economic environment does not adversely 2009, arranged on a bilateral basis with a number of impact our suppliers ability to deliver the agreed international banks.
The financial covenants attached product schedule.
to these facilities are that Operating Profit should be no less than 3 times interest, EBITDA should be no less than 4 times interest and net debt should be no more than 3 times EBITDA.
The Group does not consider that these covenants are restrictive to its operations.
The maturity profile of the borrowings is detailed in Note 17 in the Annual Report and Accounts with the next significant maturity not due until September 2011.
Since the year end the Group has reduced committed facilities by 70.8 million to 453.3 million and the facilities now in place are currently anticipated to be ample for meeting the Groups requirements over the period until the next refinancing.
Net debt amounted to 175.5 million at 31 December 2009 and at that date undrawn committed facilities were 344.1 million.
26 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
