Directors Report OuR businEss MODEls Aggreko is organised around two different business models: lOcAl businEss inTERnATiOnAl POWER PROjEcTs Our Local business is a high transaction volume The International Power Projects business sells power business, renting equipment to enable customers which we deliver using temporary power plants owned to respond quickly to requirements for power and and operated by ourselves.
Whereas in the Local temperature control: the average contract size is business a contract with a customer is described in around 3,000, but the range is from 200 to over terms of renting specified items of equipment for a 1,000,000.
Although most of this business has a period of time, most of the contracts that International lead-time of more than 12 hours, about 25% of its Power Projects performs are for providing a defined revenues come from responding to emergencies.
It is amount of electrical power.
Under the terms of these therefore essential to have the capability to deploy contracts, Aggreko is responsible for installing and equipment and people to the customers site within operating the equipment and the invoice to the a matter of hours.
This business operates from 144 customer is for power generation capacity not service centres in North, Central & South America, equipment rented.
Most projects in this business Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and Australasia.
are worth over 1 million and some can be worth These service centres look after customers who are over 10 million a year.
70% of revenues comes normally within a radius of 150 miles and they offer from power utilities in developing countries but we the complete range of our products and services.
also serve governments, armed forces, international agencies as well as oil and mining companies.
In 2009, the Local business had revenues of A typical contract in this business would be for the 544 million which is 56% of Aggrekos total rental of 20-50MW for an initial period of 6-9 months, 1 revenue excluding pass-through fuel.
which will often be extended.
We use standardised equipment: 1MW containerised units of our own design assembled in our own factory in Scotland.
These generators use either diesel or gas and are designed specifically to be easily transportable, reliable and robust.
Power projects can arise anywhere in the world and the required response time is generally weeks rather than the hours or days needed in the Local business.
To support these projects we concentrate our fleet in a number of hubs in Central America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
From each hub, large amounts of equipment can be shipped or flown rapidly to wherever it is needed.
In 2009, our International Power Projects business generated revenues of 422 million, or 44% of Aggrekos total revenue excluding pass-through 1. fuel revenue 1 Pass-through fuel revenue relates to contracts in our International Power Projects business in Sri Lanka and Uganda where we provide fuel on a pass-through basis.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 OuR businEss MODEls CONTINUED WhO ARE OuR cusTOMERs?
cOMPETiTivE EnviROnMEnT Aggreko serves every industry that uses power The biggest competitors for our customers money are and temperature control, making our customer-base not rental companies, but equipment manufacturers.
very diverse, both in terms of geography and market When customers need equipment, they have the segment.
This is a great advantage, as it gives us choice to buy, lease or to rent.
The vast majority some protection against problems in any one particular of chillers and generators supplied to end-users each market.
And we can quickly move resources to sectors year are bought or leased, and only a few are rented.
and countries which are growing.
So, in terms of pricing and service, we always have to be focussed on the fact that customers have a choice, not only of using other rental companies, but also to Aggreko revenue by customer segment buy from manufacturers.
Excluding pass-through fuel revenue Within the Local business, barriers to entry are 11 1 Utilities 37% 10 relatively low: many companies, small and large, drift 12 2 Oil and gas 9% in and out of rental, and competition in each market 9 3 Military 9% is fierce.
Typically, competitors in the Local business 8 1 4 Petrochemical & refining 6% are either privately-owned specialist rental businesses, 7 or divisions of large plant-hire companies.
Their 5 Manufacturing 6% 6 common characteristic is that they are local: most 6 Events 6% of them operate in a single country, and often in just 5 7 Construction 5% 2 4 a particular part of a country.
In their home territory 3 8 Contracting 4% they are very effective, but they find it difficult to 9 Services 4% operate outside their home market.
So we find that 10 Quarrying & mining 4% Source: Aggreko internal reports in most areas in which we operate, competition in the 11 Shipping 3% Local business is fierce: but the names we do battle 12 Other 7% with will tend to be different country by country.
In International Power Projects we also see localised Aggreko revenue by geography competition, often from the local distributors of major Excluding pass-through fuel revenue manufacturers such as Caterpillar, or from local entrepreneurs who want to try their hand at power 1 North America 21% 6 generation.
However, these companies find it hard to 1 2 Europe 17% organise themselves across territories, and it is difficult 5 3 Middle East 23% to operate efficiently in the International Power Projects 4 Africa 20% business without a large fleet and the infrastructure 5 Asia and Australasia 10% to market, sell and operate it around the world.
4 2 6 South and Central America 9% In both the Local business and International Power Projects valuable economies of scale accrue to those 3 who can operate on a global basis.
However, to gain these benefits of global scale requires a long-term Source: Aggreko internal reports commitment to building distribution, deep technical expertise across a number of disciplines, and a welldeveloped supply-chain: it also requires hundreds of millions of pounds of capital to fund fleet investment.
Over the last ten years, some very powerful companies have tried to emulate Aggreko, but none have succeeded in building a global integrated power and temperature control business of the same scale as Aggreko.
As a consequence, we have grown to be significantly larger than any other company operating in our market.
12 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
