OuR FlEET Aggreko is unique amongst rental companies in Most rental businesses have a model of buying assets that we design and build the majority of our fleet and then selling them on at a relatively early stage in in our own manufacturing facility in Scotland.
Because we build longevity into our equipment and failure We believe that this is an important competitive rates in generators and chillers are more related to advantage, for a number of reasons: how well they are maintained rather than how old they are, we opt for a policy of rigorously maintaining First, it means that we can optimise the equipment our assets and running them for as long as possible.
to meet our particular operational requirements.
This also has the significant advantage that our A generator or chiller is normally designed to be business is not exposed to the vagaries of prices permanently installed and rarely, if ever, moved: achievable in the used equipment market.
its performance will also be adapted for the regulations and ambient conditions of the country Our fleet is significantly larger than any of our in which it is sold.
An Aggreko generator will be competitors: at the end of 2009, it comprised picked up and put down thousands of times during 13,000 generators ranging in size from 10kW to its working life, and may be required to work 2MW, which in aggregate amount to over 5,900MW faultlessly at 50C in the Saudi Arabian desert of generating capacity.
To put this into perspective, and a few weeks later at -40C in Siberia.
We that is the equivalent of about 10% of peak power also design our equipment with the knowledge that demand on the UK national grid.
We also have very we will own the equipment for its operating life large inventories of transformers, cable and distribution and the more reliable it is and the longer it lasts, equipment.
In aggregate, the net asset value of our the higher the returns we will make over the useful power fleet is 551 million, and the original cost life of the fleet.
Given the choice of 6mm steel for carried in our balance sheet is 1,085 million.
Our chiller fleet is also much larger than any of our Second, the volume in which we purchase the key competitors, with over 2,000 units having a total components is significant in terms of the overall capacity of 920MW.
The net asset value of our chiller market.
In some sizes of generator engine and fleet is 32 million, and the original cost carried in alternator, we probably account for 10% of the our balance sheet is 92 million.
By designing and manufacturing our own equipment, we can capture for ourselves The rest of our fleet mainly comprises air-conditioners, the benefits of being a volume purchaser.
oil-free air compressors, cooling towers and other ancillary equipment with an aggregate net asset Third, having our own design and manufacturing value of 77 million, and the original cost carried capability means that we can react extremely in our balance sheet is 202 million.
We only have to convince ourselves of the desirability of a particular design feature, not a third party manufacturer.
10 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
