Our Strategy Aggreko Group excluding pass-through fuel 2009 2003 CAGR Revenue m 966 324 20% Trading profit m 251 42 35% Trading margin 26% 13% Return on capital employed ROCE 29% 13% Enterprise value m 2,719 514 32% calculated using average net operating assets Rupert Soames Chief Executive Aggrekos strategy is developed by the senior management team, led by the Chief Executive, and involves internal and external research, much of it proprietary.
We seek to develop a deep understanding of the drivers of demand, changing customer requirements, the competitive environment, as well as developments in technology and regulation.
We look at our own strengths and weaknesses, and at the opportunities and threats that are likely to face us.
From this analysis, we develop a list of investment and operational options, and analyse their relative risks Angus Cockburn and rewards, bearing in mind the capabilities and Finance Director resources of the Group.
We test our strategy on a two-year cycle: this keeps Group strategy the strategy fresh and relevant, and enables us to spot Our strategy is to deliver long-term value to and react to new opportunities.
Having conducted a shareholders, excellent service to customers and root-and-branch review in 2003 we re-examined our rewarding careers to our employees by being the conclusions in 2005 and 2007 and have done so again leading global provider of temporary power and in 2009.
The conclusions from this most recent review temperature control.
This strategy was developed are summarised below: following an in-depth review of Aggrekos business in 2003, and has been consistently applied for the last The strategy we developed in 2003 and six years: it continues to be the basis of our business re-confirmed in 2005 and 2007 is working well.
The strong growth in revenues, margins and returns on capital achieved by the Group over the last Our Local business continues to offer attractive six years indicate that the strategy is the right one, opportunities for growth, both from growing our and we continue to work relentlessly to implement it.
density and footprint in existing markets, and expanding into new countries.
The factors which have driven the growth of our International Power Projects business will continue to provide plenty of headroom for this business for the foreseeable future: the world faces serious structural shortages of power which will last for many years and which should sustain demand for our services.
18 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report In our 2009 review we stepped up the work There are three elements in our strategy for the we are doing on emissions and planning the Local business: transition of our fleet to use equipment with improved emissions performance.
Maintain a clear differentiation between our offering and that of our competitors through superior service.
In all our businesses, there are opportunities to improve the efficiency of operations, whilst To be extremely efficient in the way we run the maintaining our prized agility.
There are plenty Local business.
of things we can do better.
To deliver growth in revenues.
Below we set out our strategy for each of our business lines, and at the end of this section we reect on some Against the first objective to maintain a clear of the future trends that we believe may come to be differentiation between our offering and our important to our business in the years ahead.
competitors our research shows that Aggreko is regarded by our customers as providing extremely good Business line operational strategy service, and that we deliver high levels of customer Supporting the Group strategy, Aggreko has satisfaction.
We are determined to maintain this developed operational strategies for our two different reputation for premium service and we do this through lines of business: the attitude and expertise of our staff, the geographic reach of our operations, the design, availability and The Local business rents power and temperature reliability of our equipment, and the ability to respond control systems, from small generators to large to our customers 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
cooling plants, to customers who are typically within a few hours driving time of our service centres.
There is tangible evidence that we are succeeding in building service differentiation in the form of our The International Power Projects business installs Net Promoter Scores.
This is an objective measure and operates temporary power plants and sells of customer satisfaction which we derive from their power on to utilities, the military and major questioning over 25,000 customers a year: when industrial users.
customers off-hire equipment in our Local business, we ask them to rate our performance, and distil their The Local business responses into a single number which reects the The Local business serves customers from 144 service relationship between those who think we are centres in 34 countries in North, Central & South wonderful, and those who think we are dreadful.
America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and Happily, the former greatly outnumber the latter.
This is a business with high transaction Over the last four years our score has improved by volumes: average contracts have a value of around 10pp and, in many of our Local businesses, is now 3,000 and last for 2-3 weeks.
The Local business at levels that match or exceed those achieved by represents 56% of Aggrekos revenues and 37% of companies in other sectors renowned for delivering trading profit, excluding pass-through fuel.
Since high levels of service.
2003, the performance of the Local business has improved sharply, despite the difficult trading The second objective of our strategy is to be extremely conditions experienced in 2009: efficient in the way we run our operations.
This is essential if we are to provide superior customer service Aggreko Local business at a competitive price, and at the same time deliver % of to our shareholders an attractive return on capital.
In 2009 2003 CAGR Group 09 a business in which lead-times are short, logistics are Revenue m 544 258 13% 56% complex, and we process a large number of low-value Trading profit m 93 27 23% 37% transactions, an essential pre-condition of efficiency Trading margin 17% 10% is having high quality systems and processes.
ROCE 20% 11% Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 Our Strategy continued The operation of our Local businesses in Europe and However, we know that our businesses grow fastest North America is based on a hub-and-spoke model where there is strong growth in GDP, and, specifically, which has two types of service centre: hubs hold our in Aggreko GDP GDP weighted to industries which larger items of equipment as well as providing service typically use our services.
So a core part of our and repair facilities: spokes are smaller and act as strategy has been expanding our Local business in logistics points from which equipment can be delivered the faster-growing economies of South America, quickly to a customers site.
The hubs and spokes the Middle East, Africa and Asia.
The acquisition have been organised into areas in which a manager of GE Energy Rentals in 2006 helped us to expand has responsibility for the revenues, profitability and our footprint in Brazil, Chile and Mexico, and since use of capital within that area.
In this model, most then we have opened or upgraded service centres in: administrative and call handling functions are carried out in central rental centres.
Africa: Johannesburg Middle East: Doha, Jebel Ali, Abu Dhabi, An integral part of the strategy for the Local business is Muscat, Jeddah, Al Khobar the implementation of our ERP system which provides Central & a single, global, IT system for managing our business.
South America: Panama, Buenos Aires, Antofagasta The system gives us greatly improved visibility of the Asia: Pune, Shanghai, Dalian, Singapore business, which enables us to drive improvements in Russia: Moscow operating efficiency.
The system is fully operational in Europe and North America, and is well progressed International Power Projects in the Middle East and Aggreko International.
This business serves the requirements of power utilities, governments, armed forces and major This operating model, and the investment in a standard industrial users for utility-quality, temporary power global IT platform, is delivering benefits to both our generation.
Whereas in the Local business we rent customers and shareholders.
As described above, our equipment to customers who operate it for themselves, Net Promoter Scores tell us that the model is benefitting in International Power Projects we contract to provide customers, and for our shareholders the benefit has been power generated by plants financed, installed and a compound growth in trading profit of 23% over the operated by our own staff.
The power plants range last six years and a return on capital employed that has in size from 10MW to 100MW on a single site, and improved from 11% to 20% over the same period.
the initial contract value will typically be around 1 million, with a duration of 6-9 months, although The third objective of our strategy for the Local many contracts are subsequently extended beyond business is to deliver growth in revenues by increasing this in both time and value.
market share and global reach.
In our more mature markets, such as North America and Europe, we know The business operates in areas where we do not have a that the most profitable businesses are those where large Local business.
Most of the customers are power we have dense networks of service centres, which can utilities in Africa, Asia, Central and South America.
share equipment, staff and customers, and benefit from The driver of demand in these markets is that our the low transport costs that come from being physically customers economies are growing, with consequent close to customers.
So, in these markets, we focus on increases in demand for additional power which cannot adding new service centres and upgrading existing be met by the current generating capacity.
As a result, centres to make them more capable.
In the last three many of them face chronic power shortages which years, in our mature markets in North America and damage their ability to support economic growth and Europe, we have opened or upgraded service centres in: increased prosperity.
These shortages are often caused or exacerbated by the variability of supply arising from North America: Indianapolis, Long Island, the use of hydro-electric power plants whose output Fort McMurray, Gillette is dependent on rainfall.
Europe: Bordeaux, Bristol, Metz, Padova, Berlin Australia: Geraldton, Gladstone 20 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report International Power Projects now represents 44% of The reason we want to be big and bigger than any Group revenues and 63% of trading profit excluding of our competitors is because we believe that this is pass-through fuel.
Since 2003, the International a business in which scale brings significant competitive Power Projects business has grown very rapidly: advantages.
There are numerous reasons for this: International Power Projects excl pass-through fuel Being able to address demand on a world-wide basis % of means higher utilisation.
When fleet returns from 2009 2003 CAGR Group 09 a customer at the end of a contract, the speed with Revenue m 422 66 36% 44% which it can be put back on contract again is a Trading profit m 158 15 48% 63% major determinant of profitability and returns on Trading margin 37% 23% capital.
Fleet will find new work far more quickly ROCE 42% 25% if it can address the total pool of world demand than if it is only able to operate in a single region.
Note: Pass-through fuel refers to revenues we generate from two customers for whom we have agreed to manage the provision of fuel on a pass-through basis.
This revenue stream fluctuates with By the time customers have decided they really the cost of fuel and the volumes taken, while having little impact do have to spend money on temporary power, on our profitability.
We therefore exclude pass-through fuel from they generally want it as fast as possible.
Being most discussions of our business.
able to offer very fast lead-times for large amounts of capacity is a significant competitive advantage.
The strategy for this business is straightforward: grow Small operators simply cannot afford to keep as fast as we prudently can, to secure for ourselves the 250-300MW of capacity say, 30-40 million of operating efficiencies and competitive advantages which capital hanging around waiting for the next job: come from being the largest global operator.
So far, they will tend to wait until they get a job, and then we have been very successful in executing this strategy, try to finance and build the equipment to serve it, and Aggrekos International Power Projects business is which inevitably means longer lead-times.
Because now many times bigger than its next largest competitor.
the equipment used in International Power Projects is also used in the Local business fleet, we manage The reason why it is advantageous to be a global our large generators as a common global pool.
operator in temporary power is because demand can Between the Local business and International shift rapidly between continents.
Six years ago, South Power Projects, we currently have a fleet of around America and Sri Lanka were the largest markets, and 4,400 of these large generators, and can therefore Africa was only a small proportion of global demand.
assemble hundreds of MW of capacity from our In 2009, the market in Africa was larger than South various businesses around the world on very short America and Sri Lanka combined.
It would not surprise notice.
A good example would be a recent contract us if this situation were to change again in the next award in Kenya, where we were able to deliver and three years.
These shifts in demand were driven in part commission 140MW within 8 weeks of contract.
by rainfall patterns, in part by the relationship between No competitor could meet this delivery.
economic growth and investment in permanent power generation and in part by geo-political issues.
To be The management of risk is a critical part of our successful in the long-term, therefore, requires the business: we place tens of millions of pounds worth ability to serve demand globally, and that requires of capital assets in countries where the operational, sales, marketing and operational infrastructure to political and payment risks are significant.
While be present in all major markets.
we take great care to mitigate these risks, it is probable that sooner or later we will have a loss of either a debtor, or equipment, or both.
However, because of our scale, such a loss would not imperil the Company as a whole.
The risk of loss for smaller companies is no less, but their ability to withstand the consequences of a large loss is.
Scale therefore allows us to deal in markets where others might sensibly fear to tread.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21 Our Strategy continued Returns from rental businesses are heavily These emerging markets have driven the strong dependent upon the underlying capital cost of demand seen by our International Power Projects the rental fleet.
Clearly, large buyers should get business over the last five years.
However, in our 2009 better terms than small buyers, and since we are study, we have identified that some of the stresses by far the largest purchaser of power generation which create demand for us in emerging markets may and temperature control equipment for rental also start to appear in more developed economies.
applications in the world, we believe that we are advantaged in this area.
The fact that we have the The market for the supply of electricity, like most scale to justify having our own manufacturing and utility businesses, thrives on stability and hates design facilities means that we can source equipment uncertainty.
This is particularly so in countries that better suited to our precise requirements, and more rely on the private sector to fund investment in power cheaply, than smaller operators.
generation, which is the case in most developed markets.
The long life and enormous capital costs In summary, a large operator will have lower volatility of the infrastructure required to generate and deliver of demand, better lifetime utilisation of equipment, be cheap electricity require an environment in which better able to respond to customer requirements, and investors can build power plants and be reasonably will have a lower fleet cost per MW.
In International sure of the amount of money they will earn over the Power Projects, bigger is better and Aggreko is now next thirty or forty years.
We believe that the market much larger than any other competitor in this market, for the supply of electricity in developed markets as well as being the only company to have distribution is going through a phase where that stability and in all the major markets.
There is going to be a lot of change, uncertainty and market stress, and the next Further ahead ten years are going to be hugely challenging for In the 2009 strategy update, we also tried to look ahead governments, regulators, investors and operators.
and outside the boundaries of our existing business model to see if there might be other opportunities The main source of that stress and uncertainty for us to deliver value to our shareholders.
We were arises from the struggle to devise ways to manage the encouraged by what we found, and we set out below electricity supply market to deliver fide-carbonisation some of our thoughts about the way the energy market of power generation, and to accommodate changing might develop.
We do this with trepidation, because public attitudes to nuclear power.
On the one hand, there is a danger that some people will take our musings the great power-plant manufacturers of the world have on the opportunities that might lie in front of us, and developed over the last fifty years extremely effective the ideas that we want to explore, as commitments that technology for generating vast amounts of cheap we will move into a particular market space.
They most electricity using hydro-carbon and nuclear fuels.
But on balance, we think it right that technologies have been perfected in time for public we should share with investors and other stakeholders opinion to decide that they must have less of that, what we are thinking about: how we see the world and far more renewable technology, much of which and our markets evolving: and where we are investing is decades away from competing in terms of either time and money in research.
So it is with this caveat cost or efficiency with thermal plants.
that we show below how we see the future.
The amount of subsidy, or the increase in the price As we have set out in the section describing our of carbon, required to level the playing field between markets, we estimate that world demand for electricity a modern Combined-Cycle Gas Turbine and an offwill increase at a compound rate of around 4% between shore wind-farm is enormous.
Regulators, economists now and 2015: this compares to a growth in net and politicians have struggled to devise market capacity of around 3% per annum, resulting in a signals with which they can square this circle, world-wide projected shortfall in supply growing at proposing revisions to policy, subsidy regimes and around 50,000MW per annum.
This supply : demand planning regulations at bewildering rates, and this gap is likely to be focussed on emerging markets, who rapidly changing outlook has encouraged investors have burgeoning demand, and inadequate supply.
to wait-and-see rather than build new plant.
22 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report 26 03 2009 19 03 2009 12 03 2009 05 03 2009 26 02 2009 19 02 2009 12 02 2009 2007 2004 05 02 2009 2001 29 01 2009 1998 1995 22 01 2009 1992 1989 15 01 2009 1986 08 01 2009 1983 1980 01 01 2009 Levels of investment have been inadequate to replace We believe that the developed world is building up power plants which, either because of age or because a bow-wave of delayed investment that sometime they fail to meet emissions standards, will have to be in the next ten years will have to break.
The most closed in the next ten years.
Between 2000 and 2007 immediate effect of the wave breaking will likely be the amount of generating capacity outside China over rapid ination in the building costs of new plant as 40 years old a reasonable proxy for the average life of plant operators rush to order the plants that should power plants more than doubled, and yet in the same already be in construction.
period the amount of new capacity commissioned per year outside China fell sharply see graph : by 2015 But what plants will they build?
The majority of plants over a quarter of the worlds current generating will inevitably have to be thermal, but the electricity capacity outside China will be over 40 years old.
networks of the future are all going to have to deal with large amounts of wind-power, and that is going to require substantial investment in transmission and MW installed by year 1980-2007 vs Plant 40 years old distribution networks to cope with intermittent output and, in the case of wind, the fact that large wind-farms 500,000 World installed by year Plant 40 years excl China have to be positioned far from centres of consumption.
Installed excl China 450,000 For those unfamiliar with the variability of wind 400,000 generation, the graph below shows the output from 350,000 Irelands 900MW of installed wind capacity during 300,000 the period 1st January 31st March 2009.
250,000 200,000 During this 3-month period, there were 12 occasions 150,000 100,000 where power output varied by more than 100MW 50,000 within 15 minutes, 76 when that variation occurred 0 within 30 minutes: that variation is equivalent to around 37% of the average output.
The peak output was 940MW, the lowest was 9MW.
These variations Source: Platts Ireland output in MW from wind Jan-Mar 2009 MW 1,000 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Source: Eirgrid Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23 Our Strategy continued in output bore no relationship to demand, which Our technology is ideally suited to distributed was at its peak during a cold period in mid-February, operation.
Because it comes in 1MW blocks, and characterised as cold winter periods often are by is mobile, we can put 25MW here, 150MW there, very little wind.
And then can shift 50MW of the 150MW site to the 25MW site within a couple Presenting these facts is neither a polemic against of days.
We think that distributed generation will wind-power, nor one in favour of thermal plants.
become increasingly popular with system operators It is simply stating that the generation mix in ten and they will value the mobility and exibility we years time will be different, and will have to cater have the capability to provide.
And for our part, for part of the mix being far more variable than we should be able to generate premium returns system operators are used to having to deal with.
by being able to move our plant globally to where the need, and therefore prices, are greatest.
Our whole strategy in developing our International Power Projects business has been based on our analysis To match what we believe will become an that the energy gap between supply and demand was increasingly attractive technical proposition, getting worse, and particularly so in emerging markets.
we also have, for a power generation company, So that is not new.
What is new is our analysis that an enormous customer base and global reach.
similar stresses may begin to emerge in developed We already are established suppliers to power economies over the next ten years, driven partially utilities and governments in around 50 countries.
by the policy of fide-carbonising power generation This means that we have the ability to roll out and lack of investment.
good ideas on a global scale.
These stresses should present opportunities for In summary: to date the main focus of our Aggreko.
The technology we have developed over International Power Projects business has been recent years has some unique features which may emerging markets.
Over the next ten years, however, make it attractive to system operators who will have as wind penetration rises, and as old plants retire, to manage large amounts of renewable generation, low reserve margins will fall in developed economies reserve margins and ageing plant.
To be more specific: as well.
And at this point opportunities might arise for Aggreko to support system operators and utilities We have developed a highly-efficient, multi-fuel, in developed markets as well as in emerging markets.
utility power generating capability which has a capital cost per megawatt about one third that We would like to stress that this is not a short-term of conventional utility power plants.
Quite the opposite: in the short term conventional power-plant technologies such as many developed countries have high reserve margins Combined-Cycle Gas Turbines, Hydro and Nuclear, as the economic crisis has caused power consumption while ideally suited for base-load operation, will to reduce.
But these reserve margins are forecast to struggle with the economics of operating on an fall quite sharply between now and 2015.
So we will intermittent basis and the unpredictable start-stop spend some time over the next few years exploring cycle required to respond to the variable output these ideas.
Our technology is ideally suited to intermittent, fast-start operation.
We can bring enough power on-line to keep the lights on for whole cities within 30 seconds.
We think system operators will come to find this sort of sustainable, distributed, fast response capability essential if they are to operate with meaningful amounts of wind generation.
24 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
