Directors Report ThE MARkET OuR MARkET hOW big is ThE MARkET, AnD WhAT is OuR MARkET shARE?
Demand for Aggrekos services is created by events our customers generally turn to us when Because we operate in very specific niches of the something unusual happens which means they need rental market power, temperature control and, in power or temperature control quickly, or there is a North America only, oil-free compressed air and requirement which is temporary.
Events that stimulate across a very broad geography, it is very difficult to demand range from the very large and infrequent determine with any accuracy the size of our market.
to the small and recurrent.
A complicating fact is that our own activities serve to create market demand Bangladesh and the Yemen Examples of high-value, infrequent events did not figure highly in our market forecasts in 2003, or situations we have worked on include: but are now important customers as a result of our sales efforts.
Furthermore, our market is event driven Large-scale power shortage Kenya, and major events such as hurricanes in North Sri Lanka and Venezuela.
America, the Olympic Games, or major droughts in Africa can influence market size in the short-term.
Major sporting events Olympic Games, Ryder Cup, SuperBowl.
As there is no third-party research that exactly matches our business, we have to use a number of Natural disasters Hurricanes Gustav different approaches to estimate the size of the global and Ike in 2008. market.
All of our measurements of market size relate to rental revenue, as services revenues such as fuel Post-conflict re-construction Middle East, and freight are highly volatile and do not have any Africa and the Balkans.
reflection on underlying market size.
Examples of lower-value, more frequent, events For most OECD countries in which we operate, on which we might work are: we use three techniques: An oil refinery needs additional cooling during Supply-side estimation.
We use market intelligence the summer to maintain production throughput.
to estimate the supply-side i. e. how large our competitors are.
This is notoriously inaccurate, A glass manufacturer suffers a breakdown in its as competitors often have much broader product plant and needs power while its own equipment ranges.
It is extremely difficult to work out how is being repaired.
much of their revenue comes specifically from generators and chillers, and how much from the A city centre needs chillers to create an ice-rink many other lines of equipment they may offer.
In our Local business, the implementation of our new IT system, and a much sharper emphasis on sector-based marketing, is helping us to develop an improved understanding of our revenue by sector and customer.
For our International Power Projects business, we have invested considerable effort in proprietary research with professional economists to develop models which forecast the supply of, and demand for, power.
Third-party data, where it is available.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13 ThE MARkET CONTINUED hOW big is ThE MARkET, AnD WhAT WhAT DRivEs MARkET gROWTh is OuR MARkET shARE?
CONTINUED in ThE lOcAl businEss?
By triangulating these techniques, we develop Growth in Aggrekos Local business is driven an estimate of market size but the truth is that it is by three main factors: a guess, and probably not a very accurate one.
In 2003, we did a great deal of work on market sizing, GDP as an economy grows, so does demand and came to the conclusion that the market was worth for energy.
about 1.3 billion and was growing at about 5%.
Since then, our own rental revenues have grown Propensity to rent how inclined people are to rent at a compound annual rate CAGR of 22%, which rather than buy.
This is driven by issues such as would imply either that our market share has grown the tax treatment of capital assets and the growing improbably fast, or that the original market size was awareness and acceptance of outsourcing.
And in wrong, or that we under-estimated the growth-rate.
In times of recession, people can be more inclined all probability, the truth is a mixture of all three factors.
to rent rather than commit capital.
Our best guess and it is just that because we do not feel inclined to spend hundreds of thousands of Events high-value low-frequency events change pounds of shareholders funds paying someone else the size of a market, although only temporarily.
For to guess is that the market in which we operate example, the scale of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in is worth somewhere around 2.5 billion per year.
2008 led to a short-term surge in temporary power demand in the areas affected by the hurricanes.
Given our rental revenues of 781 million in 2009, this would imply an Aggreko world-wide share of sales In seeking to understand the drivers of growth better, of around 30%.
Behind this lies enormous variation.
we have devised the concept of Aggreko GDP: In many developing countries, where the rental market this is the GDP of a country weighted to account is barely developed, and where we are called in to for Aggrekos sectoral mix of revenues.
Typically, provide temporary utility power, we may represent this means that we are weighted more towards 100% of the power rental market for the period of manufacturing than, say, financial services.
Over the the project but none when it ends.
In OECD countries, past few years, we have observed that in countries where the rental markets are better developed, our where the growth rate of Aggreko GDP is below 5%, share of the market will be lower than the 30% we our revenues tend to grow at 2-3pp faster than the rate estimate for our global share of the market.
In economies where Aggreko GDP in nearly all the major markets in which we operate, growth is above 5%, we get an increasingly leveraged Aggreko is the largest or second-largest player.
effect, with Aggreko sales growth far outpacing GDP growth.
This is for a number of reasons, but most notably, simply that when economies are growing fast, customers want equipment quickly, they want high levels of service, and they want to focus on doing what they are good at, rather than owning large amounts of equipment.
14 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report Country 10 Country 9 Country 8 Country 7 Country 6 Country 5 Country 4 Country 3 Country 2 Country 1 The graph below plots this relationship between next one.
It is also worth saying that it is not certain growth in Aggrekos revenues by country and growth at the time of writing that the recession is over, and in Aggreko nominal GDP between 2003 and 2007 if it is, what the pattern of recovery will be.
i. e. before the recession hit.
We would caution that these figures include the impact of the GE Energy We started warning in early 2008 that we thought Rentals acquisition in December 2006 which will that demand and rates would weaken in our Local exaggerate the underlying sales growth in some businesses in North America and Europe, in line with countries, but we feel that the trend they show the macro-economic indicators.
A year later, we felt a is directionally correct.
bit foolish, as we reported that in the Local business, our North American and European units performed well in the face of challenging economic conditions, Aggreko Revenue CAGR 03-07 vs Aggreko while our operations in the Middle East, Asia, Nominal GDP Australasia and Latin America continued to deliver good growth.
% Aggreko GDP Aggreko Revenue 45.0 40.0 In the second quarter of 2009, we found our 35.0 recession as demand suddenly weakened in almost 30.0 every Local business.
In true Aggreko style, the 25.0 business reacted very fast, and reduced rates to 20.0 keep volumes up for the critical summer season.
15.0 10.0 For the year as a whole, our average MW of power 5.0 on rent in the Local Business excluding the Beijing 0.0 Olympics was about the same as the prior year.
But -5.0 a combination of falling rental rates, lower fuel prices and customers seeking every way to reduce costs resulted in Local business revenues in the second half being substantially lower than the prior year.
And in Source: Oxford Economics, Aggreko Management accounts: truth, although volumes in aggregate were similar to Note includes GE-ER revenues in 2007 the prior year, this only happened because we had volume growth in some markets, notably the Middle East.
In most markets, we lost both volume and rate.
Overall, in times of positive GDP growth, we estimate And we also discovered that our temperature control that the market addressed by our Local business for business was much more sensitive to the economic the short-term rental of power and temperature control environment than power.
For many of our customers, is growing at some 2-3% above GDP in developed being without power is not an option, but going markets.
So, if GDP grows at 3% on average over without extra chiller capacity may well be possible, the cycle, our market should grow at 5%.
In countries particularly if industrial customers are not running with rates of nominal GDP growth that are above their processes at full capacity: whereas power 5%, the market can grow much faster.
volumes were flat year-on-year, we lost nearly 10% of our chiller and air conditioner volume in 2009.
When we developed the Aggreko GDP model, we were asked so what happens in a recession?
It is that the Local business and we were unable to answer, because we had no probably behaves the same way in times of shrinking data.
Now, thanks to the difficult macro-economic GDP as it does when GDP is growing i. e. it shrinks conditions of the past few years, we have a better at about twice the rate of Aggreko GDP, but with the idea, but we have to qualify this by saying that added leverage of rate erosion which can be of the all recessions are different, and just because our order of 5-10%.
The factors which drive the growth of our The rapid growth in power consumption in developing International Power Projects business are different.
countries is driven by industrialisation and by the The main trigger of demand is power cuts: when growing number of consumers having access to the lights go out in a country, people want power devices which consume electricity, such as fridges, restored as quickly as possible.
It is a perverse fact televisions and mobile phones.
Between 2000 and that people value power most when they are without 2011, we forecast that the number of people whose it.
We believe that in many parts of the world, and power consumption is growing faster than per-capita most particularly in many developing countries, there GDP will double, from 2.5 billion to over 5 billion will be increasing numbers of power cuts, caused see graph below.
The majority of these people by a combination of burgeoning demand for power live in developing countries, where investment in and inadequate investment in new capacity.
the acquisition of new generating capacity and maintenance of existing capacity has been far below We believe that demand for power is going to grow levels required to keep supply in line with demand.
much faster than is commonly believed: working with a leading group of professional economists at Oxford Economics, we have built a model which takes data Population with electricity consumption growing on GDP and population growth, power consumption, faster than GDP billion and power generation capacity for 120 countries over 6 the last 10 years.
Using this historical data, it then projects future power demand based on forecasts of 5 population and GDP growth.
Our model predicts that world-wide demand for power will grow by around 4 4% per annum between now and 2015, compared with forecasts by the International Energy Agency IEA 3 of 2.6%.
Our model reflects the sharp divergence 2 between the growth in power consumption between OECD and non-OECD countries in recent years, 1 as shown in the graph below.
Poor countries are seeing demand for power increasing by over 8% 0 per annum, whilst rich countries are growing at under 2% see graph below.
Source: Oxford Economics Rolling 3-year average growth in electricity consumption 1988-2007 To make this situation worse, by 2015, 25% of the % OECD World Non-OECD worlds currently installed power-generating capacity 9.0 will be over 40 years old, which we believe is a 8.0 reasonable proxy for the average life of a permanent 7.0 power plant.
So the coming years will see the 6.0 5.0 beginning of a replacement cycle during which the 4.0 majority of existing power-plant construction capacity 3.0 will be dedicated to replacing existing plants in North 2.0 America and Europe, rather than building replacement 1.0 or additional capacity in developing countries.
0.0 Source: International Energy Agency 16 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report Our models predict that the combination of these We would end this section with our customary demand-side and supply-side factors will increase warning: particularly in times of recession, some the world-wide shortfall of power generating capacity of our customers behaviour may become more nearly 10-fold, from about 70 gigawatts GW in unpredictable, and their payment habits more volatile.
The ultimate Historically, we have made very high returns on size of the shortfall will depend on both the rate of capital from our International Power Projects business, increase in demand, and the net additional generating partly because we tread where others fear to.
We and transmission capacity brought into production always advise investors to regard these returns as during the period.
However, even if the shortfall is at a reward for the fact that their assets are at greater the bottom end of our forecasts, it will still represent risk of loss or impairment than they would be if they a level of global power shortage many times larger were sitting in the suburbs of London or New York.
We are confident that such a level At some point, the risks may crystallise into an actual of power shortage will drive powerful growth over loss of monies owed or equipment, and that point the medium and long term in demand for temporary is more likely to arise at a time of economic stress.
power as countries struggle to keep the lights on.
The returns we have succeeded in delivering in this business are risk-unadjusted and at some point a risk Investors have been keen to understand what the may happen which adjusts the returns.
impact of a recession might be on our International Power Projects business.
In our 2008 Annual Report, we wrote It is certainly likely that lower rates of per-capita GDP growth will lead to slower rates of growth in demand for electricity in developing countries.
However, we believe that, unless there is a prolonged economic catastrophe, the market for temporary power in developing countries will continue to grow.
This has largely been borne out by events in 2009.
Whilst the rate of growth in MW on rent slowed, we ended 2009 with 10% more MW on rent than we started the year: this represented a sharp slow-down in the rate of growth from the 40% we saw in 2008, but it was growth nonetheless.
And average rates increased by about 6%, although rates at which we won new business as opposed to extensions to existing contracts fell.
There was also a concern that recession might bring a bad-debt problem in International Power Projects but this did not arise and debtor days at the year end were lower than the prior year.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17
