38 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 q EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM 01 02 04 03 01 Andrew Harrison 03 Mike Campbell 04 Tim Newing Chief Executive Officer People Director IT Director See Directors profiles.
Mike 1957 joined easyJet in October 2005 Tim 1959 joined easyJet in August 2006.
He has as People Director.
Before joining easyJet Mike a wide range of experience across the technology worked at Wedgwood in a broad role as Director spectrum and has played a major role in the 02 Dana Dunne of People and Brands and Managing Director for development of the National Lottery over a Chief Commercial Officer Canada, Australia and Pan-Asia.
Prior to that ten year period, first as Technical Manager for IT Dana 1963 joined easyJet in September 2009.
Mike worked for 14 years at Fujitsu in a variety of supplier GTECH UK before joining Camelot as Before joining easyJet, Dana was CEO of AOL development and personnel roles across Europe, Head of Projects and Networks in December Europe, one of the leading online companies Asia, Africa and the Middle East, ending up as 2000 and becoming IT Director in March 2002. in Europe.
Prior to that he was head of the Chief Personnel Officer.
His early career was During this time, Tim successfully developed and transformation of AOL in the US.
Dana has held in education and research.
Mike has a BSc in delivered a series of programmes that saw a period a number of other senior positions in the telecom Mathematics and Masters in Fluid Dynamics.
of major technological innovation, significantly and media industry.
At Belgacom he was President enhancing the systems architecture and key of one of their four business units, Retail Carrier business processes within Europes biggest lottery and Network Services, and prior to this was company, and, at the same time ensuring high MD of the Business Division.
At US West, Dana reliability and availability from the production was Vice President of Strategy and Development systems.
His achievements saw him recognised as for US West, Inc. and President of US West the 2005 IT Director of the Year in the JaegerInternational.
Prior to this Dana was at McKinsey LeCoultre Telegraph Business Awards.
& Company, in their Madrid, Brussels, and London offices where he was one of the leaders of their telecoms practice.
Dana has an MBA from the Wharton School of Business, an MA from the University of Pennsylvania, and a BA from Wesleyan University.
39 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Overview Business review Governance q Accounts Other information 05 07 06 08 05 Cath Lynn 06 Cor Vrieswijk 07 Warwick Brady Director of Network Development and Planning Operations Director Procurement Director Cath 1964 spent 12 years in retail for J Sainsbury Cor 1958 joined easyJet in January 2007 from Warwick 1964 became Procurement Director before being head hunted in 1998 by Barbara Transavia.
com which is a Dutch-based airline on 5 May 2009.
He has significant experience of Cassani for the start up of Go where she was part where he was Chief Operations Officer for nine leading low cost airlines in areas ranging from high of the management buy out team and headed up years and brings 25 years experience in the airline growth and restructuring, through to turnarounds.
cabin services and on board product development industry.
com Warwick was Deputy Operations Director at and later customer services.
Cath played an active included flight operations, cabin operations, Ryanair from 2002 to 2005, where he held various role in the merger of Go into easyJet.
Cath has engineering and maintenance and ground handling, executive roles including Deputy CEO of Buzz, successfully carried out a number of senior together with relevant experience in marketing, following its acquisition from KLM.
More recently, management roles at easyJet including Head human resources and IT.
Cors first degree was he spent two years in India as Chief Operations of Ground Operations, Head of Airport in engineering followed up by a Masters Degree Officer of Air Deccan.
Most recently, Warwick Development and Procurement and Head in organisational sciences.
was CEO at Mandala Airlines.
08 Mark Adams Interim Chief Financial Officer Mark 1964 joined easyJet in September 2009 as Interim Chief Financial Officer.
Mark is a Chartered Accountant and has held a number of senior finance roles across a range of sectors, including most recently Helphire Group plc, Alpha Airports Group plc and STA Travel Group.
