08 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 q REVIEW OF STRATEGY 1 Safety is our No.
1 priority Throughout the organisation from the boardroom to our crew, engineering and ground staff the first priority for all of our people is the pursuit of safety in all they do, for the benefit of customers, colleagues and shareholders.
Safety: part of our DNA New Safety Management System Safety underpins everything we do.
The organisation In our industry, risk is unavoidable.
The key lies is structured to focus on safety issues at all levels, in how this risk is identified and managed in a and it is the first agenda item at every Board transparent manner.
Our safety culture positively encourages 2009 saw the introduction of a new Safety the reporting of all safety-related incidents and Management System, which provides a framework events, through a range of reporting tools, no for managing the two pillars of safety performance matter how minor they may seem.
These reports and safety compliance at easyJet.
Adopted by are assessed and categorised, with risk values the European Aviation Safety Agencys European assigned and aggregated to form our Composite Commercial Aviation Safety Team with our active risk value CRV index.
This process allows safety support, the SMS is a continuous improvement trends to be identified and corrective action process.
It focuses on identifying hazards, assessing implemented, as part of our Safety Management the risks associated with those hazards, managing System SMS.
Our CRV index showed a steady these risks and then ensuring that any changes have improvement for the year under review as illustrated had the desired impact.
However, we are not complacent about safety issues and continue to exercise vigilance in order to continuously improve our safety performance.
As part of the feedback process to our crew, we launched a new regular safety bulletin during the year.
This highlights and encourages best practice, thus keeping our flight and cabin crews fully engaged with safety improvement initiatives.
3.5 years the average age of our fleet We believe in the importance of a young and reliable fleet, which leads to lower maintenance and network disruption costs.
We currently fly 181 aircraft, with 35 new Airbus A320 family aircraft joining the fleet during the year, as part of our plan to operate an Airbus-only fleet from 2012.
09 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Overview Business review q Governance Accounts Other information Rigorous safety processes Approval for our training Leading the way in Andy Harrison, Chief Executive Officer, and qualification fatigue management Operations Director, Cor Vrieswijk, are During the year, we became only the second UK As we seek to optimise the use of our assets, responsible for all aspects of safety delivery, airline to be granted approval for managing our we need to be able to monitor and manage including our compliance obligations under the in-house pilot training to ensure it meets our crew performance effectively, ensuring that our Air Operators Certificate AOC.
Andy Harrison, specific training requirements.
crew remain sufficiently alert at all times.
In 2006, the Accountable Safety Executive, chairs our Safety we adopted an innovative approach, with the Under the Alternative Training Quality Programme Review Board.
The Safety Review Board meets introduction of a Fatigue Risk Management System ATQP, we are now allowed to tailor one of the monthly to assess reports from the Safety Action FRMS in conjunction with the UK CAA, to assess two mandatory annual flight simulator sessions to Groups we have established across the business.
the potential risks of pilot fatigue based on intensive match our own training needs identified through This review and assessment process delivers scheduling practices.
This pioneering work has led to the SMS and the specific circumstances of our routes.
monthly reports to both the UK Civil Aviation easyJet being at the forefront of crew performance Authority UK CAA and the easyJet Board.
Our During 2009, our pilots undertook around 15,000 management, in the pursuit of operational safety.
Director of Safety and Security, Captain Dave Prior, hours of simulator training, with the prime focus The FRMS enables us to monitor and understand reports directly to the Board independently of the on practising realistic scenarios.
the relationships between rostering, operational Operations Director.
Sessions are carried out in real time, with three variables, crew performance and workload, levels of threat introduced during the flight, to provide allowing procedures to be implemented or Our window on the operational valuable data on our pilots operational management strengthened.
world monitoring every second skills.
In addition, the tailored sessions enable us to As part of our continuous improvement of every flight increase pilot familiarity with new airports, which programme, we are working with the UK CAA, are continually added to the network.
Flight management data recorded during 98% the International Civil Aviation Organisation of our flights is sent via a GPRS link direct to our The excellence in service displayed by easyJet ICAO, the International FRMS forum and Luton base as soon as the aircraft has touched cabin crew has its roots in the Academy, easyJets organisations such as Imperial College London, down.
Several thousand megabytes of data are dedicated aircrew training facility at Luton.
Its here City University London and most recently NASA, transmitted per flight, and all are analysed and fed that cabin crew learn advanced first aid and how to further improve our understanding of fatigue.
into the SMS within 24 hours.
The syllabus This will allow us to develop more flexible roster covers all aspects of the regulatory requirements patterns and operational procedures to support plus those elements of crew resource management our expansion while also retaining the focus on that make our cabin crew stand out from the operational safety.
Our work in the field of fatigue crowd.
The technical training is enhanced through has now gained worldwide recognition as industry the use of a dedicated cabin simulator and fire best practice and has inspired the introduction of fighting module.
similar programmes across other airlines, with the approval of the regulators.
Engineering Improving our engineering function Following the consolidation of easyTech and GB Airways into the easyJet engineering function, we insourced some of our technical services during 2009.
This has given us more internal capacity and control to ensure the safety and reliability of our growing fleet.
10 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 q REVIEW OF STRATEGY cONTINuED Shaping the network Almost 300 million potential passengers live within 2 Build Europes No.
1 an hour of airports served by easyJet.
But to win their business, we need to continually manage and fine-tune our network.
Put simply, we must give air transport network customers the opportunity to fly where they want, when they want.
There is significant scope to drive performance We aim to fly the right routes at the right times to meet forwards in three specific areas routes, slots the demands of our broad customer base.
One of easyJets strengths is its flexibility in asset allocation: we can and do move aircraft we flew 45.2 million customers on over 400 routes linking around our network to ensure we are generating 114 airports, giving us a 6.5% share of the European market.
the best possible return on our investments.
Route management Schedule quality is vital.
Since 2006 we have Pan-European strength strengthened our position at London Gatwick, easyJet has a leading presence on Europes top Paris, Milan and Madrid by a combined total of 100 routes, with increasingly strong positions in seven million departing seats.
At London Gatwick, the key markets including London Gatwick, Milan, we have increased our share of short-haul flights to Geneva and Paris.
We focus on the routes our Europe and have significantly higher load factors customers find the most attractive, at convenient than our competitors.
times of the day, concentrating our efforts on the While we continue to build frequency and stability most popular destinations and departure points on our core routes, we also remain alert to together with the routes that have the strongest opportunities to refresh the route mix and offer business links.
Market intelligence through customer Customer and geographic diversity are core research, together with insight from regional easyJet advantages.
We serve a broad a mix of managers and a team of European market leisure and business travellers, and for the first time managers, helps us to identify those opportunities.
this year saw half of our customers drawn from For example, we announced the launch of outside the UK.
Furthermore, nearly 40% of flights Dsseldorf flights during 2009, with daily return did not touch the UK during 2009, reflecting an flights from Rome, Basel and London.
As business increase of 16% in the number of our mainland demand falls away through the summer months, European routes.
we actively manage our schedule and move assets onto leisure routes.
We increased capacity into several destinations including Turkey, Morocco and Croatia, where we fly into Dubrovnik from five airports across the continent.
1 18% 39 We are the increase in Paris Number of routes leading airline at: seat capacity between primary airports London Gatwick, Milan Our seat capacity at We fly 39 routes between primary Malpensa and Geneva.
Paris has increased airports across Europe.
Our nearest by 18% since 2008. competitor is British Airways, with 29.
11 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Overview Business review q Governance Accounts Other information Slot management Base management Departure time is important to all our customers, Overnight stops create unnecessary costs.
but particularly those on business trips and By managing the bases where we locate crew weekend breaks.
and aircraft, we are able to improve efficiency and maximise revenue.
During summer 2009, Unlike some competitors, who use smaller, we flew over 1,000 sectors daily and only five more remote, and much less convenient airports, aircraft were located overnight at locations over 90% of easyJet aircraft operate into and other than our bases.
At these busy facilities, where slots are at a premium, we work hard Base location is constantly under review.
to build our portfolio across Europe.
Our slot For example, we have increased the number of management team has considerable capability aircraft based in Italy from three to 16 since 2006 and expertise, with over 60 years of combined and in France from 11 to 14 in the last 12 months.
experience and extensive contacts at At the same time, we have reduced capacity at European airports.
under-performing bases such as Luton.
Number of aircraft by base Gatwick Edinburgh Manchester 4 3 39 Luton Belfast Stansted International Glasgow East Midlands 16 6 4 Newcastle 12 3 6 Liverpool Berlin 9 9 Bristol 11 Paris charles fide Gaulle Paris Orly 6 6 Basel Geneva 4 Milan 8 Malpensa Lyon 2 13 Madrid Rome 6 Fiumicino 3 12 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 q REVIEW OF STRATEGY cONTINuED understanding our customers We work hard to get close to our customers, 3 Develop a winning listening to their needs and evolving our schedule and services to match.
During the year, we aggregated all our customer data into a single customer proposition location to give us a fast and intelligent view on emerging trends in customer travelling habits.
easyJet is leading the way within the airline industry easyJets network, great schedule and industry-leading on its use of social media to drive customer distribution via easyJet.
com appeals to a broad base engagement and improve the customer experience since its launch six months ago, of both business and leisure customers.
The easyJet @easyJetcare on Twitter has proactively assisted brand has pan-European reach and appeal throughout thousands of customers.
easyJet also developed the first airline iPhone application in Europe, 27 countries.
New initiatives are continuing to strengthen providing customers with real time data on the arrivals and departures for flights to and from our position as both a leading airline and an innovative our Swiss airports.
Ensuring that our customers arrive at their destination on time is key to delivery of a winning customer proposition, and at easyJet we continually measure on time performance.
In the year, our on time performance measured as percentage of flights arriving within 15 minutes of scheduled arrival time improved from 75.4% to 79.5%.
Continued strong appeal across the four key customer groups: business people: holidaymakers: customers visiting friends and relatives: and second home owners.
In fact, nearly 90% of customers surveyed during the year would recommend easyJet to a friend.
9 Bon appetit per bag croissant et caf We only charge 9 each way for Our inflight catering is now based on regional a 20kg piece of hold luggage.
Our customers can buy the food and charges 115 for the same luggage.
drink they prefer with a greater choice of produce sourced to cater for local tastes.
13 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Overview Business review q Governance Accounts Other information Improving our communications Enhancing easyJet.
com Building our appeal to The better we understand our customers, As the UKs most visited airline site, easyJet.
com business travellers the more accurately we can target our remains our primary distribution channel and in In a tough economic environment, we have communications.
For example, with our new the last year we have commenced a major rebuild increased our share of the business travel market in customer database in place, we are now able to and refresh.
We consulted with our customers, the past year.
We recognise that the business travel tailor marketing emails to reflect the purchasing identifying what was and what was not liked about segment, where revenue per seat can be around patterns and preferences of individual customers.
the existing site, and also looked at a wide range of 20% higher than average, has different booking top sites, both inside and outside the travel sector.
In particular, large To support a renewed focus on business travel, corporates have strict travel management policies we launched an online campaign targeted at We have concentrated our initial energy on the in place and manage their travel requirements finance directors.
Keep the FD happy is an most important section: the booking funnel, where through agents who often book through the interactive video that takes a light-hearted look five pages are responsible for delivering around industrys Global Distribution Systems GDS at how easyJet can save a company money in 2 billion in revenue.
The site is built on a more such as Amadeus and Galileo.
these tough times but also highlights the serious robust and scalable platform and is even easier business benefits of flying with easyJet, such to use, with a wider template and a basket that Last year we made our schedule available via as no weight restrictions on hand baggage and is visible at all times.
the GDS and other aggregator systems, so we the ability to book through their preferred travel are now listed in agents search results alongside management channel.
See the campaign at other carriers.
By the end of the year, around http: www.
com 15% of business seats were already being booked through this channel.
Our iconic Objects campaign continues to run across Europe, adapted to the needs of different Business travellers, as well as leisure customers, markets.
The campaign uses iconic orange are also benefiting from our winning customer Objects to represent the destinations to which experience initiatives.
These include the ability we fly or the type of trip customers are taking.
to check in online up to 60 days before a flight, It delivers an energetic, exciting evocation of the the opportunity to take an earlier flight for free, travel possibilities we provide and a clear focus an inflight magazine that is as good a read as it is on the low price of the flight.
Each easyJet a promotional tool, and regionalised food and campaign runs across a broad variety of both drink menus.
Speedy Boarding remains an attractive online and offline media.
customer proposition and we have been working hard to improve delivery across the network.
Our public stance on climate change, such as In addition, this was the first full year for easyJet Plus!, signing the Copenhagen Communiqu, sends an annual Speedy Boarding pass.
With over 20,000 out an important message.
Environmental matters members across Europe, the card has quickly become are important to us, as they are to our customers.
a popular feature with easyJets frequent travellers.
We have integrated a carbon calculator and offsetting facility into our online reservation system, with all investments made exclusively in United Nations-certified offset projects.
Since the scheme was launched, easyJet customers have to date offset over 194 million Kg of CO2.
subscriptions and the winner is... schedule online More than 20,000 customers have chosen easyJet has won a number of industry We now release our flight schedule up to pay around 100 each for easyJet Plus!, awards in the year, including Best European to 11 months in advance, so customers our annual Speedy Boarding pass.
Budget Airline World Traveller Awards, can plan and book well ahead.
Best Airline Website Travolution and the Cond Nast Traveller Best Low Cost Airline award for the 6th consecutive year.
14 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 q REVIEW OF STRATEGY cONTINuED Improving yield Through this recessionary period, our superior 4 Deliver low cost and network and competitive fares have enabled us to win market share and drive the best revenue performance of any European airline.
Over the maximise margins past year, we have grown the number of business passengers in spite of an overall decline in the business travel market.
easyJets strategy is growth with margin improvement Our unique revenue management system delivers and therefore the management team continually focuses transparent and simple pricing for our customers while, at the same time, enabling us to capture the its efforts on all three drivers of margin: yield, ancillaries maximum yield available in the market for each and cost, with the aim of achieving a 15% return on equity route.
Our aim is to be significantly cheaper than our direct competitors on each route, thereby in the medium-term.
allowing us to take market share.
Driving ancillary revenues We see a number of opportunities to drive continued growth in ancillary revenues by introducing initiatives that add value to our customer proposition.
In-flight services continue to deliver improving revenue.
The year saw wastage of fresh food halved and the introduction of new localised food and drink choices which better match the expectations of customers on different routes.
For 2010, the emphasis will be on fresh food, including a key country-specific bistro offering.
We have also expanded the number of partners 78% we work with to provide customers with services including car hire, hotel rooms, coach and rail travel Independent research and insurance.
Agreements with new partners proves that such as Mondial Assistance and Laterooms.
com, we are the best value carrier together with renewed focus on long-term on 78% of all business itineraries partnerships with companies including Europcar surveyed.
Business travellers can and Gatwick Express, will drive revenue through make savings of over 100 on easyJet.
com almost half of all occasions.
ITM Research Fare Study Customers of all airlines now accept that bag June-August 2008. charges are inevitable and during the year we increased our first bag charges to 9.
However, we are committed to ensuring that our charges remain competitive and support a strong customer proposition.
Therefore we recognise that future opportunities to increase revenue in this area may be limited.
15 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Overview Business review q Governance Accounts Other information Fuel management system case study Fuel efficiency is very important to us at easyJet.
It is our largest single cost and also the most volatile.
During 2009, we have made significant improvements to our fuel efficiency, saving 1.2% of all the fuel we burn.
We have achieved this through the implementation of a new flight planning system, together with a focus on fuel conservation both in the air and on the ground.
Due to the high number of sectors we operate each day, even a small fuel saving per flight adds up to big financial gains.
The new flight planning system optimises every flight based on route, payload, weather and fuel.
It was introduced during the year, reaching full capability towards the end of the period.
This means we are well positioned in 2010 to receive the full year benefit of having the system in place plus identify other areas of additional savings.
Fuel conservation in the air has been achieved through successful engagement with our flight crews on a range of initiatives to optimise operating procedures.
On the ground, we have successfully reduced our reliance on auxiliary power units in favour of ground power and operated an optimised aircraft schedule.
We remain firmly committed to fuel efficiency and have a range of further initiatives in the pipeline for 2010, across all areas of our business from engineering to flight operations.
Leverage scale and recession to deliver Managing costs procurement efficiencies It is vital that easyJet aggressively manages its cost Safety is always our No.
1 priority and we base so that it can continue to offer competitive will never compromise that commitment.
easyJet aims to deliver at least 190 million of cost reduction initiatives by the end In the last 12 months we have seen a successful of financial year 2012: this will enable us to offset renegotiation of our maintenance contract inflationary pressures and deliver a 1 per seat with SR Technics, a world-class provider.
benefit to the bottom line at current exchange The new arrangement is for 11 years and will rates.
There are clear opportunities in the generate savings of around 35 million.
We will following areas: also maintain our policy of leveraging our scale and buying power to challenge airports on the charges Efficient fleet management they levy and aim to deliver savings of 60 million.
Aircraft ownership costs on aircraft is expected to fall by 30 million per annum by the end of financial Systems implementation to drive efficiency year 2012, driven by the exit of our non-core fleet Fuel remains a major cost.
We have targeted of Boeing 737-700s and GB Airways aircraft.
a 3% improvement in fuel burn, some of which has already been delivered during the year under The easyJet A320 family of aircraft are cheaper review and a further 20 million will be delivered to own and operate and the fleet rationalisation by 2012.
However, there remains room for further programme will also remove the need for the improvement, specifically through pilot technique additional Boeing-specific training that we and a new fuel reporting system.
We have also set ourselves a goal of a 10% improvement in crew efficiency, which will be delivered through route and crew optimisation tools and a new rostering system that goes live in the coming year.
These initiatives will deliver savings of 35 million by 2012.
