WE ARE THE NUMBER ONE INTERNATIONAL HIGH SERVICE DISTRIBUTOR Overview of business Markets Business systems We are the leading high service distributor We are focused on strengthening our All our businesses in Continental Europe to engineers worldwide.
The Group positions in Continental Europe, North and the UK operate on a single integrated operates in 27 countries distributing America and Asia Pacic which collectively regional system.
Likewise, our Asian components under the trading brands represents 65% of our Groups revenue business operates from a separate of RS, Radiospares, Radionics and Allied while maintaining our profitable integrated system.
This enables us to Electronics.
Through our distributor UK business.
improve efficiency, share best practice, network, we also provide this service to reduce our risk prole and maintain our We have reorganised our Continental a further 38 countries.
We cover around high customer service levels.
Europe and Asia Pacic regions to 90% of the worlds GDP.
implement the strategy faster and We satisfy the small quantity product improve performance.
A more consistent, needs of our customers who are typically streamlined and cross-regional approach electronics or maintenance engineers in has been introduced to better serve our business.
A large number of high quality customers.
In keeping with the Groups goods are stocked, which are dispatched strategy resources have been reallocated the same day that the order is received.
from sales to marketing and from off-line The average customer order value is to on-line activities.
around 100 although the range of order In North America our e-Commerce revenue values is wide.
The Group manages tens has increased by nearly 45% and we have of thousands of orders for customers continued to exploit both our extensive across the world each working day.
local sales ofce presence and supplier relationships to drive sales.
Market position 975m % of Headline Group contribution Market Region Revenue revenue % of revenue position Revenue Europe 347 36% 22% No.
1 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7 STRATEGIC OVERVIEW continued FOCUSED ON THE 2CUSTOMER OFFER Service is our business we dispatch around 40,000 parcels daily with 98% fullment and consistently high customer satisfaction ratings 8 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 WE ARE ACCELERATING THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE GROUPS CUSTOMER OFFERS Electronics Maintenance We have accelerated the development A number of actions have been taken We continue to improve our offer to of our electronics offer which has been to more competitively position our maintenance engineers.
This includes signicantly enhanced during the year.
electronics offer with a significant more targeted and effective promotion We successfully launched our electronics number of electronics product prices of specic ranges, supported by strategic production packaging capability across the being reduced during the year.
suppliers with combined web activity, UK, Continental Europe and Asia Pacic.
joint sales visits and customer referrals.
The electronics team has been expanded This is aimed at customers with small in order to drive the electronics We have strengthened our strategic batch production needs, allowing them to strategy globally with a consistent supplier relationships via the Groups order the quantity that they need in tubes, and focused approach supported by global sourcing capability, providing our trays and continuous strips.
The range now our strategic suppliers.
customers with improved product ranges totals 50,000 products.
Our own The electronics product offer has been brand range has been expanded and its expanded: we have introduced 10,000 new sales have outperformed the market.
products from leading suppliers during the year.
Further product launches from leading electronics suppliers are planned for the next financial year across the UK, Continental Europe and Asia Pacic.
e-Commerce share % of sales e-Commerce 40% We have significant e-Commerce capability Improved search and browse capability was 35% with a single web site platform supporting introduced across the UK and Continental our UK, Continental Europe and Asia Europe leading to a 60% increase in 30% Pacic businesses.
This provides real time customer search-to-order conversion.
25% links to transactional systems allowing our Cross selling programmes, including new customers to experience on-line stock accessory and customer also viewed 20% visibility and weekly content updates.
links as well as the availability of own brand 15% alternatives, have increased average order We have enhanced the Groups value.
The website is now available to 10% e-Commerce offer and made a step mobile phone users in the UK, Continental change towards becoming an e-centric 5% Europe, North America and Asia Pacic: business.
Underlying e-Commerce revenue a first for a high service distributor.
increased by 10% in the year, exiting at around a 40% share of Group revenue.
In North America e-Commerce revenue grew by around 45%.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 9 FY03-H1 FY03-H2 FY04-H1 FY04-H2 FY05-H1 FY05-H2 FY06-H1 FY06-H2 FY07-H1 FY07-H2 FY08-H1 FY08-H2 FY09-H1 FY09-H2 STRATEGIC OVERVIEW continued FOCUSED ON MAINTAINING 3FINANCIAL STRENGTH Our integrated systems are driving efficiency and best practice across the business including centralised purchasing and supply chain management.
10 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 DECISIVELY RESPONDING TO THE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND MAINTAINING FINANCIAL STRENGTH Strong cash ow Gross margin management In the current trading environment the Gross margin for the year was 49.5%, business delivered strong cash ow with the second half improving on of 78m, up 4% on the prior year the first half due to more targeted use representing 118% of profit after tax.
of customer discounts, better buying and selling price increases.
This performance was delivered through continued tight control over working capital, with stable stock turn and reducing Reducing costs debtor days whilst capital expenditure was less than half the level of depreciation.
Operating costs, at constant currency, have reduced year on year.
Robust financial metrics We have taken decisive action to reduce operating costs across the business and The Group has robust financial metrics will realise annualised savings of around with interest cover of 13 times and net 18m of which around 15m will be debt to EBITDA of 1.7 times.
We have realised in the coming year.
significant headroom between these These actions have been taken across metrics and the banking covenants.
all regions of the business.
They The Group completed its bank renancing have been enabled by the increasing in the year and has committed facilities e-Commerce channel share, strong control of 314m with 281m maturing in of discretionary spend, redistribution of September 2012. activity between the Groups two UK warehouses and exploiting the benets of our systems infrastructure.
Pensions Free cash ow The Group, following consultation with Key financial metrics its UK based employees, has taken action 78m to improve the sustainability of its UK Free cash ow 78m Increased by 4% dened benefit pension scheme.
This Net debt to Headline EBITDA 1.7x has involved changes to early retirement Interest cover 13 x terms, a restriction on future salary increases that may be considered Committed facility headroom 111m pensionable, and a life expectancy risk sharing mechanism between the Group and the pension scheme members.
The UK scheme deficit of 6.3m is 15.5m lower than at the previous year end due to these rule changes together with various adjustments to the pension assumptions.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11
