Directors Report The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended 30 September 2009.
Accounts and dividends The Group profit for the year, after taxation, amounted to 6 million 2008 183 million as restated for deferred tax: see note 13e and is dealt with as shown in the Group Income Statement.
The directors are not recommending the payment of any dividend on its ordinary shares for the year ended 30 September 2009 2008 16.2 pence.
Principal activities and review of the business The principal activity of the Group continues to be that of a leased and tenanted pub operator in the UK.
A review of the years activities is given in the Chairmans Statement and the Chief Executives Review incorporating the Business Review on pages 2 to 6.
Directors and their interests The names of the current directors together with related biographical information are set out on pages 7 and 8.
All directors served throughout the year and were in place on the date of signing of these financial statements.
The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors are appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of holders of ordinary shares or by the Board on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
The Corporate Governance Report sets out further details of the requirements for re-election of directors on page 23.
In addition, further details of the workings of the Nominations Committee are set out on page 25.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, Mr Harding and Mr Townsend retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for reappointment.
The Board believes that their performance continues to be effective, that they demonstrate commitment to their roles and have a range of skills and experience relevant to the direction and control of the Company.
In addition, Mr Harding considers that he has sufficient time to commit to the Companys affairs notwithstanding his other business commitments and has no conflicting interests.
Other than employment contracts, at no time during the year did any of the directors have an interest in any contract with the Group.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company, other than with respect to options to acquire ordinary shares which are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report were as follows: 30 September 30 September Ordinary Shares of 2.5 pence each 2009 i 2008 H V Reid Beneficial 245,000 245,000 G E Tuppen Beneficial 2,295,313 2,180,533 As Trustee 601,000 430,800 D C George Beneficial 1,906,024 1,994,460 As Trustee 160,000 40,000 W S Townsend Beneficial 550,000 327,024 A J Stewart Beneficial 40,000 28,000 D A Harding Beneficial 3,000 3,000 S E Murray Beneficial 4,000 4,000 D O Maloney Beneficial 10,000 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 9 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 9 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Directors Report i These shares include the number of Partnership and Matching Shares the executive directors hold in the Enterprise Inns 2005 Share Incentive Plan purchased on 18 December 2008 at 62 pence per share as follows: At At 1 October Partnership Matching 30 September 2008 Shares Shares 2009 G E Tuppen 1,718 2,424 2,424 6,566 D C George 1,718 2,424 2,424 6,566 W S Townsend 1,718 2,424 2,424 6,566 The executive directors, along with other employees, have been granted options over the shares of the Company.
Details of these interests are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
There have been no changes in the interests of directors between the balance sheet date and the date of approval of the accounts.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, UK legislation and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board.
The directors have been authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
These powers are exercised under authority of resolutions of the Company passed at its Annual General Meeting.
Further details of resolutions the Company is seeking for the allotment, issue and purchase of its ordinary shares are set out in the explanatory notes to the notice of the Annual General Meeting set out on pages 129 to 132.
Notifiable interests in shares As at 16 November 2009 the Company had been notified of the following holdings of 3% or more of the voting rights in the Companys issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury : Percentage of voting rights Number of of the issued ordinary shares share capital Black Rock Inc 71,321,999 14.09 Glenview Capital Management LLC 58,917,660 11.64 Prudential plc 36,721,008 7.25 AXA S. A 35,614,896 7.04 GLG Partners LP 26,088,356 5.14 Norges Bank 20,745,474 4.10 Legal & General Group plc 19,787,378 3.91 Parvus Asset Management UK LLP 17,974,265 3.55 Deutsche Bank AG 16,240,324 3.21 Share Capital As at 16 November 2009, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each.
Details of the share capital of the Company are set out in note 29 to the accounts on page 77.
The Company did not issue any shares during the period under review.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
10 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 10 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Directors Report Subject to applicable statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate representatives and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys annual report and accounts.
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition a general meeting of the Company or the proposal of resolutions at Annual General Meetings.
Voting Rights and Restrictions on Transfer of Shares On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held.
Further details regarding voting at the Annual General Meeting can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 27 and in the notes to the notice of the Annual General Meeting on pages 126 to 128.
Details of the exercise of voting rights attached to the ordinary shares held by the Employee Share Trust are set out in the section entitled Shares held by the Employee Share Trust below.
Voting rights for the ordinary shares held in treasury are suspended.
None of the ordinary shares, including the shares held by the Employee Share Trust, carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Companys Registrars not later than 48 hours before a general meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: n certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : n pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the directors and certain employees of the Company require approval of the Company to deal in the Companys shares: and n where a person with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys certificated shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares and for voting rights.
Own shares acquired and held by the Company At the Annual General Meeting held on 22 January 2009, the Company was given authority to purchase up to 75,846,017 of its ordinary shares during the next 15 months or until the date of its next Annual General Meeting.
During the financial year the Company did not make any on market purchases of its shares.
As at 30 September 2009 50,000,000 shares were held in treasury.
The maximum number of shares held in treasury during the year ended 30 September 2009 was 50,000,000 on 1 October 2008 for a period of 365 days, representing 9% of total called up share capital at that time.
The present authority for the Company to purchase its own shares will expire at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 21 January 2010.
The directors will be seeking a new authority for the Company to purchase its ordinary shares which will only be exercised if market and financial conditions make it advantageous to do so.
It is expected that any shares purchased pursuant to a share buy-back programme will be cancelled and the number of shares in issue reduced accordingly.
Alternatively the shares may be purchased and held as treasury shares.
Further details are set out in the explanatory notes to the notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 129 to 132.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 11 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 11 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Directors Report Shares held by the Employee Share Trust The Company has established an employee benefit trust EBT, the trustee of which is Halifax EES Trustees International Limited.
As at 30 September 2009 the trustee held 7,992,048 shares, representing 1.58% of the total called up share capital excluding treasury shares at that date, which are used to satisfy awards made under the Enterprise Inns Incentive Plans and other share option schemes.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercisable by the trustee: however, in accordance with investor protection guidelines the trustee abstains from voting.
The executive directors as employees of the Company are potential beneficiaries of shares held by the EBT.
The maximum number of shares held by the EBT during the year ended 30 September 2009 was 8,768,087 on 1 October 2008, representing 1.73% of total called up share capital excluding treasury shares at that time.
During the year, 776,039 shares with a nominal value of 19,401 were disposed of by the EBT by way of the exercise of share options under the share schemes.
Of these, a total of 746,856 shares were disposed of through the exercise of short-term and long-term incentives for a consideration of 20.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association adopted by special resolution on 17 January 2008 may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Significant Agreements The Company has entered into supply and distribution contracts with Scottish & Newcastle UK Limited and InBev UK Limited which are terminable upon a change of control of the Company.
In addition, the Company is a party to certain funding documents which contain provisions that allow the counterparties to terminate funding to the Company in certain circumstances where there has been a change of control of the Company.
These include: n The second supplemental credit agreement the Credit Agreement dated 15 May 2006 between the Company and the financial institutions named in the Credit Agreement which provides that if any person or persons acting in concert gains control of the Company, the Company must promptly notify the agent and the lenders must then negotiate with the Company with a view to continuing the loan facilities under the Credit Agreement.
If at the end of the required time frame, the Company has not received a notice of continuance of the loan facilities from the lenders, the loan facilities will be terminated and all of the loan commitments cancelled under the Credit Agreement: and n The 60 million 6% Secured Bonds due 2014, the 125 million 6.875% Secured Bonds due 2025, the 125 million 6.875% Secured Bonds due 2021, the 275 million 6.375% Secured Bonds due 2031, the 600 million 6.5% Secured Bonds due 2018 collectively the Secured Bonds the terms and conditions of each of which provide that following the occurrence of a restructuring event defined in the terms and conditions to include i any person or persons acting in concert becoming interested in more than 50% of the shares of the Company, ii any person or Group of connected persons acquiring control of the Company, or iii any person or persons acquiring the right to appoint more than 50% of the directors of the Company the Secured Bonds must, if they are not rated, after a written resolution of the bondholders, be either redeemed by the Company or the Company must successfully seek an investment grade rating for the Secured Bonds.
If the Secured Bonds are rated, on a restructuring event, they must be redeemed by the Company where such rating is below investment grade or later falls below investment grade.
Compensation for Loss of Office There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs as a result of a takeover bid.
Further details of the directors service contracts can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 39.
12 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 12 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Directors Report Directors indemnities The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to grant the directors indemnities in relation to their duties as directors, including qualifying third party indemnity provisions within the meaning of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of any liabilities incurred by them in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company.
No such indemnities have been granted.
Employment policies The Group is dependent on the skills and commitment of its employees and recognises the importance of creating a workplace in which all employees are inspired and enabled to give their best.
A core set of common values means that employees at all levels of the business are encouraged to make the fullest possible contribution as their performance is central to the successful delivery of its objectives.
To attract and retain these skills the Group is committed to equal opportunities and the creation of an entirely non-discriminatory and diverse working environment.
The aim of the policy is to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment because of, amongst other matters, gender, marital status, race, age, sexual preference, religion, belief or disability.
All decisions are based on merit of the individual concerned.
The Group is dedicated to undertaking its business operations in a way which respects individual human rights, treats individuals with dignity and allows freedom of association.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career development and promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
The Groups employment policies and procedures are described in detail in a Staff Handbook which is provided to all employees upon joining the Group.
The Staff Handbook is regularly reviewed and updated to take account of relevant employment legislation and best practice, and new policies and procedures are developed if required.
These include specific policies on equal opportunities, flexible working, training and development, acceptance of gifts and hospitality and whistle-blowing.
The Group has systems in place to comply with the Data Protection Act 1998 to ensure the privacy of personal information.
Employee involvement and reward The Group actively encourages learning and development and believes that effective training is essential to the maintenance and improvement of the Groups success and individual performance.
The Group is committed to providing all employees with relevant training to meet the business needs of the Group and to improve individual employee skills.
In providing this training and support we expect high standards and commitment in return.
All employees are provided with initial induction training and are set challenging personal objectives and participate in discretionary bonus schemes.
The Group operates a comprehensive employee appraisal process which ensures that clear goals are set, personal objectives are monitored, key competencies are assessed and any performance concerns addressed through appropriate training and focus.
Every employee has the opportunity to discuss work-related aspirations and participate in appropriate training and development programmes.
During the year continued emphasis has been placed on effective communication regarding matters which may affect employees and the overall performance and development of the Group.
The policy of providing employees with information about the Group has continued.
Employee engagement is met through a variety of means including, conducting an employee satisfaction survey, regular briefings and team meetings through its management structure which allows a free flow of information and ideas via publications such as the Innsider and Eagle Eye.
Employees can also ask the executive management team questions on an anonymous basis via the Ask the Exec forum.
In addition, regular departmental reviews provide an opportunity for employees to be Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 13 17092ENTERPRI.
The use of email and the corporate intranet supplement effective communication to all employees The Company continues to encourage employee ownership of its shares through the provision of the following employee share plans administered by HBOS Employee Equity Solutions: n the Save As You Earn Scheme in which 230 employees have entered into savings contracts for either five or seven years at the end of which they are entitled to purchase shares at a discount of 20% to the market price of the shares at the time of the issue of the options: and n the Share Incentive Plan in which 299 employees have purchased shares out of pre-tax income up to statutory limits which are held in a trust.
The Company currently offers employees purchasing shares into the trust a matching share award.
Community, environment and corporate responsibility The Group recognises its responsibilities to achieve good environmental practice and to continue to strive for improvement in areas of environmental impact.
Our approach is to work through education, communication and direct action wherever possible.
In addition, the Group believes that the interests of responsible, entrepreneurial pub businesses need to be aligned to the interests of local communities and consumers.
We therefore seek to ensure that our pubs provide a friendly, safe and controlled environment, and to promote the positive contribution that pubs make to their local communities.
We work to ensure that we provide the right resources, energy and focus to meet the expectations of our licensees and other stakeholders in this area.
We have made further progress in this area during the year which has been recognised by our continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good index.
Full details of our responsibility policies and initiatives can be found on our website, www.
com Risks and uncertainties This section highlights the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The Group is exposed to a variety of financial, operational, economic and regulatory risks and uncertainties.
This is not an exhaustive analysis of all the risks the Group may face and some risks are not considered to be material.
The Group has formal management processes in place to identify and evaluate these risks.
Some of the risks are external and therefore beyond our control.
The Board formally reviews these material risks and ensures that these are appropriately managed by the executive management team and the Board retains overall responsibility for the Groups risk management framework.
The internal audit function provides assurance to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the internal control procedures.
This is done through completion of the annual internal audit plan, which takes into account current business risks.
The Audit Committee is responsible for annually reviewing the overall effectiveness of the risk management programme.
14 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 14 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Directors Report The table below sets out the principal risks and uncertainties and how we mitigate them.
Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes Financial Liquidity risk The Group has a flexible financing structure n The Board regularly reviews detailed financial comprising bonds issued from the Unique forecasts to ensure there is sufficient cash available securitisation securitised bonds, corporate to meet the requirements of the Group.
bonds issued by Enterprise Inns plc Enterprise corporate bonds and bank debt.
n In preparation for the refinancing of the 1 billion bank facility, the Board initiated a debt reduction At the year end committed bank facilities of 198 programme in 2008. million were undrawn and a liquidity facility of 190 million is in place in respect of the securitised n There are a number of options available to the bonds.
Whilst the existing banking facilities remain Group to reduce debt which includes the acceleration in place there is sufficient headroom to meet the of the disposal of underperforming pubs and the liquidity requirements of the Group.
suspension of acquiring new ones.
In addition, the Group is exploring the sale and leaseback market The key short-term liquidity risk is the requirement and will review the suitability of alternative sources to refinance the 1 billion bank facility before expiry of financing.
After that, the next significant refinancing event is not until 2018 when the n In October 2009 detailed discussions were held with 600 million corporate bond matures.
members of the banking group who represent 98% in value of the outstanding facility.
Based on these discussions and input from our advisers, the Board remains confident that adequate banking facilities will be available to the Group at the time of refinancing.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to movements in interest n The Group manages interest rate exposure in respect rates in respect of the 1 billion bank debt and the of floating rate debt through the use of derivative 191 million securitised bond.
All other debt is transactions, specifically interest rate swaps.
n There are five interest rate swaps within the Group.
The average fixed rate of these swaps is 6.1%.
n Interest rate swaps provide hedging for 75% of the Groups floating rate debt and ensured that total borrowings were 92% fixed at 30 September 2009 with an average interest rate of 6.5% for ten years.
Further information on management of interest rate risk can be found in note 23 to the financial statements.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 15 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 15 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Directors Report Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes Financial covenants risk There are financial covenants that relate to the n When new financing is agreed the Board reviews financing structure of the Group.
a wide range of financial forecasts to ensure that there is sufficient headroom on all covenants There are two covenants that relate to the Unique throughout the period of the new facilities.
securitisation which are tested at each quarter end.
These covenants are based solely on the assets n Throughout the year the Board regularly reviews held within the Unique securitisation.
There is a detailed financial forecasts of the Group to ensure net asset covenant and a debt service cover there is sufficient headroom on all covenants.
There is sufficient headroom in both of these covenants.
At the year end there is an annual valuation of the pub estate and a review of the annual income for the pubs secured under each of the Enterprise corporate bonds.
The valuation is completed by a firm of independent chartered surveyors and the annual income is reviewed by a firm of independent chartered accountants.
In the event that pub values or pub incomes have fallen there may be a requirement to add more pubs to the security of the corporate bonds and any addition of new pubs must be completed within 90 days of the year end.
There are four covenants that relate to the bank debt, which are tested at the half year and the year end.
There are two leverage covenants and two asset valuation covenants.
The Board is satisfied that there is sufficient headroom on all four of these covenants.
Leasehold rents payable The Group leases a proportion of its licensed n Pubs that are leased from landlords under finance estate from landlords under both finance and and operating leases are let to tenants.
These leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
n Any onerous leases are fully provided for by the Group.
Pension risk The Group makes defined contribution payments n The Group has only one defined benefit pension to employees own pension plans and also scheme which is closed to new members and for operates one defined benefit pension scheme.
the future accrual of benefits to existing members.
Assets at 30 September 2009 were 18 million and liabilities were 19 million resulting in a net deficit of 1 million.
Further information on pensions is provided in note 28 to the financial statements.
16 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 16 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes Operational Information technology The Groups daily operations are reliant on its n A business continuity plan is in place to ensure the information technology systems for accounting, business could continue to function in the event of a reporting, communication and internal financial major systems failure.
This plan is regularly tested.
There is a risk that serious disruption could result if these systems fail n There are comprehensive controls in place to protect for an extended period of time.
information technology systems including the back-up and off-site storage of data.
Supply chain management The Group places reliance on key suppliers and n The Group works closely with its key suppliers and distributors to ensure that there is a continuous distribution partners to ensure good working supply of drink and other products to its licensees.
The Group is exposed to interruption or failure of these key suppliers which could result in such n The Group takes reasonable steps to try to ensure products not being delivered to licensees on time.
that key suppliers have appropriate disaster recovery plans in place to maintain continuity of supply.
People The Group is reliant on the ability to attract, train n The Groups licensee recruitment and training and retain the best quality licensees for its leased programme and its variety of tenancy and lease pubs, and failure to do this could impact on the agreements are designed to attract the best Groups strategic objectives.
Equally, the Group is quality people.
reliant on its employees to provide key support functions in order to achieve its strategic aims.
n The Group is committed to providing appropriate employee training, retention and reward policies.
Economic General economic conditions The Groups business operations are sensitive to n The Group regularly monitors its key income streams economic conditions and recent economic and licensees performance to ensure the Group is conditions have had an adverse impact on competitively placed in the market.
This has impacted on Group revenues and could continue if the downturn n The Group regularly reviews financial forecasts to persists or worsens.
The general economic access the impact of economic conditions on its outlook remains uncertain.
n The Group gives careful consideration to licensees requests for additional operational and financial support.
n The Group continues to foster mutually beneficial relationships with key suppliers to ensure the impact of any price increases is minimised wherever possible.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 17 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 17 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Directors Report Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes Property valuations Valuations of the Groups property portfolio have n The Group ensures that every pub in its portfolio is been affected by general economic conditions and valued annually at the market value by qualified resulting downwards pressure on maintainable external and internal valuers in accordance with RICS income streams.
These circumstances could Valuation Standards 6th Edition.
These valuations continue and therefore reduce the valuation of the comply with the requirement of Financial Reporting portfolio over time.
Regulatory Business and Enterprise Committee The report published by the Business and n The Group remains committed to the tied pub model Enterprise Committee, the subsequent report and continues to work hard to ensure its Code of by the Office of Fair Trading into the tied pub Practice ensures a transparent and mutually beneficial model and the review by the EU into the block relationship with its licensees.
exemption could continue to impact on the Groups operational strategy and the relationship n The Group actively engages with Government, trade with our licensees.
bodies and other stakeholders to further evolve the tied pub model.
Health and safety A health and safety incident could result in a n The Group has policies and procedures in place to serious injury to the Groups employees, licensees ensure compliance with Health and Safety regulations or their customers.
and such systems are regularly reviewed with training provided as appropriate.
n The Group employs a Health and Safety Manager to identify and remedy specific risks and to ensure employees are aware of regulatory requirements.
n The Group has a Health and Safety Committee which meets regularly to consider all aspects of health and safety and reports to the Board periodically.
Litigation The Group operates in a heavily regulated industry n The Group employs a Legal Services Manager and other and may be involved in legal or statutory all areas in-house specialists to ensure we comply with of proceedings in relation to our licensees.
The legislation and to manage any litigation with our impact of such litigation may be immaterial in licensees.
value but may result in harm to the Groups reputation.
The Group takes legal proceedings n The Group will work with Local Authorities as necessary against licensees to ensure compliance with whenever any statutory issues are raised in relation their agreements.
Licensing and other regulatory factors Changes to the regulations relating to the sale of n The Group works closely as necessary with Local alcohol can have an impact on the Groups Authorities to ensure licensing requirements are dealt business.
These risks include changes to licensing with whenever appropriate.
legislation and increases to alcohol duties imposed by the Government and the general impact of n The Group is a member of a number of trade bodies social responsibility issues on the industry and associations, is a contributor to the Drinkaware in general.
trust, and works closely with these organisations to promote responsible drinking practices.
Further details can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of our website at www.
com 18 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 18 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Charitable and Political Donations At pub level, the Company supports local community initiatives and charitable causes through the appropriate use of marketing investment.
The Company does not make any corporate charitable donations.
The Company has not made any political donations during the year and intends to continue its policy of not doing so for the foreseeable future.
Creditors payment policy and practice The Group and the Company agree terms and conditions for their business transactions with suppliers.
Payment is then made in accordance with these terms, subject to the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
At the year end the Group and the Company had an average of 66 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Financial Instruments For further details of our financial risk management objectives and policies, please see note 23 to the accounts.
Post-balance sheet event On 19 October 2009 the 100 million secured banking facility was repaid and the facility was cancelled by the Group on 28 October 2009.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: n so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and n the director has taken all of the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 21 January 2010 at 11.00 a. m. The notice convening the Annual General Meeting and an explanation of the resolutions sought are set out on pages 124 to 132.
At the meeting, the Company will be seeking shareholder approval, amongst other matters, for the: n amendment of the Articles of Association to take advantage of recently introduced changes resulting from the Companies Act 2006: and n ability to convene general meetings other than the Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice The directors consider that all the resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the Company and it is their recommendation that you support these proposals as they intend to do so in respect of their own holdings.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups auditor will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board J A Poole Secretary 16 November 2009 Registered Company name: Enterprise Inns plc Registered Company number: 2562808 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 19 17092ENTERPRI.
