OVERVIEW Business Strengths Strong international market positions Filtrona has secured leading positions across the globe in many of its served markets, with key sources of differentiation provided by its investment in international infrastructure, technology, innovation and people.
The strength of the Filtrona businesses within their respective served markets has enabled the Group to deliver attractive margins over a sustained period.
02 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSINESS cORpORatE FINaNcIaL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNaNcE StatEMENtS Long-term customer relationships Filtrona has developed its business by maintaining a close relationship with a wide portfolio of blue chip customers who are successful leaders in their respective markets.
The high standards of service and supply demanded by such customers have helped to drive continuous improvement across the Group.
The Companys manufacturing and distribution expertise add value in response to customer demands and its innovative capabilities drive the joint development of new products and services with key strategic partners.
03 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I OVERVIEW Business Strengths Well invested flexible global infrastructure Filtrona has a well invested and flexible international production, sourcing and supply chain infrastructure.
This ensures the delivery of cost competitive and high quality products in response to customers requirements and the levels of service and geographic reach provide an important competitive differentiator.
The Company has effectively leveraged individual locations by offering businesses across the Group the opportunity to use the existing infrastructure and management to exploit new opportunities efficiently and cost effectively.
04 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSINESS cORpORatE FINaNcIaL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNaNcE StatEMENtS Experienced management team Filtrona has a highly experienced and well regarded management team that has established itself as one of the industry leaders in terms of operating performance and knowledge.
The detailed knowledge of customer needs and market trends enables positive actions to drive performance and secures swift responses to changing priorities.
Technical expertise is reflected in production and supply chain efficiencies and product innovation.
05 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I OVERVIEW Business Strengths Reputation for quality and innovation the continued successful launch of new products and services is a key driver for the future growth of Filtrona.
Investment in research and development functions, supported by the identification of additional product sourcing opportunities, to deliver product innovation and range development provides the platform to further enhance Filtronas competitive positions.
Robust quality systems to internationally accredited standards assist the fulfilment of customers demands.
06 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSINESS cORpORatE FINaNcIaL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNaNcE StatEMENtS Operational efficiency Filtrona has a comprehensive production and distribution footprint which can be flexed to respond to customers needs, whether they be product, service, cost or supply chain driven.
Supported by sophisticated IT systems, the Company is focused on being a low cost producer to secure revenue growth at attractive margins.
Continuous improvement programmes, with tight cost control and productivity gains, serve to reduce conversion costs.
