corporate governance Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2009 The Directors present their Report and audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 December 2009. principal activities The principal activities of Filtrona are the light manufacture and supply of speciality plastic and fibre products.
The principal activity of the Company is a holding company.
Business review This Report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 which requires the Company to provide a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2009, including i a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the Groups business during the financial year and the position of the Groups business at the end of the financial year, and ii the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the business including a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group the Business Review.
The purpose of the Business Review is to enable the shareholders to assess how the Directors have performed in carrying out their duty under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006.
The information that fulfils the Business Review requirements can be found on the pages referred to below.
All the information detailed is incorporated by reference and deemed to form part of this Report.
Chairmans Statement on pages 8 to 9 Chief Executives Review on pages 10 to 15 Review of Operations on pages 16 to 31 Financial Review on pages 32 to 33 Management of Principal Risks on pages 34 to 37 Corporate Responsibility on pages 38 to 43 cautionary forward-looking statements This Report contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.
Various known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause actual results to differ from any future results or developments expressed or implied from the forward-looking statement.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this Report.
The Company accepts no obligation to publicly revise or update these forward-looking statements or adjust them to future events or developments, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent legally required.
results and dividends The accompanying financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009, which were approved by the Board of Directors on 25 February 2009, are set out on pages 70 to 106.
The Company has paid the following dividends in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009: Per share Total p m Interim dividend paid 30 October 2009 2.70 5.5 The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 5.08p 2008: 5.08p per share be paid, making a total dividend distribution for the year of 7.78p 2008: 7.78p.
The final dividend, subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on 30 April 2010 to shareholders on the register at 16 April 2010 Directors During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Board of Directors comprised: Jeff Harris Non-executive Chairman Mark Harper Chief Executive Steve Crummett Group Finance Director Paul Drechsler Senior Independent Non-executive Director Lars Emilson Non-executive Director Terry Twigger Non-executive Director appointed 1 June 2009 Adrian Auer Non-executive Director resigned 1 June 2009 In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Paul Drechsler and Lars Emilson are retiring by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election as Directors.
Following his appointment as a Director subsequent to the 2009 AGM, Terry Twigger is standing for election at the forthcoming AGM, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the Combined Code of Corporate Governance, issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Paul Drechsler, Lars Emilson and Terry Twigger do not have service contracts.
48 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSIneSS corporate FInancIaL overvIeW revIeW governance StateMentS In accordance with the Companys Conflict of Interests policy, Directors are required to review their potential conflict of interests at least on an annual basis and to notify any changes to the Company Secretary & General Counsel as soon as possible.
The current register was approved by the Board in October 2009 and no material conflict of interests were identified during the year.
At no time during the year has any Director had any material interest in a contract with the Group, being a contract of significance in relation to the Groups business.
A statement of Directors interests in shares of the Company is on page 61.
Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company is shown in note 19 to the financial statements.
The concept of authorised share capital was abolished from 1 October 2009, following the final implementation of the Companies Act 2006.
A resolution will be put to the forthcoming AGM to adopt new Articles of Association, which remove the limit created by the statement of authorised share capital and other references.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, and the provisions governing the appointment and replacement of, as well as the powers of, the Companys Directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company, except, in the case of transfers of securities: a that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and b whereby, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the Company, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Substantial shareholders At the close of business on 24 February 2010, the Company was advised of the following voting rights attaching to Filtrona shares in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: % of total voting rights Prudential plc 7.56 Pennant Capital Management LLC 7.00 Pennant Windward Master Fund LP 6.30 Schroders plc 5.57 Oppenheimer Funds 5.17 Newton Investment Management Limited 5.05 Cazenove Capital Management 5.00 JPMorgan Chase 4.97 Threadneedle 4.97 Invesco Limited 4.79 Allianz SE 4.74 BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited 4.08 Legal and General Group 3.93 Ignis Asset Management 3.92 Hermes Specialist UK Focus Fund 3.89 property values In the opinion of the Directors, there was no significant difference between the market and book values of the property held by the Group, as shown in the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2009. charitable and political contributions The Company made no political contributions during the year ended 31 December 2009 2008: nil.
Donations to charities amounted to 0.1m 2008: 0.1m, of which nil were made by the Company 2008: nil, with all contributions being made by its subsidiary companies.
Directors indemnities During the year, and as at the date of this Report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors and the Company Secretary & General Counsel, in addition to other senior executives who are directors of subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association, in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a director or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, including the pension scheme trustee companies.
The scope of the indemnities extends to include liabilities to third parties.
49 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I corporate governance Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2009 creditor payment policy The Company policy for payment of suppliers is to pay according to the terms agreed with suppliers from time to time, subject to the suppliers performance in accordance with those agreed terms and conditions.
Since the Company has no trade creditors, the disclosure of creditor days does not apply.
Significant agreements The Company has committed bank facilities consisting of Euro 84.7m and US$35.9m three-year amortising term loans and a three-year multicurrency revolving credit facility for US$143.7m.
Under the terms of these facilities, the banks can give notice to Filtrona to repay outstanding amounts and cancel the commitments where there is a change of control of the Company.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change in control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
There are a number of other agreements, involving the Company or its subsidiaries, that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts and joint venture agreements.
None are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole or to any potential bidder for the Company or Group.
There are no contracts of significance of the Company or a subsidiary in which a Director was materially interested or to which a controlling shareholder was a party.
annual general Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at the Holiday Inn Hotel, 500 Saxon Gate West, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire MK9 2HQ on Thursday 22 April 2010 at 12 noon.
In addition to the ordinary business of the AGM, resolutions in respect of the following matters of special business are included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting: Authority to allot unissued shares At the last AGM held in 2009, the Directors were granted authority to allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 17,138,516, which expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM.
At this years AGM, shareholders will be asked to grant the Directors authority to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares: i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 17,138,516 representing approximately one third of the Companys issued share capital, excluding treasury shares, at 12 March 2010 such an amount to be reduced by the nominal amount allotted or granted under section ii below in excess of such sum : and ii comprising equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 34,277,032 representing approximately two-thirds of the issued share capital, excluding treasury shares, at 12 March 2010 such an amount to be reduced by any allotments or grants made under section i above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
The proposal conforms to the guidelines issued by the institutional investment protection bodies to ensure that existing shareholders interests are safeguarded.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising either of these authorities, which will expire at the end of next years AGM or, if earlier, the close of business on 21 June 2011 except in relation to share options.
Allotment of shares for cash At the last AGM held in 2009, the shareholders approved a special resolution to enable the Directors to allot shares for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
That approval expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM and Resolution 10 in the Notice of AGM seeks to renew it.
The resolution authorises the Directors to allot or sell shares for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5% of the issued share capital of the Company, excluding treasury shares, at 31 December 2009 equivalent to 10,966,340 ordinary shares.
In respect of this aggregate nominal amount, the Directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the following AGM or, if earlier, on 21 June 2011.
Purchase of own shares At the last AGM held in 2009, the shareholders approved a special resolution to enable the Company to purchase its own shares.
That approval expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM.
At this years AGM, the Directors consider it expedient to seek shareholders approval to enable the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 10% of its issued share capital excluding any treasury shares for cancellation, or to be held in treasury, such power to apply until the end of next years AGM or if earlier, 21 June 2011.
In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a share is its nominal value and the maximum price exclusive of expenses for shares which may be paid is the highest of: i an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average market value for a share for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out.
50 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSIneSS corporate FInancIaL overvIeW revIeW governance StateMentS The Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to make market purchases, however the authority provides the flexibility to allow them to do so in the future.
The Directors will only utilise this authority if satisfied that to do so would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally, and could be expected to result in an increase in earnings per share of the Company.
During the financial year ending 31 December 2009, no ordinary shares were either purchased, cancelled or transferred out of treasury by the Company.
No dividends have been paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights attach to the treasury shares.
auditor KPMG Audit Plc has indicated that it is willing to continue in office.
Resolutions to reappoint them, and to authorise the Board to set their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM Resolution 7 and Resolution 8 respectively in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
recommendation The Directors believe that the resolutions in the Notice of Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole, and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each resolution.
Derivatives Information related to derivatives is included in the Accounting policy d on page 76, and in note 15 to the financial statements.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to the auditor As required by section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving this Report, having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the auditor, confirm that: so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a director to ascertain any relevant audit information and to ensure that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board Jon green Company Secretary & General Counsel 25 February 2010 51 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I
