ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 04 Group Overview Board of Directors Dr Johannes Sittard age 66 Dr Sittard is the non-executive Chairman of the Company, having Chairman and non-executive been the Chief Executive Officer of the Group until 20 August 2009.
Director Dr Sittard was appointed Chairman of the Nomination Committee of ENRC in September 2009.
Dr Sittard has over 25 years experience in the natural resources and steel industries.
Prior to joining the Group in 2001, Dr Sittard was the President and Chief Operating Officer of ISPAT International NV now known as ArcelorMittal.
He is also the Chairman of Alferon.
Sir Richard Sykes age 67 Sir Richard is the Senior Independent Director and non-executive Senior Independent Director Deputy Chairman of the Company and Chairman of the and non-executive Deputy Remuneration Committee of ENRC.
Sir Richard Sykes is currently Chairman the Chairman of NHS London, the Strategic Health Authority accountable for the performance of the National Health Service in the capital.
Prior to that he was the Rector of Imperial College, London and the Senior Independent Director of Rio Tinto plc.
He has over 30 years of experience within the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, serving as Chief Executive and Chairman of GlaxoWellcome from 1995 to 2000 and then as Chairman of GlaxoSmithKline until 2002.
Professor Dr Ameling age 68 Professor Dr Dieter Ameling is a non-executive Director of the Independent non-executive Company.
Since 2008, he has been Senior Councellor of Director ThyssenKrupp Steel AG and is an associate professor at the Technical University Clausthal.
Prior to joining the Group in January 2010, Professor Dr Ameling was the Chairman of the Steel Institute VDEh and President of the German Steel Federation.
Mr Gerhard Ammann age 65 Mr Ammann is a non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Independent non-executive Committee of ENRC.
Mr Ammann is currently President of Bank Von Director Roll, a private bank in Switzerland.
Prior to joining the ENRC Board he was Chairman and CEO of Deloitte in Switzerland until May 2007 and has over 30 years experience as an auditor of international companies, primarily in banking, finance and international trade.
Mr Marat Beketayev age 32 Mr Beketayev is a non-executive Director of the Company.
Mr Non-executive Director and Beketayev is Vice-minister of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan representative of the and was previously an advisor to the Prime Minister of the Republic Government of Kazakhstan of Kazakhstan.
Mr Beketayev graduated in 1998 from the Kazakh State Law Institute.
In 2000 he completed an LLM in International Business Law at the London School of Economics.
Mr Mehmet Dalman age 52 Mr Dalman is a non-executive Director of the Company and was Independent non-executive appointed Chairman of the Mergers and Acquisitions Committee of Director ENRC upon its formation in September 2009.
Mr Dalman has spent 20 years as an investment banker, working in Japan, Hong Kong, Frankfurt and London.
Mr Dalman is currently Vice Chairman of Toscafund Asset Management LLP.
Prior to that he was Chief Executive Officer of WMG Group, a financial services firm that he founded in 2004, and a member of the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Brse and the Board of Commerzbank AG.
Sir Paul Judge age 60 Sir Paul Judge is a non-executive Director of the Company.
Independent non-executive Previously, Sir Paul Judge spent 13 years with Cadbury Schweppes Director plc, where he led the buyout of its food companies to form Premier Brands Ltd. Sir Paul is the Chairman of Schroder Income Growth Fund plc and Director of the United Kingdom Accreditation Service, Standard Bank Group Ltd of Johannesburg, of Tempur-Pedic International Inc. of Kentucky and of Abraaj Capital of Dubai.
ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 05 Mr Kenneth Olisa age 58 Mr Olisa is a non-executive director of the Company.
Mr Olisa is a Independent non-executive director of Thomson Reuters and the founder and Chairman of Director Restoration Partners, a boutique technology merchant bank.
From 1992 to 2006, Mr Olisa was Chair and CEO of Interregnum PLC, a listed technology merchant bank.
Prior to that, he was a senior executive for over 20 years at Wang Labs and IBM.
He serves on the board of several UK not-for-profit organisations including Thames Reach.
He is an ordinary member of the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority IPSA Mr Roderick Thomson age 70 Mr Thomson is a non-executive Director of the Company.
Mr Independent non-executive Thomson is an international financier, venture capitalist and Director philanthropist with over 40 years of international business experience.
He has provided capital from his own private investment portfolios to numerous companies in the information technology, biotechnology, oil and gas, real estate and telecommunications sectors.
Mr Eduard Utepov age 56 Mr Utepov has held numerous leading positions within the state Non-executive Director and property authorities of the Republic of Kazakhstan since 1994. representative of the Between 1995 and 1997 he served as Chairman of the State Government of Kazakhstan Privatisation Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan and since January 2006 has served as Chairman of the State Property and Privatisation Committee at the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Mr Felix Vulis age 54 Mr Vulis has been Chief Executive Officer since August 2009.
He has Chief Executive Officer been Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee since August 2009.
Prior to his appointment as Chief Executive Officer Mr Vulis was Chief Operating Officer of ENRC from December 2006.
Between 2002 and 2006 Mr Vulis was First Vice President of Eurasia Industrial Association.
Before joining the Group in 2001, Mr Vulis was President of UNICHEM K, LLC.
From 1990 until 1995 he was President and CEO of AGC Group, Inc. Mr Vulis is Deputy Chairman of the Governing Board and Co-Chairman of the Operating Working Group of the Foreign Investors Council of Kazakhstan.
Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev age 50 Mr Yedilbayev is a non-executive Director appointed by Mr Non-executive Director Ibragimov.
Mr Yedilbayev has wide experience working in the mining appointed by Mr Ibragimov industry, in both the public and private sector.
For the past 11 years Mr Yedilbayev has been at Gornoe Buro LLP, which provides a variety of technological and scientific services to the mining industry and is currently Chairman and Finance Director.
Ms Zaure Zaurbekova age 47 Ms Zaurbekova became Chief Financial Officer on 30 September Chief Financial Officer and Chief 2009, having been acting Chief Financial Officer since June 2009 Financial Officer Kazakhstan and having been Chief Financial Officer of Kazakhstan operations since 2001.
Prior to that she was Finance Director and later, First Vice-President of Kazchrome.
Before joining ENRC, Ms Zaurbekova worked in the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Republic of Kazakhstan and began her career in the Kazakh Research Institute of Automation of Planning.
CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW
