ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 39 addition to the social rights and benefits guaranteed by the Development of new Industrial Agreements within the framework Kazakhstani Labour Code, these agreements provide for free of collaboration of industrial commissions with the trade unions medical treatment, loans at favourable mortgage rates, training of of the mining and metallurgy industry, coal and electric power employees and their children and preferential packages to industry in Kazakhstan.
sanatoriums, recreation centres and childrens recreation camps.
Ongoing work to improve feedback on the Code of Conduct, to Special social programmes are developed for both young people improve identification and prevention of Code violation.
Communities Throughout the current economic downturn, ENRC has worked hard ENRC operating sites are often located in remote areas of the to preserve job security at our operations.
Some changes had to be Republic of Kazakhstan and frequently the Group is the only industry made, for example to working hours and holidays, but we managed operating in that area.
Maintenance of a responsible social contract to adapt to the economic environment without reducing our with these communities in Kazakhstan is an established practice in workforce, and we commit to keeping this goal at the forefront of our ENRC because many of the towns and cities rely on the minds.
We have continued to provide the same standard of social infrastructure development provided by the Group.
Each year the package for employees, including our housing programme which Group signs agreements with regional Governors in the Republic of provides interest free loans to employees.
Kazakhstan and provides financial support.
In 2008 ENRC established the ENRC Komek Corporate Foundation, A highly qualified and skilled workforce is at the heart of any a non-commercial charitable organisation which finances cultural, successful business.
Over the past five years ENRC has launched a educational and other social programmes in Kazakhstan.
number of educational and training projects.
ENRC implemented a long-term Talent Management Programme TMP.
Within the The Foundations long-term focus is on the implementation of framework of the TMP, ENRC started the Personnel Reserve programmes aimed at supporting ENRCs own workforce, such as Programme for 20092012.
The main aim is to ensure continuity, improvements to housing conditions, professional staff training and attract and retain talented staff, and train staff for different levels education, as well as programmes aimed at improving the welfare of within the Company, including top management.
Components of the the general public, such as development of scientific, technical and programme are Replacement Planning, Succession Planning and artistic creativity, protection of public health, supporting childrens Talent Management.
homes, schools and higher education institutions, as well as environmental protection.
The ENRC training programme includes: short-term, long-term and executive MBA studies: courses to support cost-effective The Group expenditure for Community Social Investment in 2009 operations, such as training for second and allied skills improvement amounted to US$37 million 2008: US$31 million.
upgrades: and courses to support corporate goals such as leadership and communication training.
Cutting edge courses such Environment as the UK National Examination Board on Occupational Safety ENRC management is committed to reducing any negative impacts and Health NEBOSH, International Environmental Management of Group operations on water, air and land and to the efficient use of and Assessment IEMA certification study are also an important resources.
part of HSES staff development, and in addition we support educational institutions and provide scholarships for employers In 2009 the Group continued to make progress in raising and the community.
environmental standards towards international norms.
ISO14001 certification was completed for the main divisions in Kazakhstan and In 2009 an estimated 40% of the total workforce was involved in the Russia.
All new operations are required to be certified to ISO 14001 training programme 2008: 30%.
Our efforts were recognised when within three years of joining the Group.
the ENRC programme on employee development was named as the best HR project in Kazakhstan for the last five years.
A new environmental strategy has been developed for 2010.
This new approach links closely to the core business development plans.
As Kazakhstan draws strength from its diversity, we draw strength It will include investment in installation of modern equipment, which from our aptitude at capitalising on the skill, knowledge and qualities is expected to enhance productivity, improve energy efficiency and of the highly diverse nationalities and cultures that today form ENRC.
to generate substantial cost savings, particularly for key input The Group is committed to attracting a globally mobile, culturally materials.
The new equipment will also bring significant diverse workforce to its African operations while developing widely environmental and safety improvements.
applicable skills and technical capabilities of employees at all levels.
A new framework for measuring our performance in relation to waste As a leader in the mining sector of Kazakhstan, ENRC has a pool of management, air emissions and water discharges is currently being talent available to run its international operations safely and completed.
This includes a new environmental database with new effectively.
The combination of talent from our Kazakhstan performance indicators, benchmarks and targets, in a move towards operations and the regional knowledge and experience of the common international approaches for reporting.
existing management teams, will enable the Group to run its international operations effectively and safely.
We have identified seven key areas of our environmental performance to report on: climate change, energy, emissions, water, Looking ahead waste, toxics and biodiversity.
During 2010 the areas of focus will include: Climate Change Continuation of the Talent Management Programme, including a ENRC recognises the importance of the global issue of climate rotation scheme aimed at enhancing employees skills.
change, and the role that our industry has in responding to the Improvements to business processes in the personnel challenges it brings.
As one of the largest producers of energy in management system, including enhanced systems for Kazakhstan, ENRC appreciates its responsibility to meet challenges recruitment and remuneration planning, and development of a of doing business in a carbon-constrained future.
CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 40 Business Review Sustainability Review continued For several years ENRC has worked to improve the energy efficiency drop in nitrogen oxide emissions of 30%, and a reduction in dust of operations, and during the past year specific steps were taken emissions of 66%.
towards ensuring that a carbon strategy is embedded into core business activities.
In 2009 a full Greenhouse Gas GHG footprint Water was conducted of the Kazakhstan businesses and for 2010 the aim With sites operating in the dry deserts of Kazakhstan, ENRC is is to develop a carbon roadmap with the goal of emission reduction mindful of water scarcity challenges.
We are committed to through energy saving and efficiency.
As a Group committed to maximising water use efficiency and minimising pollution.
Water growth, we are unlikely to be using less energy in the foreseeable recycling is an effective way to save water and to minimise our future, therefore we need to focus on energy efficiency initiatives impact on the environment.
ENRC has water conservation that will allow us to do more with less.
programmes which allowed us to further increase recycling and to decrease fresh water intake.
In March 2009 Kazakhstan ratified the Kyoto Protocol as an Annex 1 country under the United National Framework Convention on For ENRC operations in Kazakhstan and in Russia fresh water intake Climate Change UNFCCC and has reconfirmed its intention to is only 3% out of the total amount of water used.
59% of water is become an Annex B country under the Kyoto Protocol.
Although the returned into natural sources, and 38% of the water is recycled.
Kyoto Protocol expires at the end of December 2012, we expect the post Kyoto period 20132020 to present challenging emissions Waste reduction targets for Kazakhstan organisations.
Our Group is fully ENRC is committed to reducing overall costs of production and engaged in the process to support Kazakhstan in meeting its reducing our environmental footprint by reducing and recycling obligations towards the international community in this regard.
waste produced by our operations.
Energy In 2009 we completed the waste reduction programme for the In 2009 ENRCs Kazakhstan and Russian operations consumed ferroalloy production cycle at Kazchrome.
Following a five year 275,000 tera joules of energy, of which about 75% was sourced from investment of US$165 million, 14m tonnes of waste was processed, coal.
This considerable energy requirement represents both a and approximately 45 hectares of land saved.
At the site, 100% of demand on natural resources and a significant operational cost.
newly produced slag a by-product of smelting ore is processed: and a programme is in place to process historical slag stored at In response, ENRC has begun developing an energy management waste land fields.
policy, to include an energy consumption inventory.
For 2010 we are planning initiatives on energy efficiency improvements for machinery Toxics and on conserving energy currently lost during industrial processes.
ENRC adopted a new Chemical Policy in 2009.
Our strategic approach is to develop and implement a specific Toxic Pollutants Emissions Reduction action plan.
Part of this work was an inventory of While we foresee the Groups production levels continuing to grow, Polychlorinated Biphenyls PCBs and other toxic chemicals.
The ENRC recognises the need to reduce emissions, so our focus is on Republic of Kazakhstan has committed to cease utilising equipment reducing the intensity of our operations emissions.
The Groups with PCBs by 2025, and to eliminate PCBs by 2028.
ENRC is strategy for reducing emissions is a two-part approach: gradually working closely with the government to achieve these goals.
replacing older technology with new technology that complies with international air emissions standards, and, for older technology, Biodiversity maintaining lower levels, reducing incrementally where possible.
ENRC is committed to active stewardship of biodiversity.
Our strategy is to involve local stakeholders in developing and Examples from 2009 include the upgrade of baking equipment in implementing specific biodiversity action plans at each site.
iron pellets production, which enabled production to increase by 25% while reducing nitrogen oxide emissions by 15%, and dust Looking ahead emissions by 12%.
At the Pavlodar Power plant, a technology In 2010 we will implement our new environmental strategy and strive upgrade to near BAT Best Available Technology standards led to a to continuously improve our environmental performance.
The strategy focuses on new investment and modernisation projects Three examples of new technology boosting environmental eco-efficiency, including evaluating such aspects as energy, performance resource consumption and overall impact on climate change.
New facility Date Impact In 2010 we will focus on: New aluminium 20072009 In full compliance smelter KAS with BAT Improving the transparency of environmental disclosures including development of quantitative targets for environment Gas cleaning performance: efficiency 99.9% Developing appropriate capacity and capabilities within the New Smelter at 20082012 In full compliance organisation and establishing levels of responsibility on HSES Aktobe, TNC with BAT reporting: Kazchrome Implementing a carbon road map and action plan, and Emissions reduction undertaking an energy efficiency study: is 2.4 times, in comparison with Incorporating eco-efficiency indicators and assessment including existing furnace GHG emissions into investment decision making: and Making commitments for new construction projects to achieve New energy 20092012 Ash emissions capacities, EEC reduction of up to improvements in environmental performance and specifically in 14 thousand tonnes energy efficiency, taking into consideration both economic and per year environmental aspects.
