Directors Re port The directors submit their annual report and group accounts for the 2.
The key elements of the groups strategy are: Certain statements made in this document are forward-looking y drive top-line revenue growth from both new and existing products: statements.
Such statements are based on current expectations and y building robust subscription and repeat revenues and reduce the are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause dependence on advertising: actual events or results to differ materially from any expected future y improving operating margins through revenue growth and tight events or results referred to in these forward-looking statements.
cost control: Unless otherwise required by applicable law, regulation or accounting y leveraging technology to launch specialised new electronic standard, the directors do not undertake any obligation to update information services: or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of y making focused acquisitions that supplement the groups existing new information, future development or otherwise.
Nothing in this businesses, strengthen the companys market position in key document shall be regarded as a profit forecast.
areas and have the capacity for organic growth using the existing knowledge base of the group: and The directors report has been prepared for the group as a whole y keeping its net debt within a debt to EBITDA limit of four times.
and therefore gives greater emphasis to those matters which are significant to Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC and its subsidiary In 2004, to supplement this strategy, the board set the group a profit undertakings when viewed as a whole.
It has been prepared solely to target of 50 million by 2008 against a base of 21 million in 2003. provide additional information to shareholders as a body to assess the In March 2007, the target was increased to 57 million to reflect the companys strategy and the potential for that strategy to succeed and Metal Bulletin acquisition.
The profit achieved in 2007 was 65.7 the directors report should not be relied upon by any other party for million, beating the increased target a year earlier than expected.
The Corporate Governance report forms part of The board believes this significant achievement reflects the success this Directors Report.
of the Capital Appreciation Plan CAP in driving profit growth.
This was further demonstrated in both 2008 and this year when the 1.
Principal activities profits achieved of 72.9 million and 62.3 million exceeded the Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC is listed on the London Stock performance target set for the second and third final tranche of the Exchange and is a member of the FTSE 250 share index.
It is a leading CAP despite the tough economic trading conditions.
international business-to-business media group focused primarily on the international finance, metals and commodities sectors.
The directors believe that the CAP has been instrumental in driving the It publishes more than 70 magazines, newsletters and journals, companys strong profit performance since 2003 and, at the companys including Euromoney, Institutional Investor and Metal Bulletin.
It also 2009 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved a new long-term runs an extensive portfolio of conferences, seminars and training incentive scheme, Capital Appreciation Plan 2009 CAP 2009.
This courses and is a leading provider of electronic information and incentive scheme is being re-presented for shareholder approval at the data covering international finance, metals and commodities, and 2010 Annual General Meeting in view of certain proposed amendments emerging markets.
Its main offices are located in London, New York, to the scheme, mainly to allow tax efficient structuring of the award Montreal and Hong Kong and nearly half of its revenues are derived and to confirm the primary and secondary performance targets.
Details of the groups legal entities can be revised incentive scheme, Capital Appreciation Plan 2010 CAP 2010, if found in note 13. approved, will replace CAP 2009.
The board is firmly of the view that the CAP will continue to help drive the profit growth of the group.
Further details of CAP 2010 are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Profit before tax excluding acquired intangible amortisation, share option expense, exceptional items, non-cash movements in acquisition option commitments values, foreign exchange loss interest charge on tax equalisation contracts and foreign exchange on restructured hedging arrangements but including redundancy costs as set out in the Group Income Statement, note 5, and note 7.
08 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 3. Business review 3.1 Group results and dividends The group loss for the year attributable to shareholders amounted to 6.3 million 2008: profit 43.7 million.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 7.75 pence per ordinary share 2008: 13.00 pence, payable on February 4 2010 to shareholders on the register on November 20 2009.
This, together with the interim dividend of 6.25 pence per ordinary share 2008: 6.25 pence which was declared on May 14 2009 and paid on July 16 2009, brings the total dividend for the year to 14.00 pence per ordinary share 2008: 19.25 pence.
3.2 Key performance indicators The group monitors its performance against its strategy using the following key performance indicators.
Revenue Mix Revenue Mix Revenue 2009 2009 2008 2008 change m % m % % Revenue change and mix Subscriptions 152.3 47% 123.1 37% 24% Advertising 54.8 17% 66.5 20% 18% Sponsorship 38.5 12% 45.8 14% 16% Delegates 69.6 21% 86.4 26% 19% Other 10.5 3% 10.3 3% 2% Foreign exchange losses on forward contracts 8.1 317.6 100% 332.1 100% 4% 2009 2008 Change 1 Gross margin 71.9% 69.1% 2.8% 2 Adjusted operating margin 25.0% 24.5% 0.5% 3 Like-for-like reduction growth in profits 3.0m 3.4m 4 Headcount 1,841 2,207 366 5 Net debt to EBITDA 1.99:1 2.17:1 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 09 COMPANY ACCOUNTS GROUP ACCOUNTS OUR GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE Directors Report continued 6 7 CAP profit and Adjusted PBT 75.0 70.0 65.0 60.0 55.0 CAP profit 50.0 m 45.0 Adjusted PBT 40.0 35.0 CAP Original Target 30.0 25.0 CAP Revised 20.0 Target 15.0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Year 1 Gross margin gross profit as a percentage of revenue.
Gross profit and revenue are both as per note 4 in the financial statements.
2 Adjusted operating margin operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, share option expense, exceptional items and associates as a percentage of revenue.
Operating profit and revenue are both as per the Group Income Statement in the financial statements.
3 Like-for-like growth in profits proportion of operating profit growth that relates to organic growth, rather than acquisitions.
Operating profit is from continuing operations and excludes closed businesses and is adjusted for significant timing differences.
4 Headcount number of permanent people employed at the end of the period including people employed in associates.
5 Net debt to EBITDA the amount of the groups net debt converted at the groups weighted average exchange rate for the rolling 12 month period to earnings before interest, tax operating profit, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items but after the share option expense.
6 CAP profit profit before tax excluding acquired intangible amortisation, share option expense, exceptional items, non-cash movements in acquisition option commitments values, foreign exchange loss interest charge on tax equalisation contracts and foreign exchange on restructured hedging arrangements but for 2009, including redundancy costs as set out in the Group Income Statement, note 5, and note 7.
7 Adjusted PBT CAP profit after the deduction of share option expense and the exclusion of redundancy costs as set out on page 7.
10 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 3.3 KPIs explained sharply from the second quarter, while advertising and sponsorship The key performance indicators are all within the boards expectations revenues have continued to decline more gradually.
Similarly, and support its successful strategy.
These indicators are discussed in subscription renewal rates and new sales also started to decline from the second quarter.
3.4 Development of the business of the group For the past three quarters, the year-on-year declines in advertising 3.4.
1 Trading review and sponsorship -20% and delegate revenues -30% have been Total revenues fell by 4% to 317.6 million: a 4% increase in the first running at similar rates.
In contrast, subscription revenues grew by a third in the first half, and have continued to grow in the second half was offset by an 11% decrease in the second.
The impact of the half, although the rate of growth has slowed rapidly due to the lag tough trading conditions on revenues would have been much greater effect of lower sales and renewal rates earlier in the year, which but for the favourable movement in exchange rates.
The group will continue to be a drag on subscription revenues in the first half generates more than two thirds of its revenues in US dollars and the of 2010.
20% fall in the average sterling-US dollar rate over the year had a significant effect on reported revenues, which at constant exchange Emerging markets, which account for nearly half of the groups rates fell by 16%.
revenues, were less exposed to the excess leverage and complex Change at financial products that have characterised the credit problems in constant North America and Europe, and have come through the credit crisis 2009 2008 Headline exchange well.
The recovery of China and the consistent strength of Latin Revenues m m change rates American markets have helped offset weakness in Eastern Europe Subscriptions 152.3 123.1 24% 3% and the Middle East.
8 66.5 18% 29% Sponsorship 38.5 45.8 16% 30% The group acted quickly and early to restructure the business, cut Delegates 69.6 86.4 19% 29% costs and protect margins.
As part of this restructuring, the group Other closed 10.5 10.3 2% 5% has reduced its world-wide headcount by 17% since the start of the Foreign exchange losses financial year, reduced the amount of office space in London and on forward currency New York, and closed or merged a number of small or low margin contracts 8.1 print titles.
These actions generated annualised cost savings of Total revenue 317.6 332.1 4% 16% approximately 17 million, more than half of which are still to flow through to profits in 2010.
Despite a 15 million fall in revenues, The performance of the groups various revenue streams reflects the adjusted operating profit fell by just 1.9 million to 79.4 million, and timing of the reaction of its customers to the global credit crisis.
In the group adjusted operating margin improved from 24.5% to 25%.
2008 most customers, particularly the global financial institutions, were focused on financial survival and positioning their businesses The tight management of margins is an integral part of the groups for tougher trading conditions.
Spend on advertising and conference strategy.
The group deliberately keeps as much as possible of its sponsorship, which tends to be both high value and discretionary, was cost base variable with revenues, volumes or profits.
This includes cut and headcount was reduced.
The micro-management of costs, the direct costs of producing content and running events or training however, particularly training, conference attendance and travel, and courses, much of which is provided by freelancers and contractors, information buying did not begin until January 2009.
As a result, and the compensation of its employees, much of which is provided delegate attendance at events and training courses turned down through incentives which vary directly with revenues or profits.
Fixed Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 11 COMPANY ACCOUNTS GROUP ACCOUNTS OUR GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE Directors Report continued overheads, which relate mostly to offices and technology, account for fell sharply from the start of the second quarter as customers cut less than 10% of revenue.
back on travel and event attendance.
Sponsorship revenues tend to follow similar trends to advertising, and have been declining at a more 3.4.
2 Business division review gradual rate but from an earlier starting point.
In difficult markets Financial Publishing: adjusted operating profits fell by 17% to there is inevitably a shift to the bigger, more established events, 20.3 million, and the adjusted operating margin decreased from and the market contracts as many of the smaller events are cut.
Revenues, which comprise a mix of advertising and The groups strategy for its event businesses reflects this experience, subscriptions, fell by 10% to 75.4 million.
Advertising revenues and during the year it focused on maintaining the market leading are heavily dependent on the marketing spend of global financial positions of its bigger events, at the same time shrinking volumes by institutions and fell by 20%.
Many US and European institutions eliminating many of the smaller, low margin events.
Revenues fell by stopped advertising altogether, whereas advertising from emerging 15% to 74.9 million and the adjusted operating margin declined markets held up well.
In contrast, subscription revenues increased by from 26% to 21%, driving a 31% decline in adjusted operating 7% as the group continued to invest in migrating its print products profits to 15.9 million.
to a higher value web-first publishing model with an emphasis on subscriptions over advertising.
Databases and Information Services: this was the best performing division by some way, with adjusted operating profits increasing by Business Publishing: the groups activities outside finance are in 72% to 36.2 million, compared to just 3.4 million five years ago.
sectors traditionally less volatile, and which follow different cycles.
Revenues grew by 32% to 87.5 million and the adjusted operating Adjusted operating profits increased by 21% to 23.4 million, margin improved to 41%.
Revenues and profits from this division are following a 6% increase in revenues to 56.3 million and an predominantly subscription-based and US dollar-denominated, and improvement in the adjusted operating margin from 36% to 41%.
the decrease in the sterling-US dollar rate was a significant factor in Among the sectors covered, metals, minerals and mining under the this years growth.
Revenues at constant exchange rates increased Metal Bulletin brand, telecoms under TelCaps Capacity brand, and by 9%.
legal publishing all achieved good growth: only the energy sector was weak.
In volatile and challenging markets the demand for high quality information and data tends to hold up well, particularly for products Training: revenues are derived largely from paying delegates.
Training that are an integral part of companies information flows and work is a discretionary spend for most customers, at least in the shortprocesses, and have built up a strong brand loyalty.
The main driver of term, and revenues fell sharply from the start of the second quarter, growth from Databases and Information Services in 2009 was BCA: with an immediate negative effect on margins.
Some of the revenue demand for its high quality, independent macro-economic research decline was self-inflicted as course volumes were cut deliberately in has proved robust despite the shrinking of the asset management the second half which, combined with the impact of early cost cuts, industry.
ISI, the emerging markets information business, has helped the margin recover a little.
Training revenues for the year fell experienced a more difficult time as many financial institutions have by 22% to 31.7 million and, after a decline in the adjusted operating cut investment and resources in this area, although CEIC, its emerging margin from 26% to 20%, adjusted operating profits fell by 40% to market data subsidiary, has continued to grow as it expands its data 6.2 million.
coverage from Asia to other markets.
Revenues from the groups capital market databases, a venture undertaken with Dealogic plc, Conferences and Seminars: revenues comprise a roughly equal mix also increased after significant investment by Dealogic to upgrade its of sponsorship and paying delegates.
Like Training, delegate revenues products and delivery platform.
3 Impact of foreign currency on results 3.4.
4 Financial review The group generates approximately two thirds of its revenues in The statutory loss before tax of 17.4 million is stated after charging, US dollars, including approximately 30% of the revenues in its UKamong other items: exceptional restructuring and impairment costs based businesses, and approximately 60% of its operating profits are of 33.9 million see below : acquired intangible amortisation of US dollar-denominated.
The group is therefore exposed to foreign 15.9 million: foreign exchange losses on tax equalisation contracts exchange risk on the US dollar revenues in its UK businesses, and on of 19.9 million see below : and finance costs of 7.9 million on the translation of the results of its US dollar-denominated businesses.
restructured hedging arrangements see below.
The average sterling-US dollar exchange rate applied for the year was $1.58 against $1.97 in 2008.
The groups actions to restructure its businesses and cut costs incurred exceptional restructuring and other costs of 10.7 million, most of In order to hedge its exposure to US dollar revenues in its UK which were incurred in the first half.
The group has also reviewed businesses, forward contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets, which has given US dollars, with a view to being 80% hedged for the coming rise to an exceptional impairment charge of 23.2 million, mostly 12 months and partially for the following six months.
As a result of in connection with its US-based activities in the structured finance this hedging strategy, some of the profit benefit from the movement sector, and again mostly charged in the first half.
in the sterling-US dollar rate has been delayed until 2010 and beyond.
In 2009, foreign exchange losses on forward currency contracts of 3.4.
5 Finance costs 8.1 million, which are reported as a reduction in revenues, were The groups interest cost includes 19.9 million 2008: 12.0 million matched by a similar improvement in the sterling value of US dollar in relation to foreign exchange losses on hedges on intra-group revenues in the UK businesses.
These are matched by an equal and opposite tax credit in the groups tax line from tax equalisation swaps designed to hedge At the end of the first half, the group recognised losses of 9.0 million this transaction, so that there is no financial impact on earnings per on forward currency contracts rendered ineffective by the sharp share.
downturn in US dollar revenues in the groups UK businesses.
The closing of these contracts was completed at more favourable rates During the year the group restructured its hedging arrangements see early in the second half, and the realised loss was reduced to 7.9 note 7 and note 18 and incurred foreign exchange losses of 7.9 million.
This loss is reported as an expense in net finance costs and million 2008: nil on its resultant ineffective hedges.
excluded from the underlying results.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement The group does not hedge the foreign exchange risk on the requires an imputed interest charge to be recognised on the groups translation of overseas profits, although it does endeavour to match future acquisition payments under option agreements.
This additional foreign currency borrowings with investments and the related foreign finance charge increased the groups interest cost by 0.6 million currency finance costs provide a partial hedge against the translation 2008: 1.0 million.
IAS 39 also requires any movements in the of overseas profits.
The significant increase in profits from its US estimated value of acquisition option commitments to be recognised dollar-denominated businesses, particularly BCA and ISI CEIC, means in interest and in 2009 an amount of 2.2 million 2008: 1.7 million that the impact of exchange rate movements on the translation of was recognised.
There is no related cash effect of these amounts.
overseas profits has also increased.
In 2009, the translation benefit from favourable movements in the sterling-US dollar rate was approximately 6 million.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 13 COMPANY ACCOUNTS GROUP ACCOUNTS OUR GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE Directors Report continued Excluding these amounts, the groups net finance cost increased from Approximately 80% of the groups debt is US dollar-denominated.
8.9 million to 14.0 million, reflecting the higher cost of the groups The sterling-US dollar rate increased from $1.43 at March 31 to $1.60 new debt facility and the loss of income of 3.4 million from a treasury at year end, which helped reduce net debt by 18.0 million, reversing structure in 2008 which was closed at the start of the year.
The group some of the 31.0 million increase generated by currency movements continues to follow its treasury policy of fixing the interest rate on in the first half.
a portion of its long-term borrowings see treasury section below and hence did not benefit significantly this year from the lower LIBOR Cash flows in the second half are traditionally stronger than those interest rates available in the market place.
in the first due to the timing of payments for annual profit shares, dividends and earn-outs.
Cash generated from operations in the A detailed reconciliation of the groups underlying and statutory second half was 48.1 million, against 24.5 million in the first half.
results is set out in the appendix to the Chairmans Statement.
The operating cash conversion rate was 91%.
The group also invested a further 6.3 million in the second half in increasing its equity 3.4.
6 Debt and working capital management interests in a number of its subsidiaries under acquisition earn-out Net debt at September 30 2009 was 165.1 million 2008: 172.0 agreements.
Commitments remaining under outstanding acquisition million which included cash of 12.5 million 2008: 21.2 million.
At option agreements total 11.9 million, most of which is expected to the end of September the groups net debt to EBITDA ratio improved be paid in 2010. to 1.99 2008: 2.17, resulting in the groups variable rate interest margin above LIBOR falling by five basis points compared to the The groups debt is provided through a dedicated multi-currency beginning of the year.
committed facility from Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT.
The facility was renewed in December 2008 on terms broadly similar The net debt to EBITDA covenant on the groups committed facility to those of the previous facility.
At renewal, the group took the is subject to a limit of four times.
However, in light of the global opportunity to reduce the size of its facility from 300 million to $400 credit crisis, the board decided at the start of the year to apply a million reflecting the strong cash flows since the acquisition of Metal more conservative internal covenant of three times EBITDA, and to Bulletin in October 2006.
The facility is provided in a mix of sterling implement a rigorous debt reduction plan.
The net debt to EBITDA and US dollar funds over three and five year terms, and the earliest ratio at year end was just under two times, a slight reduction on the repayment date is December 31 2011.
Interest on the facility is payable level at the half year, and has been held at this level for most of the at a variable rate between 1.3% and 3.0% above LIBOR, compared to year.
The net debt to EBITDA ratio is expected to peak at the end of 0.4% and 1.6% under the old facility, depending on the groups net the second and third quarters of 2010 and the board will continue to debt to EBITDA ratio.
The net debt to EBITDA covenant is defined to manage its net debt to its more conservative internal debt covenant.
allow the rate used in the translation of US dollar EBITDA, including hedging contracts, to be used also in the calculation of net debt, During the year the group has focused on reducing its cash holdings thereby removing any distortion to the covenant from increases in net in order to maximise the amount available to reduce its gross debt.
debt due to short-term movements in the US dollar.
At September 30 At September 30 2009 cash held has fallen by 8.7 million.
Cash 2009 there were 81.4 million 2008: 115.4 million of committed generated from operations fell by 27% to 72.6 million producing undrawn amounts directly available to the group.
The average cost of a cash conversion the percentage by which cash generated from funds in 2009 was 6.0% 2008: 5.9%.
operations covers adjusted operating profit of 91% 2008: 123% as a result of a fall in deferred revenue.
7 Dividend strategy Metal Bulletin pension scheme: derivative financial instruments At the time of the half year results, the board announced its intention due less than one year and more than one year, increased slightly to increase its dividend cover to three times earnings.
The proposed from a liability of 23.1 million to 23.4 million reflecting the mark reduction in the final dividend reflects this decision, which arose after to market value of the groups forward currency contracts and reviewing possible debt and cash flow outcomes in the light of events interest rate swaps: acquisition option commitments due in less in world financial and commodities markets from 2007 onwards.
than one year fell 11.0 million to 11.2 million reflecting the 20.7 This review suggested that volatility in these markets had increased million exercise of the option commitments over ISI, Total Derivatives, sharply, particularly in the wake of the Lehman collapse.
The board Telcap, IMN and ABF, 2.1 million of foreign exchange loss, offset concluded that such volatility may persist for some time, in spite of by the 7.5 million transfer of the liability from acquisition option the recovery in parts of financial markets, and that the dividend cover commitments due in more than year, in relation to further tranches should be rebased to a sustainable level for the longer term.
of the groups acquisitions due for purchase in 2010: trade and other payables increased 28.6 million to 59.2 million reflecting The board has approved a final dividend of 7.75p a share 2008: the inclusion of a balance due to a DMGT group undertaking from an 13.00p, making a total dividend for the year of 14.00p 2008: 19.25p.
intergroup funding transaction: deferred income fell 6.9 million to The final dividend will be paid on February 4 2010 to shareholders on 82.6 million reflecting the fall in the groups revenues: loan notes the register at November 20 2009.
A scrip dividend alternative will fell 1.9 million to 5.7 million, a result of loan note redemption again be available to shareholders.
The groups majority shareholder, during the year: committed loan facility is, in 2009, classified as Daily Mail and General Trust plc, has indicated its intention to accept due in more than one year following its renewal.
The total facility the scrip alternative when the final dividend is paid.
less than one year and more than one year has fallen 13.2 million to 171.4 million, reflecting the net cash generated by the group In future, the board intends to maintain a policy of distributing one from operations: deferred tax, the net deferred tax liability has third of its after-tax earnings to shareholders while delivering longfallen from 11.4 million to 3.3 million due to the recognition of term dividend growth in real terms.
From 2010, the interim dividend additional deferred tax assets on US and UK losses and the unwinding will be adjusted so that approximately one third of the expected total of deferred tax on intangible assets and goodwill impairment.
dividend will be paid as an interim and the balance as a final dividend.
8 Balance sheet Acquisitions remain a fundamental part of the groups growth The net assets of the group were 105.0 million compared to 88.1 strategy.
In particular the board believes that acquisitions are valuable million in 2008.
The main movements in the balance sheet items for taking the group into new sectors, for bringing new technologies were in: intangible assets, reflecting the recognition of 23.2 into the group and for increasing the groups growth by buying into million of goodwill and other intangible assets following the further rapidly developing niche businesses.
The group continues to look for equity purchases of ISI, TelCap, Total Derivatives, IMN and ABF, acquisitions to support its main brands, especially in international foreign exchange gains of 34.0 million and amortisation charge finance, energy, commodities, telecoms and law.
of 16.1 million and impairment losses of 23.2 million: property, plant and equipment fell by 1.9 million to 19.8 million, largely Increase in equity holdings as a result of depreciation of 3.8 million, including exceptional During the year the group has invested 19.9 million in increasing its accelerated depreciation of 1.2 million following the rationalisation equity interests in a number of its subsidiaries under acquisition earnof the groups property portfolio see note 5, offset by regular capital out agreements.
This includes the acquisition of the outstanding 20% expenditure across the group of 1.3 million and a foreign exchange minority interest in Information Management Network, the structured gain of 0.7 million: net pension surplus fell from 2.5 million to a finance, indexing and real estate events business, for 7.7 million, deficit of 0.4 million reflecting the change in pension surplus on the and the acquisition of the outstanding 10% minority interest in Asia Business Forum for 0.4 million.
The group also spent 3.0 million Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 15 COMPANY ACCOUNTS GROUP ACCOUNTS OUR GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE Directors Report continued on an additional 4% interest in ISI, taking its holding to 98%, 2.8 continues to invest in video conferencing technology between the million increasing its interest in Total Derivatives from 78% to 89%, offices in London, New York, Montreal and Hong Kong to improve and 6.0 million increasing its interest in TelCap from 70% to 85%.
communication and reduce global travel costs.
Total call costs were Further details are provided in note 14.
Following these payments, the further reduced following a full review of telecom suppliers and total commitment under outstanding acquisition option agreements services during the year.
has fallen from 29.8 million to 11.9 million, most of which is payable in 2010.
The groups websites are located at a dedicated, high-availability hosting centre.
Many sites were re-launched during 2009 with fresh 3.4.
10 Headcount designs and updated technologies.
New state-of-the-art search The number of people employed is monitored monthly, to ensure technology was implemented during the year and made available that there are sufficient people employed to meet the forthcoming across a portfolio of sites.
demands of each business but also to make sure that the businesses continue to deliver sufficient profits to support the people they Throughout 2009 the group continued to invest in its e-commerce employ.
During the year, given the down-turn in trading, the directors infrastructure.
New technology has been developed to enhance have reduced headcount and, at the end of September, the group how the group manages its website customers, products and online employed 1,841 people, a decrease of 366 since the start of the year.
orders: new access control software has increased the number of ways content can be delivered online.
11 Marketing and circulation programme is underway to support the software roll out across In 2009 revenues from direct marketing, including Metal Bulletin, the group.
Revenue growth was achieved across all products, in particular electronic subscriptions.
Marketing revenues taken There was a full review of the groups information security policy online grew by 32%, primarily driven by the database businesses: in 2009.
A programme is underway to encrypt data on all laptops BCA, ISI and CEIC.
Return on marketing spend improved by 25%, worldwide and new software is being introduced across the group marketing continues to be focused on renewal and driving electronic networks to track and control access to corporate data.
processing systems and procedures were updated during the year to meet the new standards mandated by the payment card industry.
12 Systems and information technology The group continues to invest across all technology areas.
In 2009 disaster recovery and business continuity plans for all businesses were updated.
The group has an active programme for In 2009 the group implemented new advertising billing software in testing the disaster recovery plans for all business units.
the UK and Asia and planning is underway for delivery to the US office early next year.
The group is continuing the roll out of the event 3.4.
13 Tax and treasury management and registration technology and integrating systems Committee with the conference business websites.
A major project to implement The groups tax and treasury committee normally meets twice a new central CRM technology has started with an extensive roll out year and is responsible for recommending policy to the board.
The scheduled during 2010. committee members are the chairman, managing director and finance director of the company, and the finance director and the deputy The group has invested in resilient and high capacity telecom finance director of DMGT.
The chairman of the audit committee is infrastructure: VoIP networks provide increased internet bandwidth also invited to attend the tax and treasury meetings.
The groups and a scalable and feature-rich telephony network across the treasury policies are directed to giving greater certainty of future costs company.
Unified messaging is in place in the UK and US to enable and revenues and ensuring that the group has adequate liquidity for staff to receive voicemail over the web worldwide.
The group working capital and debt capacity for funding acquisitions.
16 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Treasury foreign currency borrowings with investments and the related foreign The treasury department does not act as a profit centre, nor does currency finance costs provide a partial hedge against the translation it undertake any speculative trading activity and it operates within of overseas profits.
As a result of this hedging strategy, any profit or policies and procedures approved by the board.
loss from the strengthening or weakening of the US dollar will largely be delayed until the following financial year and beyond.
Interest rate swaps are used to manage the groups exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on its floating rate borrowings.
The Details of the financial instruments used are set out in note 18 to the maturity profile of these derivatives is matched with the expected accounts.
future debt profile of the group.
The groups policy is to fix the interest rates on approximately 80% of its term debt looking forward over Tax five years.
The maturity dates are spread in order to avoid interest The underlying effective tax rate based on adjusted profit before tax rate basis risk and also to negate short-term changes in interest rates.
and excluding deferred tax movements on intangible assets, prior year items and exceptionals is 27% 2008: 27%.
The groups underlying At September 30 2009, the group had 84% of its gross debt fixed tax rate has historically been below 30% because of the tax benefit by the use of interest rate hedges.
The predictability of interest costs of overseas tax deductible goodwill.
is deemed to be more important than the possible opportunity cost forgone of achieving lower interest rates and this hedging strategy The groups reported effective tax rate decreased to a 60% credit has the effect of spreading the groups exposure to fluctuations compared to 19% credit in 2008.
A credit of 19.9 million relating to arising from changes in interest rates and hence protects the groups tax on foreign exchange losses 2008: 12.0 million has been treated interest charge against sudden increases in rates but also prevents the as exceptional as it is hedged by 19.9 million 2008: 12.0 million of group from benefiting immediately from falls in rates.
foreign exchange losses on tax equalisation contracts included within net finance costs note 7.
A reconciliation to the underlying effective The group generates approximately two-thirds of its revenues in rate is set out in note 8 in the accounts.
US dollars, including approximately 30% of the revenues in its UKbased businesses, and approximately 60% of its operating profits are The total net deferred tax balance held is a liability of 3.3 million US dollar-denominated.
The group is therefore exposed to foreign 2008: 11.4 million and relates primarily to capitalised intangible exchange risk on the US dollar revenues in its UK businesses, and on assets, tax deductible US goodwill and rolled over capital gains, net of the translation of the results of its US dollar-denominated businesses.
deferred tax assets held in respect of US and UK tax losses and shortterm timing differences and the future deductions available for the In order to hedge its exposure to US dollar revenues in its UK CAP.
The decrease in the net liability is primarily due to the impairment businesses, a series of forward contracts are put in place to sell of goodwill and the unwinding of deferred tax on intangible assets.
In 2008, the group hedged fully for the coming 12 months and partially for a further 36 months.
Principal risks and uncertainties directors reviewed the groups hedging policy and as a result reduced The company has continued to develop its processes for risk the period of partial hedging from up to 48 months to between management.
Management of significant risk is regularly on the 12 and 18 months and reduced the percentage of revenues hedged agenda of the board and other senior management meetings.
The transition to the revised policy will take a number of months, with forward deals in excess of 18 months Specific risk areas that potentially could have a material impact on the being allowed to naturally unwind.
groups long-term performance include: The group does not hedge the foreign exchange risk on the Downturn in economy or market sector The group generates significant income from certain key geographical translation of overseas profits, although it does endeavour to match Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 17 COMPANY ACCOUNTS GROUP ACCOUNTS OUR GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE Directors Report continued regions and market sectors for both its publishing and events in December 2011 and the five year quantums in December 2013. businesses.
Uncertainty in global financial markets increases the risk Under the DMGT facility, at September 30 2009, the group has of a downturn or potential collapse in one of these areas, should 81.4 million of undrawn but committed facilities available to draw this occur, income is likely to be adversely affected and for events upon if required.
This is more than sufficient for the group to meet businesses some abandonment costs may also be incurred.
expected and unexpected short-term working capital requirements.
However, given the level of uncertainty in the global economy and However, the group has a strong product mix and operates in multiple financial markets, there is a risk that the undrawn portion of the geographical locations which reduces dependency on any one sector facility may be unavailable or withdrawn if DMGT experience funding or region.
Management has shown a proven ability to switch the difficulties themselves.
It is, however, unlikely that this would impact groups focus to new or unaffected markets e. g. following the SARS the group as DMGT have a wide range of funding sources, other than outbreak in Asia and terrorist attacks in New York.
bank debt, available to them.
In addition, if DMGT were unable to fulfil its commitment to Euromoney the directors are confident that Major disease outbreak the group is in a position that would enable it to secure adequate The recent outbreak of a new strain of H1N1 influenza Swine Flu facilities outside of DMGT, albeit at an increased cost to the business has led the World Health Organisation to increase the pandemic due to high interest charges imposed given the crisis in the credit threat level to five, indicating an imminent pandemic.
not clear how serious any pandemic might be, it could significantly affect the groups ability to produce and deliver its products, reduce Market price risk the demand for them, or increase the cost base.
Events businesses in Market price risk is the possibility that changes in currency exchange particular may be sensitive to a pandemic as their success depends rates, interest rates or commodity prices will adversely affect the value on delegates confidence in and ability to travel globally.
Disruptions of the groups financial assets, liabilities or expected future cash flows.
or reductions to global travel as a result of a pandemic could lead to The groups primary market risks are interest rate fluctuations and events being cancelled or postponed.
Disaster recovery plans are in exchange rate movements.
Derivatives are used to hedge or reduce place to address this risk.
the risks of interest rate and exchange rate movements and are not entered into unless such risks exist.
Derivatives used by the group Liquidity risk for hedging a particular risk are not specialised and are generally The group has significant borrowings and is an approved borrower available from numerous sources.
The fair values of interest rate under a Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT, $400 million swaps, currency options and forward exchange contracts set out in revolving multi-currency facility.
This facility requires the group to note 18 represent the replacement costs calculated using the market meet certain covenants based on net debt and profits adjusted for rates of interest and exchange at September 30 2009.
The group has certain non-cash items and the impact of foreign exchange.
Failure no other material market price risks.
to do so would result in the group being in breach of the facility potentially resulting in the facility being withdrawn or impediment of Interest rate risk management decision making by the lender.
Management regularly The groups borrowings are in both pounds sterling and US dollars monitor the covenants and prepare detailed debt forecasts to ensure with the related interest tied to GBP and US dollar LIBOR.
This results that sufficient headroom is available and that the covenants are in the groups interest charge being at risk to fluctuations in interest not close or potentially close to breach.
The groups strategy is to rates.
It is the groups policy to hedge approximately 80% of its use excess operating cash to pay down its debt.
The group has a interest exposure, converting its floating rate debt into fixed debt cash conversion rate the percentage by which cash generated by by means of interest rate swaps.
The maturity dates are spread in operations covers adjusted operating profit of 91%, due to much order to avoid interest rate basis risk and also to negate short-term of its subscription, conference and training revenue being paid in changes in interest rates.
The predictability of interest costs is deemed advance.
The three year quantums of the facility are due for renewal 18 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC to be more important than the possible opportunity cost foregone group being more exposed to swings in US dollar to sterling exchange of achieving lower interest rates and this hedging strategy has the rates.
An overestimate of the groups US dollar revenue would lead effect of spreading the groups exposure to fluctuations arising from to associated costs in unwinding the excess forward contracts.
At changes in interest rates and hence protects the groups interest September 30 2009, the fair value of the groups forward contracts charge against sudden increases in rates but also prevents the group was a liability of 15.8 million 2008: 10.9 million.
from benefiting immediately from falls in rates.
Details of the groups interest rate swaps are given in note 18. Credit risk The group seeks to limit interest rate and foreign currency risks Foreign currency risk described above by the use of financial instruments and as a The group generates approximately two-thirds of its revenues in result has a credit risk from the potential non-performance by the US dollars, including approximately 30% of the revenues in its UKcounterparties to these financial instruments, which are unsecured.
based businesses, and approximately 60% of its operating profits are The amount of this credit risk is normally restricted to the amounts US dollar-denominated.
The group is therefore exposed to foreign of any hedge gain and not the principal amount being hedged.
The exchange risk on the US dollar revenues in its UK businesses, and on group also has a credit exposure to counterparties for the full principal the translation of the results of its US dollar-denominated businesses.
amount of cash and cash equivalents.
Credit risks are controlled by monitoring the amounts outstanding, with and the credit quality The group does not hedge the translation of the results of its US dollarof, these counterparties.
For the groups cash and cash equivalents denominated businesses.
Consequently, fluctuations in the value of these are principally licensed commercial banks and investment banks sterling versus the US dollar could materially affect the translation with strong long-term credit ratings, and for derivative financial of these results in the consolidated financial statements.
The group instruments DMGT who have treasury policies in place which do not endeavours to match foreign currency borrowings to investments in allow concentrations of risk with individual counterparties and do not order to provide a natural hedge for the translation of the net assets allow significant treasury exposures with counterparties which are of overseas subsidiaries with the related foreign currency interest cost rated lower than AA.
arising from these borrowings providing a part natural hedge against the translation of foreign currency profits.
The group also has credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables, prepayments and accrued income.
The concentration Subsidiaries normally do not hedge transactions in foreign currencies of credit risk from trade receivables is limited due to the large and into the functional currency of their own operations.
However, at a broad customer base.
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally group level, a series of US dollar forward contracts are put in place in the business units where they arise.
Allowance is made for bad to sell forward surplus US dollars.
In 2008, the group hedged fully and doubtful debts based on managements assessment of the risk for the coming 12 months and partially for a further 36 months.
of non-payment taking into account the ageing profile, experience This year, the directors reviewed the groups hedging policy and as a and circumstance.
result reduced the period of partial hedging from up to 48 months to between 12 and 18 months and reduced the percentage of revenues The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying hedged in the first 12 months to 80%.
The transition to the revised amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial policy will take a number of months, with forward deals in excess of instruments, recorded in the balance sheet.
18 months being allowed to naturally unwind.
The timing and value of these forward contracts is based on managements estimate of its All of the above risks have been further heightened by the impact of future US dollar revenues over an 18 month period.
If management the credit crunch resulting in increased uncertainty in global financial materially underestimated the groups future US dollar revenues this markets and economies.
would lead to too few forward contracts being in place and the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 19 COMPANY ACCOUNTS GROUP ACCOUNTS OUR GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE Directors Report continued London, New York, Montreal or Hong Kong wide disaster number of mutually exclusive titles and it is unlikely that an incorrect The group has its main offices located in London, New York, Montreal circulation claim, should it arise, would affect the circulation of other and Hong Kong.
An area wide disaster is likely to have serious titles within the wider group.
Similar controls are applied to claims for consequences with office space potentially becoming unusable for electronic publishing activities.
several months and a lack of suitable alternative accommodation: loss of key clients and staff in an affected area and difficult communications Acquisition and disposal risk with both customers and staff.
As a consequence of the above, the Part of the groups strategy is to be acquisitive.
Management review a group could suffer a loss of revenue.
number of potential acquisitions each year with only a small proportion of these going through to due diligence stage and possible subsequent To mitigate this risk the group has detailed disaster recovery DR purchase.
The group could suffer an impairment loss if an acquired plans for all businesses.
All employees can work remotely.
The group business does not generate the expected returns or fails to operate or regularly tests its DR plans.
It has robust systems in place with key grow in its markets and product areas.
The expected risks of a newly locations including the UK, US, Canada and Asia benefiting from acquired entity may be misunderstood.
As a consequence a significant dual locations of back ups, dual loading of live back-ups for key amount of management time could be diverted from other operational systems and third-party 24-hour support.
The group is also subject to disposal risk, possibly failing to achieve optimal value from disposed businesses or underestimating the Publishing legislation impact on the remaining group businesses from such a disposal.
The group generates a significant amount of its revenue from publishing and hence has an inherent libel risk.
A successful libel claim To mitigate this risk experienced senior management perform detailed is likely to affect the groups reputation in the market place where in-house due diligence and call on expert external advisers where the libel claim arose and or where the publication was published.
Acquisition agreements are usually structured a consequence the group could suffer a loss of advertising and other so as to retain key employees in the acquired company and there add-on revenue streams.
is a close monitoring of performance at board level of the entity concerned post acquisition.
To mitigate this risk the group runs mandatory annual libel courses for all journalists and editors.
Key staff are aware of the significant nature Key staff leaving of the risks and strong internal controls are in place for reporting to In order to pursue the group strategy, the group is reliant on key senior management if a potential issue arises.
The group also has libel management and staff across all businesses.
Many of the businesses insurance cover.
products are reliant on the technological and specialist expertise provided by a number of talented staff.
All key staff are engaged in Circulation long-term incentive plans to encourage retention.
In addition the The group publishes over 70 titles and publications and sells advertising directors remain committed to recruitment and retention of high based partly on circulation figures.
An incorrect claim for circulation quality management and talent, and provide a program of great could adversely affect the groups reputation in the applicable market opportunity and progression for employees including extensive place with a potential knock-on effect for other titles within the training and transfer opportunities.
This could lead to the permanent loss of advertisers and other revenue streams.
Reliance on key brands The group has a portfolio of significant brands.
Damage to any of To mitigate this risk the group runs rolling annual internal audits and these brands, or increasing popularity of a competitor brand could regularly monitors internal controls designed to cover circulation.
impact the groups reported profits.
The group works hard to manage Detailed guidance is provided to all relevant employees and their the quality and reputation of its brands and products and protects understanding of the rules is regularly monitored.
There are a large these where necessary with trade marks which are monitored by 20 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC external advisers.
In addition the group benefits from a broad range and subscription revenues.
The groups increasing dependence on of products and brands which diversifies the brand risk.
information systems has also heightened the information security risk to the group with breaches in our data security systems having a Conferences and events potential impact on our business and reputation.
Events businesses within the group form a significant part of the groups operations and account for approximately 30% of the The group is already embracing these challenges, and overall sees groups profits.
A number of key events are organised as joint venture the internet and other technological advances as an opportunity not partnerships.
Failure in these joint venture relationships could result a threat.
Business continuity plans are in place in each business and in loss of profit, reputation and damage to the specific event brand.
include comprehensive back up plans for IT infrastructure, with the Measures are in place to closely manage these key relationships and aim to protect the businesses from unnecessary disruption.
The group the quality of the events to ensure they remain financially successful.
has comprehensive information security standards and practices in place which are reviewed on a regular basis.
Many of the groups Events are held all over the world and rely on the ability of the businesses already produce soft copies of publications to supplement delegates to travel globally.
Disruptions or reductions to global travel the hard copies.
While the internet is an important tool for generating as a result of terrorism, pandemic see major disease outbreak risk additional revenue the groups product mix provides protection for paragraph above or climate change issues, could lead to events any potential unforeseen problems.
For example, the groups share of being cancelled or refunded.
Abandonment insurance is in place for profit from event businesses is significant, with face-to-face meetings targeted key events.
Social Responsibility The group operates within many jurisdictions: earnings are therefore The company encourages its people to be active in charities.
Its charity subject to taxation at differing rates across these jurisdictions.
The budget deliberately supports the same good causes that its employees directors endeavour to manage the tax affairs of the group in an support, matching or better the money raised by its people.
efficient manner, however, due to an ever more complex international tax environment there will always be a level of uncertainty when The Euromoney Paediatric Eye Care Centre provisioning for tax liabilities.
There is also a risk of tax laws being The Euromoney Paediatric Eye Care Centre at Kalinga Eye Hospital amended by authorities in the different jurisdictions in which the & Research Centre, Dhenkanal, Orissa, India was officially opened group operates which could have an adverse effect on the financial on March 5 2009.
Euromoney directors, employees and customers results.
External tax experts and in-house tax specialists, reporting contributed 195,000 for the centre, which now provides a fully to the tax and treasury committee, work together to review all tax trained paediatric eye care team in a child-friendly facility within arrangements within the group and keep abreast of changes in global the main Kalinga hospital.
To date, more than 43,000 children have tax legislation.
been screened at the hospital and at outreach camps, and 10,000 children have been treated or received surgery at the hospital and at Technological change and IT infrastructure outreach camps.
All of the groups businesses to some degree are dependent on technology.
Information systems are critical for the effective The paediatric care team will look after five districts, providing management and provision of services around the group.
Disruption outreach and screening in a poor and remote community.
to information technology could adversely affect the business and damage the groups reputation.
The internet is becoming an ever The Euromoney Centre and the Kalinga Hospital represent a increasing important revenue stream for the group and with this strong commitment and effort on the part of many, in India and at comes risk.
The internet, through the proliferation of free content and Euromoney.
This culmination of faith and action will change the lives content aggregators, has the potential to erode hard copy advertising of those who are needlessly blind.
The picture above shows the new Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 21 COMPANY ACCOUNTS GROUP ACCOUNTS OUR GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE Directors Re port continued Kalinga Eye Hospital during the official opening of the Euromoney Global charity events Centre.
A number of the groups businesses participated in charity events around the world to raise money for local charities.
For example Charity dinners II News raised $15,000 for SPARKS through a fundraiser at the Global A number of charity dinners were held during the year.
For instance Derivatives & European Securitization Awards in October 2008.
The this year, Institutional Investor Journals sponsored a table at the Legal Group raised a total 5,450 for the Red Cross at three of their Annual Auction4Kids Gala held at the New York Stock Exchange.
This event supports Per Scholas Comp2Kids program, which supplies computer literacy training as well as home computers for low income BCA sponsored a walk for breast cancer and one of BCAs employee students and schools in the Bronx, Brooklyn, and Manhattan.
Many is completing 12,000 km on a bike through South America for the donated items were auctioned at the Gala, and several hundred David Suzuki Foundation, www.
BCA also donated thousand dollars were raised as a result.
$10,000 to a local hospital to purchase neurological equipment.
Help for flood victims in the Philippines In May, Gulf raised $2,000 through a t-shirt drive for Ilene Hartmann The company donated 10,000 to the Red Cross appeal to help an employee of Gulf for 28 years who sadly died in January 2009. victims of the tragic floods in the Philippines.
The funds will be used to The money raised was donated to the pancreatic cancer research.
create eight temporary homes for families who have lost their houses Gulf also participated in the charity Sprint for Life 5k run walk to raise in the two typhoons that have caused wide spread damage this year.
The picture on the previous page shows the Red Cross model house that the relief organisation designed specially for disasters of this kind.
Annual charity drive Each year the US group conducts a charity drive where the businesses Running Club match up to a total of $50,000 per year in employee contributions This year, the UK businesses set up a running group for charitable made to various charitable organisations.
This is an excellent way purposes.
It is the intention that the club will complete charity runs on to cover a broad range of charities that employees themselves may a regular basis, the first, which had over 30 runners, was in September favour and support.
So far the club has raised over 7,500.
Christmas charity event Scholarships Again this year, the US businesses selected a local charity for To mark its 40th Anniversary, Euromoney has announced a programme employees to donate Christmas gifts.
This year the donations were of international financial publishing scholarships - The Euromoney given to a shelter for single mothers that housed 27 mothers and Sergeant Scholarships.
Each scholar is given the opportunity to 62 children.
They were invited to participate in a party at which they work for Euromoney for 2 months with accommodation, stipend were all given gifts that they had requested in letters to Santa.
for living and return airfares provided to successful candidates.
These candidates will be trained by senior staff and will work on 6.
Future developments in the business writing articles, researching data and marketing work.
Following the The group continues to trade in line with the boards expectations.
It scholarship programme permanent job offers may be available.
has a clear, well established strategy which it is executing successfully to build a more robust, high quality earnings flow.
This strategy, BCA have also committed for three years to give a scholarship to a combined with the strength of its brands and the diversity of its finance student at the John Molson School of Business at Concordia sectors, customers, and geographic markets, means the group is well University.
positioned to return to growth as soon as markets improve.
22 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC An indication of the trading outlook for the group is given in the under corporate governance, all non-executive directors who have Chairmans Statement on page 6.
In 2010 the directors will build served for more than three three-year terms must submit themselves on the cost based review completed in 2009 to ensure the business for re-election on an annual basis.
In addition, in accordance with the is operating as effectively as possible, to facilitate growth in a Combined Code on Corporate Governance, before the re-election challenging global market and to continue to shape the business to of a non-executive director, the chairman is required to confirm to remain lucrative and competitive in the midst of the difficult economic shareholders that, following formal performance evaluation, the environment.
The group is well placed to diversify its product and non-executives performance continues to be effective and geographical base and remains committed to its strategy set out on demonstrates commitment to the role.
Sergeant, The Viscount Rothermere and JC Botts will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible following The board will continue to review the portfolio of businesses, a formal performance evaluation by the chairman, offer themselves disposing, closing or restructuring any under-performing businesses for re-election.
to allow the group to have the necessary resources and skills to remain acquisitive.
The group will invest in technology and new businesses, Details of the interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the particularly electronic information products, as well as in its internal company and of options held by the directors to subscribe for ordinary systems.
shares in the company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 48.
Directors and their interests The companys Articles of Association give power to the board to 8.
Capital structure and significant shareholdings appoint directors from time to time.
In addition to the statutory rights Details of the companys share capital are given in note 22.
The of shareholders to remove a director by ordinary resolution, the board companys share capital is divided into ordinary shares of 0.25 pence may also remove a director where 75% of the board give written each.
Each share entitles its holder to one vote at shareholders notice to such director.
The Articles of Association themselves may be meetings and the right to receive one share of the companys dividends.
amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
At November 11 2009, being the latest practical date before approval The directors who served during the year are listed on pages 26 and of the accounts, notification had been received, in accordance with 27.
The directors interests are given on pages 47 and 48.
CR Brown, chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following an executive director, died on July 16 2009.
RT Lamont retired as a voting rights as a shareholder of the company: director on January 14 2009 on reaching the age of 62.
DP Pritchard % of was appointed a non-executive director on December 22 2008.
With Nature of Number of voting effect from November 11 2009, B AL-Rehany was appointed to the Name of holder holding shares rights board as an executive director.
MJ Carroll has indicated his intention Daily Mail and General to retire as an executive director at the companys Annual General Holdings Limited Direct 76,026,142 66.83 Meeting on January 21 2010.
AEGON UK Direct 3,508,021 3.08 Following best practice under corporate governance and in Banque Internationale Luxembourg SA has issued international accordance with the companys Articles of Association, all directors depositary receipts IDR in bearer form in respect of a total of submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
812,800 shares 0.7% 2008: 948,800 shares 0.9% registered in Accordingly, PR Ensor, DC Cohen, CR Jones, and CHC Fordham will its name.
Each IDR issued equates to one underlying ordinary share retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, in the capital of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC.
The company will offer themselves for re-election.
Also, as required by best practice announced on October 8 2009 that it intends to terminate the deposit Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 23 COMPANY ACCOUNTS GROUP ACCOUNTS OUR GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE Directors Re port continued agreement and delist the underlying shares from the Luxembourg 12.
Disabled employees Stock Exchange with effect from December 14 2009.
It is the groups policy to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment from people who are disabled: to continue, wherever Details of the directors entitlement to compensation for loss of possible, the employment of, and to arrange appropriate training for, office following a takeover or contract termination are given in the employees who become disabled: and to provide opportunities for the Directors Remuneration Report.
career development, training and promotion of disabled employees.
Employee involvement and training Pursuant to s992 of the Companies Act 2006, which implements the The group believes it is important to provide skills and management EU Takeovers Directive, the company is required to disclose certain training for its employees around the world.
It continues to develop additional information.
Such disclosures, which are not covered these programmes and tries to ensure that as many employees as elsewhere in this Annual Report include the following: possible benefit from internal and external training.
The group is continually developing and expanding the training programmes A number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon provided.
a change of control of the company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease The group recognises the importance of good communication in arrangements, directors service agreements and employee share relationships with its staff.
This is pursued in a number of ways, plans.
None of these is deemed to be significant in terms of their including training and regular meetings between management and potential impact on the business of the group as a whole.
staff, which seek to achieve common awareness on the part of all employees of the financial and economic circumstances affecting 10.
Authority to purchase and allot own shares the groups performance.
Many employees participate directly in the The companys authority to purchase up to 10% of its own shares success of the business through involvement in the groups profit expires at the conclusion of the companys next Annual General sharing schemes, the Capital Appreciation Plan and in the savings Meeting.
A resolution to renew this authority for a further period will related share option scheme.
be put to shareholders at this meeting.
Supplier payment policy At the Annual General Meeting of the company on January 28 2009, Each business agrees payment terms with its suppliers on an individual the shareholders authorised the directors to allot shares up to an basis and it is group policy to make payments in accordance with aggregate nominal amount of 80,030 expiring at the conclusion these terms.
The group had 84 days of purchases in creditors at of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2010.
renew this authority for a further period will be put to shareholders at this meeting.
Directors indemnities The company has in place directors and officers liability and corporate 11.
Political and charitable contributions reimbursement insurance for the benefit of the companys directors During the year the group raised charitable contributions of 207,000 and those of other associated companies.
There were no political contributions in either year.
in place throughout the year and remains in force at the date of See pages 21 and 22 for details of the groups charitable projects.
Annual General Meeting The companys Annual General Meeting will be held on January 21 2010.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the companys auditors is expected to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of information to auditors In the case of each of the persons who is a director of the company at November 11 2009: y so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of which the companys auditors are unaware: and y each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of the information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the board Colin Jones Company Secretary November 11 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 25 COMPANY ACCOUNTS GROUP ACCOUNTS OUR GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE
