Our Div isions TRAINING FINANCIAL PUBLISHING 31.7m Revenue 75.4m Revenue The training division runs a Financial publishing includes an comprehensive range of banking, extensive portfolio of titles covering finance and legal courses, both the international capital markets public and in-house, under the as well as a number of specialist Euromoney and DC Gardner brands.
Products include Courses are run all over the world magazines, newsletters, journals, for both financial institutions surveys and research, directories, and corporates.
In addition the and books.
A selection of the companys Boston-based subsidiary, companys leading financial brands MIS, runs a wide range of courses includes: Euromoney, Institutional for the audit and information Investor, EuroWeek, Latin Finance, security market.
Asiamoney, Global Investor, Project Finance, Futures & Options World, Total Derivatives and the hedge fund titles EuroHedge, InvestHedge, AsiaHedge and AR.
BUSINESS PUBLISHING 56.3m Revenue The business publishing division produces specialist magazines PRINCIPAL BRANDS and other publications covering the metals and mining, legal, telecoms and energy sectors.
Its leading brands include: Metal Bulletin, American Metal Market: International Financial Law Review, International Tax Review and Managing Intellectual Property: Capacity: Petroleum Economist, World Oil and Hydrocarbon Processing.
02 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC DATABASES AND CONFERENCES AND SEMINARS INFORMATION SERVICES 74.9m Revenue 87.5m Revenue The company runs a large number of The company provides a number of sponsored conferences and seminars for the subscription-based database and international financial markets, mostly electronic information services for under the Euromoney, Institutional Investor, financial markets.
Montreal-based Metal Bulletin and IMN brands.
Many of BCA Research is one of the worlds these conferences are the leading annual leading independent providers of events in their sector and provide sponsors global investment research.
The with a high quality program and speakers, companys US subsidiary, Internet and outstanding networking opportunities.
Securities, Inc. provides the worlds Such events include: The Global Borrowers most comprehensive service for news and Investors Forum: the Annual Global and data on global emerging Hedge Fund Summit: the European markets under the Emerging Airfinance Conference: the Islamic Finance Markets Information Service EMIS Summit: the Super Bowl of Indexing: and brand, and also includes CEIC, one of Global ABS and The Annual ABS East the leading providers of time-series Conference for the asset-backed securities macro-economic data for emerging market.
In the energy sector, the group runs markets.
The company also offers the worlds leading annual coal conferences, global capital market databases Coaltrans and Coaltrans Asia: TelCap runs through a venture with its AIM-listed International Telecoms Week, the leading partner, Dealogic plc.
global event for telecom carriers and service providers: and MIS runs a leading event for the information security sector in the US, InfoSec World.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 03 COMPANY ACCOUNTS GROUP ACCOUNTS OUR GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE
