Governance Directors report The directors present their report and of the principal board committees Profit and dividends the audited financial statements for and the performance of individual The Group income statement shows the year ended 31 March 2009. directors were carried out during the a profit for the financial year ended year ended 31 March 2009 and the 31 March 2009 of US$506m 2008: Principal activities board is satisfied that each of the US$452m.
The directors have and business review three directors retiring at the annual announced the payment of a second Experian provides information, general meeting contributes effectively interim dividend in lieu of a final analytical tools and marketing services and demonstrates commitment to dividend of 13.25 US cents per ordinary to organisations around the world, the role.
Further details regarding share 2008: 12 US cents to be paid ranging from small start-up businesses the evaluations are contained in the on 24 July 2009 to shareholders on the to multinational corporations.
register of members on 26 June 2009.
Group also helps individuals to An interim dividend of 6.75 US cents manage their credit relationships Chris Callero will also retire at the per ordinary share was paid on 30 and to minimise the risk of identity annual general meeting, being the first January 2009 giving a total dividend for theft.
Experian reports its financial annual general meeting following his the year of 20 US cents per ordinary performance on a geographical basis appointment and, being eligible, will share 2008: 18.5 US cents.
across four regions: North America, offer himself for election.
Latin America, UK and Ireland and Directors EMEA Asia Pacific.
Insurance and third party The names and biographical details indemnification of the directors are shown on the As described in the business review, During the year, the Company immediately preceding pages.
Sean the Groups activities in these regions maintained liability insurance and third FitzPatrick resigned as a director of the are grouped into the four principal party indemnification provisions for Company on 18 December 2008.
Chris business lines of Credit Services, its directors.
Callero was appointed as a director Decision Analytics, Marketing of the Company on 1 April 2009.
Acquisitions and disposals Details of acquisitions and disposals Particulars of directors remuneration, Details of the development and made during the year are contained in service contracts and their interests performance of the Groups businesses the business review and in note 33 to in the ordinary shares of the Company during the year, an indication of the the Group financial statements.
are shown in the report on directors key performance indicators and remuneration.
There were no changes information regarding principal risks Substantial shareholdings in the directors interests in the and uncertainties are set out, together Substantial shareholders are Companys ordinary shares between with information equivalent to that required to notify their interests in the end of the financial year and required for a business review, in the accordance with the Companys 19 May 2009. business review section of the annual articles of association, which report and are incorporated into this obliges shareholders to comply with In accordance with the Companys report by reference.
the notification obligations to the articles of association, each director Company contained in the Disclosure is required to retire at the annual Research and development and Transparency Rules.
As at 19 May general meeting held in the third Research and development plays a key 2009, the Company had been notified calendar year following the year in role in supporting Experians activities.
of the interests below in its issued which he or she was elected or last Further details of research and ordinary share capital or voting rights.
In order to development activities can be found ensure an orderly re-election process, in the business review section of the John Peace, Laurence Danon and Sir annual report.
Alan Rudge will retire at the annual general meeting in July 2009 and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Formal evaluations of board performance, the performance Substantial shareholdings Number of Percentage ordinary of issued Date of Direct indirect shares share capital notification Shareholder interest voting rights voting rights 12 May 2009 Viking Global Investors LP Direct 50,961,747 4.96% and associated companies and indirect 46 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Directors report 2 7 8 43 73 148 Share capital Corporation with a call right to on the occurrence of any of the events Details of the authorised and issued purchase the Groups interest in listed in article 92 of the articles of share capital of the Company and FARES in the event of a change of association of the Company.
The changes to the Companys share control of the Company.
Company may, in accordance with the capital during the year ended 31 provisions of the Companies Jersey Details of provisions relating to March 2009 are set out in note K to the Law 1991, remove any director from a change of control in directors Companys financial statements.
The office and elect another person in service contracts are described rights and obligations attaching to the place of a director so removed.
in the report on directors ordinary and deferred shares are set remuneration.
out in the articles of association of Articles of association the Company, a copy of which can be The articles of association of the All of Experians share based obtained on request from the Company Company may be amended by the employee incentive plans contain Secretary.
provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and The Company has a Level 1 American Restrictions on transfers of options would normally vest and Depositary Receipt ADR programme shares and or voting rights become exercisable on a change of in the USA for which the Bank of New The Company is not aware of any control, subject to the satisfaction York Mellon acts as depositary.
The agreements between shareholders of any performance conditions at ADRs are traded on the US over-thethat may result in restrictions on that time.
counter market, where each ADR the transfer of securities and or represents one Experian plc ordinary voting rights and, apart from those The Group is party to a limited share.
Further details are given in the matters described below, there are no number of operational arrangements shareholder information section of the restrictions on the transfer of ordinary which can be terminated or annual report.
shares in the capital of the Company altered upon a change of control and or voting rights: of the Company, but these are Significant agreements not considered to be individually Certain restrictions on transfers change of control significant to the business of the of shares may from time to time be There are a number of agreements Group as a whole or, in certain imposed by law, for example, insider to which the Group is party that take cases, it is considered that their dealing regulations.
In accordance effect, alter or terminate, or have the disclosure would be seriously with the Listing Rules of the UK potential to do so, upon a change of prejudicial to the Company.
Financial Services Authority, certain control of the Company following a employees are required to seek the takeover bid.
Details of the agreements Contractual arrangements approval of the Company to deal in of this nature are as follows: The licences granted to Group its shares.
companies by governmental entities The Groups banking facilities in respect of the operation of its Some of Experians share based contain provisions which, in the credit bureaux in key jurisdictions are employee incentive plans include event of a change of control of essential to the Groups business.
The restrictions on transfer of shares while the Company, could result in a Group also has several key agreements the shares are subject to the plan.
renegotiation or withdrawal of with its technology and data providers.
Although the Group has numerous As described in the report on other third party contractual directors remuneration, nonThe 203m 6.375% Eurobonds arrangements, none of these is executive directors receive a due 2009 and the 334m 5.625% considered essential to its business.
proportion of fees in shares which Euronotes due 2013, issued by the may not normally be transferred Group, provide that holders may Appointment and removal during a directors period of office.
require repayment of the respective of directors bonds or notes in the event that a Where, under a share based Both the Company by ordinary rating agency re-rates the bonds or employee incentive plan operated resolution and the directors may elect notes to below investment grade by Experian, participants are the any person to be a director, but the following a change of control of beneficial owners of the shares but number of directors shall not exceed the Company.
not the registered owner, the voting the maximum number if any fixed rights are normally exercised by the by the articles of association of the The Group is party to a joint venture registered owner at the direction of Company.
Any person appointed by with The First American Corporation the participant.
the directors shall only hold office until FARES, pursuant to which the the next annual general meeting and Group holds a 20% interest in No member shall, unless the shall then be eligible for election.
The joint venture agreement directors otherwise determine, be office of a director shall be vacated provides The First American entitled in respect of any share held Experian Annual Report 2009 47 Governance Directors report continued Company did not utilise the authority of their employment, the Group is by him her to vote either personally to make any purchases of its own supportive, whether through re-training or by proxy at a shareholders shares during the year under review.
or re-deployment, so as to provide an meeting or to exercise any other opportunity for them to remain with the right conferred by membership in Details of the new authority being Group whenever possible.
relation to shareholders meetings requested are contained in the if any call or other sum presently circular to shareholders, which Employee involvement payable by him her to the Company accompanies this annual report Experian is committed to employee in respect of that share remains or is available on the Companys involvement throughout the business unpaid.
and is intent on motivating and keeping No member shall, unless the staff informed on matters that concern directors otherwise determine, be The Companies Jersey Law 1991 them in the context of their employment entitled to vote either personally permits the Company to hold any shares and involving them through local or by proxy at a shareholders bought back as treasury shares as an consultative procedures.
Where there meeting or to exercise any other alternative to immediately cancelling are recognition agreements with trade right conferred by membership in them and the directors intend to decide unions, the consultation process is relation to shareholders meetings whether to cancel shares pursuant to established through national and if he she fails within the prescribed this authority or hold them as treasury local trade union representatives and period to provide the Company with shares based on the interests of the through joint consultation committees.
information concerning interests in Company and shareholders as a whole Employees are kept well informed on those shares required to be provided at the relevant time.
matters of concern and the financial after being duly served with a and economic factors affecting notice pursuant to the articles of Details of the shares in the Company the Groups performance through association of the Company.
purchased by and held under The management channels, conferences, Experian plc Employee Share Trust meetings, publications and intranet In accordance with the articles and the Experian UK Approved All sites.
of association of the Company Employee Share Plan are set out in and save for certain limited note L to the Companys financial Experian continues to support circumstances, if the number of statements.
employee share ownership through the shares in the Company beneficially provision of save as you earn and other owned by residents of the USA Charitable donations all-employee share plan arrangements exceeds a defined permitted During the year the Group donated which are intended to align the maximum and the directors give US$1.95m to charitable causes.
interests of employees with those of notice to the holder s of such Funds from the GUS Charitable Trust shareholders.
shares, such shares shall not confer disbursed through Experian during the on the holder s thereof the right to year totalled US$0.42m.
Creditor payment receive notice of, attend or vote at For all trade creditors, it is Group policy general meetings of the Company.
In addition to cash contributions, the to: Groups employees are encouraged to Financial risk management, Agree and confirm the terms of give their time and skills for the benefit objectives and policies payment at the commencement of of a variety of charitable causes.
Descriptions of the use of financial business with that supplier: instruments and Experians treasury Political donations and risk management objectives and Pay in accordance with any contract Experian did not make any donations policies are set out in the financial agreed with the supplier or as to EU political parties or candidates review within the business review required by law: and during the year ended 31 March 2009. section of the annual report and Continually review payment also in note 3 to the Group financial Employment of people procedures and liaise with statements.
with disabilities suppliers as a means of eliminating People with disabilities have equal difficulties and maintaining good Own shares opportunities when applying for working relationships.
The existing authority for the Company vacancies.
In addition to complying to purchase its own shares, which with legislative requirements, Trade creditors of the Group at 31 expires at the end of this years procedures are in place to ensure that March 2009 were 22 days based on the annual general meeting, was given disabled employees are fairly treated ratio of Group trade creditors at the at the annual general meeting held and that their training and career end of the year to the amounts invoiced on 16 July 2008 and permitted the development needs are carefully during the year by trade creditors.
The Company to purchase, in the market, managed.
For those employees Company has no trade creditors.
The becoming disabled during the course 48 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Directors report 2 7 8 43 73 148 Going concern Auditors Details of the adoption by the Company The auditors,  of the going concern basis in preparing LLP, have indicated their willingness the financial statements are set out in to continue in office and a resolution the financial review within the business that they be re-appointed as auditors review section of the annual report and of the Company will be proposed at the are incorporated into this report by annual general meeting.
By order of the board Relevant audit information Charles Brown As at 19 May 2009, so far as each Company Secretary director is aware, there is no relevant 19 May 2009 audit information, being information needed by the auditors in connection Corporate headquarters: with preparing their report, of which Newenham House the auditors are unaware and each Northern Cross director has taken all steps that he Malahide Road she ought to have taken as a director Dublin 17 in order to make himself herself aware Ireland of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of Registered office: that information.
22 Grenville Street St Helier Annual general meeting Jersey The 2009 annual general meeting of the JE4 8PX Company will be held at The Merrion Hotel, Upper Merrion Street, Dublin 2, Ireland at 9.30am on Wednesday 15 July 2009.
Shareholders who are unable to attend in person may submit questions beforehand via email to agmquestions@experianplc.
com or on the prepaid card sent to shareholders with the notice of meeting.
The questions will be addressed at the meeting, via the Companys website at www.
com or individually as appropriate.
The notice of meeting has been circulated to shareholders and can also be viewed at the Companys website.
