Governance Board of directors John Peace 60 Don Robert 50 Paul Brooks 55 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer John Peace is also Chairman of Burberry Don Robert was appointed Chief Executive Paul Brooks became Chief Financial Officer Group plc and Acting Chairman of Standard Officer in February 2005, with responsibility of Experian in October 2001, having joined Chartered PLC.
From 2000 until 2006, he was for Experian globally.
He joined the board Experian in 1999 as Finance Director of the Group Chief Executive of the former GUS plc, of the former GUS plc in April of that former International division.
Prior to this, having been a director of GUS since 1997. year.
Don was previously Chief Executive Paul was at Inchcape, where he became John is also a director of The First American Officer of Experian North America, having Marketing Services Finance Director in 1994, Corporation, Chairman of the Board of joined Experian from The First American based in Singapore.
He previously spent Governors of Nottingham Trent University, Corporation in 2001.
From 1995 to 2001, five years with GKNs Industrial Services Deputy Lieutenant for the County of he held positions with First American Division, mostly as Divisional Chief Financial Nottinghamshire, a fellow of the as Executive Vice President of Mortgage Officer in the USA.
Before that he worked Royal Society of Arts and Chairman Origination Services and President of for ICIs Plastics Division in Brussels and of The Work Foundation.
John was the Consumer Information and Services its Corporate Reporting Group in London.
appointed to the Experian plc board on Group.
Before that, he served as President Paul qualified as a chartered accountant with 6 July 2006. at Credco, Inc. the largest specialist KPMG, having graduated from Cambridge credit reporting company in the USA, University with an economics degree.
Paul which was acquired by The First American was appointed to the Experian plc board on Corporation in 1995.
Don began his career 6 July 2006. with U. S. Bancorp, a multi-state bank holding company, where he held positions of increasing responsibility over 15 years.
He graduated from Oregon State University with a degree in Business Administration.
Don is a non-executive director of First Advantage Corporation and Compass Group PLC and a past Chairman of the Consumer Data Industry Association.
Don was appointed to the Experian plc board on 6 July 2006.
Laurence Danon 53 Roger Davis 52 Alan Jebson 59 Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Laurence Danon is a member of the Roger Davis is Chairman of Life Trust Alan Jebson is a non-executive director Executive Board of Edmond fide Rothschild Holdings plc and Gem Diamonds Limited of Vodafone Group plc and MacDonald Corporate Finance and a non-executive and a non-executive director of Aero Dettwiler in Canada.
He is Chairman of director of Diageo plc, Plastic Omnium S. A.
He is Chairman of Experians Experians audit committee.
Alan retired and Rhodia S. A.
Until January 2007, she was remuneration committee.
Roger previously in May 2006 as Group Chief Operating the President and Chief Executive Officer spent some eight years at Barclays, latterly Officer of HSBC Holdings plc, a position of Printemps S. A. the French department as the Chief Executive Officer of the 45,000 that included responsibility for IT and store chain.
In 2006, Laurence led the buyout strong UK Banking operation and as a Global Resourcing.
During a long career of Printemps from PPR, Europes largest member of the Board of Barclays PLC.
Prior with HSBC, he held various positions in non-food retailer.
Prior to Printemps, she to that, he was in investment banking for IT, including the position of Group Chief held various senior roles at Total Fina Elf.
some ten years in London and in various Information Officer.
His roles included Laurence began her career working for positions in Asia for Flemings and BZW.
responsibility for HSBCs international the French Government.
Laurence was Roger was appointed to the Experian plc systems, including the consolidation of appointed to the Experian plc board on board on 1 January 2007.
HSBC and Midland systems following 1 January 2007.
HSBCs acquisition of Midland Bank in 1993.
Alan is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Alan was appointed to the Experian plc board on 1 January 2007.
44 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Board of directors 2 7 8 43 73 148 Chris Callero 57 Fabiola Arredondo 42 Audit committee President and Chief Operating Officer Non-executive director Alan Jebson Chairman Fabiola Arredondo Chris Callero was appointed President and Fabiola Arredondo is the Managing Partner Laurence Danon Chief Operating Officer of Experian in April of Siempre Holdings, a private investment 2008.
He previously served as Chief Executive firm based in the USA and a non-executive Roger Davis Officer of Experian Americas, having joined director of Rodale, Inc.
Peek, Inc. the Sir Alan Rudge Experian in 2002.
Prior to joining Experian, World Wildlife Fund and Sesame Workshop.
David Tyler Chris spent 27 years at Bank of America, Previously, she held senior operating where his roles included Group Executive positions at Yahoo!, the BBC and Bertelsmann Remuneration committee Vice President in retail banking.
He also AG and non-executive directorships of served as Chief Operating Officer at Wink Bankinter S. A. BOC Group plc and Intelsat Roger Davis Chairman Communications, a leading interactive Corporation.
Fabiola has a BA degree from Fabiola Arredondo television company at the time.
Chris is a Stanford University and an MBA from the Laurence Danon member of the Chancellors Chief Executive Harvard Business School.
Fabiola was Roundtable at the University of California, appointed to the Experian plc board on Alan Jebson Irvine.
He also serves in an advisory capacity 1 January 2007.
Sir Alan Rudge for the Paul Merage School of Business, as David Tyler well as the Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences.
Chris was appointed to Nomination committee the Experian plc board on 1 April 2009.
John Peace Chairman Fabiola Arredondo Laurence Danon Roger Davis Alan Jebson Don Robert Sir Alan Rudge David Tyler Company Secretary Charles Brown FCIS Auditors  LLP Sir Alan Rudge 71 David Tyler 56 Senior Independent Director Non-executive director Sir Alan Rudge is Chairman of The ERA David Tyler is Chairman of Logica plc and a Foundation Limited and of the board of non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser management of the Royal Commission Group plc and Burberry Group plc where for the Exhibition of 1851.
He is Experians he chairs the remuneration committee.
Sir Alan was was Group Finance Director of the former Pro Chancellor of Surrey University until GUS plc until it was demerged into Experian December 2007, a non-executive director plc and Home Retail Group plc at the end of of the former GUS plc until October 2006, 2006.
His executive career in financial and President of CELTEL International B. V. and general management included time spent a non-executive director of S. E. S. A. AG with the former GUS plc from 1997, Christies until March 2005, Special Advisor to General from 1989, County NatWest from 1986 and Atlantic Partners until 2004, Chairman Unilever from 1974.
David has a degree in of ERA Technology until October 2003, Economics from Cambridge University, Chairman of WS Atkins until March 2001, and is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Deputy Chief Executive of BT until November Management Accountants and a member 1997.
He has a PhD in Electrical Engineering of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
and is a fellow of the Royal Society and David was appointed to the Experian plc the Royal Academy of Engineering, a past board on 6 July 2006.
Chairman of the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council and a past President of the Institution of Electrical Engineers.
Sir Alan was appointed to the Experian plc board on 6 September 2006.
