Introduction Business and market overview Experian provides information, analytical tools and marketing services to organisations around the world, ranging from small start-up businesses to multinational corporations.
Clients use these services to manage risk, find and retain customers, and automate decision-making.
Experian also helps individuals to manage their credit relationships and to minimise the risk of identity theft.
Principal activities Credit Services Decision Analytics Experians vision is for its people, data Credit Services helps organisations Decision Analytics enables and technology to become a necessary to acquire new customers for credit organisations with large customer part of every major consumer economy products, to predict and manage credit bases to manage and automate huge in the world.
risk, and to reduce their exposure to volumes of day-to-day decisions.
Experian maintains Experians clients include international The Group reports its financial very large, comprehensive databases banks, utility companies and public performance on a geographical basis that hold the credit application and service providers, who rely on its across four regions North America, repayment histories of millions of predictive tools and sophisticated Latin America, UK and Ireland and consumers and businesses.
The Group software to control decision-making at EMEA Asia Pacific.
Its activities in owns 13 consumer credit bureaux and all points of contact with customers.
these regions are grouped into four ten business credit bureaux and has an principal business lines: interest in a further two consumer and two business credit bureaux around the world.
Credit Services Decision Analytics Revenue by region Revenue by region North America 46% UK and Ireland 16% North America 24% UK and Ireland 47% Latin America 27% EMEA Asia Pacific 11% Latin America 2% EMEA Asia Pacific 27% Contribution to Group revenue Contribution to Group revenue 42% 13% Market position Experian is the global leader in its In consumer credit information, Experian is the market leader in the industry, with strong market positions.
Experian is one of three providers in provision of credit-related analytics The Group is nearly twice the size the US: the others are Equifax and and software in all geographies of its nearest peer and considerably TransUnion.
Experian is the clear other than the US, where Fair Isaac is broader in its capabilities and global market leader in both the UK and dominant.
There is also competition reach.
This diversity and balanced Brazil, and has leading positions in in individual markets from smaller, spread of revenues provides Experian many other countries.
with a degree of protection against fluctuations in economies, as well as In business information, Experian significant competitive advantage.
has leading positions in the UK and Brazil, and in a number of other Competition for Experians products markets.
Dun & Bradstreet is the only and services often comes in the form global competitor in this field.
There is no single competitor that operates across all four principal business lines, although the Group has a number of competitors within these activities.
4 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Business and market overview 8 43 44 72 73 148 Key facts Experian has over 100,000 clients across the world, with no single client accounting for more than 2% of group revenue.
The top ten clients account for 14% and the top 50 for 29% of global revenue.
Revenue by region in the year ended 31 March 2009: 55% of revenue came from North Marketing Services Interactive America, 12% from Latin America, 22% from UK and Ireland and 11% Marketing Services helps clients to find Interactive enables consumers to from EMEA Asia Pacific.
and retain customers, using the most manage and protect their personal appropriate channel and message.
credit files and to make more informed Revenue by activity in the year Experian gathers extensive geographic, purchasing decisions.
Experian ended 31 March 2009: 42% of demographic and lifestyle information provides credit reports directly to revenue came from Credit on consumers and businesses.
The consumers, together with credit scores Services, 13% from Decision data is used in conjunction with and tools for preventing identity theft.
Analytics, 20% from Marketing advanced analytical systems to enable It also provides businesses with lead Services and 25% from clients to profile their customers, generation by connecting them with Interactive.
undertake highly targeted campaigns consumers over the internet.
and measure their marketing success Experians customer base is rates and return on investment.
diverse, with 41% of revenue generated from financial services clients, 18% from direct-toconsumer, 14% from retail, home Marketing Services Interactive shopping and catalogue, 5% Revenue by region Revenue by region from telecommunications and utilities, 5% from government, public sector and education, and North America 46% UK and Ireland 36% North America 91% the balance from automotive, Latin America 2% EMEA Asia Pacific 16% UK and Ireland 9% insurance and media, publishing and advertising.
Contribution to Group revenue Contribution to Group revenue 2200% % 225% 1% Globally, Experian has approximately 450m consumer credit records and approximately In the US, large marketing Experians direct-to-consumer, 35m business credit records.
competitors for traditional direct credit information business is the marketing services include Acxiom clear market leader in both the US Experian employs approximately and Harte-Hanks.
In the US, competition is 15,000 people and has offices in elsewhere tends to be fragmented provided by Equifax, TransUnion, Fair 40 countries.
and specialist, particularly in new Isaac and other smaller specialists, media.
but Experian is more than twice the size of any of these competitors.
In the UK, competition is provided by Equifax and smaller niche players.
Experian Annual Report 2009 5 Introduction Business and market overview continued Growth drivers Strategy 2.
Drive profitable growth Experian has many growth In order to capitalise on the market Experian has excellent positions in opportunities and investing for future opportunities available to Experian its two end-markets of credit and growth is a cornerstone of its strategy.
and to drive long-term shareholder marketing and its aim is to drive Despite marketplace challenges value, the Group has centred its organic revenue growth by leveraging caused by the global recession, the strategy on three elements: its scale and focusing on best-inGroup has continued to deliver strong class performance.
financial performances due to the 1.
Focus on data and analytics flexibility and diversity of its business Experians core expertise lies in The Groups strategic framework model.
the ownership and operation of for driving profitable growth has the comprehensive databases about following components: Credit-related activities consumers and businesses.
From In the short term, Experian is a these it is able to extract significant - Increase global reach: by expanding beneficiary of increased demand for extra value by applying its own its global network and extending its countercyclical products, which proprietary analytics and software.
its existing capabilities into new help lenders calculate and preserve This combination of data and geographic and vertical markets.
capital and manage loan portfolio risk.
- Innovate to stay ahead: by promoting its culture of innovation In the medium term, growth prospects Experians principal business lines and investing in new data sources for Experians credit-related activities are characterised by their marketand enhanced analytics to deliver are underpinned by a number of leading positions, high barriers to significant value to clients.
factors: global demand for consumer entry, global reach and potential for - Drive operational excellence: by and business credit: increasing long-term growth, as well as their leveraging its global scale and demand for analytics that help attractive financial characteristics.
common platforms to allow it to institutions and consumers to predict deploy global products quickly into and manage lending risk and prevent The Group is therefore focusing new markets.
fraud: standardisation in technology its investment on developing these platforms amongst global financial core capabilities in order to build 3.
Optimise capital efficiency services clients: and growth in market-leading positions in credit Experian is committed to maintaining demand for Experians products from risk management and targeted a prudent, flexible and efficient outside the financial services industry, marketing.
It is also taking advantage balance sheet.
The Group aims to including telecommunications, of synergies across its credit and use its strong cash flow to reinvest utilities, public sector and the US marketing activities, where it can in the business to retain competitive healthcare payments sector.
leverage a significant number of data advantage and to make targeted management processes to serve acquisitions that fit its strategy and Marketing-related activities clients in both areas.
As credit New communication channels ratios improve, Experian will evaluate are driving growth in Experians additional opportunities for returning marketing-related activities.
There is surplus cash to shareholders via a growing requirement from around dividends or share repurchases.
the world for marketing campaigns that can be targeted more precisely, executed more quickly, coordinated 1 1 Revenue by activity Revenue by geography across multiple channels and delivered with a measurable return Credit Services North America on investment.
This is stimulating Decision Analytics Latin America increased demand for the type of Marketing Services UK and Ireland expertise, data and sophisticated Interactive EMEA Asia Pacific software and analytical tools in which Experian has invested.
1 1 Excludes discontinuing Excludes discontinuing activities activities 6 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Business and market overview 8 43 44 72 73 148 In return, Experian invests heavily in Experian invests heavily each year to Key resources ensuring employees have the right maintain complete, accurate and upPeople, data and technology are the environment and skills to perform to to-date information, while continuing resources that Experian considers to the best of their ability.
Employees to add new data sources that may be fundamental to its business.
are also actively involved in the be of value to its clients.
The major planning and direction of their work, database update of information from People at all levels in the organisation.
the UK Voters Roll was achieved in The management of talent is record time this year.
particularly critical to Experians Employee surveys and forums success and the Group invests provide valuable insights into the Experian is also the trusted steward over 40% of revenues in attracting, views of employees and their level of much sensitive information.
It developing and retaining people.
of engagement with the business.
has the obligation to protect this for Employees are drawn from as diverse Experians second Global People clients, who are the source of much a pool as possible and the ethnic Survey in 2009 achieved an 84% of the data, and for consumers, profile broadly reflects that of the employee participation, up from 73% who are the subjects of the data.
populations in which Experian the previous year, with improvements The Group therefore operates operates more detail can be found at across all survey categories.
very rigorous security and control www.
Experians performance is now at policies, which are reviewed on a or above the norm in ten out of 14 of regular basis.
Succession planning ensures that categories when compared with its appropriate leadership resources closest peer group of global financial Technology are in place to achieve Experians services companies.
Experians information technology strategic objectives, with plans IT systems are used to store, regularly reviewed by the nomination Data process and deliver the data that committee.
About two thirds of At the core of Experians strategy, forms the foundation of the business.
senior leadership appointments are and underlying its success, are The Group employs almost 1,200 IT the result of internal promotions.
comprehensive databases of credit specialists.
and marketing information on The Group assesses and rewards consumers and businesses.
The Innovation is at the heart of Experian employees according to their Group strives for market leadership and much of the technology provided contribution to the growth of the in each of the three key measures of to clients is developed, maintained business.
Success at Experian is also data capability - breadth, depth and and supported by in-house teams about personal fit with the culture quality.
and with the behaviours that are Significant efficiencies have valued by the organisation.
These been achieved in the year through behaviours are tracked and measured consolidation of infrastructure as part of a globally consistent facilities and resources.
1 1,2 Revenue by client Competitive position Revenue by industry Global revenue US$m Financial services Experian 55% 45% 3,821 Direct-to-consumer Top 10 clients Retail home shopping Equifax catalogue 80% 20% 1,936 Top 50 clients Telecom utility All other D&B 77% 23% 1,726 insurance Media publishing 1 Excludes discontinuing activities and individual Acxiom 85% 15% 1,384 advertising consumer revenue from Consumer Direct Automotive Harte-Hanks 91% 9% 1,083 Government public sector education Fair Isaac 67% 33% 745 Insurance North America International Other Source: Latest full-year revenue, company 10-K 1 Management estimate of percentage of revenue by vertical market 2 Excludes discontinuing activities Experian Annual Report 2009 7
