Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 08 Company Overview Board of Directors and Executive Committee The Board 1.
Raffaele Lucio Genovese 48 New World Resources NV, a subsidiary of The Board Independent Non-executive Director RPG Industries SE.
Kostyantin Zhevago Lucio Genovese joined the Board on 14 June graduated from the Kyiv State Economic 1.
He is the chief executive officer of University in 1996, specialising in Non-executive Chairman international economics.
Nage Capital Management, a Swiss-based Michael Abrahams joined the Board on advisory and proprietary company 14 June 2007.
He is chairman of the London 3.
Christopher Mawe, FCA 48 specialising in the metals and mining sector, Clinic, the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme Chief Financial Officer and serves on a number of boards of and imJack plc.
He was deputy chairman of Chris Mawe joined the Board on 7 January directors.
He has previously served as Prudential plc until May 2000, and has served 2008.
He qualified as a Chartered investment officer and a member of the as chairman and as a director of a number of Accountant with Coopers and Lybrand in board of Taj Investment Limited with quoted and unquoted companies.
1991, having gained a First Class Honours responsibility for its Indian public and private degree in Engineering.
He has held senior investment portfolio.
Kostyantin Zhevago 36 financial positions for the past 16 years, number of positions with Glencore Chief Executive Officer firstly with IMI plc both in the UK and International, including senior member of the Kostyantin Zhevago joined the Board as a Europe, and then with Carclo plc as finance Copper Division, CEO of CIS Operations, Non-executive Director on 14 June 2007 director.
Most recently he was finance manager of the Moscow office and trader in and was appointed Chief Executive on director of UK Coal plc.
He was an assistant 1 November 2008.
He is ultimately the manager in the Audit Division of controlling shareholder of Ferrexpo.
Oliver Baring 65  in South Africa.
been a member of the Ukrainian Parliament Senior Independent Non-executive He is a Chartered Accountant South Africa.
He is currently a member of the Director Parliamentary Committee on Law Policy Oliver Baring joined the Board on 6.
Wolfram Kuoni 43 and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group 1 December 2007.
He has been chairman Independent Non-executive Director for Inter-Parliamentary Relations with of Mwana Africa plc since its reverse Wolfram Kuoni joined the Board on 14 June Japan.
Since 2002, he has been a member takeover of African Gold plc in September 2007.
He is the founder and senior partner of of the permanent delegation of the 2005.
He retired from UBS Warburg in Kuoni Attorneys-at-Law, Zurich, Switzerland, Ukrainian Parliament in the Parliamentary 2001, having led the International Mining and serves on a number of boards of Assembly of the European Council and a Group with responsibility for Africa and directors.
He has over 12 years of experience member of the Ukrainian faction of the Europe.
Previously he had been head of in investment banking.
Prior to 2005, he held Committee for Parliamentary Cooperation the UBS Warburg mining equity sales a number of positions within UBS Investment between Ukraine and the European Union.
team and was responsible for its Banking Zurich and New York, including He has previously served as chairman of respected coverage and sales capability.
head of the European Export and Project the management board and deputy He was a partner in Rowe and Pitman Finance Team.
He also originated and chairman of the supervisory board of CJSC before its merger with SG Warburg.
He is structured cross-border acquisitions and Commercial Bank Finance and Credit non-executive chairman of First Africa equity capital markets transactions.
He Finance and Credit Bank and as a Holdings Limited, and is a non-executive graduated with a law degree from the member of the supervisory board of JSC director of Blackrock World Mining Trust University of Berne, and holds Ukrnafta.
Between 1993 and 1996, he was plc, and a member of the Advisory Council a doctorate in law from the University of financial director of Finance and Credit of Sentient Resources Fund.
Zurich and an MBA from INSEAD in France.
He is a non-executive director of He is a member of the Zurich Bar.
Company Overview Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
Ihor Mitiukov 57 Viktor Lotous 45 Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Chief Operating Officer, Ferrexpo Marek Jelinek joined the Board on 27 Ihor Mitiukov joined the Board on 14 June Poltava Mining March 2009.
He is chief financial officer of 2007.
He is the managing director and head Viktor Lotous joined Ferrexpo Poltava New World Resources NV NWR a of country for Ukraine, Morgan Stanley.
He is a graduate of Kryvy subsidiary of RPG Industries SE and he was the general director of the Financial Rih Mining and Ore Institute, and of the has also been a member of the board of Policy Institute until March 2008.
From 2002 Kyiv State Economic University, directors of OKD since his appointment on to 2005 he served as Extraordinary and specialising in Finance.
Within NWR, he is Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Ukraine in engineer in 1997 and General Director and responsible for the restructuring activities the United Kingdom.
He also represented Chief Operating Officer in April 2007. within the NWR Group and the build-up of Ukraine in the International Maritime NWRs headquarters team, including the Organisation.
From 1997 to 2001 he served Simon Wandke 50 group-wide finance and treasury as Minister of Finance of Ukraine and, from Chief Marketing Officer functions.
In 2007 and 2008 he led the 1995 to 1997, as Ukraines Special Simon Wandke joined the Group in 2006. groups bond issue and the successful Representative with Vice-Prime Ministerial He was vice president strategy for the Initial Public Offering in London, Prague status to the European Union in Brussels.
In Minerals Group and vice president coal, and Warsaw.
He was a director of Bakala 1994, he was deputy governor of the iron ore and HBI marketing at BHP Billiton Crossroads Partners a. s. formerly RPG National Bank of Ukraine and then Viceuntil 2001.
Before was a partner of Destra Consulting Group Prime Minister of Ukraine for Banking and joining the RPG Group in December 2004, in Melbourne, specialising in Change Finance.
Prior to that, he held various he worked in the corporate finance Management.
Simon Wandke is a positions at Agrarian-Industrial Bank department at Patria Finance, a Prague graduate of the University of Melbourne in Ukraine, and was appointed as its deputy based investment banking boutique, from Psychology and Marketing, and completed governor in 1992.
He graduated from the post graduate studies in Corporate from the Cybernetics Department, Kyiv State Anglo-American College in Prague in 1995 Finance at Swinburne University, Australia.
University and has a PhD in Economics with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1985 from the Institute of Economy, Business Administration.
David Webster 58 Academy of Sciences Ukraine.
Chief Projects Officer Dave Webster joined the Group in June 8.
Miklos Salamon 55 The Executive Committee 2006.
He previously spent five years as Non-executive Director project director with ProMet in Australia Mike Salamon joined the Board on 27 March Kostyantin Zhevago and before that spent 25 years at BHP 2009.
He is executive chairman of New Chief Executive Officer Billiton specialising in business World Resources NV, a subsidiary of RPG See profile under The Board performance and strategic planning.
He is also a non-executive has overall responsibility for the Groups member of the board of directors of OKD, Christopher Mawe, FCA growth projects both at its existing GPL Co-President of AMCI Capital and a Chief Financial Officer mine and its planned new mines.
He has a non-executive director of Central Rand Gold See profile under The Board Bachelor of Metallurgy degree from the and of Gem Diamonds.
With a career University of Newcastle.
spanning more than 30 years, recently with Nikolay Goroshko 50 BHP Billiton, he has extensive knowledge of Chief Financial Officer, Yeristovo Project the international mining and extractive Nikolay Goroshko has worked for Ferrexpo industries.
Between 2003 and 2006, he Poltava Mining since 1984.
He is a served as an executive director of BHP graduate of the Kyiv Institute of National Billiton with responsibilities for the Economics, specialising in Industrial aluminium, copper and nickel businesses.
He was Acting Group Chief From 2001 to 2006, he also chaired BHP Financial Officer in April 2007 and Chief Billitons Operating Committee, which was Commercial Officer in charge of the accountable for inter alia the BHP Billiton Groups Growth Projects in December groups health, safety and environment, 2007 prior to his current role.
projects, purchasing and operating excellence.
In 2001 Mr. Salamon oversaw Nikolay Kladiev 37 the merger integration of Billiton plc and Chief Financial Officer, Ferrexpo Poltava BHP Limited.
He was a co-founding director Mining of Billiton plc in 1997, and oversaw the Nikolay Kladiev joined FPM in June 2005. companys listing on the London Stock Over the course of his career Nikolay Exchange in 1997.
Before 1997 he held a Kladiev spent several years as an audit number of positions, first at Anglo American manager with Ernst & Young and CFO of a and later in the coal divisions of Shell and large Russian factory.
He holds a Masters Gencor Ltd.
He graduated in 1975 from The in International Economic Relations from University of the Witwatersrand, the Kyiv National University of Economics.
Johannesburg with a degree in Mining Engineering Cum Laude and obtained an MBA from the London Business School, University of London in 1981.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www www.. f fe er rr re ex xp po.
c o. co om m 10 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www www.. f fe er rr re ex xp po.
c o. co om m 11 12 Key Performance Indicators 14 Overview 17 Operating Review 24 Financial Review 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Review Business Review
