Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 56 Corporate Governance Directors Report The Directors present their report to shareholders for the financial Details of the remuneration of the Directors, their interests in year ending 31 December 2009. shares of the Company and service contracts are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 55.
The Company was incorporated under the name Ferrexpo plc as a public company limited by shares on 22 April 2005.
Ferrexpo Appointment and replacement of Directors plc listed on the London Stock Exchange in June 2007 and is a Directors may be elected by the shareholders by ordinary member of the FTSE 250 index.
resolution or appointed by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next following AGM and is Business review then eligible for election by the shareholders.
A review of the business, its principal activities and likely future developments can be found in the sections listed below which In accordance with the Articles, at each AGM one-third of the are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The Directors who are subject to retirement by rotation, or if this pages referred to incorporate all requirements of section 417 number is not three or a multiple of three, the number nearest to Companies Act 2006 the Act, including details of the principal but not less than one-third, will retire from office and stand for risks and uncertainties facing the Group and analysis using Key re-election.
New Directors appointed since the last AGM are not Performance Indicators as set out in the Business Review.
taken into account in determining the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation.
If any Director has served more than Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Review on pages 4 three years since his last appointment, or if he has served more to 7. than eight years as a Non-executive Director, he must also stand the Business Review on pages 12 to 39 including the for re-election.
Corporate Social Responsibility Review on pages 32 to 39.
Powers of the Directors Directors duties Subject to the Companys Articles, the Act and any directions The duties of Directors are set out in sections 170 to 177 of the given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be Act.
The duties that are specifically referred to in the Corporate managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of Governance Report on pages 42 to 47 include the duties under the Company.
section 172 to promote the success of the Company, section 175 to avoid conflicts of interest, section 176 not to accept Directors and Officers insurance benefits from third parties, and section 177 to declare any The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability interests in existing or proposed transactions or arrangements Insurance in respect of legal action that may be brought with the Company.
against its Directors and Officers.
Results and dividends Directors indemnity provision During the period under review, the Group had in force a Results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income qualifying third-party indemnity provision in favour of one or more Statement on page 64. of the Directors of Ferrexpo plc against liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, subject to the conditions The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.3 US cents per set out in the Act.
Subject to shareholders approving this recommendation at the Annual General Meeting the AGM, the Share capital and rights attaching to the dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling on 4 June 2010 to Companys shares shareholders on the register at the close of business on 30 April The Company has a single class of Ordinary Shares of 10p each.
Shareholders may receive UK pounds sterling dividends by direct bank transfer, provided that they have notified the Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, Companys registrars in advance.
Shareholders may also elect to shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the receive dividends in US dollars the procedure for this is set out in Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no the Notice of the AGM.
such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
At each AGM, the Board proposes to Directors put in place annual shareholder authority for the Companys The Directors of the Company who served during the year were: Directors to allot new shares in accordance with the guidelines of Michael Abrahams the Investor Protection Committee.
Oliver Baring Lucio Genovese Details of the issued share capital of the Company are shown in Marek Jelinek appointed 27 March 2009 note 30 of the financial statements.
On 1 October 2009 changes Wolfram Kuoni to the Articles took effect in line with the Acts abolition of the Chris Mawe requirement for companies to have an authorised share capital.
Ihor Mitiukov Mike Salamon appointed 27 March 2009 Variation of rights Kostyantin Zhevago Subject to the provisions of the Act, the rights attached to a class of shares may be varied or abrogated either with the consent in In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company writing of the holders of at least three-quarters of the nominal the Articles, Messrs Jelinek, Mawe and Mitiukov will retire by amount of the issued shares of that class excluding any shares rotation at the forthcoming AGM.
Mr Jelinek does not seek of that class held as treasury shares or with the sanction of a re-election at the AGM.
Messrs Mawe and Mitiukov, being special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
the issued shares of that class validly held in accordance with the Articles.
Further details about the Directors and their roles within the Group are given in the Directors biographies on pages 8 and 9.
Corporate Governance Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 57 Voting Transfer of shares At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one Any share in the Company may be held in uncertificated form vote on a show of hands and on a poll, one vote for each share and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares may be held.
Under the Act, members are entitled to appoint a proxy or transferred by means of a relevant system.
Registration of a proxies to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the vote at a general meeting.
A member that is a corporation may circumstances set out in the Uncertificated Securities appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general Regulations 2001 and where, in the case of a transfer to joint meeting as a corporate representative.
holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
Restrictions on voting No member is entitled to vote at any general meeting in respect Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his of any shares held by him if any call or other sum outstanding in certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form respect of that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares or in any other form which the Board may approve.
In addition, subject to the Articles no member shall may decline to register a transfer of a certificated share if it is not be entitled to vote if he has failed to provide the Company with in the approved form.
The Board may also decline to register any information concerning interests in those shares required to be transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
The Board provided under the Act.
may decline to register a transfer of any of the Companys certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% or greater interest if Shares held in the EBT such a person has been served with a notice and has failed The trustees of the Company employee benefit trust EBT may within 14 days to provide the Company with information vote or abstain from voting on shares held in the EBT as they concerning interests in those shares required to be provided think fit and in doing so may take into account both financial and under the Act, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be non financial interests of the beneficiaries of the EBT or their pursuant to an arms length sale.
Repurchase of shares Deadline for voting rights Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Act.
Any of not less than 48 hours before the meeting.
The Directors will shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury also specify in the notice of any general meeting a time, being not shares or cancelled immediately upon completion of more that 48 hours before the meeting, by which a person must the purchase.
be entered in the register of members in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting The Directors may decide, at their The Company was given authority to make market purchases of discretion, that no account should be taken of any day that is not up to approximately 10% of its existing Ordinary Share capital by a working day when calculating the 48 hour period.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Companys 2010 AGM.
A special resolution to renew the authority will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of the resolution renewing the authority to purchase Ordinary Shares are set out in the notice of Annual General Meeting enclosed with this report.
The Company did not make use of the authority mentioned above during 2009.
Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Act, the shareholders may by ordinary resolution, from time to time, declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends and also any fixed rate dividends whenever the financial position of the Group, in the opinion of the Board, justifies their payment.
Under the Companys Articles, the Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% or greater interest as defined in the Articles if such person has been served with a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has failed within 14 days to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Acts.
com 58 Corporate Governance Directors Report continued Substantial shareholdings As at 14 March 2010, the following major interests in the Ordinary Shares of the Company had been notified to the Company: % of the Companys Ordinary Number of total voting rights Name of shareholder Shares voting rights at date of notification 1 Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. 300,198,313 300,198,313 51.00% 2 Wigmore Street Investments No.
3 Ltd 147,156,035 147,156,035 24.99% 1 Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Minco Trust of which Kostyantin Zhevago is a beneficiary.
3 Ltd is a wholly owned subsidiary of RPG Industries SE.
Significant agreements There are no circumstances connected with significant agreements to which the Company is a party that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid, except those referred to below: Long-Term Incentive Plan The rules of the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan set out the consequences of a change of control of the Company on employee rights under the plan.
Generally, such rights will vest on a change of control to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied and on a time pro-rated basis, subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Participants will become entitled to acquire shares in the Company, or in some cases, to the payment of a cash sum of equivalent basis.
Bank loan facility Under the US$230 million pre-export finance facility with Deutsche Bank AG and other banks, entered into in November 2009, if Kostyantin Zhevago ceases to own directly or indirectly at least 50% plus one share of the Company, any of the lenders is entitled to demand repayment of its commitment.
Relationship Agreement Details of the Relationship Agreement entered into between Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Kostyantin Zhevago, The Minco Trust and the Company can be found in the Business Review page 27 and in the Corporate Governance Report page 43.
The Relationship Agreement ceases to apply if the holding of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. The Minco Trust or Mr Zhevago individually or collectively falls below 25% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Events since the balance sheet date Information on events since the balance sheet date is provided in note 44 to the financial statements on page 110.
Market value of land and buildings Land is carried in the balance sheet at deemed cost resulting from a valuation undertaken on 1 January 2003 as part of the Groups transition to reporting under IFRS.
It is not practicable to estimate the market value of land and mineral reserves and resources at each balance sheet date.
Policy on derivatives and financial instruments The Group does not hold any derivative financial instruments.
Group policy on financial instruments is set out in note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Information on pages 72 to 73.
Creditor payment policy and practice It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between the Company and its suppliers, provided that all relevant trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
The average creditor payment period for the period ended 31 December 2009 for the Company was 27 days 2008: 28 days.
Charitable and political donations The Group made no political donations during the year.
Group donations to charities worldwide were US$4,043,000 2008: US$6,081,000, with UK charities receiving US$nil 2008: US$nil.
Risk management policies Full details of the Groups policy on risk and uncertainty and an overview of the Groups exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks are set out in note 41 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information on pages 102 to 109.
Further references to risk are made in the Business Review on pages 28 to 31 and the Internal Control section of the Corporate Governance Report on page 46 which provides a summary of the internal control procedures put in place by the Board to identify key risks and review risk management and its effectiveness.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound financial position and that it has access to sufficient borrowing facilities and can reasonably expect those facilities to be available to meet the Groups foreseeable cash requirements.
com 59 Corporate governance statement The Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2 require certain information to be included in a corporate governance statement set out in a companys Directors Report.
In common with many companies, Ferrexpo has an existing practice of issuing, within its annual report, a Corporate Governance Report that is separate from its Directors Report.
The information that fulfils the requirements of DTR 7.2 is located in Ferrexpos Corporate Governance Report on pages 42 to 47 and is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference, with the exception of the information referred to in DTR 7.2.
6, which is located in this Directors Report.
Statement on disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware, and that each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
A Statement of the Responsibilities of the Directors for preparing the Group and Company financial statements is set out on page 60.
Amendments to Articles of Association The Articles may be amended by special resolution in accordance with the Act.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 11.00am on Thursday 27 May 2010 at Grosvenor House, Park Lane, London W1K 7TN.
A separate letter from the Chairman summarising the business of the meeting and the Notice convening the AGM have been sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
Auditors Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the existing auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, be reappointed.
Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and an ordinary resolution reappointing them as auditors and authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
This report was approved by the Board on 22 March 2010.
David Leonard Company Secretary Ferrexpo plc Registered Office: 24 King Street London SW1Y 6QL Registered number: 5432915 Headquarters: Bahnhofstrasse 13 CH6340 Baar Switzerland
