Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5 Directors report market review There has been an increased requirement for automated and smart trading solutions and more focus on multi-asset class support.
1 Across the market a number of trends are expected to develop Market review further in 2010.
Fragmentation of liquidity is expected to increase with more firms making use of the existing alternative trading Introduction venues and the venues themselves spreading into the regions As 2009 progressed, a degree of stability returned to the financial allowing more cost effective execution across the world.
However, the effects of the events of 2008 continued to market participants also look set to continue their regional be felt with significant cost pressure throughout the industry.
This expansion as they look to leverage their core franchise more resulted in higher levels of consolidation and business closure widely and a similar driver is also likely to fuel multi-asset particularly amongst Fidessas buy-side and smaller sell-side requirements across both the buy-side and the sell-side.
There is customers, with a total of around 12 significant customers either also an expectation that there will be a closer alliance between ceasing trading or consolidating with another firm during 2009. the buy-side and sell-side from a technology perspective, as Fidessas larger customers on the sell-side, where the conditions buy-side firms look at different models to fund their technology in 2008 resulted in capacity being rapidly removed from the requirements, increasingly bringing this funding inside their total market, saw somewhat of a resurgence in 2009 as these firms execution cost.
benefited from stabilised balance sheets and were able to expand in a less competitive market.
After the crisis in 2008 there was a strong expectation across the industry of increased regulation.
This regulation failed to Although there has been some negative impact from the market materialise in 2009 and it is now widely expected that it will start conditions, some of the changes have been beneficial for Fidessa, to take shape in 2010.
Some of the options being publicly aired such as increased fragmentation of liquidity as participants search are quite radical and at the present time it is very difficult to for lower cost execution.
There has also been an increased predict what the impact of this will be on the financial industry requirement for automated and smart trading solutions and more and consequently on Fidessa.
Many of Fidessas customers are focus on multi-asset class support and cross border trading as all looking closely at possible regulation and tax changes and it is participants seek to leverage their cost base to maximum effect.
expected that there may be some relocation of elements of these customers' businesses as they look to optimise their locations in Although there has been acute pressure across the market to the light of new regulation.
Overall, whilst the impact of new reduce headcount, this has not been reflected in the number of regulation is currently very much unknown, it is likely to result in users taking Fidessa solutions as any losses have been more than changes to workflow, increased reporting requirements and may offset by gains from new customer wins.
There has also been no even lead to the break up of some firms, reversing the impact of reduction in the transaction volumes across Fidessas network as the consolidation seen recently.
All of these are likely to be positive Fidessa has continued to win market share.
The total number of for Fidessa as they result in increased demand for world class Fidessa positions increased to over 24,500 from around 22,000 compliance and automation solutions which can operate in the at the end of 2008 and the total number of messages across new environment in an extremely cost effective way.
Fidessas global connectivity network increased by around 40% to 250 million messages per month.
1 The Market Review addresses the structure of the marketplace and therefore differs from the segment reporting which reflects the structure of the business operations focused on the method of delivery to the marketplace.
Fidessa group plc Directors report market review continued 6 Interest continues for solutions to assist with compliance and operational control.
This is an area in which Fidessa is particularly well positioned.
The focus on total cost of ownership has also driven buy-side Buy-side trading During 2009 the markets have been challenging for buy-side firms to consider hosted solutions as an alternative to owning and operating their own technology.
At the end of 2009 Fidessa firms with an unpredictable investment climate combined with pressure on fee income.
This has resulted in a number of buy-side launched LatentZero as a Service, giving customers the opportunity to access a comprehensive workflow solution at a firms reviewing their operations and significant consolidation within the industry including at larger firms.
There has, however, very attractive price.
The solution leverages the infrastructure, data centres, network and high quality data services that Fidessa been a continued stream of additional projects mainly focused around reducing the total cost of ownership of the systems that already has in place for its sell-side operations.
This has manifested in customers looking for wider asset class support within the Fidessa LatentZero product set so that The Fidessa LatentZero execution management workstation EMS, which provides order routing and execution tools for they can maximise the value they get from these products across their business.
non-member firms to trade financial markets, has continued to expand its customer base with the addition of over 30 customers.
In anticipation of additional regulation of the financial markets, In addition to the new customers, the attraction of the Fidessa LatentZero EMS as a means for accessing brokers has resulted in interest continues for solutions to assist with compliance and operational control.
This is an area in which Fidessa is particularly an increase of more than 50% in the total number of connections taken through the product as existing customers increase their well positioned and Fidessas lead was once again confirmed when the Fidessa LatentZero compliance module, Sentinel, took usage.
During 2009 Fidessa has continued to invest in the EMS product adding support for program and basket trading as well as Product of the Year at the Buy-Side Technology Awards as well as being named best buy-side compliance product for the second introducing support for US equity options.
All of this functionality successfully went live during 2009 and is expected to contribute year running.
Fidessa plans to build on this lead with further investment planned throughout 2010. to further growth for this product during 2010.
Global connectivity During 2009 Fidessa has continued to make progress with the Despite challenging market conditions, the rising demand for buy-side in Asia, with LIM Advisors Limited, an Asian-based electronic connectivity for trading the worlds financial markets multi-strategy investment group with approximately US$900 has continued unabated.
Changing regulations mean the number million in assets under management, successfully going live with of new alternative trading venues is increasing and the the full Fidessa LatentZero front office suite.
Fidessa has also corresponding fragmentation of liquidity across these new venues, been successful in China, where the introduction of the QDII rules as well as across traditional exchanges, persists.
This, combined Qualified Domestic International Investor has enabled some with factors such as the growing demand for high performance, larger Chinese asset managers to invest outside of China.
These low-latency trading links, has helped fuel the on-going growth of firms need access to the best available technology to support their Fidessas leading global connectivity solution.
international business strategy and Fidessa has already signed its first Chinese customers.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7 The rising demand for electronic connectivity for trading the worlds financial markets has continued unabated.
Many buy-side firms are now looking to spread their trading risk During 2009, the Fidessa network has continued to expand and by connecting electronically to a large number of sell-side brokers now encompasses over 2,300 buy-side firms, around 500 sell-side instead of just a few.
This, coupled with a desire to cover more brokers and connects to 130 trading venues around the world.
asset classes as well as more international markets, means they Usage of the network has continued to rise too with a 40% now need connectivity to a more diverse selection of brokers and increase in traffic to around 250 million messages per month venues around the globe.
The communications infrastructure which carries a business flow of around $640 billion dollars on a needed to facilitate all this is large and complex, and their desire monthly basis.
Advanced trading practices such as algorithmic to outsource is helping to drive the need for comprehensive trading and high frequency trading have helped fuel the connectivity solutions such as Fidessas.
expansion of network activity as well as drive the need for super fast, highly resilient connectivity.
Sell-side firms too are looking to diversify the services they offer and expand their geographic reach as they strive to succeed in an In response to all this Fidessa has continued with its investment in increasingly competitive world.
Many of their new services such as its network infrastructure, with larger, faster network pipes and algorithmic trading systems, dark pools and smart order routing expanded data centre facilities.
Coverage has also been extended services are reliant on fast communications links, and so the desire with the addition of new venues and broker services covering from both the buy-side and sell-side for electronic connectivity to more derivatives markets, such as US stock options, and further access these new services continues.
The ever evolving market penetration into regions such as Asia, Latin America and the landscape presents additional challenges to the brokers too, as Middle East.
This investment will continue in 2010 with new data changing regulations drive the emergence of new venues, the centres and network hubs planned to support the emerging launch of new services from existing venues and the ongoing regions, and the use of high-performance market gateways fragmentation of liquidity around the world.
All this means these co-located at trading venue premises to provide ultra-low latency brokers need fast, comprehensive market connectivity to ensure market access.
they can continue to offer attractive services to their clients as well as meet their obligations to achieve best possible transaction Hand in hand with trading connectivity comes the need for fast prices for them.
and accurate market data and Fidessa has continued its push in this area by expanding further its global data coverage and Fidessa believes that the interaction between buy-side and launching new data services within its product set.
As new sell-side firms will become increasingly electronic, driven by lower trading venues continue to appear, the provision of instrument cost, improved compliance, a growing familiarity with electronic prices and other market information from all these new systems trading and a desire to standardise on common mechanism.
Hence, Fidessa has continued to extend As such Fidessa believes that over time sell-side firms will have the geographic reach of its data service to match its trading electronic connections to virtually all their clients making this an venues by adding additional markets in Asia, Latin America exciting growth market for Fidessa.
In order to encourage this and the Middle East as well as by adding new data sets such Fidessa is at the forefront of making electronic communication as unit trust coverage.
more cost effective by reducing the overall cost of each link to the participants.
Fidessa group plc 8 Directors report market review continued Fidessa has continued to make good progress with its sell-side offerings taking orders for around 70 new sell-side trading platforms spread across all regions.
This expansion of coverage will continue in 2010 with fixed During 2009 market conditions resulted in many of Fidessas income content becoming a particular area of focus.
The smaller hosted customers seeing continued pressure on their comprehensive market data that Fidessa collects and distributes margins.
This has had an inevitable impact on Fidessa with some across its global network is fast becoming a valuable asset in its of these customers reducing the level of service that they took or own right, and the company is now looking to start leveraging exploring alternatives.
However, the same pressure also benefited this capability further through new product initiatives over the Fidessa with some customers looking to take Fidessa services and coming year.
switch from other suppliers in order to reduce their costs while maintaining the level of quality and reliability that they need.
As Fidessas network of buy-side and sell-side customers continues to expand, its real power and value is coming to the fore as other Within Fidessas larger enterprise customers, an appetite for brokers, destinations and investment firms all clamour to become expansion developed during 2009 with many of these customers part of this important global trading community.
This Fidessa looking to extend the service that they offer or increase the community is now seen as a vital link for those serious about support they provide within different geographies.
As a result, trading the worlds financial markets, and the reach it gives to firms Fidessa saw increased demand for support of the Latin American, joining it provides them with a valuable asset that they can Nordic and Russian markets with firms looking to support flows in leverage to significantly grow their own business.
these regions from within their global platform.
Development of these markets is expected to continue into 2010 and will provide Sell-side trading further growth opportunities within these regions as well as Fidessa has continued to make good progress with its sell-side opportunity to extend the breadth of service Fidessa is able to offerings, despite the market conditions, taking orders for around offer to existing customers.
Growth is also expected to continue 70 new sell-side trading platforms spread across all regions.
This across the Canadian market where volumes are rising as a result has been driven by continued pressure for customers to of increased electronic trading.
In this market demand from implement tools to reduce their operating costs, coupled with smaller brokers is expected to grow as the market regulator demand for new services to help customers leverage the ensures firms comply with market integrity rules meaning that operations they already have in place.
In particular, there has been the smaller brokers will require access to more sophisticated increased demand for Fidessas suite of advanced trading tools, technology.
increased interest in global trading services and demand developing for high frequency trading.
Fidessas success has also Fidessa's success in Asia continued with strong growth for the continued within the derivative markets with 17 customers now sell-side platform with six additional customers signed.
Interest in making use of Fidessas support for derivative markets.
These the region has increased as US and European firms expand their services range from full member trading solutions through to operations to take advantage of greater growth opportunities in non-member trading solutions taking advantage of the derivative this area of the world and local firms respond with more robust brokers now available through Fidessa's global connectivity and global solutions.
A number of key central markets in the network.
In the US there has also been particular success with region are upgrading their systems, increasing their performance Fidessas support for US equity options and this is an area which and making more complex trading strategies possible.
This is expected to grow throughout 2010. enables Fidessa to provide advanced trading tools within the Annual Report and Accounts 2009 9 Fidessas estimate of its addressable market has increased to $3.7bn of annual revenue despite the recent events in the markets.
There is also increasing interest in low touch trading with During 2010 Fidessa expects that many of the key drivers seen firms looking to increase their ability to support DMA Direct during 2009 will continue, with the focus on regional expansion, Market Access flows.
Fragmentation looks likely to become an advanced trading tools, continued fragmentation and multi-asset increasingly important element within the region with the launch class support.
It is expected that competition between execution of Chi-East scheduled for later in 2010.
Fidessa is also seeing venues will continue to drive development of the core exchange strong interest in India, Thailand and Indonesia as these markets platforms and we expect to see a number of major upgrades develop further.
including one at the London Stock Exchange which plans to migrate its main cash market from TradElect to the new Fidessa has continued to invest in the Japanese market MillenniumIT platform.
All of these upgrades are expected supporting the Tokyo Stock Exchanges TSE arrowhead initiative.
to create opportunities for new services to be offered within Fidessa worked closely with the TSE during 2009 to test these markets.
arrowhead and ensure that Fidessas trading platform made full use of all the benefits offered by the new system.
Fidessa's Market sizing solution was independently verified to provide the lowest latency Following the events of 2008, Fidessa has conducted a further and highest throughput available for this market.
The majority of exercise to look at the potential market size for its products.
The the leading brokers in Japan use Fidessa as their execution exercise was comparable to exercises carried out by Fidessa in platform and all were able to go live seamlessly on day one of the 2005 and 2007.
It should be noted that this exercise involves new arrowhead system.
The launch of arrowhead is expected to estimation of the number of potential customers in the market, change the landscape for trading in Japan by fuelling further the estimation of customer spend and assumptions regarding the demand for algorithmic trading systems, as well as stimulating applicability of Fidessa products to certain markets and the results interaction between the main exchanges and alternative dark and are necessarily subjective.
The conclusion of the market sizing lit trading venues.
shows Fidessa's estimate of its addressable market has increased to $3.7bn of annual revenue 2007: $2.3bn despite the recent Fidessas strength in the US market was reaffirmed again in events in the markets.
The primary reasons for this are the 2009 when Fidessa was voted Best Sell-side Order Management increased coverage of Fidessa's products, particularly in the areas System OMS in the annual Waters magazine readers' rankings.
of derivative trading, and Fidessa's belief that some product This was the second straight year Fidessa has won top position areas, such as execution workstations and connectivity services, have wider applicability than originally assumed.
