Fidessa group plc 2 Directors report overview Despite the challenging market conditions Fidessa has continued to deliver high growth for 2009 as a whole.
rate of growth in 2010 will be as high as that seen during 2009.
Overview Overall, we expect that 2010 will bring more clarity around the future structure of the financial industry and we are confident Despite the challenging market conditions Fidessa has continued that Fidessa will continue to play an important role in to deliver high growth for 2009 as a whole.
This growth has providing the solutions the industry needs.
As a result, we benefited from sterling's weakness compared to the prior year but expect that we will see further significant growth opportunities even at constant currency the underlying growth rate is still strong and will maintain our strategy of investment in the business across the year.
as we develop these solutions across all the regions in which we operate.
Whilst stability started to return to the market during 2009, conditions remained difficult for much of the year with customers Results under pressure to reduce their costs and higher levels of In 2009 strong growth in revenue has been achieved, up 26% consolidation across the industry.
During 2009 we have seen a to 238.5 million 2008: 189.1 million.
The growth has been mixture of conditions within our customer base, with some assisted by sterling's weakness, especially in the early part of the expanding to take advantage of market improvements whilst year.
At constant currencies the revenue growth was 17%.
The others are still finding conditions extremely challenging with global financial crisis of 2008 has resulted in some impact on the pressure particularly acute across our buy-side customers.
Overall, growth rate because of insolvencies, sector consolidation and cost we have been able to make good progress across both existing cutting.
In the absence of these events the growth in 2009 could accounts and new business lines, enabling our customers to take have been at least six percentage points higher.
There has been advantage of new opportunities that are arising whilst also some evidence of a slowing in the frequency of these events, helping them to control the costs of operating their core business.
but the time delay in them being fully reflected in revenue means The strength of our business has been reflected in a number of that the impact on revenue in 2010 may be slightly greater than key metrics including the number of users of our services and the that in 2009. transaction volumes going through our network.
This strength has also been reflected in our cash balance which has enabled us to Recurring revenue continued to provide the momentum growing declare a special dividend of 40p, the third time we have been by 32% to be 81% of revenue 2008: 77%.
Growth continued able to return cash to shareholders in this way.
to be strong across all regions and consultancy revenue grew by 5% to 44.6 million, representing 19% of total revenue.
The Through the end of 2009 market conditions have steadily deferred revenue in the balance sheet at the end of the year was improved.
However, we expect that the macroeconomic situation 47.7 million, an increase of 25% in the year and represents and the possibility of government regulation will continue to make around a fifth of 2009 revenue which can all be recognised in 2010 particularly difficult to predict.
On the assumption that the current financial year.
markets remain reasonably stable we believe that we can continue to deliver good growth for 2010 as a whole.
However, the impact Looking at the breakdown of recurring revenue across Fidessa's of higher levels of consolidation and business closures within our areas of focus, indicative values for the year are that 122 million customer base during 2009, will inevitably have some effect on our 2008: 91 million arose from sell-side trading, 14 million growth during 2010.
As a result we do not believe that the overall Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3 Recurring revenue continued to provide the momentum growing by 32% to be 81% of revenue.
2008: 12 million from buy-side trading, 37 million The cash tax rate continues to be materially lower than the charge 2008: 27 million arose from connectivity and 21 million in the income statement and was 28.5% in the period.
Diluted earnings per share, adjusted for the operating profit Strong growth in EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, adjustments and to exclude the notional interest charge and depreciation and amortisation and adjusted for capitalised Touchpaper gains, which the directors believe provides a better product development and operating profit has also been indication of the underlying performance of the business, have achieved.
EBITDA has increased by 41% to 43.5 million increased by 33% to 68.8 pence 2008: 51.8 pence.
The adjusted operating profit was up 34% diluted earnings per share were 58.9 pence 2008: 79.1 pence, to 36.0 million 2008: 26.8 million.
This represents an a decrease of 26% due to 2008 including the majority of the operating margin of 15.1% for the year, up from 14.2% for Touchpaper gain.
The profit growth has also been assisted by sterling being weaker and at constant currencies the adjusted operating profit The business continues to be strongly cash generative closing the growth was 23%.
The adjusted operating profit has been year with a cash balance of 45.5 million 2008: 33.1 million measured before the amortisation of acquired intangibles and and no debt.
The market conditions impacted cash collections with the settlement of the patent dispute and Lehman Brothers in the first half of the year but an improving trend has been receivable write off removed from the comparable period.
The noticeable in the second half, contributing to the positive working unadjusted operating profit was up 33% to 29.9 million 2008: capital performance for the year.
During the year the final part 22.5 million.
In order to be more prudent and consistent, the of the contingent consideration for the LatentZero acquisition estimated lives of the complete technology and marketing related was paid and capital expenditure was 6% of revenue.
The net intangible assets arising from the LatentZero acquisition have cash generated from operating activities was 60.3 million, been reduced and as a result the amortisation of the acquisition representing an operating cash conversion rate of 167%.
intangibles has increased to 6.1 million 2008: 2.6 million.
A second interim dividend has been declared by the directors in In 2008 the disposal of the investment in Touchpaper provided a place of a final dividend for 2009.
The second interim dividend is material gain and this, combined with the reduction in interest 60.0p per share and comprises 20.0p per share as a replacement rates on bank and other deposits, accounts for the decrease in for a final dividend for 2009 and 40.0p per share as a special finance income to 1.2 million 2008: 13.9 million.
In 2009 dividend, in recognition of the strong growth in the cash balance.
income of 1.0 million has been recognised relating to the This will be the third occasion that the Group has returned cash to Touchpaper disposal as one of the retentions was settled and the shareholders in the form of a special dividend.
The second interim potential receipt from the remaining retention was reassessed.
dividend will be payable on 29th March 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5th March 2010, with an The underlying tax rate was 33.3%, being an improvement from ex-dividend date of 3rd March 2010. the 35.5% incurred in 2008.
This measure excludes the effect of the majority of the Touchpaper gains being non-taxable.
The effective tax rate including these gains is 32.2% 2008: 23.1%.
Fidessa group plc 4 Directors report overview continued Fidessa expects that it will see further significant growth opportunities and will maintain its strategy of investment in the business.
exchange rates, continued service of executive directors and 2009 important events senior managers, hiring and retention of qualified personnel, During 2009 the key events in the Groups development have product errors or defects, lawsuits and intellectual property claims.
been the implementation of the Groups business plan against the background of the worst recession for several decades.
The In addition to the foregoing, the primary risk and uncertainty market has been unpredictable and currency movements have related to the Group's performance for 2010 is the challenging increased the level of risk faced by the Group compared to prior macroeconomic environment caused by the global financial crisis, years.
Despite this environment the Group has continued to which could have a material impact on the Group's performance deliver strong growth through focus on market requirements, over the year and could cause actual results to differ materially most notably delivering lower cost of ownership whilst still from expected and historical results.
A continued downturn in allowing customers to maintain their position in the market and buy-side trading or in company market valuations, or an increase participate within the more fragmented liquidity environment.
in discount rates, could result in an impairment to the carrying value of goodwill from the LatentZero acquisition.
During 2009 the Group has continued with the fit out of new datacentre space in both Europe and North America in order to Outlook provide further capacity for growth in its ability to offer software Through the end of 2009 market conditions have steadily as a service SaaS across all its businesses.
The Group believes that improved.
However, Fidessa expects that the macroeconomic its range of SaaS offerings will be an increasingly important part situation and the possibility of government regulation will of its service in the future.
continue to make 2010 particularly difficult to predict.
On the assumption that markets remain reasonably stable Fidessa Other important events are as noted elsewhere in this believes that it can continue to deliver good growth for 2010 as a Annual Report.
However, the impact of higher levels of consolidation and business closures within its customer base during 2009, will Risk factors inevitably have some effect on growth during 2010.
As a result As with all businesses, the Group is affected by certain risks, not Fidessa does not believe that the overall rate of growth in 2010 wholly within its control, which could have a material impact on will be as high as that seen during 2009. the Group's performance and could cause actual results to differ materially from forecast and historic results.
Overall, Fidessa expects that 2010 will bring more clarity around the future structure of the financial industry and is confident that The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group include: the it will continue to play an important role in providing the solutions current state of the worlds financial markets, regulatory issues the industry needs.
As a result, Fidessa expects that it will see affecting Fidessa and or its customers, customers financial further significant growth opportunities and will maintain its stability and ability to pay, M&A activity within the customer base strategy of investment in the business as it develops these and within the technology sector, dependence on Fidessas core solutions across all the regions in which it operates.
technology, competition, levels of operational spending versus revenue, other economic and market conditions, volatile
