FIRSTGROUP PLC Group overview OUR vALUeS TRANSFORMING TRAveL First wants to lead the way in transforming the Our core values, which underpin way people travel and the way they feel about everything that we do, are: public transport.
Safety: If you cannot do it safely dont do it!
By aiming for the top in everything we do and Customer service: helping each other we can deliver the highest delivering our promise.
levels of safety and service and give greater customer and employee satisfaction.
FIRST STUdeNT FIRST TRANSIT FIRST SeRvICeS GReYHOUNd NORTH AMeRICA: We built on the success of our North American business with the acquisition of Laidlaw International, Inc.
This transformational acquisition established us as the market leader in North America and gives us the scale and opportunities to generate increased value and returns and create a solid platform for future growth.
The four FirstGroup America businesses First Student, First Transit, First Services and Greyhound operate across the US and Canada.
First Student is the largest provider First Transit is one of the largest First Services is the largest private Greyhound is the only national of student transportation in North private sector providers of transit sector provider of vehicle maintenance provider of scheduled intercity coach America with a fleet of approximately management and contracting, and ancillary support services in the transportation services in both the 60,000 yellow school buses, carrying managing public transport systems US.
We provide fleet maintenance for US and Canada.
Based in Dallas, 4 million students every day across on behalf of city transit authorities.
public sector customers such as the Greyhound provides scheduled the US and Canada.
We are one of the largest providers Federal Government, cities and fire and passenger services to approximately of airport shuttle bus services in the police departments.
We also provide 3,100 destinations throughout the US US and also manage call centres, a range of support services including and Canada carrying over 22 million paratransit operations and other light vehicle maintenance, logistics support passengers annually.
and facilities management to public and private sector clients including the US Navy and US Air Force.
Operates some Maintains over 60,000 3,100 7,000 buses 50,000 vehicles yellow school buses destinations Manages and operates in Operates in 4m 22m students to and from passengers 235 locations 150 locations school every day per year 68,000 15,500 3,500 9,000 employees employees employees employees FINd OUT MORe ON PAGe 9 FINd OUT MORe ON PAGe 11 FINd OUT MORe ON PAGe 11 FINd OUT MORe ON PAGe 12 2 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 KeY STATISTICS ABOUT US BUSINeSSeS OPeRATING ANd FINANCIAL RevIeW 1 ReveNUe AdJUSTed OPeRATING PROFIT UK Bus 1,182.0m UK Bus 134.0m UK Rail 2,121.5m UK Rail 94.2m North America 2,224.1m North America 246.1m Greyhound 642.4m Greyhound 48.5m 1 Excludes 25.3m of Group items Other 17.3m UK BUS UK RAIL We are the UKs largest bus operator running more than one in five of all local We are the UKs largest rail operator, running nearly a quarter of the passenger bus services.
A fleet of nearly 9,000 buses carries some 3 million passengers rail network and carrying over 285 million passengers a year.
a day in more than 40 major towns and cities.
We have a strong, balanced portfolio and we are the only operator to run every The majority of our operations are in urban areas where the bus is the most type of overground rail service in the UK, from high speed intercity trains and effective means of tackling traffic congestion.
We continue to develop and overnight sleeper services to local branch lines, regional and commuter services promote effective partnerships and we are working with local authorities and and open access, light rail and freight operations.
other stakeholders to provide punctual and reliable services for our customers We operate four passenger rail franchises First Capital Connect, First Great through Punctuality Improvement Partnerships, bus priority and other traffic Western, First ScotRail and First TransPennine express and one open management schemes.
access operator, First Hull Trains.
We also operate rail freight services through First GBRf, and operate the Croydon Tramlink network on behalf of Transport for London carrying nearly 28 million passengers a year.
3m 285m passengers every day passengers a year We operate more than We operate one quarter one in five of all local 26,500 of the UK passenger 13,500 bus services employees rail network employees FINd OUT MORe ON PAGe 13 FINd OUT MORe ON PAGe 17 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3 KeY STATISTICS ABOUT US BUSINeSSeS
