FIRSTGROUP PLC Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee 3 Member of the Nomination Committee 4 Member of the Executive Safety Committee 5 Member of the Executive Committee 32 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 32 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RePORT OF The DIReCTORS 1 MaRTIn GILBeRT LLD Ma LLB Ca 7 PROFeSSOR DavID BeGG DSc Ba 3 1,2, 3 Chairman: Chairman of the nomination Committee non-executive Director A Chartered Accountant, he is one of the founders and Chief Appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Director in August Executive of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
He is Chairman of Tube Lines Limited and Northern Way to the Board of FirstGroup plc in 1995.
He is Chairman of Chaucer Transport Compact and a director of Portobello Partnership.
He is Holdings PLC and a director of a number of investment trusts.
He is a visiting professor at Plymouth University and an adviser to Greater a Non-Executive Director of Primary Health Properties PLC.
He is also the publisher of Transport Times.
Until 2005 he was Chairman of the Commission 2 SIR MOIR LOCkheaD OBe for Integrated Transport and a Non-Executive Director of the Deputy Chairman and Chief executive: Strategic Rail Authority.
4,5 Chairman of the executive Safety Committee Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman since the Groups formation 8 DavID DUnn Ca in 1995.
Originally a mechanical engineer he joined Grampian Senior Independent non-executive Director: 1,2, 3 Transport in 1985 as General Manager and went on to lead the Chairman of the audit Committee successful employee buy-out of GRT Bus Group PLC.
In 1996 he Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in December was awarded the OBE for services to the bus industry and in 2008 1999.
He is a Chartered Accountant and is Non-Executive Chairman he was awarded a Knighthood for services to transport.
He is a past of Brammer plc.
Following more than nine years service on the President of the Confederation of Passenger Transport.
Board he will retire at the Annual General Meeting of the Company in July 2009 and will not seek re-election.
3 SIDney BaRRIe LLB 4,5 Commercial Director: Company Secretary 9 JaMeS FORBeS CBe BSc MSc Ceng MIeT Appointed to the Board in August 2005 as Commercial Director non-executive Director: 1,2, 3 and subsequently Company Secretary.
He joined the Group from Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Paull & Williamsons, solicitors in Aberdeen, where he was a senior Appointed to the Board in April 2000, he is the former Chief partner and Head of Corporate acting for a number of listed and Executive of Scottish and Southern Energy plc.
His career began private companies.
He had a long association with the Group in an with the South of Scotland Electricity Board and he has since held advisory capacity going back to the original employee buy-out of various senior posts in the electricity industry.
Following more than GRT Bus Group PLC.
In his current role he has responsibility for a nine years service on the Board he will retire at the Annual General range of commercial activities across the Group.
Meeting of the Company in July 2009 and will not seek re-election.
4 nIChOLaS ChevIS FCMa 10 COLIn hOOD BSc MSc FIeT 4,5 1,2, 3 acting Finance Director non-executive Director Appointed Acting Finance Director in August 2007 prior to which Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in May 2009, he was Group Financial Controller.
He joined the Group in 1997 as he is a Director and Chief Operating Officer of Scottish and Southern Finance Director of one of the Groups train operating companies.
He is a Director of Scotia Gas Networks and a member He was subsequently appointed Finance Director of the Groups rail of the Forum for Renewable Energy Developments in Scotland.
division following the acquisition of Great Western Holdings in 1998 and was also responsible for the Groups light rail operations.
During 11 TIM OTOOLe CBe JD 1,2, 3 this time he was also a key member of the Groups rail franchising non-executive Director team including the bidding for and integration of the Groups new rail Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in May 2009, businesses.
He has held senior finance and planning positions in a he was, until the end of April 2009, Managing Director, London number of sectors including at Volvo Car UK and Revlon Max Factor.
He joined Transport for London in 2003 prior to which he was President and Chief Executive of Consolidated Rail 5 nICOLa Shaw Ba MST Corporation, one of Americas most successful rail networks.
4,5 Director Bus Uk, Ireland and Germany Appointed to the Board in January 2009 as Director responsible for 12 JOhn SIevwRIGhT Ma Ca 1,2, 3 Bus in the UK, Ireland and Germany.
She joined the Group in May non-executive Director 2005 as Managing Director UK Bus from the Strategic Rail Authority Appointed to the Board in May 2002, he was, until 2008, a Senior where she was Managing Director of Operations.
Her career in the Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of International for Merrill public transport sector, both in the UK and overseas, has included Lynch & Co. A Chartered Accountant, he has held various senior roles at the Office of the Rail Regulator, Bechtel, Halcrow, the World management positions in banking in London, New York, Dublin and Bank and London Transport.
He is a member of the North American Board of the Michael Smurfit Business School, Dublin.
6 aUDRey BaxTeR DBa LLD Dipacc Ba 1,2, 3 non-executive Director 13 MaRTyn wILLIaMS Appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Director in August 2006. non-executive employee Director She is Chairman and Chief Executive of W. A. Baxter & Sons Limited.
Appointed to the Board as Employee Director in January 2003, he is She has held a number of non-executive positions and was formerly currently serving a third term as Employee Director.
He is employed a member of the Scottish Business Forum and the Scottish as a customer services supervisor in Swansea and has worked for Economic Council.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33
