Steering us in the right direction Corporate Governance Report Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 43 Corporate Governance Report The Directors are committed to high Executive Directors should normally serve Consideration and approval of strategy, standards of corporate governance.
The two three year terms and that any term budgets and major management way in which the Company applies the beyond six years should be subject to financial decisions as determined from principles set out in the Combined Code particularly rigorous review.
In any event, time to time by the Board.
on Corporate Governance issued by the no Non-Executive Director shall serve Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 longer than nine years.
Gerry Brown and Board Meetings the Combined Code is described Struan Robertson were appointed for a The Board met seven times last year below.
third term in 2009. for regular business and the Directors participated in the Annual Strategy The Directors believe that it is essential Conference.
The Board meets as Compliance Statement that the Group should be led and necessary for any matters arising at other The Company has been in compliance controlled by an effective Board.
At each Board meeting, the Board with all relevant provisions of the Board has adopted a formal Schedule of considers reports from each of the Combined Code throughout the year Matters specifically reserved to it on such Executive Directors covering his area under review.
Agreeing objectives, policies and An Annual General Meeting is held The Combined Code strategies and monitoring the every year.
All Directors are subject to Application of Principles performance of the Executive Directors re-appointment by shareholders at the and Senior Management: first Annual General Meeting after their A.
Directors Controlling and monitoring the financial appointment and thereafter to re-election The Board performance of the Group: at intervals of no more than three years.
Christopher Collins was the NonReviewing strategic options on an Executive Chairman of the Board annual basis to include any major The attendance at Board Meetings during throughout 2009.
He retired on 31st changes in organisation and direction 2009 was as shown below: December 2009 and was succeeded by Meetings of the Group: David Richardson on 1st January 2010.
Name Attended Approving major expenditure and Charles Hammond is the Group Chief Christopher Collins 5 transactions with other companies Executive.
Gerry Brown is Senior Charles Hammond 7 including, for example, acquisitions, Independent Director.
At the beginning of Wilson Murray 7 disposals and joint ventures: the year, the Board of Directors comprised Perry Glading 7 Ensuring compliance in relation to: five Non-Executive Directors and three Gerry Brown 7 a Safety, health and environmental Executive Directors.
The Board considers Struan Robertson 6 matters all its Non-Executive Directors, with the David Richardson 7 b Corporate Governance exception of the Chairman, to be James Tuckey 7 Delegating clear responsibility and independent.
Marie-Louise Clayton was authority to the Chairman, Committees appointed as a Non-Executive Director on The Chairman holds one meeting with of the Board, the Group Chief Executive 1st January 2010. the Non-Executive Directors without the and other Directors: Executive Directors present.
Compliance with the Companies Act, No Non-Executive Director has served on UK Listing Authority, London Stock the Board for more than nine years from Exchange and other regulations: and the date of his appointment.
The Board has adopted the principle that NonSteering us in the right direction Corporate Governance Report continued Sub-Committees of the Board The Board has delegated certain matters to three sub-committees of the Board comprising the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Details of the membership of each sub-committee are shown on pages 47 to 54.
The following table sets out the frequency of, and attendance at, the various sub-committee meetings for the period under review: Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 3 5 2 Name Christopher Collins n a n a 1 Gerry Brown 3 5 2 Struan Robertson 2 5 2 David Richardson 3 5 2 James Tuckey 3 5 2 Charles Hammond n a n a 2 Director, Officer or Trustee has acted other Non-Executive Directors was Group Company Secretary undertaken by the Chairman.
The Group Company Secretary is fraudulently or dishonestly.
responsible for ensuring that Board The Non-Executive Directors, led by the procedures and applicable rules and Annual Evaluation of Performance An annual evaluation of the Boards Senior Independent Director, met once regulations are observed.
All Directors without the Chairman and the Executive have access to the advice and services of performance and that of its subcommittees, individual Directors and Directors to evaluate the performance of the Group Company Secretary.
Company Secretary is also responsible Chairman is undertaken.
In 2009, this explicitly covered the process for for ensuring that the Directors are fully As part of the annual budget presentation aware of their duties and responsibilities appointment of the Chairman.
Each Director receives a Board Performance to the Board, the Board reviews the targets as Directors and that they undertake which were given to individual Executive appropriate training.
Evaluation Questionnaire and separate Committee Performance Evaluation Directors and Senior Managers within the Group and subsequently discusses and Independent Advice Forms where appropriate for use in assessing the Boards own performance approves the targets to be given to these There is an agreed procedure for individuals for the following year.
Directors to take independent and that of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
As the Nomination professional advice, if necessary, at the External Audit Process Companys expense.
Committee meets infrequently, there is no separate Performance Evaluation The Audit Committee has reviewed and monitored the effectiveness of the Unresolved Concerns Questionnaire for that Committee however any comments on the external audit process by way of a Where Directors have concerns which questionnaire which reviewed, on a cannot be resolved in connection with the Nomination Committee may be sent to the Group Company Secretary as part of graded scale, the robustness of the audit, running of the Company or a proposed the quality of delivery and the quality of action, their concerns are recorded in the the Board Questionnaire.
The Audit Committee Board Minutes.
If a Non-Executive was satisfied as to the effectiveness of the Director resigns, he is required to provide The Committee Performance Evaluation Questionnaires consider fulfilment of external audit process.
a written statement to the Chairman, for circulation to the Board, if he has any terms of reference, necessary skills and resources of members, evaluation of the B.
Reference is made to the Directors supporting processes for the Committee and an overall view of the effectiveness Remuneration Report on page 49 Insurance Cover which sets out the composition of the The Company purchases insurance to of the Committee.
Remuneration Committee, the Companys cover its Directors and Officers and the remuneration policy for Directors and Trustees of its pension scheme against The results were compiled and addressed the costs of defending themselves in civil by the Group Company Secretary and details of such remuneration including bonus schemes and pensions for legal proceedings taken against them in reported to the Board.
The results were that capacity and in respect of damages considered by the Board at its March each Director, and the Committees meeting in 2010.
No major changes compliance with all relevant sections resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
To the extent were required as a result of this review.
permitted by UK Law, the Company also indemnifies its Directors, Officers and An evaluation of the performance of the All Executive Directors are on one year Group Chief Executive and each of the rolling contracts.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where a Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 45 No Executive Director who has external absolute, assurance against material integrity of the Groups accounts.
directorships is currently paid for these misstatement or loss.
The key features The Board has established procedures for authorisation of capital expenditure directorships.
of the system which have been established are as follows: and exceptional maintenance.
The Group has an internal audit function C. Relations with Shareholders The Company encourages regular Control Environment which carries out a regular programme of systematic reviews of the financial dialogue with institutional shareholders The Groups control environment is based on a mutual understanding of the responsibility of the Groups control procedures.
Directors and managers at all levels.
The Groups organisational structure Monitoring System used by the Board The Board receives reports prepared by has clear lines of responsibility.
The Board participates in an annual the Companys broker which reflect the Operating and financial responsibility strategy conference which includes views of the major shareholders on an for subsidiary companies is delegated a three year forward financial review unattributable basis following the to the local boards.
which is then updated on an annual half-yearly and annual presentations basis.
The Board reviews and approves to major shareholders.
The Board also Identification of Business Risks and budgets and monitors the Groups receives copies of analysts reports on compliance with the Guidance performance against those budgets.
Throughout last year, the Group The Board receives reports on a regular complied with the Guidance.
The Group basis from the Audit Committee.
In 2009, the Chairman and the Chairman Risk and Insurance Manager oversees designate met, or had discussions the procedures involved in the Audit Committee: Full details of the work of with, certain of the Companys major identification of business risks and the Audit Committee are contained in the shareholders.
As part of the governance compliance with the Guidance.
The Report of the Audit Committee on page 47. process, other major shareholders Board regularly reviews the process of were offered the opportunity to meet identifying, evaluating and managing Statement of Directors Responsibilities: the Chairman should they so wish.
the Groups key risks which allows it The Directors are responsible for The Senior Independent Director is also to take a view on the effectiveness of preparing the Annual Report, the available for meetings if requested.
All subsidiaries are Directors Remuneration Report and required to assess key risks and related the financial statements in accordance The Board uses the Annual General control and monitoring procedures on with applicable law and regulations.
Meeting to communicate with private an ongoing basis.
The Board monitors investors and encourages their this process on a regular basis.
Company law requires the Directors to participation both inside and outside the prepare financial statements for each formal meeting.
Major Corporate Information Systems financial year.
Under that law the Directors The Group operates a comprehensive have elected to prepare the Group and As in prior years, at the 2010 Annual budgeting and financial reporting parent Company financial statements in General Meeting, the Company will system which, as a matter of routine, accordance with International Financial ensure that the level of proxies for and compares actual results to budget.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted against each resolution is intimated to Management accounts are compiled on by the European Union.
Under company shareholders after each resolution has a monthly basis.
Variances from budget law the Directors must not approve the been dealt with.
are thoroughly investigated and financial statements unless they are revisions to forecasts are made twice satisfied that they give a true and fair view As at 22nd March 2010 the Companys during the year.
Cash Flow projections of the state of affairs of the Group and the issued share capital comprises 45,689,110 are prepared monthly and cover a Company and of the profit or loss of the Ordinary Shares of 50p each.
rolling twelve month period to ensure Group for that period.
In preparing these that the Group has adequate funds.
The financial statements, the Directors are D. Financial Reporting and port business uses the Integrated Port required to: compliance with the 2005 Turnbull Operating System IPOS to provide it Committee Guidance on Internal with up-to-date information on marine, select suitable accounting policies Control the Guidance general cargo and container operations.
and then apply them consistently: Internal Control: The Board is responsible Together with Cognos software, this make judgements and accounting for and has reviewed the effectiveness of enables core information to be tailored estimates that are reasonable the Groups system of internal control in to managements own particular and prudent: accordance with the Guidance throughout requirements to assist in the day-to-day state whether applicable IFRSs as the year.
No significant findings were operation of the business.
adopted by the European Union have identified which required action to be been followed, subject to any material taken.
The process of internal control has Main Control Procedures departures disclosed and explained been in place for the year under review Divisional management establishes in the financial statements: and up to the date of approval of the control procedures in response to each prepare the financial statements on Annual Report and Accounts.
It should of the key risks identified.
Standard the going concern basis unless it is be recognised that such a system can financial control procedures operate inappropriate to presume that the provide only reasonable, and not throughout the Group to ensure the Company will continue in business.
Steering us in the right direction Corporate Governance Report continued The Directors are responsible for keeping Directors Statement pursuant to the adequate accounting records that are Disclosure and Transparency Rules: sufficient to show and explain the Each of the Directors, whose names Companys transactions and disclose with and functions are listed on pages 38 reasonable accuracy at any time the and 39 confirm that, to the best of financial position of the Company and the their knowledge: Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors the Group financial statements, which Remuneration Report comply with the have been prepared in accordance with Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true Group financial statements, Article 4 of and fair view of the assets, liabilities, the IAS Regulations.
They are also financial position and profit of the responsible for safeguarding the assets of Company and Group: and the Company and the Group and hence the Directors Report contained in this for taking reasonable steps for the Annual Report includes a fair review prevention and detection of fraud and of the development and performance other irregularities.
of the business and the position of the group, together with a description The Directors are responsible for the of the principal risks and uncertainties maintenance and integrity of the Group that it faces.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Going Concern: governing the preparation and The Directors, having made enquiries, dissemination of financial statements have a reasonable expectation that the may differ from legislation in other Company and the Group have adequate jurisdictions.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and that therefore it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By Order of the Board Morag McNeill Group Company Secretary 22nd March 2010
