A clear direction Our Strategy We are committed to operating efficiences and delivering excellent service in the supply chain.
We have solid foundations on which to implement our strategies: a prudent approach to business and financing a rich and diverse asset base capable, well trained people a commitment to long-term sustainability Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7 Ports Recycling Property Energy We continue to broaden our As a pure recycling business The acquisition of Ocean Our strategic Joint Venture, customer and business base with a strong focus on port Terminal gives us a strong Forth Energy, is already yielding and also improve the quality related and value added asset base in the heart of benefits with a signed of our contracts.
activities, we believe we can our development sites.
development agreement in work more closely with early 2010 for wind turbines The breadth of our business, customers to improve the Working in partnership with at Tilbury which will supply coupled with our commitment range of services we offer.
City of Edinburgh Council renewable power to the port to operational excellence will CEC, we aim to build a and its customers.
Our plans to help to deliver our key aim This will allow Nordic to grow platform for recovery with create four biomass plants in of returning our core Ports as waste markets recover.
the growth of Ocean Terminal, our ports in Scotland will make business to growth.
planning permission for a significant contribution to the The Harbour and public provision of renewable heat private financing for essential and power to some of our major cities and to the growth of our infrastructure.
ports cargo base in Scotland.
Project Pipeline Progress to date Renewable Energy Scotland Our ports at Leith and Dundee have been scored as the two leading east coast facilities for manufacturing and distribution for offshore renewable energy development and construction.
The scale of the opportunity is significant and will contribute to an industry which can help lead Scotland out of recession and grow our Scottish business base.
The northern expansion of Tilbury is an essential phase in the growth of the port.
Project NEXT Tilbury Working closely with Thurrock Thames Gateway Development Corporation and Thurrock Council, we have secured a recommendation to rezone 65 acres of land for industrial and port related purposes.
This will be followed by a planning application to take advantage of the growing demand for port related facilities at Londons major port.
We expect the planning application for The Harbour to be considered by CEC The Harbour, Leith Docks, Edinburgh in the first half of 2010.
We have worked closely with CEC and the Scottish Government on a pilot project for public financing of infrastructure associated with this development.
Ocean Terminal and the Tram connection to the City Centre will form a gateway to the Capitals largest regeneration project.
The biomass plants in Leith and Dundee will have the capability to power a Biomass plants in Leith and Dundee significant proportion of the homes in each of these two cities from renewable sources.
Working in partnership with Scottish and Southern Energy, the two plants will be complemented by a further two plants at Rosyth and Grangemouth, adding up to 500MW of potential generation capacity within east and central Scotland.
We have a solid, reliable and prudently financed core business from which we can create further opportunity and diversity from our asset base.
Our defensive qualities in a recession are enhanced by an asset and business base in regeneration, renewables and recycling which can transform the Group business.
