Best placed for business Our Businesses Our businesses throughout the United Kingdom at a glance.
Our businesses have a strong geographic position serving the needs of customers in the heart of Scotland and the South East of England.
Our people have the skills to add value to these customers.
Transformational Business Recycling Property Energy Nordic Recycling is a total waste Our significant land holding and Our renewable energy projects management company based in Kent and investment and development expertise comprising the installation of wind Essex.
A 100,000 tonne Materials Recycling mean that we are well placed to create turbines at the Ports of Dundee and Facility processing local authority mixed long term value for shareholders.
Grangemouth together with our dry recyclables operates in the Port of Our focus this year has been in three renewable energy biomass projects at Tilbury.
A 250,000 tonne baling and main areas: the Ports of Dundee, Grangemouth, wrapping plant operates in Chatham Dock.
building on our success in growing Rosyth and Leith continue to make good The company has developed a waste income from our land and buildings: progress.
The two wind projects will have brokerage and data management business conserving capital through the a total electrical capacity of up to 21MW.
serving many blue chip clients such as renegotiation of contracts and the The four wood fired biomass plants the HMRC, Barclays Bank and the BBC.
reduction in spend as the market will have a total electrical output of Nordic has an experienced trading team adjusts to the current economic climate: up to 500MW.
purchasing and selling a range of recovered progressing the planning application materials including plastic, paper and metal.
for The Harbour, Leith, where we are A waste collection capability is currently looking to secure consent for over being expanded to guarantee service to 2 million sq.
ft. of offices, retail and clients and recover value from recyclate.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 9 Ports 1 Dundee Dundee is a key port for 4 Grangemouth With 12 container feeder 7 Tilbury Tilbury is the largest port in the agricultural products which provides vessel calls weekly linking to a range of Thames Gateway and the UKs third largest considerable opportunities for added value UK and European Ports and with six million container port, handling eight million services.
Petroleum products and offshore tonnes of petroleum products handled, tonnes of cargo and 132,000 boxes in 2009. support remain strong as do opportunities Grangemouth is Scotlands main gateway Tilburys broad breadth of cargo handled in the emerging renewable energy market.
for its varied clients and differing transport modes along with its proven geographical 2 Braefoot Bay LPG is handled at Braefoot 5 Hound Point Crude oil from the position, places Tilbury at the forefront of Bay by Shell and Exxon.
North Sea is exported on behalf of the Thames Gateway, London and the south various customers.
east of the UK as Britains greenest port.
3 Rosyth Norfolklines thrice weekly service to Zeebrugge has improved the energy 6 Leith A resourceful port supporting dry 8 Chatham A port terminal operation at efficiency of Scotlands supply chain and bulks, cruise, offshore support and project Chatham Dockyard provides stevedoring, addressed issues of peripherality.
cargoes and recognised by Scottish ships agency, warehousing and freight Government as the optimum port to forwarding services.
The recycling division support offshore renewable energy.
has a baling operation at Chatham Dockyard and a Materials Recycling Facility at the Port of Tilbury.
