DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION The Directors have the pleasure in presenting their Annual Report and the audited Financial Statements for the year ending 31 December 2009.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The Fresnillo Group is a leading precious metals group with significant experience and expertise in all aspects of mining, from exploration through to mine construction and operation.
It is the worlds largest primary silver producer and Mexicos second largest gold producer.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 90.
An interim dividend of 5.25 US cents per share was paid on 18 September 2009 to shareholders on the register on 28 August 2009.
The final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 will be announced on 29 April 2010.
The dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling unless shareholders elect to be paid in US dollars.
BUSINESS REVIEW A detailed Business Review for the Group as required by section 417, Companies Act 2006 can be found in the sections of this Annual Report noted below.
These comment on the operation and development of the business and its future prospects along with details of key performance indicators and the description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
I]Z 8]V gbVch AZiiZg hZi dji dc eV Z ' VcY # I]Z 8] Z[ :mZXji kZh HiViZbZci hZi dji dc eV Z id, # HigViZ n VcY EZg[dgbVcXZ hZi dji dc eV Zh.
id cXajY c - Strategy: - Key Performance Indicators: - Market Review: - Operating Review: - Finance Review GZhedch W a in hZi dji dc eV Zh id cXajY c - Sustainable Development: and - Managing our Risks I] h 9 gZXidgh GZedgi This Business Review and other sections of this Annual Report contain forward looking statements.
The extent to which the Companys shareholders or anyone may rely on these forward looking statements is set out inside the back cover of this Annual Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is required to comply with the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance or explain its reasons for non-compliance.
A report on corporate governance and compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code is set out on pages 72 to 77.
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS Details of Directors remuneration can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 81.
SIGNIFICANT RELATIONSHIPS The following are considered by the Board to be significant relationships which are likely, directly or indirectly to cjZcXZ i]Z eZg[dgbVcXZ d[ i]Z Wjh cZhh VcY ih kVajZ# Relationships with Partners: Under an agreement with Newmont USA Limited, the Company holds 56% of Minera Penmont S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Minera Penmont with the aim of exploiting and developing gold production.
The Companys Herradura mine and the Soledad-Dipolos developments are held within Minera Penmont.
The Fresnillo Group currently has an interest of 56% in the Juanicipio project.
MAG Silver Corporation MAG Silver has an interest of 44% in the Juanicipio project under a joint venture agreement originally entered into in 2005 in connection with the development of the Valdecaas prospect within the Juanicipio concession area.
82 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT Supply Relationships: On 31 December 2007, the Fresnillo Group entered into long-term arrangements with the Peoles Group the Silverstream Contract in relation to the by-product silver output from the Peolesowned polymetallic mine at Sabinas in Zacatecas, Mexico.
Under the Silverstream Contract, Fresnillo is entitled to all of the proceeds before deduction of any treatment and rening charges in respect of Payable Silver produced from the zinc and lead concentrates produced by the Peoles Groups Sabinas mine during its life.
Further information concerning the Silverstream Contract can be found in note 15 of the Financial Statements on page 117.
At the time of the IPO, the Company entered into a Transitional Services Agreement with Servicios Industriales Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. SIPSA for the provision of administrative and other services in return for arms length fees for an initial period of 12 months the SIPSA Agreement.
The SIPSA Agreement was extended for a further period of six months and terminated on 31 October 2009.
Fresnillo and SIPSA entered into a new services agreement which commenced on 1 November 2009 the NSA.
To ensure that the NSA was entered on arms length normal commercial terms, KPMG conducted a benchmarking exercise in relation to the fee paid in respect of the services under the agreement, determining that such fee was in fact on normal commercial terms.
On 21 December 2009, pursuant to an internal corporate restructure within Peoles, SIPSAs interest in the NSA was acquired by Dolorey, S. A. fide C. V. a wholly-owned Peoles subsidiary.
Further information concerning the NSA can be found in the Finance Review on page 40 and note 6 of the Financial Statements on page 109.
Customer Relationships: During the period substantially all of the primary products from the Groups mines, silverand gold-rich lead and zinc concentrates and dore were sold to the Peoles Groups rening and smelting facility at Torren, operated by Met-Mex Penles, S. A. fide C. V. Met-Mex under a series of supply agreements the Met-Mex Arrangements.
This arrangement enables the Group to benefit from relatively low transport costs.
The terms of the supply agreements with Met-Mex are set on an arms length basis with revenue being determined by the amount of metal contained in the ores and the average market prices over a certain period net of certain deductions.
Government Relationships: Under Mexican law, mining concessions from the Federal government are required to explore for and exploit mineral potential.
The Fresnillo Group holds such concessions in respect of its operations in return for which it pays maintenance fees to the Government and has to meet capital expenditure commitments.
The Fresnillo Group is required by law to operate in accordance with environmental and health & safety standards.
Employee Relationships: Approximately two thirds of the Groups workforce is employed and one third are contractors.
Further details can be found in the Sustainable Development Report on page 54.
The Group has contracts with a large number of different service and personnel providers.
Details of the service agreement with the Chief Executive officer are found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 79.
RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT On 8 May 2008, Peoles and the Company entered into a relationship agreement to regulate the ongoing relationship between the Company and Peoles.
The principal purpose of the relationship agreement is to ensure that the Company and its subsidiaries are capable of carrying on their business independently of the Peoles Group, and that transactions and relationships with the Peoles Group including any transactions and relationships with any member of the Fresnillo Group are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
Under this relationship agreement, Peoles has undertaken not to exercise its voting rights to amend the Memorandum and Articles of Association in a way which would be inconsistent with the provisions of the agreement.
It has also agreed to abstain from voting on any resolution to approve a related party transaction as dened in paragraph 11.1.
5 R of the Listing Rules involving any member of the Peoles Group.
DIRECTORS The names and biographies of the current Directors of the Company are set out on pages 66 to 69.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
If appointed by the Board, a Director holds ofce until the next annual general meeting.
All of the Directors retired and offered themselves for election at the annual general meeting in 2009.
Each Director shall retire at the annual general meeting held in the third year following the year in which he was elected or last re-elected by the Company.
Directors Indemnities and Insurance The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each Director in respect of proceedings bought by third parties and pension scheme liabilities subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has purchased Directors & Ofcers Liability insurance.
All of these arrangements remain in place at the date of this report.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS The number of Ordinary Shares of the Company in which the Directors were beneficially interested at 1 January 2009 and at 31 December 2009 were: 1 January 2009 31 December 2009 Alberto Baillres See below See below Lord Cairns 15,000 15,000 Fernando Ruiz - 30,000 Javier Fernandez - - Guy Wilson 15,000 15,000 Juan Bordes 15,000 15,000 Arturo Fernandez - - Rafael MacGregor - - Fernando Solana - - Jaime Lomeln - - Or date of appointment if later Alberto Baillres holds an indirect interest in the Company.
Mr Baillres and companies controlled by Mr Baillres hold, in aggregate 61.3 per cent of the issued share capital and voting rights of Peoles.
Peoles holds 552,595,191 ordinary shares 77.1% in the Company.
No Director had any dealings in the shares of the Company between 31 December 2009 and 1 March 2010, being a date less than one month prior to the date of convening the Annual General Meeting.
MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARES As at 1 March 2010, the Company had been advised, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority, of the following notiable interests whether directly or indirectly held in its voting rights: NOTIFICATION RECEIVED FROM: NUMBER OF VOTING RIGHTS % Peoles 552,595,191 77.05 BlackRock, Inc 48,792,000 6.80 BlackRock Global Funds 28,500,000 3.97 CHANGE OF CONTROL The Company does not have any agreements with any Non-executive Director, Executive Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from a takeover.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company may be made by Special Resolution of the shareholders.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS CHANGE OF CONTROL The Penmont Herradura and MAG Silver Juanicipio agreements each contain provisions ensuring that the respective interests of the shareholders in these respective companies may be transferred in accordance with their respective bye-laws subject to preferential rights of existing shareholders.
The NSA contains a discretionary provision for Dolorey, S. A. fide C. V to terminate the agreement should they so wish if there was a change of control of Fresnillo plc.
There are no formal change of control provisions within the Silverstream Contract or Met-Mex Arrangements.
The Groups mining concessions are held by various of its Mexican subsidiary companies.
As long as the companies holding the mining concessions remain Mexican resident companies, there are no provisions within the concession agreements which would be triggered by a change of control of the Company.
SHARE CAPITAL Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 20 to the Financial Statements on pages 119 to 121.
The Company has two classes of share capital 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.50 Ordinary Shares and 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each Sterling Deferred Shares.
The Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Mexican Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching to these shares are governed by UK law and the Companys Articles of Association.
84 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
On a show of hands every shareholder present in person or by proxy or being a corporation present by a duly authorised representative shall have one vote, and on a poll every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
The Notice of AGM species deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares other than as set out in the Articles of Association and: XZgiV c gZhig Xi dch bVn [gdb i bZ id i bZ WZ bedhZY Wn aVlh VcY gZ jaVi dch [dg ZmVbeaZ!
ch YZg igVY c laws : and ejghjVci id i]Z A hi c GjaZh d[ i]Z : cVcX Va HZgk XZh 6ji]dg in l]ZgZWn XZgiV c 9 gZXidgh!
d[XZgh VcY Zbployees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Ordinary Shares.
No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights as to the control of the Company.
There are no limitations on the holding of securities.
There are no restrictions on voting rights or any arrangements by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than the holder of the securities.
There are no agreements between holders of securities that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer or on voting rights.
The Sterling Deferred Shares only entitle the shareholder to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders, on winding up or on a return of capital.
The Sterling Deferred Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Shares at a price of 1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Shares.
Except at the option of the Company, the Sterling Deferred Shares are not transferrable.
AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES CHANGE The Company was authorised by a shareholders resolution passed at the annual general meeting held in May 2009 to purchase up to 10% of its issued Ordinary Share capital.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued and authorised share capital.
This authority will expire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and a resolution to renew the authority for a further year will be proposed.
No shares were purchased by the Company during the year.
EMPLOYEES Information relating to employees is given in note 8 to the Financial Statements on page 110 and in the Sustainable Development Report on page 54.
CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY At 31 December 2009 the Company had no trade creditors 2008: nil.
It is the Companys policy to agree terms of trading, including payments terms, with all suppliers.
Provided suppliers perform in accordance with the agreed terms, payment will be made in accordance with the terms.
MARKET VALUE OF LAND AND BUILDINGS Land is carried in the balance sheet at deemed cost resulting from a revaluation, which was undertaken as at 1 January 2005 as part of the Groups transition to reporting under IFRS.
Land and buildings acquired since 1 January 2005 are recorded at cost.
It is not practical to estimate the market value of land and buildings at each balance sheet date.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS No donations were made to political organisations during the year including in Mexico.
The Group made charitable donations of US$0.6 million during the year.
Further information concerning the community initiatives within the Fresnillo Group are set out in the Sustainability Report set out on pages 46 to 59.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Companys objectives and policies on financial risk including information on the Companys exposures to foreign currency, credit, commodity prices, liquidity and interest rate risks can be found in the note 32 to the Financial Statements.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Information about the Directors responsibilities in respect of the preparation of Financial Statements is provided on page 87.
GOING CONCERN After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In making this assessment they have considered i]Z 8dbeVcn VcY gdje WjY Zi!
i]Z XVh]dl [dgZXVhih VcY gZk ZlZY i]Z VkV aVW a in d[ WVc` c [VX a i Zh id i]Z Group.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
AUDIT INFORMATION Each of the Directors at the date of the approval of this report confirms that: hd [Vg Vh ]Z h VlVgZ!
i]ZgZ h cd gZaZkVci VjY i c[dgbVi dc d[ l] X] i]Z 8dbeVcnh VjY idgh VgZ jcVlVgZ0 VcY ]Z ]Vh iV`Zc Vaa i]Z gZVhdcVWaZ hiZeh i]Vi ]Z dj ]i id ]VkZ iV`Zc Vh V 9 gZXidg id bV`Z ] bhZa[ VlVgZ d[ any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of the information.
The conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
AUDITORS The auditors, Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in ofce and a resolution seeking to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at Linklaters, One Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ on 28 May 2010 at 12 noon.
Details of the meeting venue and the resolutions to be proposed are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting which accompanies the Annual Report.
For and on behalf of the Board Prism Cosec Limited COMPANY SECRETARY 1 March 2010 86 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT
