BOARD OF DIRECTORS 66 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT Alberto Baillres NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN, 78 Chairman, Nominations Committee: Remuneration Committee Mr Baillres has been on the board of Industrias Peoles since 1962 and has served as Chairman since 1967.
The Baillres family first acquired an interest in Peoles in 1962 and Mr Baillres is currently the controlling shareholder.
In addition to Peoles, as part of the BAL group of companies, Mr Baillres has interests in Grupo Palacio fide Hierro, a chain of department stores mainly located in Mexico City, Grupo Nacional Provincial, a leading Mexican insurance company, Grupo Profuturo, a pensions and annuities business, and other businesses relating to financial services and agriculture.
Mr Baillres became non-independent Non-Executive Chairman on 15 April 2008.
Mr Baillres holds numerous other board appointments, being the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Grupo Nacional Provincial, Grupo Profuturo, Grupo Palacio fide Hierro, Crdito Aanzador, and a member of the Board of Fomento Econmico Mexicano FEMSA, a leading international beverage producer and distributor, Grupo Televisa, Grupo Kuo Dine and BBVA Bancomer.
Mr. Baillres is also currently president of Grupo BAL and President of the Board of Trustees of Asociacin Mexicana fide Cultura, A. C. and Instituto Tecnolgico Autnomo fide Mxico ITAM.
In addition, Mr Baillres is a member of the Consejo Mexicano fide Hombres fide Negocios and also of Fundacin para las Letras Mexicanas, A. C. Jaime Lomeln CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, 75 HSECR Committee Mr Lomeln spent 36 years at Peoles and held the position of Chief Executive officer for 21 years.
He previously served as group vice-president of the metals and chemicals division for four years.
Mr Lomeln holds a bachelor of science degree in chemical engineering from the Universidad Nacional Autnoma fide Mxico UNAM and postgraduate studies in Business Administration in the University of Wisconsin and Stanford Executive Program at Stanford University.
Lord Cairns SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 70 Chairman, Remuneration Committee Lord Cairns was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008.
He is chairman of Zain Africa B. V. formerly Celtel International BV and the Charities Aid Foundation and is a board member of the Mo Ibrahim Foundation.
He has previously served as chairman of Actis LLP, CDC Group, Allied Zurich and BAT Industries after a career with SG Warburg where he had become deputy chairman and CEO.
He graduated from Trinity College, Cambridge.
Fernando Ruiz NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 66 Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees Mr Ruiz was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008.
He is a former managing partner of Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. tax advisers and consultants.
He is a member of the Asociacin Mexicana fide Contadores Pblicos.
He is currently president of the Finance Committee of the Consejo Coordinador Empresarial, as well as an adviser to this organisation.
Mr Ruiz holds numerous board appointments, including Kimberly Clark fide Mexico, Mexichem, Grupo Cementos fide Chihuahua, Grupo Mexico, Empresas ICA and the Mexican Stock Exchange.
Mr Ruiz graduated from the Universidad Nacional Autnoma fide Mxico UNAM with a degree in public accounting.
Javier Fernndez NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 54 Nominations and HSECR Committees Mr Fernndez Carbajal was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008.
He is Chairman of the Board of Primero Fianzas, a private surety company, since March 2007.
He has been engaged as a consultant for public and private investment transactions and is an active wealth management advisor since 2002.
For the past 27 years, Mr Fernndez Carbajal has held senior executive positions at leading Mexican companies, including 14 years of experience in financial services.
He joined Grupo BBVA Bancomer, Mexicos largest financial services company in 1991 as Executive Vice President Strategic Planning and successively served as Deputy President for Systems and Operations and Chief Information officer, Deputy President and Chief Financial officer, and in 1999 was named President.
Mr Fernndez Carbajal is a member of the board of directors of FEMSA, a leading Latin American beverage company: of Grupo Aeroportuario del Pacco, Mexicos largest airport operator and of VISA, Inc. the worlds largest electronic payment network.
Mr Fernndez Carbajal has a degree in Mechanical and Electrical engineering from the Instituto Tecnolgico y fide Estudios Superiores fide Monterrey ITESM and an MBA from Harvard Business School.
Rafael MacGregor NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 49 Chairman, HSECR Committee Mr MacGregor was appointed to the Board on 11 January 2008.
He has been a corporate director in Tcnica Administrativa BAL since 1999.
He is a member of the board of directors and a member of the executive committee of Industrias Peoles, Grupo Nacional Provincial, Grupo Palacio fide Hierro, Grupo Profuturo, Valores Mexicanos Casa fide Bolsa, Crdito Aanzador, Compaa Mexicana fide Garantas, Profuturo GNP, Afore, Profuturo GNP Pensiones, Mdica Integral, Bal-Ondeo and ITAM.
Previous positions held by Mr MacGregor have included CEO of Valores Mexicanos Casa fide Bolsa from 1994 to 1999 : various positions, including corporate director, managing director and manager and vice president of mutual funds at Grupo Financiero Inverlat between 1985 and 1994, manager of investment strategies of Operadora fide Bolsa, and investment assistant of Casa fide Bolsa Banamex from 1982 to 1983.
Since 1999, Mr MacGregor has been a member of the board of Mexican Stock Exchange and, since 2005, he has been vice chairman of Mercado Mexicano fide Derivados MexDer.
Mr MacGregor holds a bachelor of science degree in business administration from ITAM and attended the Stanford Executive Program at Stanford University.
68 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT Juan Bordes NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 62 Mr Bordes was appointed to the Board on 11 January 2008.
Mr Bordes has been corporate director in Tcnica Administrativa BAL since 1979.
He was the CEO of Artes Grcas Unidas from 1984 until 1986 and CEO of Fbricas fide Papel Loreto y Pea Pobre from 1986 until 1989.
Since 1989, Mr Bordes has been a member of the board of directors and a member of the executive committee of each of Industrias Peoles, Grupo Nacional Provincial, Grupo Palacio fide Hierro, Grupo Profuturo, Valores Mexicanos Casa fide Bolsa, Crdito Aanzador, Compaa Mexicana fide Garantas, Afore Profuturo GNP, Profuturo GNP Pensiones, Mdica Integral, BalOndeo, Albacor and a member of the Board of Trustees of ITAM.
Mr Bordes holds a bachelor of science degree in chemical engineering from Universidad Nacional Autnoma fide Mxico UNAM and attended the Stanford Executive Program at the University of Stanford.
He also attended the Business Management Course at the Instituto Panamericano fide Alta Direccin fide Empresas IPADE.
Arturo Fernndez NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 56 Mr Fernndez was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008.
He is a member of the board of directors and a member of the executive committee of each of Industrias Peoles, Grupo Nacional Provincial, Grupo Profuturo, El Palacio fide Hierro, Valores Mexicanos Casa fide Bolsa and Crdito Aanzador.
Mr Fernndez is also a member of the board of directors of Grupo Bimbo, Minera Penmont, Qumica del Rey and Tecnologa del Agua TECSA and an alternate director of FEMSA.
Mr Fernndez has been the rector of ITAM, an independent not-for-profit higher education institution, for 16 years.
He has also previously served as the head of the tax policy ofce at the Mexican Ministry of Finance and as head of the economic deregulation ofce at the Mexican Ministry of Trade.
Mr Fernndez holds a bachelor of economics degree from ITAM as well as a PhD in economics from the University of Chicago.
Guy Wilson NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 61 Chairman, Audit Committee Guy Wilson joined the Board on 1 July 2008 following his retirement from Ernst & Young LLP.
He joined Ernst & Young in 1967 and became a partner in 1979.
Since 1972, he has specialised in corporate transactions covering IPOs, public fund raisings, acquisitions, disposals and defences against hostile bids.
From 1989 to 1991, he was seconded to HM Treasury to assist with the privatizations of the UK water and electricity industries and Scottish electricity.
From 2000, he primarily, but not exclusively, concentrated on transactions in the financial services sector.
Fernando Solana NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 79 Member of the Audit Committee from 18 February 2009 Mr Solana was appointed to the Board on 18 February 2009.
He is currently President of Solana Consultores, Chairman of the Mexican Council on Foreign Relations and Chairman of the Mexican Fund for Education and Development.
He is also an Associate Consultant of Analtica Consultores Asociados as well as being a member of the boards of the Euroamerica Foundation in Madrid and the Institute of the Americas linked to the University of California in San Diego.
He is a member of the Advisory Board of the Latin American Parliament.
Mr Solana served in Mexican Government as Minister of Trade 1976-1977, Minister of Education 1977-1982 and 1993-1994 and Minister of Foreign Affairs 1988-1993.
Mr Solana became President and CEO of Banco Nacional fide Mexico from 1982- 1988.
He served as Chairman of the Mexican Banking Association 1986-1987.
He was a Senator in the Mexican Parliament from 1994 to 2000.
He was a member of the boards of the Mexican American Foundation for Science and the Canning House in London.
Mr Solana studied Civil Engineering, Philosophy, Public Policy and Administration at the National University of Mexico.
