G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 08 08 Securing the delivery of government services and promises at home and abroad G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 09 Sector profiles Government As a trusted partner to governments worldwide, we secure borders, protect embassies, rehabilitate offenders and keep some of the worlds most important buildings safe and secure.
Customer needs and drivers Increased outsourcing A sharper global focus on security in the past decade has led to government outsourcing across a number of markets.
A history of successful outsourcing within developed markets has bolstered a belief in competition and confidence in private sector involvement.
Competition raising standards Governments require high quality operational delivery and evolving standards within a structure that demonstrates cost effectiveness to the taxpayer.
Outsourcing has allowed competition that has driven performance up and costs down.
It has also enabled performance benchmarking with the public sector and new ways of thinking to be introduced to the benefit of both private and public sector operations.
Scale of opportunities Government contracts accounted for around 28% of total G4S revenues in 2009.
We anticipate further government outsourcing opportunities will arise in developed markets as pressure on public spending intensifies, and government departments seek to manage their budgets without compromising on service delivery standards or the integrity of vital front line public services.
Market overview Strong position Government contracts provide defensive, long-term relationships which have traditionally seen double digit growth.
Our pedigree in the government sector within developed markets has honed our skills in bidding for and managing complex government contracts.
Case study | Government We are now taking our UK and US government expertise into developing markets.
Our geographical footprint, coupled with this Mangaung Prison expertise, gives us a unique competitive advantage in this sector, We helped build innovation into South and we see significant opportunities to drive government Africas Mangaung Correctional Centre, the second largest private prison in the outsourcing in new markets.
Here we balance the safe and secure accommodation of nearly 3,000 Spotlight on justice maximum-security offenders with In the UK, where currently 89% of prisons are operated by the our duty for care, rehabilitation and public sector, the Government has announced a number of initiatives community outreach.
this year to increase the share of prisons run by the private sector As part of the design, build and finance such as recommending that new prisons be privately operated and consortium, we ensured the complex introducing others to private sector benchmarking.
We believe was built to allow development and there are further opportunities within the global justice market as rehabilitation and community initiatives.
The end result, complete with school, other countries outsource parts of their justice system to improve chapel, education facilities and access to performance and cut costs.
activities such as agriculture, has created an environment where the opportunities for effective long-term rehabilitation are not limited by size or scope.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 10 Sector profiles continued Government continued Capabilities Homeland security Managing homeland security is a priority for governments around the world.
Effective border protection, from immigration support to entry point security, is central to this a field in which G4S has proven its capabilities across widely differing terrains and cultures.
Foreign affairs Our global footprint and diversity allows us to work with governments around the world on a range of security and capability requirements to ensure they can conduct their foreign affairs effectively with the security upon which they rely to ensure international relationships can be fostered and flourish.
Defence We support defence organisations around the world, providing practical and results-driven solutions for our clients which result in better protection of their key assets including people, equipment, facilities and reputations alongside cost savings and improved performance.
Case study | Government Case study | Government Justice GCHQ Electronic monitoring As a leading supplier of security solutions to the justice departments of governments globally, we manage prisons and rehabilitation GCHQ is a vital part of Britains G4S is the worlds largest provider intelligence machinery, playing a crucial of electronic monitoring services, facilities, and further support the justice sector through providing role in the defence of the UK.
As part of monitoring the movements of electronic monitoring of offenders in the community, court and the consortium responsible for design, 35,000 offenders worldwide every police services, and immigration services.
build and management of GCHQs day 12,000 of them in the UK.
accommodation, G4S has been National Audit Office statistics show Energy and utilities entrusted with one of the UKs most that an electronically monitored curfew We have unrivalled experience of protecting critical supply chains comprehensive and secure facilities is just one fifth of the cost of a prison and assets in industries including oil and gas, electricity, water, nuclear management contracts.
As a robust alternative power, renewable energy, chemical supplies and telecommunications.
Around 350 G4S staff deliver a full to custody, curfews not only reduce service contract including IT, energy and pressure on the prison population Emergency services utility management, logistics, mailroom, but also provide other benefits.
From effective crisis management to specialist training and and site, visitor and accommodation management, to 4,500 workers across recruitment, we help emergency service providers around the a site the size of 17 football pitches.
world respond to changing circumstances and ensure long-term effectiveness.
Local state government G4S is a trusted partner of local and state governments around the world, enabling them to deliver their services more securely against a backdrop of diverse and complex security challenges.
Case study | Government US Border Patrol Non-government organisations NGOs Our ability to deliver a workforce that We have a 20-year pedigree in providing a range of services to possess similar qualifications to the international peace and stability organisations, allowing them to federal agents, and secure transport carry out effective and sustainable stabilisation and post conflict expertise, has allowed us to provide a reconstruction, from humanitarian aid delivery to mine clearance flexible service to nine locations across and disposal.
a 1,993-mile border separating the US and Mexico.
Our customer benefits from a government-approved provider using a high calibre workforce that requires 208 hours of training per employee to meet the contracts special requirements.
Our flexible response capability to scale up or down allows the customer to release federal enforcement personnel for other duties.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 12 Optimising the cash cycle and assuring the customer experience G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13 Sector profiles continued Financial institutions As protector of banks most precious assets we help money make the world go around through efficient cash cycle management and protection of assets and people across the globe.
Customer needs and drivers Strong pedigree With origins in cash handling going back many decades, our UK cash solutions expertise has allowed us to develop long-standing relationships with central and retail banks in the 65 countries in which we operate our cash management services.
Attuned to customer needs Our banking customers want to maximise the efficiency of all their operations, from how hard their cash works for them to how Case study | Financial institutions their buildings and employees are protected.
Our banking customers Nedbank want partners who can operate their cash cycle at maximum efficiency, high productivity, and optimum security, so their money Nedbank, South Africas fourth largest bank, has trusted G4S for the last is kept moving around the economy, always available to consumers 10 years to meet the multiple security and not sat in bank deposits incurring central bank interest charges.
challenges of protecting bank assets and its employees across its network in a country with a complex crime Market overview environment.
At Nedbank, the G4S Pressures are opportunities solution encompasses every aspect from The banking sector in most markets has experienced visitor and site safety across 16 sites housing 4,500 employees, to protecting unprecedented turmoil in the last year, particularly in the UK, senior personnel against threats faced Europe and US.
This has resulted in an increased willingness by international business professionals by banks to outsource, as pressured banks look to maximise as they travel around the world.
operations as cost effectively as possible.
Smart technology Meanwhile the cash cycle is becoming increasingly slick and sophisticated as product innovations and new technology is embraced to ensure cash is constantly available to consumers, and the cost of cash is minimised for banks.
This is driving cash forecasting business opportunities as banks look to their cash Case study | Financial institutions Case study | Financial institutions management partner to forecast amounts needed to keep ATMs working and minimising the amount of notes sat idly in unused Bank of America London cash centre machines.
Technological advances are also driving opportunities Our technology and financial institutions G4Ss London cash centre sets the in ATM technology, servicing and diagnostics.
expertise allows one of the worlds industry standard for speed, security and largest banks to focus on its 59 million efficiency in cash cycle management and Solutions in action customers, while we take care of Bank of in doing so, plays a vital part in keeping Americas security.
Our unique approach cash flowing around the heart of the UKs As a result customers are looking at new areas of outsourcing.
for Bank of America has given the USs economy.
The development of G4Ss We believe this will lead to more opportunities in a number of areas, most extensive bank branch network state-of-the-art cash centre has been an from technology solutions to more support of in-branch operations, complete security coverage, incident important addition to the citys economic where our advance into supporting bank branches will aid the move reporting and business intelligence across infrastructure.
The site handles 72,000 of a growing number of banks to create branches of the future.
By combining services every month, managing cash the sector knowledge of our security flow through banks, ATMs and retailers The more developed Western markets hold strong opportunities officers with the latest technology, across the city.
This allows cash to be for outsourcing, however we see evidence that within emerging we have become an integrated processed on demand to drive maximum and New Markets, commercial banks are increasing their interest partner helping our customer drive efficiency for customers and maintains in outsourcing developments.
its performance up and costs down.
the levels of service reliability required to ensure the health of the UKs cash flow.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 14 Protecting retail assets and ensuring efficiency Case study | Retail Jewelry Television Our expertise in secure transportation, and our global logistics capability, ensures more than five million packages are delivered to more than 20 countries from 300 vendors worldwide for the USAs largest online and television channel jewellery retailer.
This integrated partnership with our client has allowed Jewelry Television to benefit from improved cost control, total visibility of the process, less exposure to risk and shrinkage, and improved security and customer service.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15 Sector profiles continued Retail Weve taken the skills that have led us to be one of the worlds most trusted cash management outsourcers for banks and tailored them to protect retailers valuables and help them re-engineer the way they manage their cash cycle.
Customer needs and drivers Widening security landscape Retail customers want high calibre security offerings that deliver value for money.
Traditionally retailers have sought to outsource protection of their stores, and employees, but now they are looking to partners who can help them manage their back office processes and their takings more efficiently too.
Solidity of cash Cash has existed for five millennia, and remains king in the 21st century.
Globally it is the preferred method of payment among consumers.
According to Retail Banking Researchs Future of Cash and Payments report, 77.5% of Europes 388 billion retail payments in 2008 were made using cash.
Paying at a cost We estimate the average retailer can spend up to 1.7% of turnover managing cash.
In the fiercely competitive retail sector where margins are becoming ever tighter and every penny counts, our retail customers continue to look for ways to minimise those costs.
Market overview Smarter solutions We believe continued competition to increase sales and minimise costs will drive retailers to further outsource and embrace emerging technology to increase efficiency, reduce risk, provide accurate sales data, and ensure retail staff are maximising customer sales rather than focusing on cash management and logistics.
Revolutionising retail Case study | Retail We believe 2010 will be the start of a decade of innovation in cash CASH360 management as new offerings such as our CASH360 product enable Our unique retail cash management retailers to minimise losses through fraud and theft and improve back solution CASH360 makes Marks & office efficiency, thereby making cash an even more cost-effective Spencers cash cycle more efficient, method of payment for businesses to process.
With new software allowing one of the UKs most popular retailers to concentrate on its customers.
developments we also see opportunities for more improved CASH360, developed in-house by real-time cash data to be available to our retail customers, just G4S with the retail market in mind, as it is for our banking customers.
allows us to run retailers back office cash management for optimal efficiency, security and to minimise potential losses.
Drawing on existing G4S expertise in secure cash management, technology solutions and logistics, CASH360 exploits opportunities for improved accuracy, security and productivity for retailers while allowing retailer employees to focus on serving their customers, not counting cash.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 16 Protecting crucial supply chains and critical national assets G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 Sector profiles continued Energy and Utilities We are a vital behind-the-scenes cog of energy and power providers worldwide, helping protect vital supplies, keeping vulnerable energy workforces safe, and ensuring power businesses run at maximum efficiency in more ways than one.
Customer needs and drivers Security in focus With ever growing pressure on energy providers to secure supplies for years to come, through investment in new production plants and protection of vital resources, security has come to the fore in the energy and utilities sector.
Regulatory business drivers The market for security across much of the energy market has been led by regulation, particularly of nuclear power which has been an Case study | Energy and Utilities area of double-digit profit growth for us.
EDF Energy Combined response Power giant EDF Energy works with us Increased regulation is driving a focus on cost efficiency, robust to look after many of its sites across the asset protection and a focus on intelligence and risk led security UK, where our response ranges from site based security officers to deployments capabilities, together with experience of security provision within securing assets against metal theft, challenging and unpredictable environments.
protecting against protestor activity, and providing meter reading.
Scale of challenge Security challenges within the energy and utilities arena can be diverse from protecting the copper and metal contained within electricity cables to oil or nuclear facility risk assessment and pipeline protection.
Market overview GENERIC Global demand PHOTOSHOT OF With scepticism over the benefits of emerging alternative energy ELECTRICITY POWER sources, and the lack of infrastructure in many continents, the draw on the worlds oil and gas reserves will continue to grow.
The sector has also been highlighted in a recent Chatham House report as requiring $6.5tr of investment in exploration and production over the next 20 years to meet projected demand.
Case study | Energy and Utilities Case study | Energy and Utilities Hoover Dam South Texas Project Oil and gas in focus Nuclear Operating The lives and livelihoods of millions The Middle East the worlds largest reservoir for oil reserves is the Company of Americans depend on the Hoover core for future oil production.
Middle Eastern countries are currently Dam a magnificent example of critical Working closely with our South Texas responsible for nearly one-third of global oil production.
The Hoover Project customer has allowed G4S to proven world oil reserves and 41% of proven world reserves of natural Dam helps prevent widespread flooding, come up with a service that combines gas in the Middle East, we believe our expertise in this area, together provides water to arid states, and its the expertise of our security officers hydroelectric power generators makes with our global footprint and experience of operating in diverse with technology and risk expertise to a significant energy contribution.
geo-political regions, will be a competitive strength.
protect a key US nuclear facility during With our state-of-the-art Symmetry normal operation and a challenging Enterprise Security Management System Alternative energy sources expansion project.
in operation at the Hoover Dam, all In developed markets such as the US and UK, there is focus on The South Texas Projects trust in our aspects of its security operations are nuclear energy as nations look towards what they believe are more ability to manage its current security controlled and co-ordinated with the programme has led us to also provide low carbon energy solutions.
Here regulation is driving an increased same precision as the dam itself.
developmental security consultancy for demand for not only a physical security presence but involvement the construction of two adjoining new in design of new facilities, security systems integration, and partners reactor facilities, which present difficult with approved regulatory training.
security challenges and compliance with new defensive requirements.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 18 Ensuring the safety of travellers and the efficiency of the international transport system G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 Sector profiles continued Ports and Airports We ensure the safe passage of travellers, crew and cargo and the efficiency of the international transport system through a full range of aviation operations spanning 61 airports and 81 airlines across 34 countries, and at 20 ports worldwide.
Customer needs and drivers Terror threat drivers Compliance with new and emerging security legislation and counterterrorism measures is driving customer needs for operators of airports and ports globally.
Customers want optimum security levels, superior customer service levels and a flexible service that is very cost effective.
Customer pressures The aviation sector has suffered extensively as a result of the global economic crisis.
Airlines collectively lost around $11bn in 2009, as they Case study | Ports and Airports were particularly affected by the 20% drop in business passengers Oslo Airport source: IATA who ordinarily provide a substantially higher yield than economy passengers.
This decrease in passenger numbers has led to Last year we saw the safe passage of 18.1m passengers through Oslo Airport, reduced capacity which has in turn affected airports.
where our focus on delivering for our customer has contributed to the Market overview airport being heralded as one of the most efficient and punctual airports Growth predictions in Europe by both the Air Transport Global aviation demand predictions suggest the sector will grow Research Society and Association of in the next 12 months.
Passenger numbers are still increasing in the European Airlines.
Middle East and Chinese domestic markets.
Airport infrastructure is not expected to keep up with passenger growth over the next ten years, potentially resulting in a shortfall of capacity in the order of one billion passengers.
Airports and airlines will be looking more to cost-effective, flexible security providers who have consulting capability, new technology integration expertise and who can redesign systems and interfaces.
Legislation-led port investment In the ports sector, compliance with international security standards and evolving ports legislation is driving customer requirements.
Case study | Ports and Airports Case study | Ports and Airports With 480 million containers being moved around the world every year, container and port facility security is an area of growing focus.
Gothenburg Port Adesta US government legislation on higher security standards for any global Our intelligent security systems ensure Our acquisition of US-based Adesta will port that wants to export to the US by 2012 is driving substantial Scandinavias largest port, Gothenburg, help position G4S in the US seaports is well protected against terrorism and market, as well as support our growth investment in this area.
adheres to global maritime security in the chemical security space.
With 11,000 arrivals at the port market penetration in US seaports Scale of opportunities each year and 43 million tonnes of cargo together with its expertise in cuttingKey opportunities for the port sector lie with the large international traffic, we ensure the port is safe, secure edge technology integration will help private port operators, who have collectively committed more than and working at optimum level within us deliver a solution that integrates $25bn of investment in building new green brown field terminals international maritime security laws.
all seaport security related activities.
globally to expand their portfolios and capacity.
Adestas strengths are viewed as an attractive and complementary fit to help Our response us expand our sector presence and build our technology capabilities.
These international operators collectively manage or own in excess of 300 port terminals globally.
In 90% of cases they outsource their security requirements, and here we believe our historical development of security protection of physical locations with integrated systems, and our unique global footprint, will be a competitive advantage.
G G4 4S p S pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 00 09 9 20 20 Creating a safe environment for recreation and exploration Case study | Leisure and Events Case study | Leisure and Events The Championships, Wimbledon Africa International Youth Football Tournament The Championships, Wimbledon, is probably one of the most high profile Our events expertise allowed young and prestigious sporting events in the football hopefuls in Sierra Leone to realise world and G4S plays a huge role in the their dream of playing their international success of the iconic tennis tournament.
opponents at home, in a country that G4S provides an event management has been starved of high class sporting solution for The Championships, and events due to the perception it is unsafe.
each year preparations begin many The FC Johansen Football Club staged the months before the first volley on court.
five-day international against eight specially invited teams from South America, Europe and Africa, to give people in Sierra Leone the opportunity to watch high standard football on their home soil.
It also gave young local players the opportunity to display and compare their skills in front of a home crowd and observers from Europe and other parts of Africa.
G G4 4S p S pllc A c An nn nu ua al r l Re ep po orrt a t an nd a d A cc co co uu nn ts 2 ts 2 00 00 99 Overview 21 Business review 21 Governance Financial statements Sector profiles continued Leisure and Events As an experienced partner to flagship international sporting and music events, we ensure safety and security at some of the most exciting events in the entertainment calendar.
Customer needs and drivers Customer experience In the events world, security is inextricably linked to customer service.
Customers are keen to ensure event-goers enjoy a first class experience within a safe and secure environment.
Business drivers In a market dictated largely by the appearance fee percentages paid to performers and participants, customers want a costeffective service that does not compromise on the ethics of safety and security.
Capable partners They also want a security partner that can demonstrate flexibility, continued development in customer service, an understanding of counter terrorism measures, and attention to detail at operational, tactical and strategic levels.
Leisure pressure The events industry has previously been shown to be resilient against recession however current financial constraints have affected specific sectors such as sports and hospitality.
Live musics resilience The live music sector remains buoyant with major outdoor events retaining strong ticket sales, which in turn generates more detailed planning needs and higher levels of staffing.
Growth opportunities Recent successes in Ireland and the Middle East, and other international collaborations, have shown the potential offered to G4S by the events industry.
Our UK events expertise has been coupled with regional capabilities to demonstrate our offering, particularly in new and emerging markets where event security has traditionally not been an area of focus.
