G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 42 Executive management team 1 2 3 4 1 3 Nick Buckles Grahame Gibson Chief executive officer Chief operating officer and divisional president secure solutions Nick has worked in the security industry for 25 years, focusing throughout this time on the commercial and strategic aspects of Grahame has been involved in the security industry for 27 years, having all areas of security services.
joined Group 4s UK operating company in 1983 as Finance Director.
After a variety of commercial roles throughout the group, he was Since that time, Grahame has held a number of operational, management responsible for driving significant profit improvements in many Securicor and board positions in the UK, USA, Denmark, the Netherlands businesses throughout the 1990s as a business unit managing director and Austria.
and divisional chief executive of the security division.
He was also His broad experience of the security industry and management of instrumental in the development of Securicors security sector focus, businesses across a diverse range of cultures has been invaluable to becoming Group Chief Executive in 2002, and in bringing together the group throughout its development.
Grahame joined the board Group 4 Falck and Securicor to create the new combined group.
Nick became Chief Executive of G4S in July 2005.
Nick is Chairman of Grahame is a board member of the Ligue Internationale des Socits the Ligue Internationale des Socits fide Surveillance, the international fide Surveillance.
association of leading security companies.
2 4 Trevor Dighton Ken Niven Chief financial officer Divisional president cash solutions Ken has 14 years experience in the security industry, having joined Trevor has worked in the security industry for 24 years.
After several years in both the accountancy profession and commerce working in Securicor in 1996 as operations director of the UK cash services business the finance function and general management, he joined BET in 1986 where he was later promoted to managing director and was instrumental as finance director of their Security and Communications Division.
in the development of new product areas, including cash centre outsourcing and establishing Securicors independent ATM network.
Trevor joined Securicor in 1995 and, following a number of years as finance director of the security division, he was appointed to the board Ken was appointed to his current role in July 2004 and is responsible of Securicor plc in June 2002 as group finance director.
He became for the groups cash solutions division, which includes all of the major chief financial officer of G4S in July 2004. cash solutions business units, and for sharing cash solutions best practice throughout the entire organisation.
Ken joined the security industry Trevor is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
following a successful career within the logistics management industry where he held senior roles at Express Foods, Excel Logistics and Coca-Cola.
Ken is President of ESTA, the European cash services association, and is a member of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Overview Business review Governance 43 Financial statements Shareholder information 5 6 5 Sren Lundsberg-Nielsen Group general counsel Sren began his career as a lawyer in Denmark and since 1984 he has had a wide range of legal experience as General Counsel for international groups in Denmark, Belgium and the US before joining Group 4 Falck in 2001 as General Counsel.
Sren has been involved in a wide range of successful mergers and acquisitions during his career, including the acquisition of Wackenhut and the merger of Group 4 Falck and Securicor.
Sren now has overall responsibility for all internal and external legal services for G4S as well as the groups insurance programme.
Sren is a member of the Danish Bar and Law Society, a board member of the Danish Blood Donation Society, member of the Advisory Board of the Danish UK Chamber of Commerce and author of the book Executive Management Contracts, published in Denmark.
6 Irene Cowden Group HR director Irene has spent her career in HR management, specialising in employee relations, organisational development, talent management and compensation issues.
She has been involved in major change projects including the cultural and integration aspects of mergers and acquisitions as well as large scale organisational change involving workforce restructuring, working in partnership with major trade unions.
Irene has worked in the security industry for 32 years and has held director level positions at business unit, divisional and corporate level.
She was appointed to the Board of Securicor plc in 2002 as Group HR Director.
Irene is a member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development MCIPD.
