The GAME Group plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2008-2009 Independent market report Recognising the value of brand in delivering business growth is fundamental to GAME Groups strategy of placing its customers at the heart of its business Jane Piper FRSA, Brand Strategy Consultancy Jane is an independent specialist in brand value and a member of the UK team developing an international standard ISO on brand valuation.
She has published an independent overview Unravelling Brand Value for Superbrands, and advises companies on leveraging the value of their brands to drive business performance and future earnings.
2 213541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 20 13541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 20 2 26 5 09 10:45:12 6 5 09 10:45:12 Our performance The GAME Group plc Independent market report 21 Annual Report and Accounts continued 2008-2009 Through its specialist retail Recent research has proposition and key attributes for business growth, brand plays a demonstrated signi cant signi cant element in supporting trust in the brand.
delivery on the high street with GAME and Gamestation and online.
The strength and depth of product range In the current economic climate, Equally the strength and depth of the product those brands with market strength range is so crucial to this fast-moving market.
and a diversi ed market base are best-placed to weather the dif cult Insatiable customer demand for new product environment and prosper faster means that only a specialist with a dedicated in the resultant upturn.
operation can handle the size and volume of product range, speed of innovation in product GAME is in a strong position to counter development and short lead-time to shelf.
reduction in consumer spending with a well-established brand presence in the GAMEs track record backed by recent value-for-money and fast-growing preowned research has demonstrated signi cant trust in market, and through its branded specialist the brand to deliver on high volume, meeting focus to beat off competition from nonthe lightening speed of customer demand specialist supermarkets.
for product range as well as responding to peaks and troughs.
The strength and reputation of its brands GAME and Gamestation, is at the heart of Preowned its dual strategy and business attributes in: This is a key defensive and high margin core plank of GAMEs brand philosophy of driving  Customer Relationship Management, and customer loyalty.
 Infrastructure and Support Being the first major European retail chain into Customer Relationship Management this market has given GAME Group a combined Its employees 26 years of experience across both brands, A specialist retailer with special people to signi cantly in advance of any competitor deliver specialist knowledge is a core driver making them first and best in class.
of brand value in delivering outstanding customer relationship management.
Trade-in and preowned has proved to be extremely popular with its customers across Customer experience is driven by the both brands, which helps consumers with effectiveness of GAMEs employees in a value-for-money purchase, and or a delivering the brand experience, at pointcontribution towards additional products.
of-sale and every touch-point between consumer and brand.
Reward Card members worldwide m 2.2m UK and Ireland 7.4 new Reward Card customers France 2.5 in 2008 Iberia 1.4 Australia 1.0 Scandinavia 0.3 Customer focus, evolving market.
2 213541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 21 13541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 21 2 26 5 09 10:45:13 6 5 09 10:45:13 The GAME Group plc Independent market report 22 Annual Report and Accounts continued 2008-2009 Customer loyalty Keeping and retaining customers is at the Keeping and retaining heart of GAMEs relationship with its customers customers is at the heart whether a GAME, Gamestation or online customer.
of GAMEs relationship with its customers.
GAME rewards its customers trust in their brand with their generous loyalty scheme the Reward Card.
Delivering the same level of exibility, practicality and personal interaction online The loyalty card scheme is fast, interactive, as instore are key to the successful growth immediate and delivers tangible bene ts of GAMEs eCommerce potential.
to consumers over a very short period of time, including valuable discounts, superior Business relationships trade-in bene ts, value-added promotions The strength of the brand is an integral part and pre-order priority.
of GAMEs core relationships with its partners Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo.
It provides valuable customer insights and behavioural change information reinforcing The trust and reputation of the brand means the relationship GAME has with its customers.
a two-way partnership to maximise sales for both parties.
Infrastructure and support The strength of the GAME brand and its customer relationships is strong enough to drive Reputation of the brand pre-orders and secure valuable priority stock is dependent on customer allocation from partners, who have con dence in the brand to reach the market first.
Distribution The GAME brands are trusted by both consumers Property and suppliers to be first on shelf with new Maximum exposure for the brands, in the games and to meet the needs of key peaks right locations to support the individual brand in demand.
positioning for both GAME and Gamestation, is integral to increasing footfall, improving Distribution is critical to the continuing successful brand image rating and delivering increased growth of GAME brands, by owning its own pro t per square foot.
dedicated distribution facilities it is able to guarantee the speed of product to customer.
Recognition of differing shopping environments and trends in differing geographic markets is With its dedicated workforce and distribution part of the regional property strategy, as is the hub in each international market, GAME landlord relationship.
reinforces its commitment to placing its customers at the heart of its operations.
eCommerce Signi cant growth potential for online retail Jane Piper is a generic trend.
Brand Strategy Consultancy Customers are as much a part of the GAME community regardless of whether they shop online, instore or a combination of both and the quality and reputation of the brand is dependent on the consumer experience.
2 213541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 22 13541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 22 2 26 5 09 10:45:13 6 5 09 10:45:13 Our performance The GAME Group plc Independent market report 23 Annual Report and Accounts continued 2008-2009 handheld device over several months no mean Market overview feat considering its lifecycle and such a formidable Nick Parker, rival in the DS.
Parker Consulting Ltd, Founder and Director Pc software still manages to occupy a top three place in games platform rankings on a unit basis Nick has seventeen and generated 2 billion 10 per cent of global years in the video games software sales.
Pc software sales polarise between industry.
For the last seven new, premium priced releases at one end and years, Nick has been running Parker Consulting, budget labels at the other.
The momentum of a strategic business consultancy which specialises premium priced pc titles is maintained from a in offering sound business practices and strategic number of online massively multiple online games advice through research, planning and forecasting MMOGS and new iterations of veteran franchises.
techniques, as well as assistance with online strategies.
The USA and Europe are similar in size on most Nick is also a partner and founder of GameVision, platforms except on the Xbox 360, which is most the industry standard in consumer intelligence attractive to core gamers in the UK and USA, but not in Europe.
so much on mainland Europe.
DS sales declined signi cantly in Japan in 2008 but the new DSi, launched there in November, sold a robust 1.3 million After two years of the most dynamic growth units.
Combined unit sales of the Wii, PS3 and in the history of the interactive gaming industry, Xbox 360 are expected to remain sturdy in 2009 expectation of further development remains in the USA and Europe, providing further impetus optimistic despite the worsening economic climate.
to margin driving software sales.
The jostling for market share between the three consoles will continue this year but fortunes may Western Europe is now the largest games market be reversed for better or worse.
Online gaming in the world with packaged software revenues in has helped to proliferate the market to wider excess of 8.5 billion in 2008.
Within Europe, the audiences and new business models in this UK leads and is now the second strongest market sector are becoming widely adopted.
on a global basis after the USA, having overtaken Japan last year.
The UK retailer landscape is Games software, still reaching new record levels changing rapidly with key general chains closing Games software, the most signi cant component and consolidation among the specialists resulting of the total games market in terms of sales, and the in fewer players in the high street, while online most consistent and revealing measure of the day to retailers gain meaningful points in market share.
day consumer desire for gaming, grew by over 13 per cent by value on a worldwide basis in 2008 to reach Online gaming has assisted the spread of gaming to record annual sales of 20.6 billion.
This compares diverse cultures and demographics over the last few to a CAGR of 5 per cent over the previous ten years.
Although accounting for less than 25 per cent of every dollar spent across the whole leisure software For the second year running, Nintendo devices industry, this share could double within five years provided the main thrust with sales from the Wii as more attractive business models proliferate and DS growing in most territories as stock supply and consoles provide a more relevant alternative of hardware was more consistent than in 2007. platform to the pc for this type of experience.
Microsoft lowered the price of the Xbox 360 and increased marketing spend in the last quarter to A changing European culture and improve its market share over the Sony PlayStation 3 economic landscape which had to put its glory on hold for another year The cultural divide in gaming terms, hardcore as the corporation was forced to prioritise versus casual can be drawn between the North pro tability over growth.
Northern markets such as Scandinavia and the UK play more competitive Software sales from the Sony PSP on a global basis and irreverent games than the warmer markets have proved surprisingly resilient with some markets in the south which prefer a family experience.
The experiencing double digit growth.
This reinforces recent economic fortunes of European markets have the evidence that quality titles drive hardware sales, resulted in diverse sales trends across the continent as clearly demonstrated in Japan where one where some markets have seen a decline on some title ensured that the PSP became the top selling platforms which are performing better elsewhere.
