Business Review Introduction Corporate Governance Financial Statements Business Review Group Performance Revenue Adjusted Results Constant Currency Revenue for the year of 280.4m was Year ended 30 June 2009 2008 Movement Movement 14% higher, largely due to exchange rate m m % % movements.
At constant exchange rates, Continuing Operations revenue was broadly unchanged from last year, with growth in Latin America and Revenue 280.4 247.1 14 1 Europe being offset by lower sales in the Operating profit 38.1 32.3 18 - hard hit North American market.
Profit before tax 32.0 27.9 15 7 North American dairy semen sales Earnings per share p 36.1 31.8 14 7 were lower but bovine volumes grew in Adjusted results are calculated before net IAS 41 valuation movements in biological assets, amortisation other regions.
The severity of milk price of acquired intangibles, share based payments, exceptional items and other gains and losses.
This reductions caused farmers in North measurement includes share of profits of joint ventures and associates.
America to cut back in the second half of Constant currency percentage movements are calculated by restating 2009 results at the exchange rates the year.
Large farmers hold semen stock applied in 2008 on their farms and tend to fide-stock in times of stringency.
Adjusted Operating Profit Our strategy of moving porcine business to the royalty model marginally reduced The review of operating profit below higher feed costs for operating the long headline sales but benefited the business focuses on adjusted operating profit term product development programmes.
in terms of stability of income.
However, and adjusted profit before tax.
The Performance, on a regional basis, there was also an impact from low pig Board believes that these measures comprised continued strong growth in the prices that reduced direct sales to these provide a meaningful analysis of developing markets of Latin America and customers.
Overall porcine royalties grew underlying business performance.
Asia, an improvement in Europe but lower 7%, reflecting the increase in Genus As such, it excludes the net IAS 41 profits in North America, as a result of the market share in a number of countries.
valuation movement in biological assets, market shortfalls in bovine sales.
amortisation of acquired intangible assets, Adjusted Profit Before Tax and share based payments, exceptional items Adjusted EPS and other gains and losses.
Adjusted profit before tax increased by Adjusted operating profit increased 15% to 32.0m 2008: 27.9m and by 18% to 38.1m 2008: 32.3m adjusted earnings per share increased by driven by exchange rate movements.
On a constant exchange At constant exchange rates, adjusted rate basis, profit before tax and earnings operating profit was in line with last per share were down 7%, principally due year.
An improvement in trading profit to a 1.1m increase in interest costs.
was offset by higher research and development costs, including 1.3m Genus Annual Report 2009 I 7
