Corporate Governance Directors Report The directors present their report and financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2009.
Principal Activities The principal activities of the Group comprise the global application of quantitative genetics and biotechnology to animal breeding in the bovine and porcine sectors.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in notes 19 and 38 to the financial statements.
Business Review A review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 30 June 2009, the position of the Group at the end of the year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group can be found within the Business Review on pages 6 to 25.
The Business Review also includes details of expected future developments in the business of the Group, an indication of its activities in the field of research and development and details of the key performance indicators used by management, together with details of the Companys approach to corporate responsibility.
The Business Review also contains a description of treasury policies and financial instruments used by the Group, which should be read in conjunction with note 27 to the financial statements.
Dividends The directors are pleased to recommend the payment of a dividend of 11.0 pence per ordinary share payable on 8 January 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 11 December 2009.
Directors The directors, who served throughout the year and to the date of signing of this report except as noted, were as follows: John Hawkins Non-Executive Chairman Richard Wood Chief Executive John Worby Group Finance Director appointed 26 February 2009 and previously Non-Executive Director in the period Nigel Turner Senior Non-Executive Director Mike Buzzacott Non-Executive Director appointed 7 May 2009 Barry Furr Non-Executive Director Martin Boden resigned as Group Finance Director on 26 February 2009 In accordance with the Companys articles of association and best practice, Barry Furr will retire by rotation at the next annual general meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Mike Buzzacott was appointed by the Board during the year and will offer himself for election at the next annual general meeting.
The Board considers that the directors who are submitting themselves for election and re-election make an effective and valuable contribution to the Board and demonstrate commitment to their respective roles.
Biographical details on the directors and senior management of the Company can be found on pages 26 to 27.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of directors are described in the Main Board Terms of Reference, copies of which are available on request, and the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 32 to 36.
28 I Genus Annual Report 2009 Business Review Introduction Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Continued Directors Interests The directors who held office at 30 June 2009 had the following interests in the shares of the Company: At 30 June At 30 June 2009 2008 No No John Hawkins 5,100 4,100 Richard Wood 60,566 14,200 John Worby 10,000 10,000 Nigel Turner 15,000 15,000 Mike Buzzacott 1,000 Barry Furr 8,000 Total 99,666 43,300 Directors Share Options and Share Awards Details of directors share options and share awards are provided in the Directors remuneration report on page 39.
Supplier Payment Policy The Companys policy is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and abide by the terms of payment.
Trade creditors of the Group at 30 June 2009 were equivalent to 26 days purchases 2008: 37 days, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Charitable and Political Contributions During the year the Group made no charitable donations 2008: 13,000.
Capital Structure Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 32.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions either on the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
Details of the Companys share schemes are set out in note 31.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 7 September 2009, the following material interests in the Companys issued ordinary share capital were held: Lansdowne Partners Ltd 12.36%, NFU Mutual & Avon Group 10.19%, M&G Investment Management 7.09%: Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 6.75% and Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 5.51%.
No other person has notified an interest in the ordinary shares of the Company which is required to be disclosed by the Company.
Acquisition of the Companys Own Shares At the end of the year, the directors had authority, under the shareholders resolutions of 13 November 2008, until the earlier of 18 months after its passing of such resolutions or the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting, to buy back shares on the open market to a limit of 594,556 in nominal value, representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of the resolution at a price between 10p exclusive of expenses and 105% of the average of the middle market quotation for ordinary shares in the Company for the five business days prior to the date of purchase exclusive of expenses.
No shares were bought back by the Company in the period.
Corporate Governance The Companys Corporate Governance Statement is set out on pages 32 to 36 and forms part of this Directors Report.
Corporate Social Responsibility Details of the Companys approach to corporate social responsibility are contained in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of the Business Review on page 24 to 25.
Genus Annual Report 2009 I 29 Corporate Governance Directors Report Continued Ordinary and Special Business at the Annual General Meeting At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 12 November 2009 resolutions 1 to 7 are termed ordinary business, while resolutions 8 to 10 will be special business.
The ordinary business includes: approval of the Companys audited financial statements and directors and auditors reports for the year ended 30 June 2009 approval of the directors remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 2009 declaration of a final dividend of 11.0 pence per ordinary share election of those directors submitting themselves for election re-election of those directors required to retire by rotation re-appointment of the Companys auditors and the agreement of their remuneration grant of authority to the directors to allot authorised and unissued ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,646,412 without having to obtain prior approval from shareholders on each occasion The special business covers the following matters: partial dis-application of pre-emption rights attaching to the Companys shares renewal of the directors authority to buy back the Companys shares the ability to convene general meetings other than annual general meetings on 14 clear days notice The resolutions are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 109 to 112.
The passing of resolution 7, as an ordinary resolution, will permit the directors for a period expiring at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting to allot relevant securities up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 1,646,412 being 16,464,126 ordinary shares of 10 pence each representing 28 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 30 June 2009.
The directors do not have an intention to exercise this authority at the present time.
The Company currently holds no shares in treasury.
The passing of resolution 8, a special resolution, will permit the directors for a period expiring at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting to make issues of equity securities for cash by way of rights issue or similar pre-emptive offer.
In addition, they may issue equity securities for cash on a non pre-emptive basis, provided the shares so issued be limited to shares with a nominal value of 297,626 being 5% of the equity share capital in issue as at the date of the notice.
The passing of resolution 9, a special resolution, will permit the directors, until the earlier of 18 months after its passing or the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting to buy back shares on the open market to a limit of 595,252 in nominal value, representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of the notice.
The minimum price payable per share will be 10 pence exclusive of expenses and the maximum will be the higher of a 105% of the average of the middle market quotation for ordinary shares in the Company for the five business days prior to the date of purchase exclusive of expenses : and b the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003.
The passing of resolution 10, a special resolution, will allow the Company to call a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting, on not less than 14 clear days notice subject to certain conditions being satisfied as required by section 307A Companies Act 2006.
The annual passing of this resolution will allow the Company to continue to call general meetings on 14 clear days notice following the implementation of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 that requires all general meetings of the Company to be held on 21 days notice unless such a resolution is passed.
In the opinion of the directors, the passing of these resolutions is in the best interests of the shareholders.
The directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all the proposed resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
Going Concern As described more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement on page 44, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
30 I Genus Annual Report 2009 Business Review Introduction Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Continued Provision of Information to the Companys Auditors Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 Companies Act 2006.
Appointment of Auditors Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Belvedere House By order of the Board Basing View Basingstoke RG21 4HG 9 September 2009 Ian Farrelly Group Company Secretary & General Counsel Genus Annual Report 2009 I 31
