Picston Shottle Business Review Genus Products Bovine Porcine Genus manages its global With several elite graduates added to Genus focuses porcine sales at the operations on a regional the Genus stud during the year, the large progressive producers of pork basis and monitors product average genetic quality of the 170 bulls worldwide.
These producers demand performance globally.
in stud increased substantially during genetic products that will enable them the year.
As a result of this and Genus to maximise total economic value i. e. global distribution strength, bovine sales maximise efficiency per kg of outperformed those of its competitors pork produced.
in globally difficult market conditions.
Genus has selectively developed a Sorted semen sales continued to grow range of genetic products to meet these but peaked at 5% of total dairy semen needs for each of the various farms volume and 16% of revenue, as cash management environments.
For the strapped farmers traded down in order to customer with an optimum management control costs.
Porcine Genetic Nucleus facility in Canada system, the fast growing, efficient PIC Larger farmers buy semen a few times 337 male and the prolific, efficient a year and hold frozen semen stock Camborough female remain the on their farms.
In times of financial Companys top selling products.
stringency, they tend to run down these Despite a 7% reduction in sales at stocks and this temporarily depresses constant exchange rates, underlying volume potential in the market below volumes improved by approximately Dekorra Bull Stud the natural decline in its demand.
Underlying profitability of porcine result, Genus sales volume growth fell products was held back by higher sharply from around 9% last year to 1% product development costs due to this year.
With fide-stocking now having start-up costs of the new global nucleus taken place, volume potential is expected facility and higher feed costs.
Underlying profitability of bovine products benefited from tight control of costs.
16 I Genus Annual Report 2009 Business Review Introduction Corporate Governance Financial Statements Analysis of Performance by Species Porcine markets remained difficult Constant Currency throughout the year.
With many of 2009 2008 Movement Movement Genus customers, particularly in the key m m % % US market, remaining loss-making, the robustness of the royalty business model Revenue can be demonstrated.
This year royalty Bovine 140.3 120.1 17 5 income rose by 7% when compared with Porcine 135.8 123.8 10 7 2008.
Royalty volume rose as farmers Research & Development 4.3 3.2 continued to produce from royalty bearing genetics purchased in previous 280.4 247.1 years and some farmers purchased new royalty bearing genetics.
Royalties, by Adjusted Operating Profit their nature, carry a high margin whereas Bovine 17.8 17.4 2 1 the margin on direct sales is much lower Porcine 30.8 24.2 27 3 and dependent upon a genetic premium above variable pig prices.
Unallocated 10.5 9.3 38.1 32.2 By contrast, direct sales income fell.
This was partly because of our strategy Analysis of adjusted operating profits by species based on estimated allocation of costs within regions.
to switch more business to royalties and Research & central costs are not allocated.
partly from the market downturn.
