Business Review Introduction Corporate Governance Financial Statements Business Review Strategy In China, the relationship with Mengniu, In Latin America, we have renewed Genus has made excellent the countrys largest dairy producer, the licence arrangements with our joint progress with its strategy for was cemented in a broad commercial venture partners in Brazil: the new long-term expansion.
agreement for the supply of semen to arrangements will encourage further contracted farmers.
An opening stock growth, especially with large producers.
This strategy comprises four of proven semen was shipped from key elements:- The expansion of Genus global facilities America and 11 proven bulls were required to support the next phase of Local investment in developing transferred from Australia pending the growth is well advanced.
In America, markets to achieve rapid organic completion of custom-built facilities.
the new porcine nucleus herd facility in growth, particularly in China, Russia, Initial sales volume was ahead of South Dakota is due to be completed India and Latin America.
The aim is to expectations with further quantities in September 2009 and will provide capture up to 50% of the new growth of US semen and more bulls shortly additional capacity as well as enabling anticipated as these markets expand: to be shipped to meet demand for the the older facility in Kentucky to be year ahead.
Continued growth at historical levels in redeployed.
In the bovine sector, the the developed markets of the western The strategic development of the porcine programme to increase the number of world through ongoing enhancement business in China has progressed US progeny tested bulls is progressing and improvement of the Genus vigorously.
New local production has well.
The new facilities are being phased product offering and customer service: been sanctioned by the Board to achieve in line with the increase in bull numbers the goal of capturing 50% of the growth and are expected to be fully completed Investment in enhanced global in the larger farm segment of the market.
Global semen production production and product development Three new farm sites have been leased capacity will then have increased by 18% facilities and in expansion of local with the construction and stocking of to 18m doses per annum.
This, coupled production facilities in emerging these farms being targeted for the with an expectation of additional elite markets: and middle of 2010.
At that point, Genus bulls joining the stud, will allow sales Continued targeted research and will have more than doubled its growth targets to be met.
development, with emphasis on production capacity in China, in line commercialisation of the recent with expected demand.
breakthrough in sexed semen In Russia, an option has been taken on technology and in exploiting Genus real estate and buildings for conversion expertise in gene markers.
into a local stud as soon as operational Despite the current slowdown in world licenses have been granted by the agricultural markets, we remain firmly government.
Plans are also being committed to these key strategies.
developed to enter the dairy market Opening of a new porcine facility in China in India.
Genus Annual Report 2009 I 9 Business Review Global Operations - The Americas Region Business Overview The Americas Region Actual Currency Constant Currency The region comprises the mature North 2009 2008 Movement Movement American markets and the developing markets of Latin America.
Trading takes m m % % place in all major countries through wholly Revenue 143.1 123.3 16 4 owned subsidiaries, with the exception Adjusted operating profit 42.5 35.9 18 2 of Brazil, where porcine sales are made Adjusted operating margin 30% 29% through a 49% joint venture.
In smaller markets, sales are made through agents.
The regions focus on larger customers North America and Genus strong product offerings Producers in North America faced Prompt action was taken to mitigate ensures that the Company is well placed the impact of the market downturn particularly difficult market conditions.
to benefit from consolidation in the with a major productivity improvement Weakening demand and some developed agricultural markets of North programme implemented in January oversupply from the previous year led to America and Canada.
As a result, a $2.5m annualised a fall in returns for Genus customers at from the growth of the extensive cost saving was achieved.
a time when feed costs, although lower agricultural industries in Latin America than at their peak levels, remained high and their expanding exports into In porcine, the continued efforts to win by historical standards.
new customers and assist existing customers to realise benefits from Revenue was up 16% to 109.0m and Performance Review Genus superior genetics, continued to adjusted operating profit was up 19% It was a difficult year for most of yield positive results.
The underlying performance Genus customers in the region, with business and overall royalty volumes grew in constant currency was down 6%, weakening demand, following the credit by 3%, in an otherwise flat market.
As a again due to the market related shortfall crisis, leading to falls in agricultural result, Genus market share grew in the in bovine.
USA and now stands at just over 52%.
In the bovine markets, the financial crisis Although regional sales grew by 16% and Over 95% of porcine sales in North caused a weakening of demand for dairy adjusted operating profit was up 18%, America are now made under a products and destocking by cheese this was largely from an exchange gain royalty contract based on volumes.
A dramatic fall in milk prices driven by the weakness of sterling.
In This, together with the increased and an inevitable slowing in semen sales constant currency, profits were 2% lower volume of business, enabled Genus to followed.
This caused customers to trade due to a market related shortfall in bovine.
improve porcine profitability and further down in their semen purchases.
demonstrates the strength of the porcine Strong growth was achieved in business model.
Latin America, where market share was improved in each of the main country markets.
10 I Genus Annual Report 2009 Business Review Introduction Corporate Governance Financial Statements North America Porcine sales also grew in line with our Actual Currency Constant Currency strategy.
Royalty volumes grew by 17% 2009 2008 Movement Movement with particularly impressive growth in m m % % Mexico where market share increased Revenue 109.0 94.4 16 7 to 46%.
We also achieved small market share gains in other countries.
Continued Adjusted operating profit 32.3 27.2 19 6 progress was made in converting large Adjusted operating margin 30% 29% customers to the royalty model with royalties now accounting for 55% of business in the region up from 50% Latin America last year.
Actual Currency Constant Currency The H1N1 flu scare temporarily reduced 2009 2008 Movement Movement pig prices and resulted in some movement restrictions between countries.
m m % % This had a small effect on profitability, with Revenue 34.1 28.9 18 6 some sales being deferred into the next Adjusted operating profit 10.2 8.7 17 10 financial year.
Adjusted operating margin 30% 30% In our joint venture in Brazil, volumes grew but profits were held back by a fall in pig prices.
The royalty arrangements Latin America for our provision of genetics to the joint Bovine volumes were 9% higher and Excellent progress was made in venture were improved in the period.
Genus improved its market share continuing to grow in the strategically across all countries in which it operates.
Profitability was enhanced by the added Revenue was up 18% to 34.1m and value of Genetic Mating and adjusted operating profit grew by 17% to Reproductive Management Services.
On a constant currency basis, These services provide increased the growth in profits was 10%.
average selling prices at the same time as cementing customer loyalty.
Genus Annual Report 2009 I 11 Business Review Global Operations - Europe and The Far East Region Business Overview Europe & The Far East Region The region comprises the developed Actual Currency Constant Currency world agricultural markets including 2009 2008 Movement Movement particularly the UK, Western Europe m m % % & Australia and the developing world Revenue 140.6 128.3 10 2 agricultures of Eastern Europe and the Far East.
Adjusted operating profit 25.1 21.8 15 5 In Western Europe the agricultural Adjusted operating margin 18% 17% markets are relatively mature.
In this sector, growth opportunities arose Europe The market conditions for pig producers because of industry consolidation in in Europe were depressed by high feed response to change: i. e. pressure of Revenue increased by 8% and prices and weak pig prices.
adjusted operating profit was 6% higher.
pig prices began to rise towards the On a constant currency basis, growth There is medium-term growth potential end of the year, the margins for genetics was achieved notwithstanding the in Eastern Europe and the Far East products remained depressed.
above mentioned difficult agricultural from population growth and increased market conditions.
urbanisation, as this is driving increased Nevertheless, porcine sales volume grew.
demand for pork and dairy products.
Growth arose from progress with the In bovine, milk prices were firm during the These opportunities are being royalty model, for example in Italy and first half of the year but deteriorated as aggressively pursued, notably in China the UK, and direct volumes in Spain and commodity price reductions fed through and Russia.
In Russia, the credit crisis into milk prices.
This market reversal caused stocking delays as customers encouraged British farmers to use Performance Review struggled with banking facilities.
proportionately more beef semen Regional sales grew by 10% to 140.6m to achieve dairy pregnancies as beef In Western Europe, an increased 2008: 128.3m.
In constant currency, semen is less expensive.
Semen sales proportion of porcine business has been regional sales were 2% ahead of last year.
volume rose, the dairy blend price migrated to the royalty model.
This now remained firm and beef semen sales grew Adjusted operating profit rose by 15% accounts for 60% of sales.
resulting in bovine revenue rising and to 25.1m 2008: 21.8m.
The overall market weakness, together currency, the increase was 5% driven by with the deferral of income as the strong profit growth in the Far The proportion of business generated business moved to royalties, reduced East region.
from the Reproductive Management margins but tight cost control mitigated Services rose in the UK and Italy.
These countries reported double digit growth in profits.
An increase in sales volume led to a profit increase in France.
12 I Genus Annual Report 2009 Business Review Introduction Corporate Governance Financial Statements Europe Actual Currency Constant Currency 2009 2008 Movement Movement m m % % Revenue 118.8 109.7 8 2 Adjusted operating profit 18.7 17.6 6 2 Adjusted operating margin 16% 16% The Far East Actual Currency Constant Currency 2009 2008 Movement Movement Garrison m m % % Revenue 21.8 18.6 17 - Adjusted operating profit 6.4 4.2 52 19 Adjusted operating margin 29% 23% The Far East The region continued to achieve strong Australia, sales grew by 9% and the blend growth, notwithstanding temporary price improved in a flat market.
Revenue In China, porcine sales growth was increased by 17% to 21.8m and adjusted reduced temporarily due to the volatility of operating profit rose by over 50% to local pig prices.
As the majority of business 6.4m.
On a constant currency basis, in China is through direct sales rather adjusted operating profit was than by royalty in order to protect Genus up 19%.
intellectual property, profits were flat.
Excellent progress was made in developing After a difficult start to the year in the both the bovine and porcine businesses in Philippines, there was a strong recovery China and a reorganisation of our business in later months as markets improved.
in Australia helped increase market share in Also, volume growth was particularly bovine enhancing profit contribution.
