Business Overview Business Organisation Genus creates advances Headquartered in Basingstoke, Approximately 13 million doses of semen to animal breeding through England, Genus companies operate are collected from these studs each year.
biotechnology and sells in thirty countries on six continents, The semen is frozen in tanks containing added value products for with laboratories located in Madison, liquid nitrogen so that it can be kept Wisconsin, USA.
The Companys indefinitely and can be transferred and livestock farming and food operations are managed using a territorial sold throughout the world.
Its non-genetically matrix of North America, Latin America, Genus is unique amongst its competitors modified organism technology Europe & The Far East supported in that it operates a global insemination by consolidated global Research, is applicable across all service through a network of employees Development and Production facilities.
livestock species but is only and self-employed exclusive agents who Research & Product Development operate under the ABS trademark.
commercialised by Genus Genus research and product Porcine Product Development in the bovine and porcine development expenditure for the year to farming sectors.
The Genus porcine business sells June 2009 was 20.4m 2008: 16.0m.
breeding males, females and semen.
Genus worldwide sales are made Approximately 17% was spent on The Company owns nine pure-bred pig in seventy countries under the trade research, and 47% on bovine and 36% lines which it is continuing to develop marks ABS dairy and beef cattle and on porcine product development.
in its two nucleus herds, located in the PIC pigs and comprise semen and Bovine Product Development USA and Canada.
These animals are breeding animals with superior genetics multiplied and then crossed in around to those animals currently in production.
Genus operates bovine studs in the USA, 170 predominantly sub-contracted Customers animals produce offspring Canada, Brazil, UK, Italy and Australia.
multiplication units located in all the with greater production efficiency, milk Approximately 170 world leading beef Companys markets around the world.
and meat output and quality, and use and dairy animals of the main commercial these to supply the global dairy and meat breeds are in production in these studs.
More than 100 million slaughter pigs supply chain.
A further 2,000 are in various stages produced each year contain Genus of product development.
The breeding genetics and Genus views these pigs The Groups competitive edge has been selection programme tests approximately as those with the highest value that can created from the ownership and control 400 dairy bulls per year in a rolling five be produced with the lowest production of proprietary lines of breeding animals, year programme which includes creating cost of any of Genus competitors the biotechnology used to improve and measuring the output of 40,000 supplying large integrated pig them and its global production and daughters.
The commercially active stud production units.
has a replacement rate of 25-35% of bulls per annum.
