Business Review Research & Product Development Expenditure rose to 20.4m 2008: Product Development Bovine Product Development 16.0m.
Of this increase, 3.4m related Strong progress was made in both the We believe that the Genus bovine stud to exchange rate movements with 1.0m bovine and porcine genetic programmes.
is the most genetically elite and diverse 6%, being an underlying increase.
The Internal trials against competitors in the world.
It comprises around 170 main reasons for this increase were a products and public domain information beef and dairy bulls carefully selected market driven increase in feed costs, have confirmed that progress in the for their ability to confer in their progeny particularly in the porcine nucleus porcine sector and the quality of the a combination of 24 desirable traits herds: increased commercially focused new bulls entering the Genus studs have providing benefits in terms of quality, research expenditure to maintain Genus expanded the Companys lead over that output and robustness.
In the period a competitive lead, and the start-up of of its competitors.
number of elderly bulls were retired from the new nucleus herd facilities which the stud and replaced by elite entrants so provides the opportunity for planned We also made progress with the that the genetic quality of the stud was sales growth.
milestones set for the leading projects The underlying bovine product In the dairy sector, the stud is led by have been met.
development costs were contained Shottle and Bolton, two of the most at a lower level than last year whilst internationally renowned Holstein bulls in expenditure on ongoing inventive the world today.
capability remained broadly in line with The range of skills being brought to the previous financial year.
the development and production of the Companys elite bulls is well illustrated by Research & Product Development the unique achievement of having 5 bulls each complete 1 million lifetime units of Actual Currency Constant Currency semen sales during 2009.
Genus now 2009 2008 Movement Movement has 17 bulls, up from 8 bulls last year in m m % % the top 50 of the internationally important Research 3.5 2.5 40 17 US ranking list.
Bovine product development 9.5 8.7 9 9 The planned increase in the five year Porcine product development 7.4 4.8 54 28 selection and testing programme for the Total 20.4 16.0 28 6 new bulls to regenerate and enhance the stud was completed in 2009.
Some 300 Holstein bulls per year are now being progeny tested in the key US proving ground, some 80 more than when the increase was initiated.
14 I Genus Annual Report 2009 Business Review Introduction Corporate Governance Financial Statements it can quickly identify the progress made In creating and selecting new animals for adoption of cross-bred genetic trials in commercial herds and, more recently, by in other biotech industries and decide this programme, because of the five year the selective use of gene markers from whether such progress could be adapted lead time, the Company continually looks the fundamental science programme.
for use in the animal genetics sector.
ahead to the likely needs of agriculture These processes have combined to at the time the bulls will graduate.
Over In these ways, the Company is able increase the annual rate of genetic the last five years, the programme has to achieve more progress than would progress made in the Companys nucleus concentrated on all round performance normally be expected from the level of herds, from 0.6 standard deviations per with an emphasis on robustness.
From expenditure currently directed towards year when acquired by Genus, to 1.0 publicly available data, we can confirm fundamental science.
standard deviations per year today.
This that the Genus stud is already well rate of progress is worth around $1.60 In managing projects, Genus researchers ahead of its competitors and that this per market pig.
With the minimum three have to justify project expenditure against competitiveness will be enhanced by year lag in multiplying nucleus herd the achievement of exacting milestones, graduations in the coming year.
These genetics into commercial quantities, carefully set to monitor progress towards potential graduates also rank highly for the above mentioned accelerating the commercial targets identified.
the traditional conformation traits that improvement has yet to be realised in carry the highest price premium.
This year Genus has achieved: the market.
In the forward development programmes, 1.
A rapid acceleration of the pace of in anticipation of the world shortages in In selecting animals for the breeding progress in identifying gene markers agricultural output and higher prevailing programme, measurements are made for use in the porcine genetic feed costs, the Company is continuing on up to 45 fundamental traits and evaluation process.
The identification to refine the weighting of the traits in the emphasis has continued to be placed of the useful markers, by crucial selection process.
variously on growth rate, feed conversion cross-referencing to phenotypic efficiency, meat quality, reproductive and ancestry data, is part of Genus Porcine Product Development performance and reduced mortality.
It is in the The primary objective of the porcine use of this technology that Genus Fundamental Science development programme is to improve has substantial strengths, which it The Company manages much of its the genetics in the Companys range of is now starting to utilise also in the fundamental research in educational nine major pure lines of animals.
No bovine competitor establishments and with specialist pure lines are used to create elite boars has access to the skills Genus enjoys research companies.
However, because and gilts for the Groups operating and we believe that this will achieve of Genus leadership in this sector, businesses to multiply locally and thereby an increased hit rate in the selection all work on semen physiology and supply pure-bred and cross-bred animals of animals for its stud.
freezing is carried out in-house.
addition, Genus carefully monitors work 2.
Continued progress against the Genus has accelerated the basic undertaken by more than 500 research milestones set for an improved quantitative genetics process by the establishments around the world so that process for sorting semen.
