GKN plc Annual Report 2009 Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 A Member of Audit Committee R Member of Remuneration Committee N Member of Nominations Committee 40 E Member of Executive Committee 1 Roy Brown 63 4 Helmut Mamsch 65 Chairman N Non-executive Director A R N Appointment Appointment Appointed a non-executive Director in 1996 and Appointed to the Board in December 2003. became Chairman in May 2004.
Experience Experience Has considerable experience in international Former executive Director of Unilever plc and business, having worked for over 20 years in Unilever NV from 1992 to 2001 with responsibility international trade and shipping.
He joined VEBA for the groups activities in Europe, Africa and AG now E. ON AG in 1989 and was a management the Middle East.
He is a former non-executive Board member from 1993 to 2000.
Until 2007, he Director of Brambles plc, Brambles Ltd Australia, was non-executive Deputy Chairman of LogicaCMG British United Provident Association Ltd BUPA, plc and a member of the Supervisory Board of the Franchise Board of Lloyds of London and K S AG.
Chartered Engineer, Fellow of the External appointments Institution of Mechanical Engineers and Fellow of Non-executive Chairman of Electrocomponents the Institute of Engineering and Technology.
plc and non-executive Director of Sappi Ltd South External appointments Africa.
Member of the Advisory Board of the Anita Non-executive Director of Santander UK plc Thyssen Foundation.
Member of the CBI International Advisory Board.
5 Sir Christopher Meyer, KCMG 66 2 Sir Kevin Smith, CBE 55 Non-executive Director A R N Chief Executive N E Appointment Appointed to the Board in August 2003.
Appointment Appointed Chief Executive in January 2003.
Experience Former British Ambassador to the United States and Experience Germany and also served in the British Diplomatic Joined GKN in 1999 as Managing Director, Service in Russia, Spain and the European Aerospace.
Prior to GKN he held various positions Community, Brussels.
Former Chief Press Secretary in BAE Systems plc over a 20 year period, latterly to Prime Minister John Major, and former Chairman as Group Managing Director New Business.
of the Press Complaints Commission.
Former nonFormer non-executive Director of Scottish and executive Director of The Sanctuary Group plc and Southern Energy plc.
Former Co-Chairman of the GlobeTel Communications Corporation.
Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society and Companion of the External appointments Chartered Management Institute.
Non-executive Director of Arbuthnot Banking Group plc.
Contents 3 Marcus Bryson 55 Divisional Chief Executive E Board of Directors 40 Appointment Directors Report 42 Appointed to the Board in June 2007.
Corporate Governance 45 Experience Joined GKN with the acquisition of the Westland Audit Committee Report 50 Group in 1994 and has extensive experience of the aerospace industry.
Having joined Westland in Directors Remuneration 1984, he held a number of finance and commercial roles within the business prior to its acquisition Report 52 by GKN.
He was appointed Chief Executive GKN Aerospace Services Europe in 2000 and Chief Statement of Directors Executive Propulsion Systems and Special Products in 2004.
Joined the Executive Committee as Chief Responsibilities 63 Executive Aerospace in January 2006.
com 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 41 6 Richard Parry-Jones, CBE 58 9 John Sheldrick 60 12 Sir Peter Williams, CBE 64 Non-executive Director A R N Non-executive Director A R N Senior Independent Director A R N Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board in June 2001 and became Appointed to the Board in March 2008.
Appointed to the Board in December 2004.
Senior Independent Director in January 2008.
Experience Experience Experience Has extensive experience of the automotive Former Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey industry having worked for the Ford Motor Company plc from 1995 to 2009.
Prior to joining Johnson Joined Oxford Instruments plc in 1982, became its Chief Executive in 1985 and was Chairman from for 38 years, latterly as Group Vice-President Global Matthey in 1990 he was Group Treasurer of The Product Development and Group Chief Technical BOC Group plc.
He is also a former non-executive 1991 until his retirement in 1999.
Former Master of St Catherines College Oxford, former President of Officer.
Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, Director of API Group plc.
Fellow of the Association the Institution of Mechanical Engineers and the of Corporate Treasurers and Fellow of the Chartered the British Association for the Advancement of Science and former Chairman of the Engineering Royal Society of Statistical Science.
Fellow of the Royal Society External appointments and of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Chairman of the Welsh Assembly Government 10 Nigel Stein 54 External appointments Ministerial Advisory Group.
Visiting Professor within Divisional Chief Executive E the Department of Aeronautical and Automotive Chancellor of the University of Leicester.
Nonexecutive Director of WS Atkins plc.
Chairman Engineering at Loughborough University.
Joint Appointment Chairman of the Automotive Council.
Appointed to the Board in August 2001. of the National Physical Laboratory, Member of the Council for the Foundation for Science and Experience Technology, Trustee of Marie Curie Cancer Care and Joined GKN in 1994 and has held a range of 7 Andrew Reynolds Smith 43 Treasurer of the Royal Society.
commercial, general management and finance Divisional Chief Executive E roles, including Finance Director.
Appointed Appointment Chief Executive Automotive in June 2007.
Prior 13 Judith Felton Appointed to the Board in June 2007. to GKN, he gained experience in the commercial Company Secretary E vehicle and manufacturing sector and held senior Experience Experience financial positions with Laird Group plc and Hestair Joined GKN in 2002 as Managing Director Duple Ltd.
Member of the Institute of Chartered Joined GKN in 1980 and became Deputy Company Operations Europe for the Groups Driveline Secretary in 1995 before being appointed Company Accountants of Scotland.
In 2004 he became Chief Executive of GKN Secretary in 2009.
Fellow of the Chartered Institute Sinter Metals, joined the Executive Committee in External appointments of Secretaries.
January 2006 and became Chief Executive Powder Non-executive Director of Wolseley plc and Director External appointments Metallurgy, OffHighway and Industrial Services in of The Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders Non-executive Director and Trustee of Young June 2007.
Prior to GKN, he held various general Ltd.
Member of the Automotive Council.
Elected Member of Birmingham management and functional positions at Ingersoll Chamber of Commerce Council.
Rand, Siebe plc now Invensys plc and Delphi 11 Michael Turner, CBE 61 Automotive Systems.
Non-executive Director A R N External appointments Chairman of the CBI Manufacturing Council and Appointment a member of the Ministerial Advisory Group for Appointed to the Board in September 2009.
With the exception of Sir Christopher Meyer and Sir Experience Peter Williams, both of whom will retire from the Has extensive experience of the aerospace industry Board following the conclusion of the Annual General having worked for BAE Systems plc for over 40 8 William Seeger 58 Meeting, all Directors who were serving at the time years, and where he was Chief Executive from Finance Director E of GKNs rights issue, completed in July 2009, will 2002 to 2008.
Former President of the Aerospace & retire and offer themselves for re-election at the 2010 Appointment Defence Industries Association of Europe.
This is in accordance with guidelines issued by Appointed to the Board in September 2007. the Royal Aeronautical Society.
the Association of British Insurers on the allotment of Experience External appointments shares in connection with rights issues.
Michael Turner, Joined GKN in 2003 as Senior Vice-President Non-executive Chairman of Babcock International having been appointed to the Board in September and Chief Financial Officer of GKN Aerospace.
In Group plc and non-executive Director of Lazard Ltd. 2009, is retiring and offering himself for re-election June 2007 he became a member of the Executive Chairman of the Defence Industries Council, Joint in accordance with the provisions of the Companys Committee as President and Chief Executive Chairman of the National Defence Industries Council articles of association.
Propulsion Systems and Special Products.
Appointed and a member of the Governments Apprenticeship Finance Director in September 2007.
Prior to GKN, Ambassadors Network.
he held a number of senior finance positions at TRW Inc spanning over 20 years, latterly as Vice-President Financial Planning and Analysis.
