GKN plc Annual Report 2009 Strategy 06 GKN is a global engineering group operating in more than 30 countries and employing 38,200 people in its subsidiary and joint venture companies worldwide.
We are committed to providing long term shareholder value in the form of steadily growing earnings and dividends through the delivery of sustained growth in sales, profitability and cash flow.
Group Our strategy is to develop strong niche businesses with leading positions in their end markets and the capability to grow faster than those markets by exploiting our key strengths: Exceptional Superior technology A global footprint customer service Highly skilled and World class lean motivated people manufacturing We aim to accelerate growth through focused acquisitions in our chosen businesses.
KPIs Risk The GKN Way We implement and monitor performance A key contributor to the successful delivery We have an extensive risk management against strategy through key of our strategy is the GKN Way a Groupframework designed to identify, assess performance indicators KPIs, both wide approach to the way in which we and mitigate significant business risks financial and non-financial.
sustain and develop our business.
which could impact delivery of our strategic plan.
Progress against these KPIs is reported Encompassing a culture of continuous regularly to the Board and senior improvement, a focus on technology and Risk management processes operate management.
In addition, certain development of our people, the GKN throughout the Group at plant, divisional financial KPIs are linked to executive Way drives us to achieve excellence in and corporate levels and regular reports remuneration.
are made to the Board and its Committees.
see pages 28 and 29 see pages 32 to 37 see pages 30 and 31 FOR MORE INFORMATION FOR MORE INFORMATION FOR MORE INFORMATION 17139 09 03 2010 Proof 25 www.
com 07 Powder Metallurgy Automotive GKN is the worlds leading manufacturer of GKN is the worlds leading supplier of sintered components and the largest producer of automotive driveline components and systems.
metal powder in North America.
Our strategy is to exploit this market leading Our strategy is to exploit powder metal presence and the business strong technology technology through the development of design and global manufacturing footprint to: for powder metal applications: provide innovative driveline systems and to meet the emerging requirements for low solutions, supporting developing market carbon engine, emissions and transmission trends for more fuel efficient vehicles: and technologies: and increase our business in high growth regions to expand the business in high growth serving the needs of strategic customers.
Aerospace OffHighway GKN is a market leader in the design and GKN designs and manufactures a portfolio of manufacture of advanced composites, products for off-highway vehicles with leading transparencies and complex metal market positions in the supply of power takeaerostructures.
Our strategy is to build on our superior Our strategy is to develop the business by: technology and design capabilities to grow the enhancing customer and market focus business by: providing superior power transmission exploiting our strong positions on existing solutions to our chosen sectors: and programmes for new aircraft: and extending our ability to provide global developing new technologies for future supply solutions to meet customer commercial and defence platforms.
