56 Our Corporate Executive Team CET John Clarke Abbas Hussain President, Consumer Healthcare President, Emerging Markets John is responsible for the Abbas joined GSK in June 2008 Consumer Healthcare business from Eli Lilly and Company, which produces oral healthcare, where he spent 20 years over-the-counter and nutritional overseeing markets throughout healthcare products.
He joined Europe, Africa Middle East Beecham in 1976 and was the and Australasia.
Andrew Witty Eddie Gray President of the Future Group Chief Executive Officer President, before his current appointment Andrew was appointed Chief Pharmaceuticals Europe in January 2006.
Eddie became responsible He joined Glaxo UK in 1985. for the Groups operations During his career with the in Europe in January 2008. company he has held the roles of He joined Beecham in 1988 Managing Director South Africa, and, prior to his current Vice President and General appointment, was Senior Vice Manager Marketing in the President and General Manager, Duncan Learmouth USA and Senior Vice President, Pharmaceuticals UK.
Senior Vice President, Asia Pacific.
He was appointed Deirdre Connelly Global Communications President, Pharmaceuticals President, North America Duncan is responsible for the Europe for GlaxoSmithKline in Pharmaceuticals Groups investor relations, January 2003.
Deirdre joined GSK in February internal and external 2009 after working at Eli Lilly communications, corporate and Company for 24 years.
responsibility and partnerships She held a variety of positions with communities.
He joined including sales professional, Glaxo in 1991 and was Vice General Manager of Puerto Rico, President, Global Investor Julian Heslop Executive Director of Human Relations, before appointment to Chief Financial Officer Resources and most recently his current position in July 2006.
Julian became Chief Financial President of US Operations.
As head Simon Bicknell of the finance function he is Senior Vice President, responsible for activities such as Company Secretary & Corporate financial reporting and control, Compliance Officer tax and treasury, finance systems Simon ensures that compliance and insurance.
He joined Glaxo and risk management are Wellcome as Financial Controller effectively embedded within the in April 1998. business and oversees corporate Marc Dunoyer Bill Louv governance for the Group.
He President, Pharmaceuticals Chief Information Officer is also responsible for internal Asia Pacific Japan Bill was appointed Chief audit and assurance.
Simon Marc was appointed President, Information Officer in January joined the Corporate Secretariat Pharmaceuticals Asia Pacific 2007.
He was appointed Japan in May 2008.
In addition information technology across Deputy Company Secretary to his current role he was GSK.
Bill joined Glaxo in 1994 of Glaxo Wellcome in 1995 appointed Chairman GSK Japan as Vice President, Medical Data and Company Secretary of in January 2010 and in February Sciences.
Prior to his current role, GlaxoSmithKline plc in 2000.
2010 to lead the rare diseases Bill was Senior Vice President, business of GSK from R&D to R&D Information Technology.
He joined the Group in 1999 and was President, Pharmaceuticals Japan from January 2000 until his current appointment.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 57 Our Corporate Executive Team CET David Redfern Dan Troy Chief Strategy Officer Senior Vice President David is responsible for proactive and General Counsel exploration of new business Dan joined GSK as Senior Vice opportunities and strategic President and General Counsel planning.
He began his career in September 2008.
Previously he with GSK in 1994 in Corporate was a Partner at the Washington Development before being law firm Sidley Austin LLP and Dan Phelan Jean Stphenne appointed Finance Director of Chief Counsel for the FDA.
Chief of Staff President and General Europe Pharmaceuticals in 1999.
From 20062007 he chaired the Dan is responsible for Corporate Manager, Biologicals He was appointed Area Director America Bar Associations Section Strategy and Development, IT, Jean has led GSKs global for Central Europe in 2003 and of Administrative Law, and was HR, Real Estate and Facilities, vaccines business since 1989.
Northern Europe in 2005. previously adjunct scholar at the Environmental Health and Safety, Previously he was Vice President American Enterprise Institute in and Global Security.
He joined of Human Vaccines Research Washington, DC.
Smith Kline & French in 1981 and Development and and previously held the role of Production.
He joined the Senior Vice President, Human company in 1974 as Head of Resources until his appointment Bacterial and Viral Vaccines as Chief of Staff in May 2008. production.
Jean was named Baron by King Albert II of the Belgians in 2000 in recognition of his leading contribution to Moncef Slaoui R&D and industry in Belgium.
Chairman, Research & Development Moncef leads the Groups drug discovery and development activities.
He joined the Group in 1988 and was a key player in David Pulman building GSKs vaccines pipeline.
President, Global In 2003 he was appointed Manufacturing and Supply Senior Vice President, Worldwide David is responsible for the Business Development until his Global Manufacturing and Claire Thomas current appointment in Supply organisation and Senior Vice President, June 2006.
He joined Human Resources Glaxo in 1978.
He has broad Claire leads the global Human experience of manufacturing Resources HR function.
operations having previously led Previously, she oversaw HR in the Primary Supply, European Pharmaceuticals International manufacturing, North American and in Pharmaceuticals Europe.
manufacturing, Global Logistics Claire joined the company and Manufacturing in 1996 and was appointed Strategy organisations.
Director of Human Resources for UK Pharmaceuticals in 1997.
Claire was honoured as an Outstanding European Woman of Achievement in 2007.
