58 Corporate governance Chairman and CEO Governance and policy Sir Christopher Gent has chaired the company since 1st January This section discusses GSKs management structures and 2005 and was Chairman throughout 2009. governance procedures.
The section, together with the Remuneration Report on pages 73 and 90, includes details of Mr Witty is the Chief Executive Officer CEO.
Mr Wittys how the company applies and complies with the principles and biographical details can be found on pages 54 and 56.
The provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Chairman leads the Board, and represents the Board to the CEO Financial Reporting Council Combined Code and with US laws and other CET members as necessary between Board meetings.
The CEO manages the Group and implements the strategy and policies adopted by the Board.
The Chairman and the Chairmen of The Board and Corporate Executive Team Board Committees communicate regularly with the CEO and other The Directors are listed under Our Board on pages 54 to 55.
The division of responsibilities between the role of The Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate Chairman and the CEO has been set out in writing, agreed by the governance and is ultimately accountable for the Groups activities, Board and appears in full on the companys website.
strategy, risk management and financial performance.
The CEO is responsible for executive management of the Group Independence and is assisted by the CET.
The CET meets at least 11 times per year The Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors to be and otherwise as necessary.
The members and their responsibilities independent in character and judgement.
are listed under Our Corporate Executive Team pages 56 to 57.
Dr Schmitz served on the Board for more than ten years until his Senior Independent Director retirement as a Director on 20th May 2009, having been appointed Sir Robert Wilson was appointed Senior Independent Director SID to the Board of Glaxo Wellcome plc on 1st January 1997.
During on 20th May 2009, following Sir Ian Prossers retirement from the consideration of the Annual Review of Board effectiveness at its Board on that date.
Sir Ian had held the role since January 2005. meeting in January 2009, the Board concluded that Dr Schmitz Board process remained independent, notwithstanding his length of service.
In The Board has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders, the opinion of the Board, Dr Schmitz continued to demonstrate for ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and the characteristics of independence, such as objectively challenging achieves the strategic objectives it sets.
The Board discharges those management and taking part in rigorous debate, while at the responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings which same time possessing an outstanding knowledge of the companys includes the approval of overall budgetary planning and business business and affairs, together with his experience gained as strategy.
The Board reviews the Groups internal controls and risk Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In a long cycle investment management policies and approves its governance structure and business, such as GSK, it was considered to be particularly code of ethics.
important to have experienced members on the Board.
Sir Ian Prosser was also considered to be independent in accordance The Board appraises and approves major financing, investment and with the recommendations of the Combined Code prior to his licensing decisions in excess of defined thresholds.
In addition, the retirement from the Board.
Board evaluates and monitors the performance of the Group as a whole.
This includes: When Sir Christopher Gent was appointed to the Board as Deputy Chairman, he was determined by the Board to be independent.
e ngaging at Board meetings with the CEO, the other Executive Upon taking up the chairmanship of the Board on 1st January Directors and members of the CET as appropriate, on the 2005, in accordance with the Combined Code, he was excluded financial and operating performance of GSK and external from the determination of whether at least half the Board are issues material to the Groups prospects independent Non-Executive Directors.
Sir Christopher Gent is a evaluating progress towards the achievement of the Groups member of the Remuneration Committee, as permitted by the financial and business objectives and annual plans Combined Code, in light of his independence upon appointment m onitoring, through reports received directly or from various as Chairman.
committees, the significant risks facing the Group.
The Board considers that Professor Sir Roy Anderson, Dr Burns, Mr Culp, Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Deryck Maughan, Mr Murdoch, Dr Podolsky, Mr fide Swaan and Sir Robert Wilson are independent in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
At the date of publication and throughout 2009, a majority of the Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent Non-Executive Directors.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Governance and remuneration P54P90
