64 Corporate governance Articles of Association Notwithstanding the new policy, the company continues to support a GSK Political Action Committee PAC for employees in the USA The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation which gives political donations.
A PAC is an employee organisation and the companys Articles of Association, available on GSKs which allows employees to contribute to a fund for political website.
The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of donations.
Employees decide upon the recipients of the PAC the members.
The Directors may exercise all the companys powers donations.
In 2009, a total of 540,551 539,359 in 2008 was provided that the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate donated to political organisations by the GSK PAC.
that any such powers must be exercised by the members.
The Directors have been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary Shares At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the under current Article 10.
The power under current Article 10 and company to make donations to EU political organisations and to the authority for the company to make purchases of its own shares incur EU political expenditure, under the provisions of the Political are subject to shareholder authorities which are sought on an Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to 100,000 annual basis at the AGM.
Any shares purchased by the company each year.
This authority has since been renewed annually.
The law may be cancelled or held as Treasury shares.
requires companies to continue to obtain shareholder approval before they can make donations to EU political organisations or Share buy-back programme incur EU political expenditure.
However, the company does not A 12 billion programme of share repurchases commenced in make and does not intend to make donations to political parties or July 2007.
Shares costing 6.2 billion have been repurchased independent election candidates, nor does it make any donations under this programme.
No repurchases were made during to EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
2009, and the company does not expect to make any significant repurchases in 2010.
The programme covered purchases by the The definitions of political donations, political expenditure and company of shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury political organisations used in the legislation are very wide.
In shares, in accordance with the authority renewed by shareholders particular, the definition of EU political organisations may extend at the AGM in May 2009, when the company was authorised to to bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform, purchase a maximum of just under 519 million shares.
Details of the representation of the business community and special interest shares purchased in prior years, those cancelled, and those held as groups such as those concerned with the environment, which the Treasury shares are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements company and its subsidiaries might wish to support.
As a result, Share capital and share premium account.
the definitions may cover legitimate business activities not in the ordinary sense considered to be political donations or political The exact amount and timing of any future purchases, and the expenditure.
Such activities are not designed to support any extent to which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares political party or independent election candidate.
The authority rather than being cancelled, will be determined by the company which the Board has sought annually is a precautionary measure to and is dependent on market conditions and other factors.
ensure that the company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently Donations to political organisations and political breach the legislation.
expenditure With effect from 1st January 2009, to ensure a consistent approach to political contributions across the Group, GSK introduced a global policy to stop voluntarily all political contributions.
2009 2008 Political donations to: EU political organisations Non-EU political organisations comprising: USA 319,000 Canada 28,000 347,000 Prior to the introduction of the Groups new approach to political contributions, the USA was the largest recipient of political donations.
In line with US law, the corporate donations were not made at a federal level, but only to candidates and political parties at the state and local levels.
In 2008, GSK supported those candidates who sought an environment that appropriately rewarded high-risk, high-investment industries.
The situation was similar in Canada, and in the Rest of the World donations were very rare and of low value.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Governance and remuneration P54P90
