Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 15 Research and development Delivering these medicines to patients Research and development Pharmaceuticals Progression into late-stage development consists of optimising GSK R&D has built one of the strongest pipelines of potential both the physical product properties of the medicine, i. e. the new medicines in the industry.
In 2009, Pharmaceutical R&D was chemical steps and formulation required to manufacture and actively managing over 150 projects in human clinical trials across deliver it as well as the much larger scale studies in humans the globe.
Delivering this pipeline to patients safely and efficiently confirming efficacy and safety.
The combination of the is the number one goal.
results of these two steps into a regulatory file for submission Discovering potential medicines to regulatory agencies and approval for patient use is the Our early research identifies the biological targets interfering responsibility of the regulatory team.
with a particular disease, and creates small molecules or M edicines Development is organised by therapy areas in biopharmaceuticals that interact with these disease targets.
Medicine Development Centres MDCs : Cardiovascular and A refocus on the best science led us to create an Metabolic, Infectious Diseases, Neurosciences and Respiratory.
entrepreneurial environment in discovery, building on the Each MDC has ultimate accountability for developing success of the existing model of Centres of Excellence for Drug experimental drugs into regulatory-approved medicines for Discovery CEDDs, groups focused around defined therapy patients.
The MDCs are responsible for creating value through areas.
Taking the CEDD model one step further we created the execution of full product development plans and ensuring a number of smaller Discovery Performance Units DPUs strong partnerships with the rest of R&D and GSK, in particular within each CEDD.
These are small, integrated groups of 5-70 the CEDDs, preclinical development, the regulatory and scientists, who focus on a particular disease or pathway.
There commercial groups, and manufacturing.
The number of DPUs in each CEDD I n 2009 emphasis was put on the simplification of the clinical varies according to the science, and some standalone DPUs were development organisation, and on focusing investment on created to explore new therapy areas such as Ophthalmology, project spend versus infrastructure.
This reflects the increased or new ways of working such as the academic DPU which forms focus of R&D on return on investment.
drug discovery collaborations with academia.
Adapting our structure to maximise our chance to succeed The CEDDs are now one year into their 3-year business plan R &Ds units in Oncology and Biopharmaceuticals are defining overall budget and clear objectives.
The business integrating the discovery and the late stage development plans have been reviewed at the end of year 1, and our group.
This allows us to build critical mass in those two growth discovery organisation is on track to deliver GSKs objectives.
areas for GSK, and to focus on delivering a strong pipeline.
We continue to identify compounds from other companies Both integrated units are now fully set up, and have been that would enhance the portfolio and to create innovative very successful at progressing their pipeline in 2009 see collaborations to ensure that we are seen as a partner of pipeline chart.
choice for large and small companies.
Our internal R&D Our China Discovery team focused on neur odegeneration expertise allows us to have a strong position in business and neuroinflammation celebrated its second anniversary development, and makes us able to complement our internal in 2009.
It has grown to approximately 280 employees in pipeline with acquisitions, in-licensing, co-marketing 2009, and has developed an impressive early stage portfolio.
co-promotion deals, or future options collaborations.
As products enter the clinic, the team is now establishing clinical capabilities.
GSK Annual Report 2009 16 Research and development Governance Vaccines R&D Key projects reaching significant milestones are reviewed GSK is active in the fields of vaccine research, development and each month by a product management board, responsible for production and has a portfolio of over 30 vaccines approved for determining if a medicine has met criteria for passing into the marketing.
We have over 1,600 scientists devoted to discovering next phase of development.
innovative vaccines that contribute to the health and well-being of people of all generations around the world.
The discovery and GSKs Chief Medical Officer, working with the Global Safety development of a new vaccine is a complex process requiring Board, is ultimately accountable for oversight of all major decisions long-term investment and with more than 20 vaccines in clinical regarding patient safety.
Our Global Safety Board is responsible development, we have one of the strongest vaccine pipelines in the internally for approving pivotal studies and investigating any issues industry.
Although vaccines have traditionally been used to ward related to patient safety arising during the development programme off illness, GSKs vaccine division is working to develop therapeutic and post-launch.
Information from GSK clinical trials is widely and immunotherapeutics aimed at educating the patients immune easily available at the Clinical Study Register on GSKs website.
system to identify and attack cancer cells in a highly specific manner.
The oversight of strategic issues and budget management across Vaccine discovery involves many collaborations with academia and R&D is owned by the R&D Executive team RADEX.
the biotech industry to identify new vaccine antigens which are Diseases of the developing world then expressed in yeast, bacteria or mammalian cells and purified to a very high level.
This is followed by formulation of the clinical Continued investment in research into diseases of the developing lots of the vaccine.
This may involve mixing antigens with selected world is essential if there is to be a long-term improvement in GSK novel proprietary adjuvant systems, which are combinations of the health of people who live in these regions.
As part of our selected adjuvants designed to elicit the most appropriate immune response to this challenge, we operate a drug discovery unit response to a specific antigen.
The right combination of antigen based at Tres Cantos Spain, which focuses on malaria and and adjuvant system can help the body mobilise the most effective tuberculosis.
Additional R&D sites in the USA and the UK are immunological pathway, which is designed to provide maximum focused on the development of new medicines to treat HIV AIDS protection against specific diseases in targeted populations.
and drug resistant bacteria, while vaccine research is conducted in Rixensart Belgium.
Once formulated, the candidate vaccine is evaluated from a safety Through these R&D efforts, we are addressing the prevention and and efficacy perspective through the different phases of preclinical treatment of all three of the World Health Organizations WHO testing, then through the clinical trials involving healthy individuals.
These will range from safety analysis in a small group of volunteers in phase I, dose adjustment and proof of concept in phase II to large-scale safety and efficacy analysis in phase III.
The results obtained during clinical trials and data regarding the development of a quality and large-scale production process and facilities are then combined into a regulatory file which is submitted to the authorities in the countries where the vaccine will be made available.
After launch, post marketing studies of considerable size are set up to assess vaccination programmes and to monitor vaccine safety.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Business review P06P53 Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 17 Research and development Animals and research For ethical, regulatory and scientific reasons, research using animals remains a small but vital part of research and development of new medicines and vaccines.
We only use animals where there is no alternative and constantly strive to reduce the numbers used.
We are committed to maintaining high standards for the humane care and treatment of all laboratory animals and undertake internal and external review to assure these standards.
The vast majority of the experimental methods do not use animals.
We are actively engaged in research to develop and validate more tests that either avoid the use of animals in research or reduce the numbers needed.
When animals are used in research, all due measures are taken to prevent or minimise pain and distress.
We decided not to initiate funding of studies using great apes after 28th October 2008.
This is a voluntary decision and provides a tangible demonstration of our commitment to the 3Rs of animal research, which advocates the replacement and reduction of animals in research and refining of experiments to improve animal welfare.
We understand that use of animals for research purposes commands a high level of public interest.
Our Public Policy Position The care and ethical use of animals in research, and further information and reports, are available on our website.
Research and development Consumer Healthcare The continuous creation and development of innovative products keeps our brands relevant, vibrant and valuable.
Our portfolio spans three major categories: OTC medicines, Oral healthcare and Nutritional healthcare.
For our major brands, dedicated R&D teams, including Regulatory, partner with and work alongside their commercial brand team colleagues in office-free hub environments that foster collaboration and fast decision-making.
Hubs have quickly become a preferred way of working at our Innovation Centres in Weybridge, UK, and Parsippany, USA, and we are expanding this model rapidly into other key Consumer Healthcare territories, including China and India.
GSK Annual Report 2009 18 Research and development We have a full and diverse product development pipeline.
Therapeutic Compound Our key late stage projects are highlighted here, comprising Biopharmaceuticals Arzerra ofatumumab both new chemical entities and new combinations and Arzerra ofatumumab formulations of existing assets.
The most advanced status is shown and includes 2009 approvals.
Arzerra ofatumumab Benlysta belimumab ofatumumab Key: otelixizumab Phase III Large comparative study compound versus placebo and or Prolia denosumab established treatment in patients to establish clinical benefit Syncria and safety.
Cardiovascular & Metabolic Arixtra Filed Avandamet XR Following successful Phase III trials, we file the product for approval by the regulatory authorities.
Avandia simvastatin Approval darapladib Only when approval is granted can we begin to market the Neurosciences almorexant medicine or vaccine.
Horizant 1838262 Our full pipeline is on pages 195 to 198 and on our website.
retigabine Oncology Avodart Duodart Avodart alpha blocker Votrient pazopanib Tyverb Tykerb Revolade Promacta Revolade Promacta Revolade Promacta Tyverb Tykerb Tyverb Tykerb Tyverb Tykerb Tyverb Tykerb Votrient pazopanib Votrient pazopanib Votrient pazopanib Respiratory 642444 Relovair 642444 655698 Vaccines Cervarix MAGE-A3 ASCI MAGE-A3 ASCI Menhibrix Hib-MenCY-TT Mosquirix New generation flu vaccine Nimenrix MenACWY-TT Simplirix To find out more visit us at In-license or other alliance relationship with a third party www.
com See Note 40 to the financial statements, Post balance sheet events.
ASCI Antigen Specific Cancer Therapeutic GSK Annual Report 2009 Business review P06P53 Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 19 Research and development Indication Phase 3 Filed Approved chronic lymphocytic leukaemia refractory patients diffuse large B cell lymphoma relapsed patients follicular lymphoma refractory patients systemic lupus erythematosus rheumatoid arthritis type 1 diabetes post-menopausal osteoporosis type 2 diabetes treatment of acute coronary syndrome type 2 diabetes extended release type 2 diabetes atherosclerosis insomnia restless legs syndrome epilepsy partial seizures reduction in the risk of prostate cancer benign prostatic hyperplasia fixed dose combination inflammatory breast cancer idiopathic thrombocytopaenic purpura chronic liver disease induced thrombocytopaenia hepatitis C induced thrombocytopaenia breast cancer, first line therapy breast cancer, adjuvant therapy gastric cancer head & neck squamous cell carcinomas resectable disease renal cell cancer ovarian cancer, maintenance therapy sarcoma COPD COPD cervical dysplasia and cancer prophylaxis caused by HPV 16 18 treatment of melanoma treatment of non-small cell lung cancer Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y disease & Haemophilus influenzae type b disease prophylaxis malaria prophylaxis Plasmodium falciparum seasonal influenza prophylaxis for the elderly Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease prophylaxis genital herpes prophylaxis GSK Annual Report 2009
