78 Remuneration Report a Performance shares Deferred annual bonus plan The Performance Share Plan ensures focus on GSKs longA new Deferred Annual Bonus Plan was introduced in term shareholder returns relative to other pharmaceutical 2009 to encourage long-term shareholding, to discourage companies and on the delivery of GSKs strategic priorities.
excessive risk taking and to help drive long-term shareholder returns relative to other global pharmaceutical companies.
Under the plan, measurement of performance has been broadened so that the most senior team is incentivised against operational Eligibility for the 2009 bonus year was restricted to the CEO and measures aligned with GSKs business strategy as well as TSR.
CFO, but all CET members will be invited to participate from the TSR remains an appropriate comparative measure since it focuses 2010 bonus year onwards, as part of the simplification of the CET on the return to shareholders, is a well-understood and tested remuneration structure.
mechanism to measure performance and allows comparison Up to 50% of any annual bonus earned may be deferred for three between companies operating in different countries.
The company will match shares up to one-for-one depending typically a proportion of any award made to Executives will on the companys relative TSR over this period.
The performance continue to be subject to relative TSR.
The balance will be based on measure and vesting schedule will be consistent with the three-year strategic or operational measures to support our business strategy.
TSR component of the Performance Share Plan described below.
For 2009 and 2010 the emphasis has and will be on working capital and cash management.
The CEO has elected to participate in GSKs Deferred Annual Bonus plan in respect of his bonus for 2009.
As a result, 15% of the There will be no retesting of performance.
CEOs bonus has been deferred into 24,291 shares in the company, 2010 Awards and a matching award of the same number of shares has been made which may vest in February 2013 subject to the companys Performance share awards to Executives for 2010 were made in relative TSR performance and his continued employment.
February 2010. Dividend equivalents will accrue and be delivered in respect of any TSR measure deferred shares and matching shares that vest.
For awards made in 2010, 60% of the award will be based on relative TSR using a comparator group currently comprising 10 Long-term incentive plans other global pharmaceutical companies.
For this TSR element, the New LTI plans were approved by shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
percentage vesting at median is 30%, with full vesting for upper quartile TSR performance.
The graph below shows the TSR vesting To provide better alignment to UK market practice, in 2009 the schedule for awards granted in 2010.
CEO and the CFO did not receive share option grants.
Instead, their LTIs were only in the form of performance shares.
They also Proportion vesting had the opportunity to defer part of any bonus earned into shares, 100% and as outlined above, to be eligible to receive matching shares 100% subject to the achievement of additional performance conditions.
The Chairman, Research & Development continued to receive share 80% options in 2009, and was not eligible to participate in the new 75% deferred annual bonus arrangement.
However, from 2010 onwards the remuneration arrangements of all CET members including the Chairman, Research & Development have been aligned with those 55% 50% of the CEO and CFO.
As a result, share options will normally no longer be granted.
Instead, CET members will receive performance share awards.
30% 25% Under the new LTI plans, the Committee may reduce the grant or vesting levels if it determines that a participant has engaged in conduct which is contrary to the legitimate expectations of the 0% company for an employee in the participants position.
11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Typically, awards are delivered to US resident executives in the TSR rank position form of ADS.
Awards are delivered in the form of Ordinary Shares to executives resident in the UK and other countries.
All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution limits consistent To provide a focus on sustained longer-term performance, the with the guidelines provided by the Association of British Insurers.
performance period was extended for all awards made from 2009 Current estimated dilution from existing awards under all GSK so that half of the TSR element of each award will be measured employee share schemes made since the merger is approximately over three years and half over four years.
6.4% of the companys share capital at 31st December 2009.
To measure performance on a stable basis and to reflect better the The LTI plans are summarised in the relevant sections below long-term nature of the pharmaceutical industry, the TSR averaging together with the basis on which awards will be made to the period is twelve months for awards made from 2009 onwards.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Governance and remuneration P54P90
