Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 11 Products, intellectual property and competition Within the pharmaceutical industry, the introduction of new Pharmaceutical products products and processes by our competitors may affect pricing or GSKs principal pharmaceutical products are currently directed to result in changing patterns of product use.
There is no assurance nine main therapeutic areas including dermatologicals following the that products will not become outmoded, notwithstanding patent acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories in July 2009.
A description of the or trademark protection.
In addition, increased government products is on pages 12 to 13 and an analysis of sales by therapeutic and other pressures for physicians and patients to use generic area, is on page 29. pharmaceuticals, rather than brand-name medicines, may increase Competition competition for products that are no longer protected by a patent.
Our principal pharmaceutical competitors range from small to large Intellectual property pharmaceutical companies often with substantial resources.
Some Intellectual property is a key business asset for our company, of these companies are: and the effective legal protection of our intellectual property via Abbott Laboratories patents, trademarks, registered designs, copyrights and domain name registrations is critical in ensuring a reasonable return on Amgen investment in R&D.
AstraZeneca Bristol-Myers Squibb Patents Eli Lilly It is our policy to try to obtain patents on commercially important, protectable inventions discovered or developed through our R&D Johnson & Johnson activities.
Patent protection for new active ingredients is available Merck in major markets and patents can also be obtained for new drug Novartis formulations, manufacturing processes, medical uses and devices Pfizer for administering products.
Although we may obtain patents for our products, this does not prevent them from being challenged Roche Holdings before they expire.
Further, the grant of a patent does not mean Sanofi-Aventis that the issued patent will necessarily be held valid and enforceable by a court.
If a court determines that a patent we hold is invalid, Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from other non infringed or unenforceable, it will not protect the market products during the period of patent protection and, once from third party entry prior to patent expiry.
Significant litigation off patent, from generic versions.
The manufacturers of concerning such challenges is summarised in Note 44 to the generic products typically do not incur significant research and financial statements, Legal proceedings.
development or education and marketing development costs and consequently are able to offer their products at considerably The life of a patent in most countries is 20 years from the filing lower prices than the branded competitors.
As a research and date, however the long development time for pharmaceutical development based company we will normally seek to achieve a products may result in a substantial amount of this patent life sufficiently high profit margin and sales volume during the period being used up before launch.
In some markets including the USA of patent protection to repay the original investment, which is and in Europe it is possible to have some of this lost time restored generally substantial, and to generate profits and fund research and this leads to variations in the amount of patent life actually for the future.
Competition from generic products generally occurs available for each product we market.
Further, certain countries as patents in major markets expire.
Increasingly patent challenges provide a period of data or market exclusivity that prevents a third are made prior to patent expiry, claiming that the innovator patent party company from relying on our clinical trial data to enter the is not valid and or that it is not infringed by the generic product.
market with its copy for the period of exclusivity.
Following the loss of patent protection, generic products rapidly The patent expiry dates for our significant products are in the capture a large share of the market, particularly in the USA.
Dates provided are for expiry of patents in the We believe that remaining competitive is dependent upon the USA and major European markets on the active ingredient, unless discovery and development of new products, together with otherwise indicated, and include extensions of patent term including effective marketing of existing products.
for paediatric use in the USA where available.
GSK Annual Report 2009 12 Products, intellectual property and competition Products Compounds Indication s Major Patents expiry dates competitor brands USA EU Respiratory 1 Seretide Advair salmeterol xinafoate asthma COPD Singulair, Symbicort, 2010 2013 fluticasone propionate Spiriva, Asmanex, Pulmicort combination combination Foster 2011-2016 2011 Diskus device Diskus device Flixotide Flovent fluticasone propionate asthma COPD Qvar, Singulair 2011-2025 2011-2017 devices devices Serevent salmeterol xinafoate asthma COPD Foradil, Spiriva 2011-2016 2011-2019 Diskus device devices Veramyst fluticasone furoate rhinitis Nasacort 2021 2023 Anti-virals 2016 2016 Epzicom Kivexa lamivudine and abacavir HIV AIDS Truvada, Atripla combination combination Combivir lamivudine and zidovudine HIV AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2012 2013 combination combination Trizivir lamivudine, zidovudine HIV AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2016 2016 and abacavir combination combination Agenerase amprenavir HIV AIDS Prezista, Kaletra, Reyataz 2013 2014 Lexiva fosamprenavir HIV AIDS Prezista, Kaletra, Reyataz 2017 2019 Epivir lamivudine HIV AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2010 2011 Ziagen abacavir HIV AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2012 2014 Valtrex valaciclovir genital herpes, coldsores, Famvir expired expired shingles Zeffix lamivudine chronic hepatitis B Hepsera 2010 2011 Relenza zanamivir influenza Tamiflu 2013 2014 Central nervous system Lamictal lamotrigine epilepsy, bipolar disorder Keppra, Dilantin expired expired Imigran Imitrex sumatriptan migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax expired expired Seroxat Paxil paroxetine depression, various Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired anxiety disorders Lexapro Wellbutrin SR bupropion depression Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired Lexapro Requip ropinirole Parkinsons disease, Mirapex expired 2011 restless legs syndrome use in treating Parkinsons disease Treximet sumatriptan and naproxen migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax 2017 NA combination and use Cardiovascular and urogenital Avodart dutasteride benign prostatic hyperplasia Proscar, Flomax, finasteride 2015 2017 Lovaza omega-3 acid ethyl esters very high triglycerides Tricor 2017 NA Formulation 2 Coreg CR carvedilol phosphate mild-to-severe heart failure, Toprol XL 2023 NA hypertension, left ventricular dysfunction post MI Fraxiparine nadroparin deep vein thrombosis, Lovenox, Fragmin expired expired pulmonary embolism Innohep Arixtra fondaparinux deep vein thrombosis, Lovenox, Fragmin expired expired pulmonary embolism Innohep Vesicare solifenacin overactive bladder Detrol, Detrol LA, Enablex, 2018 NA Sanctura 1 The UK and Irish patents have been revoked by the courts 2 Generic competition possible in 2010 following conclusion of patent proceedings GSK Annual Report 2009 Business review P06P53 Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 13 Products, intellectual property and competition Products Compounds Indication s Major Patent expiry dates competitor brands USA EU Metabolic Avandia rosiglitazone maleate type 2 diabetes Actos, Januvia 2012 2013 Avandamet rosiglitazone maleate and type 2 diabetes Competact, Janumet 2012 2013 metformin HCI Actoplus met Anti-bacterials Augmentin amoxicillin clavulanate common infections expired expired potassium Altabax retapamulin skin infections 2021 2022 Oncology and emesis Arzerra ofatumumab refractory chronic MabThera Rituxan 2023 2023 lymphocytic leukaemia Hycamtin topotecan ovarian cancer, small cell Doxil, Gemzar 2010 2011 lung cancer, cervical cancer Promacta eltrombopag idiopathic thrombocytopenic Nplate 2022 2024 Revolade purpura Tykerb Tyverb lapatanib advanced and metastatic Herceptin 2020 2023 breast cancer in HER2 positive patients Votrient pazopanib metastatic renal cell carcinoma Sutent, Nexavar 2023 2025 Vaccines Infanrix Pediarix diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Pentavac, Pentaxim, 2017 2016 polio, hepatitis B HepB, polio, hepatitis B HepB, Pediacel, Pentacel inactivated antigens Fluarix split inactivated influenza virus seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, Fluzone, 2022 2022 subtypes A and type B antigens Influvac, Aggripal, Fluad FluLaval split inactivated influenza virus seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, Fluzone, none none subtypes A and type B antigens Influvac, Aggripal, Fluad Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like particles human papilloma virus Gardasil, Silgard 2026 2019 VLPs, AS04 adjuvant MPL type 16 & 18 aluminium hydroxide Synflorix conjugated Pneumococcal invasive pneumococcal Prevenar NA 2020 polysaccharide disease Rotarix live attenuated rotavirus rotavirus gastroenteritis Rotateq 2022 2020 strain GIP 8 Trademarks All of GSKs commercial products are protected by registered trademarks in major markets.
There may be local variations, for example, in the USA the trademark Advair covers the same product sold in the EU as Seretide.
Trademark protection may generally be extended as long as the trademark is used by renewing it when necessary.
GSKs trademarks are important for maintaining the brand identity of its products.
GSK enforces its trademark rights to prevent infringements.
Consumer Healthcare products Our portfolio comprises three main categories: Over-the-counter OTC medicines, Oral healthcare and Nutritional healthcare.
Sales of key Consumer Healthcare products in 2009 are shown on page 30.
Our leading Consumer Healthcare products include the following: OTC medicines alli, the first licenced weight loss medicine to be available without a prescription, launched in the USA in 2007 and across Europe in 2009 Panadol, the global paracetamol acetaminophen analgesic Smoking control products NicoDerm, NiQuitin CQ, Nicabate and in the USA, Nicorette Other brands include Breathe Right nasal strips, Tums, Citrucel, Contac and FiberChoice.
GSK Annual Report 2009 14 Products, intellectual property and competition Oral healthcare Global manufacturing and supply GMS Aquafresh, a range of toothpastes, toothbrushes More than 29,000 people work in GMS across our network of and mouthwashes 78 sites in 33 countries.
GMS supports the commercial ambition of GSK by delivering quality medicines and consumer products to Sensodyne, a range of toothpastes, toothbrushes patients and customers around the world.
and mouthwashes including Pronamel to protect from acid erosion The scale of manufacturing in GSK is huge, with the manufacture Biotene, acquired late in 2008, the leading treatment of over 4 billion packs per year in 28,000 different presentations for dry mouth including tablets, creams ointments, inhalers, injections, liquids and steriles, which are then supplied to over 150 markets.
Polident, Poligrip and Corega denture care cleansers Over 3.7 billion was spent by GMS on production in 2009. and adhesives Other brands include Odol, Macleans and Dr Best.
GMS operates a procurement operation on behalf of the Group.
We spend over 2 billion annually with external suppliers, Nutritional healthcare purchasing active ingredients, chemical intermediates, packaging Lucozade, a range of energy and sports drinks components and part-finished and finished products.
Horlicks, a range of milk-based malted food and During 2009, as our internal customers sought every opportunity chocolate drinks to grow their businesses, we focused on the cost-competitive Ribena, a blackcurrant juice-based drink.
supply of quality product to meet their ambitions.
We worked diligently to leverage our network of sites and contractors to give Consumer Healthcare competition us built-in flexibility to sustain future growth and adapt to emerging GSK holds leading global positions in all its key consumer product commercial business models.
In an increasingly rigorous external areas.
Worldwide it is the second largest in OTC medicines and the regulatory environment, we have continued to leverage technology third largest in Oral healthcare.
In Nutritional healthcare it holds in support of process understanding, control, and capability.
the leading position in the UK, India and Ireland.
Our Primary supply sites supply high quality, competitively priced The environment in which the Consumer Healthcare business bulk actives and focus on improvements in primary technologies operates has become ever more challenging: and processes.
Our New Product and Global Supply sites work consumers are demanding better quality, better value and closely with R&Ds development teams to ensure that the right improved performance technical competencies are in place to support rapid and successful new product introduction.
These sites serve as the focal point retailers have consolidated and globalised which has for developing and introducing new secondary manufacturing strengthened their negotiation power technologies.
The sites in our Regional Pharma supply division focus cycle times for innovation have reduced.
on reducing costs, allowing GSK to compete more effectively in The main competitors include the major international companies all its markets.
Our Consumer Healthcare sites deliver high-quality, Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble, Unilever competitively priced products and support rapid new product and Pfizer.
In addition, there are many other smaller companies introduction in a highly innovative and competitive business.
New that compete with GSK in certain markets.
technologies have become a fundamental platform for driving innovation, lowering costs, and providing flexibility in operations.
The major competitor products in OTC medicines are: We are embedding new ways of working that are simplifying in the USA: Metamucil laxative, Pepcid indigestion and the business and achieving greater efficiencies.
It is our focus on private label smoking control products customer service, including support for new product launches, our in the UK: Lemsip cold remedy, Nurofen and Anadin strong compliance culture, our commitment to health, safety and analgesics, and Nicorette and Nicotinell smoking control the environment, and our commitment to developing our people treatments.
that have delivered strong results for GSK even as the external environment has become more demanding.
In Oral healthcare the major competitors are Colgate-Palmolives Colgate and Procter & Gambles Crest.
Vaccine manufacturing, which is managed as an integral part of the Biologicals business, is particularly complex as it requires the use of In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicks are innovative technologies and living micro-organisms.
Sophisticated Ovaltine and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks.
Competitors quality assurance and quality control procedures are in place to Ribena are primarily local fruit juice products, while Lucozade to ensure the vaccines quality and safety.
This includes animal competes with other energy drinks.
use according to health authorities requirements.
Due to their biological nature, individual health authorities may subject vaccines to a second control to guarantee the highest quality standards.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Business review P06P53
