Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 59 Corporate governance The Board has overall responsibility for succession planning for Independent advice the CEO and the other Executive Directors.
The Board has given The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or the CEO broad authority to operate the business of the Group, more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal and the CEO is accountable for, and reports to the Board on, and or financial advice at the companys expense.
There is an the performance of the business.
CET members make regular agreed procedure to enable them to do so.
This is explained in the presentations to the Board on their areas of responsibility, and Governance section of the companys website.
the Board meets with all the CET members on an annual basis Indemnification of Directors to discuss collectively the Groups strategy.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined in section A primary element of the induction process for new Non-Executive 234 of the Companies Act 2006 are in force for the benefit of the Directors is undertaken by members of the CET, and all NonDirectors and former Directors who held office during 2009.
Executive Directors are encouraged to have separate informal Directors conflicts of interest discussions at their discretion with any CET members.
Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or The Board met six times in 2009, with each member attending can have, a direct or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict as follows: of interest with the company.
The duty applies in particular to the Number of meetings exploitation of any property, information or opportunity, whether held whilst a Board Number of or not GSK could take advantage of it.
The companys Articles of member meetings attended Association include a general power for the Board to authorise Sir Christopher Gent 6 6 such conflicts.
There is no breach of duty if the relevant matter has Mr A Witty 6 6 been so authorised in advance.
Mr J Heslop 6 6 The Board has established procedures for handling situational Dr M Slaoui 6 6 conflicts of interest, which are in line with the best practice Professor Sir Roy Anderson 6 6 guidance issued by the General Counsel 100 Group and in accordance with the companys Articles.
It has authorised the Dr S Burns 6 6 Nominations Committee to grant and review periodically, but in Mr L Culp 6 6 any event annually, any potential or actual conflict authorisations.
Sir Crispin Davis 6 6 Directors are not counted in the quorum for the authorisation of Sir Deryck Maughan 6 6 their own actual or potential conflicts.
The Company Secretary Mr J Murdoch 4 4 minutes the consideration of any conflict.
Authorisations granted Dr D Podolsky 6 6 are recorded by the Company Secretary in a register of conflict authorisations which are noted by the Board at its next meeting.
Mr T fide Swaan 6 6 On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing Sir Robert Wilson 6 6 the Company Secretary of any new, actual or potential conflicts Sir Ian Prosser 3 3 that may arise or, if there are any changes in circumstances that Dr R Schmitz 3 3 may affect an authorisation previously given.
Even when provided with authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her duty Mr James Murdoch was appointed to the Board on 20th May 2009. to promote the success of the company.
If an actual conflict arises Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Ronaldo Schmitz retired from the Board on 20th post authorisation, the Board will choose to exclude the Director May 2009. from the relevant information and debate, or suspend the Director In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a from the Board, or, as a last resort, require the Director to resign.
quorate basis on six occasions.
Company Secretary Business environment development The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is To ensure that the Board is kept up-to-date on important matters, available to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures.
including legal, governance and regulatory developments, The Company Secretary is Mr Simon Bicknell, who was appointed presentations are made on a regular basis by both external and in May 2000.
He is a barrister and joined the Group in 1984.
Secretary to all of the Board Committees except the Remuneration Committee.
The Deputy Company Secretary, Mrs Victoria Whyte, In addition, Non-Executive Directors gain greater insight and was appointed Secretary to the Remuneration Committee with understanding of the business through visits to Group operational effect from 27th January 2009.
She is a solicitor and a Fellow of facilities and attendance at various internal management meetings, the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
including CET, Research & Development Executive and Product Marketing Board meetings, on an ad hoc basis.
Board Committees A customised induction process is conducted for each of the new The Board has established a number of committees and Non-Executive Directors focusing on their particular experience and provides sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their taking account of their different backgrounds.
Executive Directors are not members of the Audit & meeting members of the CET and other senior executives and Risk, Remuneration, Nominations or Corporate Responsibility visiting particular operational facilities of the Group.
Committees, although they may be invited to attend meetings.
Each Director is a member of the Corporate Administration & Transactions and Finance Committees.
