62 Corporate governance Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Directors Dialogue with shareholders In 2008 the Board commissioned Dr Long of Boardroom Review to Financial results are announced quarterly.
act as an independent facilitator for the Boards evaluation process.
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when The actions from this process formed the basis of the Boards its half-year and full-year results are announced.
The full-year internal review process for 2009 namely: results are included in the companys Annual Report which is Identify how to utilise the time spent in Board and Committee published for shareholders.
meetings more effectively and facilitate further contribution by Non-Executive Directors on a broader range of issues The company now produces an annual Summary which is sent to all shareholders to advise them of the availability of the Annual Seek to enhance further the Non-Executive Directors Report and Notice of Meeting on www.
The CEO and continuing education process beyond their initial induction CFO give presentations on the full-year results to institutional Provide greater visibility to the Board of GSKs executive talent investors, analysts and the media.
and the management succession planning process.
There are normally webcast teleconferences after the release of The Senior Independent Director, Sir Robert Wilson, conducted the first, second and third quarter results for institutional investors, the 2009 evaluation of the performance of the Chairman, the analysts and the media.
The Annual Report, Summary and Board and its Committees and Directors in collaboration with the quarterly results are available on the companys website.
The AGM takes place in London, and formal notification is sent The Board evaluation process included a one-to-one interview to shareholders at least one month in advance.
At the Meeting, a with each Director.
The topics discussed included a variety of business presentation is made to shareholders and all Directors able aspects associated with Board effectiveness including Board to attend are available, formally during the AGM, and informally and Committee roles and responsibilities, culture and dynamics, afterwards, for questions.
Committee Chairmen ordinarily attend processes and support and individual effectiveness.
Feedback from the AGM to respond to shareholders questions.
The entire Board the evaluation was provided in the form of a written report to the was in attendance at the companys AGM in May 2009, save for Board, which then discussed its findings.
Sir Deryck Maughan who was prevented from attending due to The Chairman of each of the Board Committees undertook urgent business commitments which arose shortly before the separate evaluations and the outcome of each was reported to the meeting.
All resolutions at the AGM are decided on a poll as respective Committee and the Board.
required by the companys Articles of Association.
The results of the poll are announced to the London Stock Exchange and posted on The Board review concluded that there was a high level of the companys website.
Details of the 2010 AGM are set out in the satisfaction with the way in which Mr Witty had grown into the section Annual General Meeting see page 65 and the Notice of CEO role and with the openess of dialogue between the Executive AGM is published on the companys website.
Board members also met separately, without the Chairman being present, to discuss the To ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are aware of and Chairmans performance and contribution.
There was also a high understand the views of major shareholders about the company, level of confidence in Sir Christophers Chairmanship of the Board.
the Board has in place a process focusing on sector-specific issues, He had the unanimous and unequivocal support of the other as well as general shareholder preferences.
Directors, both Executive and Non-Executive.
The CEO, CFO and Chairman maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders on performance, plans and objectives through a The Board and its Committees were believed to be operating programme of regular meetings.
Since his appointment as CEO in effectively at a high level.
May 2008, Mr Witty has undertaken an extensive ongoing series of The Board agreed the following actions after discussion of the meetings with GSKs institutional shareholders.
evaluation report: The Groups Investor Relations department, with offices in London Identify how to increase further the amount of Board time and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with investors devoted to strategic discussion and the indicators of success in throughout the year.
delivery of the R&D pipeline The Chairman meets regularly with institutional investors to Devote more time to focused consideration of the companys hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance and key risks on an ongoing basis communicates the views of investors to the Board as a whole.
The Provide the Board with more regular updates and insights SID is also available to shareholders.
into the newly enhanced management succession planning The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman, and process.
the SVP, Human Resources meet annually with major shareholders to discuss executive remuneration policy.
The Board has taken a policy decision to undertake an externally facilitated evaluation process every three years.
In the intervening All Non-Executive Directors, including new appointees, are available period the review will be facilitated by the SID or the Chairman.
to meet with major shareholders if requested.
The companys website provides access to current financial and business information about the Group.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Governance and remuneration P54P90
