26 Regulation Regulation Pharmaceuticals Regulation Consumer Healthcare Region and country-specific laws and regulations define The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation the information needed to show the safety and efficacy of comparable to that for prescription medicines for the testing, pharmaceutical products, as well as governing their testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of products.
approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing.
These High standards of technical appraisal frequently involve a lengthy regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining approval process before a new product is launched.
whether a marketable product may be successfully developed January 2009 saw the history-making first for the OTC industry and approved.
when the European Medicines Agency granted centralised In this highly regulated environment, there is increasing approval of the weight loss medicine alli.
This resulted in the cooperation and exchange of information among the major pan-European launch of alli as the first licenced weight loss regulatory authorities.
Consequently, in 2009 we have treatment available without a prescription across all 27 EU transformed the structure of our Regulatory Affairs department countries.
With additional national licences, alli has now been to better match the global regulatory environment in which we granted approval in 38 countries.
The existing US, EU and International groups have been Value for money integrated into one department, Global Regulatory Affairs.
This Payers around the world are concerned about the cost of change enables us to more effectively formulate global strategies healthcare and the pricing of medicines.
The requirement to to obtain regulatory approvals for GSK products, based on satisfy healthcare purchasers on value for money is becoming regional expertise.
The new structure will also make us better an additional hurdle for product acceptance over and above the positioned to interact with our regulatory customers in this regulatory tests of safety, efficacy and quality.
Although the evaluation of benefit and risk continue to be Price controls paramount considerations for the approval of a new drug in the In many countries the prices of pharmaceutical products are USA, there is an increased focus on the safety of medicines.
Governments may also influence prices through FDA Amendments Act of 2007 mandates a rigorous FDA review their control of national healthcare organisations, which may bear of safety from approval through the post-marketing phase of a large part of the cost of supplying medicines to consumers.
the product, and the FDA is examining better ways to identify Recent government healthcare reforms in countries such as France, counterfeit medicines and to communicate new risk information Spain and Germany may restrict pricing and reimbursement.
We remain engaged in these key areas of interest.
Currently in the USA, there are no government price controls over In Europe, new regulations aimed at strengthening the safety private sector purchases, but federal law requires pharmaceutical monitoring of medicines, improving citizens access to reliable manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates on certain drugs to information on medicines and strengthening EU laws to protect be eligible for reimbursement under several state and federal citizens better from the threats posed by fake medicines are under healthcare programmes.
In 2009, the US President and Congress discussion by EU legislators.
Meanwhile, preparation continues dedicated much of the years legislative process to reforming for the implementation in 2010 of new rules aimed at simplifying Americas healthcare system to drive down cost, improve quality, and harmonizing the EU regulatory framework on changes to and increase access to millions of Americans without health authorized medicinal products.
It is hoped that these changes will insurance.
These reforms had the potential to create positive minimise inefficiencies in the procedures, and reduce the overall changes in the US healthcare system and expand access to GSKs administrative burden.
They also had the potential to increase prescribed The regulatory environment in Emerging Markets and Asia-Pacific rebates under government-run programmes and change the continues to evolve, with a number of countries continuing to balance between private and public sector purchases.
The pressure develop their regulatory review systems.
GSK actively participates to control healthcare costs and the need for health reform will in a number of specific regional and national regulatory continue into 2010 and beyond.
Issues such as cross-border trade, initiatives, which provide opportunities for meaningful scientific the acceleration of generics to market, comparative effectiveness and regulatory dialogue between industry, agencies and other research, and pharmaceutical pricing will continue to be part of the stakeholders.
GSK continues to include broader sets of patient ongoing reform debate in the USA.
Fortunately, GSK is positioned populations from a number of these countries in medicine to be a constructive contributor to these debates since there has development programmes in order to increase global patient access been increased recognition that chronic disease is the primary to new innovative medicines, and optimise regulatory approvals.
driver of healthcare spending and pharmaceutical products deliver important interventions that help hold down healthcare costs.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Business review P06P53
