Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 67 Corporate governance When issues or control deficiencies are identified, Internal Audit There are areas of the Groups business where it is necessary to recommends processes for improvement.
GSK managers develop take risks to achieve a satisfactory return for shareholders, such as corrective action plans to eliminate the causes of non-compliance investment in R&D and in acquiring new products or businesses.
and address gaps in internal controls.
Internal Audit tracks these In these cases, it is the Groups objective to apply its expertise in the prudent management rather than elimination of risk.
The plans to completion and reports results to senior management and Directors review relates to the company and its subsidiaries and the Audit & Risk Committee.
does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint ventures Significant compliance issues and internal audit results are escalated or other investments.
to the Audit & Risk Committee at the earliest opportunity.
The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed Risk management the assessment of risks and the internal control framework that The Groups risk management programme extends beyond the operates in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness legal and regulatory issues and considers the Groups overall of the system of internal control in operation in the Group for the strategy and changes in the external environment.
Furthermore, year covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by risk management principles are embedded within management the Board.
The process followed by the Board in reviewing the practices and are part of the business strategy and objectives system of internal controls accords with the guidance on internal setting process.
control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
For details of risks affecting the Group, see Risk factors on pages 43 Committee reports to 47 and Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
Board Committees report regularly to the Board on the performance Strategic Risk Evaluations SREs of the activities they have been assigned.
SREs are a new approach to delivering enterprise-wide assurance Audit & Risk Committee Report on significant issues facing GSK and are conducted by our assurance teams in partnership with the business.
The approach is designed to evaluate areas where there is an incomplete understanding of risk, and enable the development and implementation of appropriate mitigation plans.
Each SRE is sponsored by a CET member or risk owner with oversight for each SRE provided by the ROCC.
Corporate Ethics & Compliance CEC The ROCC is also supported by the CEC department, which is responsible for supporting the development and implementation of practices that facilitate employees compliance with laws and Group policy.
The department provides assistance to help employees meet high ethical standards and comply with applicable laws and regulations and corporate responsibility.
Tom fide Swaan The thrust of the Groups compliance effort is due diligence in Audit & Risk Committee Chairman preventing and detecting misconduct or non-compliance with law Attendance at or regulation by promoting ethical behaviour, compliance with full meetings all laws and regulations, corporate responsibility at all levels and Members Committee member since during 2009 effective compliance systems.
Mr T fide Swaan 1st January 2006 6 6 The CEC department is managed by the Company Secretary & Chairman from Corporate Compliance Officer, who reports directly to the CEO.
1st September 2006 The Company Secretary & Corporate Compliance Officer chairs Professor Sir Roy 20th May 2009 2 3 the ROCC and provides summary reports on the ROCCs activities Anderson and the Groups significant risks to the CET and the Audit & Risk Sir Deryck Maughan 21st January 2005 5 6 Committee on a regular basis.
The Corporate Compliance Officers direct reporting line to the Audit & Risk Committee provides a Dr D Podolsky 1st January 2007 5 6 mechanism for bypassing the executive management should the Sir Robert Wilson 12th December 2003 6 6 need ever arise.
Sir Ian Prosser 27th December 2000 3 3 Effectiveness of controls Dr R Schmitz 27th December 2000 3 3 The internal control framework has been in operation for the Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Schmitz retired from the Board on 20th May 2009. whole of the year under review and continues to operate up to the date of approval of this report.
The system of internal controls is In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee also met designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving on a quorate basis on five occasions.
business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit & Risk Committee receives reports on areas of significant risk to the Group and on related internal controls.
Following consideration of these reports and those received via the Assurance framework, the Audit & Risk Committee reports annually to the Board on the effectiveness of controls.
