Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 65 Corporate governance Annual General Meeting Internal control framework The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and The AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Thursday, 6th May 2010 understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The business to be transacted The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the at the meeting will include: adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Group, including financial, operational and compliance controls Receiving and adopting GlaxoSmithKlines 2009 and risk management.
The Board has delegated responsibility Annual Report for such review to the Audit & Risk Committee, which receives Approving the 2009 Remuneration Report regular reporting aligned with GSKs Assurance Programme.
It is The Remuneration Report on pages 73 to 90 sets out the the responsibility of management, through the CET, to implement remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and Board policies on risk and control.
The CET is responsible for disclosures on Directors remuneration, including those identifying, approving, monitoring and enforcing key policies required by the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and that go to the heart of how the Group conducts business.
The Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports internal control framework includes central direction, resource Regulations 2008.
A resolution will be proposed to approve allocation and risk management of the key activities of research and the Remuneration Report.
development, manufacturing, marketing and sales, legal, human resources, information systems and financial practice.
As part of Retirement and re-election of Directors this framework, there is a comprehensive planning system with Dr Stephanie Burns, Mr Julian Heslop, Sir Deryck Maughan, an annual budget approved by the Board.
The results of operating Dr Daniel Podolsky and Sir Robert Wilson will each retire and units are reported monthly and compared with the budget.
offer themselves for re-election to the Board under current Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year.
Article 85 of the companys Articles of Association.
The Group also has in place established procedures to identify and Re-appointment and remuneration of auditors consolidate reporting entities.
The Groups control activities include Resolutions will be proposed to authorise the Audit & Risk policies and practices covering appropriate authorisation and Committee to re-appoint  LLP as approval of transactions, application of financial reporting standards auditors and to determine their remuneration.
and reviews of significant judgements and financial performance.
Special business Extensive financial, regulatory and operational controls, procedures The company will seek authority to: and risk activities are reviewed by the Groups internal auditors.
make donations to EU political organisations and incur Responsibility, however, is clearly delegated to local business units, EU political expenditure, each capped at 50,000 supported by a regional management structure.
These principles allot Ordinary Shares in the company are designed to provide an environment of central leadership coupled with local operating autonomy as the framework for the give the Directors authority to disapply pre-emption rights exercise of accountability and control within the Group.
when allotting new shares in connection with rights issues or otherwise up to a maximum of 5% of the current The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and issued share capital and purchase its own Ordinary Shares procedures designed to achieve appropriate accountability and up to a maximum of just under 10% of the current issued control.
A Group policy, Risk Management and Legal Compliance, share capital mandates that business units establish processes for managing and exempt the auditors from having to state the name of monitoring risks significant to their businesses and the Group.
their senior statutory auditor for the company in GSKs The internal control framework also relies on the following for Annual Report overseeing and reporting risk and compliance issues.
reduce the notice required to call a general meeting to Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC not less than 14 clear days The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board amend the companys Articles of Association in line with to assist the Audit & Risk Committee oversee the risk management the Companies Act 2006, the Shareholder Rights Directive and internal control activities of the Group.
Membership comprises and to include a limit on annual fees paid to Directors.
several CET members and some of the heads of departments Shareholders are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend with internal control, risk management, assurance, audit and the AGM and to speak and vote on their behalf provided that, in compliance responsibilities.
the event that a single shareholder appoints multiple proxies, each The ROCC meets on a regular basis to review and assess significant proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different risks and their mitigation plans and provide oversight of internal share or shares held by that member.
controls to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and Details on how to appoint or be appointed a corporate internal GSK policies.
The ROCC, responding to the Group policy representative or proxy can be found on page 200.
The Notice of referred to above, has provided the business units with a framework AGM will be published on the companys website.
for risk management and upward reporting of significant risks.
Mitigation planning and identification of a manager with overall responsibility for management of any given risk is a requirement.
