Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 21 Our responsibility Programmes in other countries Commitment to corporate responsibility We have also introduced Orange Cards providing discounts on GSK is committed to connecting business decisions to ethical, certain GSK prescription medicines for eligible patients in a number social and environmental concerns.
Thus, corporate responsibility of other countries.
The nature of the discounts varies between is an integral and embedded part of the way GSK does business.
countries and the ways in which the healthcare systems operate.
Improving access to medicines Patient Advocacy Access to healthcare in the developing world The Patient Advocacy initiative has demonstrated significant There are no easy solutions to the challenge of providing progress since its inception in 2002.
Initially launched as a US sustainable access to healthcare in developing countries.
Poverty programme, it is now a critical initiative throughout GSK.
Patient is the single biggest barrier.
In many countries people do not have Advocacy teams in the USA and Europe share best practices and enough food, access to a clean water supply, hospitals or clinics established processes to optimise interaction with patient groups.
in which to receive treatment and healthcare professionals to care Typically these relationships provide mutual opportunities: to for them.
learn about patient needs and priorities and for patient groups to We are committed to playing a full part in addressing the develop an understanding of drug development challenges.
healthcare challenges of the developing world by taking an In 2009, we continued to partner with patient groups on innovative, responsible and, above all, sustainable approach.
GSK common issues: advocating for access to medicines and treatment, is making a vital contribution to developing country healthcare increasing funding for health programs and improving health through action in a number of areas including: preferential care delivery.
We are considered to be a trustworthy partner pricing of our anti-retrovirals and anti-malarials: tiered pricing of with patient groups and we have worked with patient groups our vaccines: investing in R&D that targets diseases particularly and our trade associations to increase the transparency of all affecting the developing world see page 16 : community of our interactions.
investment activities and partnerships that foster effective healthcare see page 22 : and seeking innovative partnerships Our work with communities and solutions.
We cover our contribution to improving access to We work as a partner with under-served communities in the medicines extensively in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
developed and developing world supporting programmes that We were a clear leader in the first Access to Medicines ATM Index are innovative, sustainable and bring real benefits to these produced by the ATM Foundation in 2008.
We will continue to communities.
Our global community investment in 2009 was build on our product, pricing and partnership commitments to help 163 million.
This compares with 124 million in 2008 on a like improve healthcare in the developing world.
In February 2009, for like basis.
This increase is due to expansion of our US patient we announced a series of commitments for the UN defined list assistance programme, increased humanitarian product donations of least developed countries, including a more flexible approach and scale up of our donation of albendazole for the Lymphatic to intellectual property for research into neglected diseases, a Filariasis LF programme.
Our 2009 giving comprised product commitment to invest in healthcare infrastructure and price caps donations of 101 million, cash giving of 43 million, in-kind on our patented medicines.
A significant increase in resources from donations of 2 million plus costs of 17 million to manage the global community is still needed to support R&D and to provide and deliver community programmes in almost 100 countries.
access to the resultant medicines and vaccines.
The product donations include 80 million for GSKs patient assistance programmes, 13 million worth of albendazole for the While much has been achieved, sustainable progress will only occur programme and 8 million for humanitarian product donations.
if the significant barriers that stand in the way of better access to Since 2008 our product donations have been valued at cost healthcare are tackled as a shared responsibility by all sectors of average cost of goods rather than wholesale price WAC as global society governments, international agencies, charities, this is a more accurate reflection of the cost to GSK.
We believe academic institutions, the pharmaceutical industry and others.
we are the first pharmaceutical company to adopt this practice.
Access to medicines in the developed world For comparative purposes the total value of donations in 2009 using WAC for products would be 467 million compared with Programmes in the USA 343 million in 2008.
We are working to provide access to medicines for people with limited financial resources and without prescription We do not operate a single charitable foundation for our drug insurance.
community investment programmes, but have a number of country-based foundations and their 2009 grants are included in For uninsured Americans who do not qualify for Medicare or the investment total.
Medicaid, GSK and nine other pharmaceutical companies created Together Rx Access, a programme for qualified individuals offering reductions in the pharmacy cost on more than 300 medicines.
Over 2 million Together Rx Access cardholders saved about $20 million in 2009.
GSK Annual Report 2009 22 Our responsibility Our cash giving was targeted primarily at health and education PHASE initiatives as follows: The PHASE programme Personal Hygiene And Sanitation Education, initiated by us in 1998, is now providing education to 5 hundreds of thousands of school children in 13 countries to improve their health and hygiene to fight infectious diseases.
In 2009 we 1 Health 52% expanded our programme in Uganda, and extended PHASE to the 2 Education 17% slum areas of Mumbai, India.
We have also brought PHASE to the 4 3 Arts and Culture 5% UK and it is being piloted in three schools in Hounslow, near our 1 3 4 Environment 4% global headquarters.
5 Other 22% Humanitarian product donations 2 During 2009, we donated essential products, such as antibiotics, through non-profit partners including AmeriCares, Direct Relief International, MAP International and Project HOPE, to support Global Health Programmes humanitarian relief efforts and community healthcare.
Following Eliminating lymphatic filariasis LF a series of natural disasters in the Asia-Pacific region and Central Our effort to eliminate LF, one of the worlds most disabling America, the total value of our international humanitarian product diseases, continued in close partnership with the governments donations was 8 million at average cost.
of countries where the disease is endemic, the World Health Organization and over 40 partner organisations.
As a founding Immediately following the devastating earthquake that struck partner and leader in the global elimination effort, we are Haiti in January 2010, GSK provided donations of medicines of committed to donating as much of the anti-parasitic drug over 1 million from stocks held in warehouses of several nonalbendazole as required to reach the one billion people at risk in profit partners.
We are continuing to donate requested medicines over 80 countries.
In 2009, 425 million albendazole treatments to support medium and longer-term needs.
We have also donated were donated to 28 countries.
We have donated over 1.4 billion 250,000 to the British Red Cross to support the deployment of a albendazole treatments since the global elimination programme Mass Sanitation Unit for water and sanitation needs.
Community initiatives Positive Action on HIV AIDS We are dedicated to strengthening the fabric of communities Positive Action is our pioneering global programme working through providing health and education initiatives and support with communities affected by AIDS.
Started in 1992, it supports for local civic and cultural institutions that improve the quality community-based organisations to deliver effective HIV and AIDS of life.
In the UK, we contributed 5.6 million in 2009 to our education, prevention and healthcare services.
In July 2009 we continuing programme of charitable activities supporting over announced the creation of a new Positive Action for Children 80 organisations in health, medical research, science education, Fund.
The Fund will make 50 million available over ten years to the arts and the environment.
help prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV and to support Programmes in North America at a national and local level focused orphans and vulnerable children.
This new Fund will complement on improving public education, increasing access to healthcare for our ongoing work and support to the HIV community.
With the children and the homeless, and healthcare prevention access for launch of ViiV Healthcare, our Positive Action programmes will be people dealing with breast or gynaecologic cancers.
GSKs IMPACT managed by this new HIV-focused company.
Awards recognise organisations that have significantly improved The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership the health of their local communities and were expanded beyond UK and Philadelphia to reach communities near our Research In 2009, Coalitions Against Malaria created by our malaria Triangle Park, North Carolina facility.
Total funding for our North advocacy programme Mobilising for Malaria continued to American programmes was $20 million.
increase awareness of malaria and mobilise resources in the target countries: UK, Belgium, France, Ethiopia, Mozambique GSK continues to be a CommunityMark company this award and Cameroon.
This year we announced the launch of the next for excellence in community investment was awarded in 2008 for phase of the African Malaria Partnership with projects focused on three years.
community health workers and education behaviour change in the community.
Four new malaria grants were awarded in 2009, with a total commitment of 1.5 million over three years.
They include partnerships with: Save the Children UK in Kenya: Family Health International in Ghana: African Medical and Research Foundation AMREF in Tanzania: and Planned Parenthood Federation of Nigeria.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Business review P06P53 Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 23 Our responsibility Health initiatives Our contribution to improve healthcare included the following grants: Non-profit partner Amount in 2009 Purpose of grant Childrens Health Fund $1,461,000 To continue the Referral Management Initiative RMI which USA ensures continuity of specialist medical care for high-risk children who are often homeless and for general support GSK IMPACT Awards 787,000 To recognise excellence in non-profit community health UK and USA organisations.
Charities receive unrestricted grants for their work dealing with diverse and difficult social issues and access to healthcare Medical Research Charities 400,000 To support medical research programmes UK Education initiatives Non-profit partner Amount in 2009 Purpose of grant Institute for a Competitive Workforce $100,000 To improve education and create a skilled workforce for the future, USA working in partnership with a broad business coalition and staffed by the US Chamber of Commerce Science in the Summer $558,000 To teach basic scientific concepts and inspire school children Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and North Carolina through an enquiry-based science education programme Project ENTHUSE 200,000 To support Continuing Professional Development CPD for science UK teachers and ultimately encourage children to engage with science and pursue careers in science and technology Royal Society of Chemistry 100,000 To support a programme to target science teachers in the UK, who UK are not chemistry specialists, and provide them with the key skills and confidence to be effective in their chemistry teaching Further information about GSK grants and programmes are available on www.
Employee involvement Our employees are encouraged to contribute to their local communities through employee volunteering schemes.
Support includes employee time, cash donations to charities where employees volunteer and matching gift programmes.
Through the US GSK Matching Gift Program, we matched 15,000 employee and retiree gifts at a value of $4.7 million in 2009 plus over $1 million to the United Way campaign.
GSKs GIVE programme provided grants of over $314,000 to 353 organisations where US employees volunteered and 272,000 to 410 UK-based non-profit organisations via the GSK Making a Difference programme.
In 2009, our Group-wide volunteer initiative was launched to give every GSK employee one paid day off each year to volunteer for a good cause.
Employees supported a wide range of charities and projects including work in local schools, shelters for the homeless, community gardens, nursing homes and aiding communities affected by natural disasters.
The GSK PULSE Volunteer Partnership is a new initiative launched in April 2009 that empowers high-performing employees to volunteer for a period of three to six months lending their professional expertise.
PULSE volunteers work full-time with one of our partner non-governmental organisations NGO to create sustainable change for impoverished communities around the world.
From our 2009 in-take, we had 58 PULSE volunteers, working in 18 different countries for 25 non-governmental organisations.
Employees continue to receive their GSK salary during their placement and in 2009 this represented an in-kind donation of 428,000.
GSK Annual Report 2009 24 Our responsibility Responsibility and the environment Mass efficiency GlaxoSmithKlines environmental responsibility spans our demand Increasing the efficiency with which we use materials is a priority.
for raw materials, through converting them into products, to their In 2009 we increased a target originally introduced in 2005, aiming impacts after use.
for a 2.5% efficiency by 2015 for new products launched after 2010.
For the first time, we also set a mass efficiency target for Our vision for environmental sustainability is ultimately to transform our manufacturing sites to achieve additional improvements after how we do business following the principles of industrial ecology, they take over processes from R&D.
Our long-term aspiration is using renewable resources and converting wastes to by-products to achieve 5% efficiency by 2020 five times the typical level in that become inputs to other processes.
the pharmaceutical industry, which will reduce input materials and waste by 80%.
The first steps towards this goal are to optimise the efficiency of our processes, minimising the use of energy and other resources Mass efficiency average 2005-2009 and the amount of waste we generate.
In doing so, we also 5.00 need to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from energy used, as a contribution to tackling climate change.
4.00 Our environmental activities are overseen by a Sustainability Council composed of senior executives.
We manage environmental 3.00 issues as well as occupational health and safety using a 2.76 management system aligned with recognised international 2.00 standards.
Our central audit group includes environmental issues in 1.76 1.05 its routine audits of our sites and processes.
1.00 0.86 0.47 Strategy and plans 0.00 Our strategy has three elements, beginning with embedding Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Transferred the environmental fundamentals such as energy management to manufacturing, Key: Average weighted average and waste reduction to eliminate adverse impacts from our operations.
The second stage is to embrace sustainability in all of our businesses, developing a culture of product stewardship and Climate change sustainable resource use.
The strategy also requires transparency, Our biggest direct climate impact comes from propellants used in informing stakeholders of our actions and performance we inhalers for diseases such as asthma.
We have reduced this impact provide fuller disclosure in our Corporate Responsibility Report by replacing CFC gases and continue to research ways to minimise greenhouse gases released by these products.
We have a ten-year strategic plan with targets that are refreshed every five years.
In 2010 we will update the plan with new, more Since 2007 we have been implementing a climate change challenging targets to 2020.
Key targets for 2010 that we have programme with ambitious targets for our emissions and energy been pursuing since 2006, and progress towards them, include: use in operations and transport.
We are aiming for a 20% a 20% reduction per unit of sales in energy use and emissions reduction per unit of sales by 2010 and a cut of 45% by 2015 from operations and transport we have achieved 6% from 2006 levels.
In 2009 emissions and energy consumption reduction in energy use and 5% in emissions per unit of sales fell by 5% and 6% respectively.
These reductions follow two years of limited progress, which means that we need an 2% average material efficiency for products transferred from outstanding performance in 2010 to meet our interim 20% target.
research and development the current average is 2.8% Energy reduction has been identified as a key objective for the 2% annual reduction in water use per unit of sales we have business.
As a result, energy consumption is now included in achieved 15% reduction since 2006 the key business metrics and in 2009 the remuneration of senior managers in manufacturing was linked to the achievement of energy reduction targets.
We have also created a central fund to finance energy saving projects.
A climate change team has identified more than 800 energy saving projects which have helped in the last two years to avoid around 85,000 tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Business review P06P53 Mass efficiency % Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 25 Our responsibility As well as mitigating our climate change impact, we also aim to identify ways that we can respond to changing disease patterns caused by climate change.
GSKs carbon footprint Million tonnes CO equivalent 2 0.29 0.27 0.49 0.49 1.74 1.68 4.75 4.24 2009 2008 Key: Climate impact from use of inhalers by patient Climate impact from operations energy Climate impact from travel and transport Climate impact from other Other environmental concerns Sustainability requires a holistic view of everything that we do, especially relating to the optimal use of all resources.
Water is a particularly important natural resource, and we recognise that businesses can play a positive role in managing it more sustainably.
We endorsed the United Nations CEO Water Mandate in 2009.
Water consumption in 2009 fell by 5% per unit of sales, which exceeds our target.
We also have targets for improving the quality of wastewater, reducing waste disposal and emissions to air.
In 2009 we exceeded targets in each of these areas and are on track to completely eliminate ozone-depleting CFCs by the end of 2010.
Our environmental audit scores are also moving close to our 2010 targets.
Packaging provides opportunities to reduce resources use and we have several projects to reduce the environmental impact of packaging.
For instance, we are now using lighter toothpaste caps, saving 90 tonnes of plastic a year.
You can read more about our environmental performance and other aspects of sustainability in our Corporate Responsibility Report which may be viewed in line at: www.
