Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 77 Remuneration Report Bonus targets for the CEO are set by the Board.
In setting the Annual bonus objectives for the CEO, the Board focuses on the strategies that The annual bonus is designed to drive the achievement of have been developed for the company, which are set out on pages GSKs annual financial and strategic business targets as well 4 to 7 of the Annual Report.
For reasons of commercial sensitivity, as personal objectives.
the specific objectives are kept confidential.
Following the end For 2010 the on-target bonus for the Executive Directors is given in of the financial year, the Board reviews the CEOs performance the table below.
generally and against the set objectives, and the Committee then determines the bonus payable.
On-target bonus as a % of base salary CEO 125% For the other Executives, the CEO makes recommendations to the Committee regarding performance against their objectives.
CFO 80% These recommendations are considered by the Committee when Chairman, R&D 85% determining the level of bonuses payable.
Maximum bonuses are set by reference to individual on-target Each year, the Committee reviews the ongoing financial impact of bonus levels.
There is a cap on bonus payments of 200% of any prior year activities and the role of individual Executives in such salary.
That cap remains unchanged for 2010.
Annual bonus is activities, and the Committee may make appropriate adjustments not pensionable.
to individual bonus awards to reflect those circumstances.
The Last year, the Committee revised the annual bonus plan to Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee is a member of the strengthen the alignment to the new business strategy details of Committee and provides input on the Audit & Risk Committees which are set out in pages 4 to 7 and budgeting process.
review of the Groups performance.
No such adjustments were made in respect of bonuses for 2009.
Bonus measures for R&D employees, including Dr Slaoui, are linked Group profit to the pipeline.
A robust governance structure has been established before interest & tax to ensure that the bonus payable fairly reflects R&D productivity and performance as well as performance against profit targets.
This Stretching process requires the review of progress against targets by the R&D financial Bonus Compensation Review Committee which includes the CEO targets Annual and the companys two Non-Executive Directors who are designated Business unit Bonus operating profit as Scientific Experts, Professor Sir Roy Anderson and Dr Podolsky.
The targets Committee reviewed the plan operation during the year and decided that it should continue as the annual bonus for R&D.
The Committee will continue to keep its operation under review and may in future consider extending it to other Executives including the CEO.
Individual objectives 2009 bonus awards The objectives set for the company for 2009 focused in particular on the continued development and launch of late stage pipeline assets, delivery of commercial targets and execution of restructuring The majority of the annual bonus opportunity is based on a formal programmes to simplify the operating model.
review of performance against stretching financial targets based The Committee took into account GSKs success in achieving the on Group profit before interest and tax and business unit operating above objectives, as well as each individuals performance, when profit targets, with the remainder being based on achievements determining the bonus awards for 2009.
Actual bonus payments against specific individual objectives.
Annual bonuses are calibrated for Executive Directors are shown on page 83 and ranged from to reflect the stretching targets which have been established to 115% to 200% of base salaries as at 31st December 2009. drive significant changes to GSKs business model.
The bonus threshold will be 90% of target with the maximum being payable The bonuses set by the Committee reflect GSKs increased sales, for achievement of 110% of target.
The bonus threshold of 90% profit and cash flow performance during the year, in challenging reflects the stretching nature of the bonus targets.
market conditions, and with significant loss of sales to generics in the USA.
It also includes the achievement of key strategic and individual objectives, including: delivering continued growth of the vaccine portfolio further geographic diversification, particularly within emerging markets and consumer healthcare achieving key milestones in the transformation of R&D productivity, particularly in relation to the late stage R&D pipeline products simplification of GSKs business model and achievement of operational efficiencies.
