74 Remuneration Report Two quorate meetings were held during the year to approve the The Remuneration Committee formal grant of long-term incentive LTI awards in accordance with Role of the Committee GSKs remuneration policy.
The role of the Committee is to set the companys remuneration policy for Executive Directors and CET members together the With the exception of Mrs Whyte Deputy Company Secretary and Executives, ensuring that it is consistent with the companys Secretary to the Committee, no employees of the company were scale and scope of operations, supports the business strategy and involved in the conduct of Committee meetings.
Mr Witty CEO, growth plans and helps drive the creation of shareholder value.
Mr Heslop CFO, Mr Bicknell Senior Vice President, Company In setting remuneration policy and levels for the most senior Secretary & Corporate Compliance Officer, Mr Phelan Chief of executives, the Committee gives consideration to remuneration Staff, Ms Thomas Senior Vice President, Human Resources and policy and levels for the wider employee population.
Mr Powley Senior Vice President, Corporate Compensation were invited to attend part of some meetings of the Committee as Terms of reference required.
They do not attend where their individual remuneration The Committees full terms of reference, which conform with the is discussed and no director is involved in deciding his own requirements of the Combined Code, are available on the companys remuneration.
website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
The Committee has access to external advice as required.
Deloitte Governance LLP has been appointed by the Committee to provide it with The Board considers all of the members of the Committee to independent advice on executive remuneration.
During the year, be independent Non-Executive Directors, in accordance with Deloitte LLP provided independent commentary on matters under the Combined Code, with the exception of the Chairman of consideration by the Committee, and provided updates on best the company, Sir Christopher Gent, who was independent on practice, legislative requirements and market practice.
Deloitte LLP also provided other tax and consulting services to The Committee met 6 times during 2009, with each member GSK during the year, but did not provide advice on executive attending as follows: remuneration matters other than for the Committee.
Towers Number of Number of Watson provided additional market data to the Committee.
meetings meetings held in attended in Commitment to shareholders Committee member 2009 whilst 2009 whilst Members since a member a member The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders Sir Crispin Davis 1st July 2003 6 6 and holds an annual meeting with GSKs largest investors to discuss and take feedback on its remuneration policy and any Chairman from key developments during the year.
In particular, the Committee 20th May 2009 discusses any significant changes to the policy or the measures Sir Robert Wilson 1st January 2004 6 6 used to assess performance.
Chairman from 17th May Summary of policy 2004 to 20th May 2009 As a result of the remuneration review in 2008, changes were Mr L Culp 1st January 2004 6 5 made to the remuneration packages of the CEO and the CFO Sir Christopher Gent 1st January 2007 6 6 for 2009.
Mr J Murdoch 1st October 2009 1 1 The remuneration structure of all CET members including the Mr T fide Swaan 20th May 2009 4 4 Chairman, Research & Development has now been harmonised with that of the CEO and CFO.
As a result of this, with effect Dr Ronaldo Schmitz 25th May 2005 2 2 from 2010, share options will normally no longer be granted to Mr fide Swaan is also the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee.
Instead, CET members will receive additional performance share awards, and will also be eligible to participate Dr Schmitz retired from the Board on 20th May 2009 having been a member of the Committee prior to that date.
in GSKs Deferred Annual Bonus Plan.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Governance and remuneration P54P90
