54 Our Board Sir Christopher Gent Professor Sir Roy Anderson Larry Culp Aged 46 Julian Heslop Aged 56 Aged 61 Aged 62 Appointed on 1st July 2003.
Mr Culp is President and Chief Mr Heslop joined Glaxo Sir Christopher is a Non-Executive Professor Anderson is Executive Officer of Danaher Wellcome as Financial Controller Director of Ferrari SpA and was Professor of Infectious Disease Corporation.
Prior to joining in April 1998.
In January 2001 the Chief Executive Officer of Epidemiology in the Faculty Danaher, he held positions in he was appointed Senior Vice Vodafone Group plc, until his of Medicine, Imperial College, Accenture, previously Andersen President, Operations Controller.
He is a member of the Consulting.
Prior to joining the Group he a Non-Executive Director of International Advisory Board held senior finance roles at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc, of Hakluyt & Co. Ltd.
a member of KPMGs Chairmans fellow of the Royal Society and Advisory Group, a Senior Adviser a Foreign Associate Member at Bain & Co. and a member of of the Institute of Medicine the Advisory Board of Reform.
at the US National Academy of Sciences and the French Academy of Sciences.
His former positions include Rector of Imperial College and Chief Scientific Adviser at the Ministry of Defence in the UK.
Sir Crispin Davis Aged 60 Sir Deryck Maughan Andrew Witty Aged 45 Dr Stephanie Burns Appointed on 1st July 2003.
Aged 62 Appointed on 31st January Aged 55 Non-Executive Director.
Appointed on 12th February Until March 2009 Sir Crispin Non-Executive Director.
was Chief Executive Officer of Sir Deryck is a Partner of Executive Officer Designate Dr Burns is Chairman, President Reed Elsevier PLC.
Prior to that Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co, for GSK in October 2007 and and Chief Executive Officer of appointment, he was Chief and a Non-Executive Director of was appointed Chief Executive Dow Corning Corporation.
She is Executive of Aegis Group plc, Thomson Reuters and BlackRock Officer CEO on 21st May also a member of the American which he joined from Guinness Inc.
He joined the Group Chemical Society and sits on plc, where he was a member and Chief Executive Officer of in 1985 and has held senior the Executive Committee of the of the main Board and Group Citigroup International and of positions in Asia, Africa and Society of Chemical Industry, Managing Director of United Salomon Brothers Inc. the USA.
Immediately prior to America Section, serves on Distillers.
He spent his early being appointed CEO, Andrew the Board of Directors of the career with Procter & Gamble, was President, Pharmaceuticals American Chemistry Council, including as President of the Europe, a position he held from and on the Board of Directors companys US Food Division.
He is a member for the Society for Womens of the Business Council for Health Research.
Dr Burns holds Britain, a Board Member of a PhD in organic chemistry from PhRMA, President of EFPIA, Iowa State University.
a Member of the Singapore Economic Development Boards International Advisory Council and an Adviser to the Governor of Guangzhou, China.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 55 Our Board James Murdoch Aged 37 Dr Moncef Slaoui Aged 50 Sir Robert Wilson Appointed on 20th May 2009.
Appointed on 17th May Aged 66 Non-Executive Director.
Chairman, Research & Appointed on 1st November Mr Murdoch is Chairman Development.
Non-Executive Director & and Chief Executive, Europe and Dr Slaoui joined GSK Biologicals Senior Independent Director.
in 1988 where he engineered Sir Robert is Non-Executive He is also Non-Executive the development of a Chairman of BG Group plc.
Chairman of BSkyB and a robust vaccines pipeline and He was previously Executive member of the Board of News subsequently led Worldwide Chairman of Rio Tinto plc until Corporation.
He served as Chief Business Development for his retirement in October 2003 Executive Officer of BSkyB from pharmaceuticals before his and Chairman of The Economist 2003 to 2007 and was also appointment to lead R&D.
He is Group between 2003 and 2009. previously Chairman and Chief a member of the Board of the Executive Officer of Star TV.
Agency for Science, Technology He also serves on the Leadership & Research A STAR and has a Council of The Climate Group.
PhD in Molecular Biology and Immunology from Universit Libre fide Bruxelles.
Dr Daniel Podolsky Tom fide Swaan Aged 63 Other Directors Aged 56 Appointed on 1st January 2006.
Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Ronaldo Appointed on 1st July 2006.
Schmitz both retired from the Non-Executive Director.
Mr fide Swaan is Chairman Board on 20th May 2009.
Dr Podolsky is President of the of the Supervisory Board of University of Texas Southwestern VanLanschot Bankiers and a Medical Center in Dallas and holds member of the Board of Directors the Phillip OBryan Montgomery, of Zurich Financial Services.
He Jr. M. D. Distinguished Presidential is also Vice Chairman of the Chair in Academic Administration, Supervisory Board and Chairman and the Doris and Bryan of the Audit Committee of Royal Wildenthal Distinguished Chair in Ahold and a member of the Medical Science.
He is a member Supervisory Board of Royal DSM.
of the Institute of Medicine of the Until January 2006, he was a US National Academy of Sciences.
member of the Managing Board He is also Chairman of the Board and Chief Financial Officer of and Scientific Co-Founder of the ABN AMRO.
