Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 71 Corporate governance Corporate Responsibility Committee Report During the year the Committee reviewed areas including: p andemic flu, including access to vaccine and antiviral medicine in developing countries access and pricing of medicines in developing countries R&D on diseases of the developing world and a patent pool community partnerships and investment humanitarian donations s ales and marketing practices including harmonisation of GSK Codes of Practice disclosure of payments to healthcare professionals communication of clinical trial results use of animals in research employment practices including diversity and inclusion Sir Christopher Gent employee wellbeing Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman employee relations including consultation arrangements and Attendance at employment litigation in the USA full meetings Members Committee member since during 2009 supply chain management Sir Christopher Gent 9th December 2004 5 5 climate change, energy use reduction and manufacturing Chairman from efficiency 1st January 2005 data privacy Dr S Burns 6th December 2007 5 5 corruption prevention.
Mr J Murdoch 20th May 2009 2 2 GSK publishes a comprehensive Corporate Responsibility Report Dr D Podolsky 1st July 2006 4 5 which is available on the companys website.
Sir Ian Prosser 17th May 2004 2 3 The Combined Code Mr T fide Swaan 1st July 2006 3 3 Throughout 2009, the company complied with the provisions and applied the Main Principles of Section 1 of the Combined Code, S ir Ian Prosser retired from the Board on 20th May 2009 and Mr fide except as regards an aspect of the following provision: Swaan also ceased to be a member of the Committee on that date.
D. 2.3 The chairman should arrange for the chairmen of Other attendees at Committee meetings may include: the audit, remuneration and nomination committees to be CEO available to answer questions at the AGM and for all directors General Counsel to attend.
Head of Corporate Communications & Community The entire Board was in attendance at the companys AGM in Partnerships May 2009, save for Sir Deryck Maughan who was prevented Head of Corporate Responsibility from attending due to urgent business commitments which Company Secretary.
arose shortly before the meeting.
He therefore needed to convey his apologies for absence.
To augment GSKs engagement with stakeholder opinion, in March 2009 Ms Sophia Tickell was appointed as an independent external US law and regulation adviser to the Committee.
Ms Tickell is the Director of the Pharma A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to GSK Futures Series which aims to align better societal and shareholder because the companys shares are quoted on the NYSE in the value, and she chairs the International Advisory Group of the form of ADS.
Ms Tickell attends the meetings NYSE rules of the Committee and advises the company in this capacity.
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK The main responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the USA, Committee are set out on page 61.
The Committee has a rolling provided that the company explains any significant variations.
This agenda and receives reports from the members of the CET and explanation is contained in the companys Form 20-F filing, which senior managers to ensure that progress on meeting GSKs can be accessed from the Securities and Exchange Commissions Corporate Responsibility Principles is reviewed.
Five Principles: SEC EDGAR database or via the companys website.
NYSE rules access to medicines: standards of ethical conduct: research that came into effect in 2005 require the company to file annual and and innovation: employment practices: and global community interim written affirmations concerning the Audit & Risk Committee partnerships are reviewed annually.
Other Principles are discussed and the companys statement on significant differences in corporate at least once every two years.
The Committee also reviews and governance.
approves the Corporate Responsibility Report.
