Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 63 Corporate governance The Bank of New York Mellon is the Depositary for the companys Share capital and control ADS, which are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Ordinary Details of the companys authorised and issued share capital and Shares representing the companys ADR program, which are the number of shares held in Treasury, as at 31st December 2009, managed by the Depositary, are registered in the name of BNY can be found in Note 33 to the financial statements, Share capital Nominees Limited.
Details of the number of Ordinary Shares held and share premium account.
GSKs shares are listed on the London by the Depositary can be found on page 183.
Stock Exchange and are also quoted on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the form of American Depositary shares ADS.
The company has not acquired or disposed of any interests in Each ADS represents two Ordinary Shares.
its own shares during the period under review.
Details of shares purchased in prior years, those cancelled, and those held as The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends, Treasury shares are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements when declared, and the companys report and accounts, to attend Share capital and share premium account.
and speak at General Meetings of the company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Directors and Officers The interests of Directors and Officers and their connected There are no restrictions on transfer, or limitations on the holding persons in the issued share capital of the company are given in the of Ordinary Shares and no requirements to obtain prior approval Remuneration Report pages 73 to 90. to any transfers.
No Ordinary Shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the company and there are no restrictions on The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are voting rights.
Major shareholders have the same voting rights per contained in the companys Articles of Association.
The companys share as all other shareholders.
There are no known arrangements Articles must be approved by shareholders in accordance with the under which financial rights are held by a person other than the legislation in force from time to time.
holder of the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary share transfers or on voting rights.
resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors, Shares acquired through GSK share schemes and plans rank provided that, in the latter instance, a director appointed in this equally with the other shares in issue and have no special rights.
way retires at the first AGM following his appointment.
The trustees of the companys Employee Share Ownership Plan The Articles also provide that Directors should be subject to ESOP trusts have waived their rights to dividends on shares held re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or annually if by the ESOP trusts.
they have held office for a continuous period of nine years or Change of control and essential contracts more.
The companys members may remove a director by passing The company does not have contracts or other arrangements an ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given, which individually are essential to the businesses nor is it party or by passing a special resolution.
A Director may automatically to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or cease to be a Director if: terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
h e becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors The company does not have agreements with any Director or generally Officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or h e ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Acts or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Articles the companys share plans may cause options and awards granted h e is suffering from mental ill health under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Details of the termination provisions in the companys framework contracts for Executive h e has missed Directors meetings for a continuous period of Directors are given on page 81. six months without permission and the Board resolves that he shall cease to be a Director Interests in voting rights he is prohibited from being a Director by law Other than as stated below, as far as the company is aware, there he resigns are no persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the company.
Information provided to the company pursuant to the he offers to resign and the Board accept that offer, or Financial Services Authoritys FSA Disclosure and Transparency a ll other Directors being at least three in number require him Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and to resign.
At 19th February 2010, the company had received notifications in accordance with the FSAs DTRs of the following notifiable interests, in the voting rights in the companys issued share capital: No.
of Percentage of issued shares capital % BlackRock, Inc. 334,849,249 6.45 Legal & General Group Plc 217,546,535 4.19 Percentage of Ordinary Shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares as at 19th February 2010.
