Senior Management Alex Carter Martin Dean Managing Director, Go South Coast Managing Director, Bus Development Alex has been Managing Director since 2003.
He leads He controls eight businesses within Go South and acts as a focus for all bus development Coast embracing bus, coach and engineering.
and acquisition activity in the Group.
Previously, Alex joined the bus industry in 1981 in its Martin held senior management roles in rail nationalised form and has held a number and bus with FirstGroup and National Express.
He began his career with LondonTransport.
Alan Eatwell Roger French Managing Director, Metrobus Managing Director, Brighton & Hove Alan has been Managing Director since 2001 Roger has been Managing Director of Brighton and was previously the Group s Engineering & Hove since the company was purchased by Director.
Alan has over 40 years experience Go-Ahead in 1993.
He joined Brighton & Hove in the bus industry and successfully participated in 1982 and as general manager he was part of in the management buy-out of Brighton & Hove.
Roger received an OBE in 2005 for his services to public transport.
Peter Huntley Philip Kirk Managing Director, Go North East Managing Director, Oxford Bus Company Peter has been Managing Director since 2006.
Philip has been Managing Director since 2001, He has brought a wide range of innovations and having joined the company in 1995 shortly after developments to the north east business.
Peter it was acquired by Go-Ahead.
He has 30 years has over 30 years experience in the bus industry experience of managerial and technical positions including periods working with local and national in bus companies.
JohnTrayner Mike Hodson Managing Director, Go-Ahead London Managing Director, London Midland John has been Managing Director since 2006.
Mike was appointed Managing Director in July He joined the Group in 2002 as Operations 2009.
Previously, he was Operations and Safety Director of London Central London General Director of Southeastern and was instrumental having previously held senior positions at Arriva to the successful introduction of the High Speed London.
He has been in the transport industry preview service.
Mike was Managing Director of for 30 years.
ThamesTrains from 2003 to 2004 and has over 30 years' experience in rail.
Chris Burchell Tom Smith Managing Director, Southern Managing Director, Rail Development Chris has been Managing Director of Southern Tom has led the rail divisions business since April 2006, having previously been development and franchise bidding activity since Operations Director for two years.
PreviouslyTom was Managing Director of also worked atThamesTrains, the Foreign the company that financed and built the M6 toll & Commonwealth Office and Railtrack, motorway.
He spent 11 years in the diplomatic accumulating over 10 years of railway experience.
service after graduating from Oxford.
Charles Horton StephenTurner Managing Director, Southeastern Managing Director, Meteor Charles has been Managing Director since Stephen has been Managing Director since 1993 April 2006, after three years in the same role at when the company was founded and was part Southern.
He has gained extensive management of a management buy-out in 1994 along with experience in a career spanning 23 years on three other private shareholders.
Previously, he National Rail and London Underground.
spent 20 years in the property industry, involved in both commercial property letting and management.
PatrickVerwer RobWilliams Managing Director, aviance UK Managing Director, Plane Handling Patrick joined as Managing Director in December Rob has been Managing Director since 2007.
Previously, he spent more than 10 years Previously, he was director of cargo for aviance with Netherlands Railways in various executive UK, working in the aviation services division of roles.
Patrick came to the UK in 2002 to head Go-Ahead for a total of seven years.
His career up the Serco NedRailways Merseyrail concession to date has spanned 30 years in both the aviation in Liverpool.
He started his working career as a and shipping industry, holding numerous senior senior police officer in Rotterdam.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 43 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review
