Directors Report: Corporate Governance Board of Directors Sir Patrick Brown Keith Ludeman Nicholas Swift Non-Executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Term of office: Sir Patrick Brown joined the Board in Term of office: Keith Ludeman joined the Board in Term of office: Nicholas Swift was appointed to the January 1999 as Non-Executive Director, becoming September 2004 and was appointed as Group Chief Board as Group Finance Director in July 2007.
He Non-Executive Chairman in October 2002.
He was last re-elected by was elected by shareholders, following his elected by shareholders at the 2008 AGM, he will again shareholders at the 2007 AGM.
stand for re-election at the AGM in October 2009.
Committee membership: Member of the Nomination Committee membership: Attends Audit Committee Independent: On appointment.
Attends Audit Committee and by invitation.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Remuneration Remuneration Committee by invitation.
External appointments: None Committee and Nomination Committee.
Regularly External appointments: Non-Executive Director of Previous experience: Prior to Go-Ahead, Nicholas attends Audit Committee by invitation.
ATOC Ltd. worked as Group Finance Manager at Hanson plc External appointments: Senior Independent Director at Previous experience: Keith became a main Board advisor where he was responsible for investor relations and Northumbrian Water Group plc Chairman of the in 1998, after joining Go-Ahead in 1996 when the had also been Head ofTax andTreasury and Group Audit Committee and member of the Nomination and Group acquired London General.
Prior to this he held Financial Controller.
He joined Hanson plc in 2000 Remuneration Committees : Non-Executive Director of senior management positions in several bus companies, following its acquisition of Pioneer International Northumbrian Water Ltd and Northumbrian Water mainly at Managing Director level, in Greater where he held a number of senior corporate and Share SchemeTrustees Ltd. Manchester, Lancashire and London.
He has also operational finance roles including European Finance Previous experience: Sir Patrick spent ten years in worked overseas and as a transport consultant.
He has prior experience of the transport industry and management consultancy before joining appointed Chief Executive of the Groups London bus industry having been Group Financial Reporting the Civil Service, initially involved in privatisation in the division in 1997 and then moved over to head the rail Manager at Air New Zealand which he joined from Department ofTransport during the 1980s.
A postgraduate transport planner, he is Touche Ross.
moved to the Department of the Environment, before a fellow of the Institute of Logistics andTransport and a returning to the Department ofTransport as fellow of the Institute of Railway Operators.
Andrew Allner Rupert Pennant-Rea Carolyn Sephton Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group Company Secretary Senior Independent Director Term of office: Andrew Allner joined the Board in Term of office: Carolyn Sephton was appointed as October 2008.
He will be standing for election for the Group Company Secretary in July 2006.
Term of office: Rupert Pennant-Rea joined the Board in first time following his appointment at the AGM in Committee membership: Secretary to the Audit, October 2002 and was appointed Senior Independent October 2009.
He was last re-elected by Independent: Yes.
shareholders at the 2006 AGM and will stand for reCommittee membership: Chairman of the Audit Previous experience: Carolyn joined Go-Ahead in election at the AGM in October 2009.
Member of the Remuneration and 2001 and is a Chartered Secretary.
Prior to her Independent: Yes.
appointment as Group Company Secretary she was Committee membership: Member of the Audit, External appointments: Non-Executive Director at CSR Assistant Company Secretary for the Group with Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
plc Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of responsibility for non-rail pensions and a wide range External appointments: Non-Executive Chairman of PGI the Nomination and Remuneration Committees : Nonof company secretariat functions including share Group Ltd, AcuityVCT plc, AcuityVCT 2 plc and Executive Director at Marshalls plc Chairman of the schemes, legislative compliance, corporate Henderson Group plc, as well as Chairman of Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit governance and codes of conduct specific to the Henderson Group plc Nomination Committee.
Nonand Nomination Committees : Non-Executive Director Group's business activities.
Prior to working for Executive Director ofTimes Newspaper Holdings Ltd, at Northgate plc Chairman of the Audit Committee Go-Ahead, Carolyn spent twelve years working for The Economist Newspaper Limited, Defaqto Group and member of the Nomination and Remuneration Northern Electric, predominantly in the field of Ltd, Specialist Waste Recycling Ltd, Gold Fields Ltd and Committees.
Previous experience: Andrew is a chartered accountant Previous experience: Rupert was Deputy Governor of and a former partner at Price Waterhouse.
He was the Bank of England from 1993 to 1995, prior to which Group Finance Director of RHM plc between 2004 and he was Editor ofThe Economist.
He has held a variety 2007, and Chief Executive of Enodis plc prior to this.
He of Non-Executive Directorships over the last 15 years.
was also a Non-Executive Director of Moss Bros Group plc and Chairman of their Audit Committee until 2005.
42 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
