Directors Report: Business Review Todays key issues In today's challenging marketplace there are a number of key issues which we continue to focus on to keep the Group on track to meet our targets and deliver value to our shareholders.
Our devolved structure gives us the ability to understand our markets and respond quickly to take full advantage of opportunities and issues as they arise.
As a Group, we are committed to being a responsible operator and to ensuring a sustainable future for our business and our industry.
This year, tackling climate change has been a key area of focus, not only reducing our impact on the environment but also generating substantial cost savings across the Group.
Focusing on local markets Our UK focus and devolved structure differentiates us from the other major public transport groups.
Our operations are located in high density commuter markets, predominantly in the South East of England, where there is strong demand for public transport.
We believe that public transport is best provided locally.
All of our bus and rail companies are locally branded and form an integral part of the communities they serve.
Our customers typically make simple journeys over fairly short distances.
Many of those passengers are daily commuters who recognise the local brands they use.
We empower our local managers to deliver services to their own markets in the way they best see fit.
This local focus and understanding of culture means that we are able to provide high quality services and can respond quickly to passenger needs.
We believe that our devolved organisation is the most effective way to run our Group.
This flat structure enables us to monitor closely the performance of each operating company while giving local managers the autonomy they As an example of our community focus, Brighton & Hoves buses feature local need to run their businesses.
passengers who are proud to use their services.
Brighton & Hove bus patronage has grown by around 5% per year since 1993 contributing to a 3% reduction in city centre traffic in the last three years.
Were on track: Group leadership The Group adopts a flat decentralised our twelve operating companies once fewer than 50 out of a total of over management structure.
The devolved a month to review and discuss their 27,100. nature of the Group ensures operating and financial performance.
An example of a Group initiative to accountability for operating In addition to providing strategic secure financial benefits of scale is the performance lies with each operating direction, financial expertise and drive to improve the procurement company, while the flat structure governance, the Group shares best process and reduce the number of means that the Executive Directors practice and co-ordinates IT, suppliers.
This has resulted in savings of stay very close to the Groups procurement, property, pensions, around 7 million in 2009 and should operating businesses.
energy, engineering and communication continue to show benefits in The Group Chief Executive and Group activities.
The total number of subsequent years.
Finance Director meet with each of employees at the Group level remains 2 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Were on track In recognition of our commitment achievements in action on climate We congratulate Go-Ahead in to operating responsibly, we have change by leading organisations achieving the CarbonTrust become the first UK public in industry, commerce and the Standard and challenge other transport company to be officially public sector.
It is also the worlds organisations to follow their certified with the CarbonTrust first carbon award scheme that example and prove that they Standard after taking action on requires an organisation to too are taking tangible steps climate change.
measure, manage and reduce its carbon footprint and actually The CarbonTrust Standard Tom Delay, is the UK's only independent make real reductions year-oncertification recognising year.
CEO, CarbonTrust Tackling climate change Climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing the world today.
Reducing our environmental impact is an integral part of our Group strategy.
It helps to ensure we are a responsible operator as well as realising significant cost efficiencies.
We have implemented a number of key energy efficiency projects across the Group this year which we estimate will reduce annual operating costs by approximately 5 million and CO emissions by around 30,000 tonnes.
2 In addition, our progress will help mitigate the financial implications of the Carbon Reduction Commitment obligations which come into effect in April 2010.
The Government has set legally binding carbon targets, to reduce UK greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050.
Transport now contributes a quarter of UK carbon emissions, with cars accounting for more than half of this.
In contrast, buses and trains contribute less than 5%.
More people on our services mean fewer car journeys on the road, reducing congestion and pollution.
We therefore have two key responsibilities: to deliver We operate the UKs first high speed high quality services that provide attractive alternatives to domestic rail service between Kent and car travel: and at the same time to provide those services London.
High speed rail is at the heart in a sustainable and environmentally responsible manner.
of the Governments plans to reduce the UK's carbon emissions.
The Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC is a proposed mandatory cap and trade scheme that will apply to large non-energy intensive UK organisations in the public and private sectors.
It will apply to the Groups site energy consumption.
C02 emissions from UK domestic transport by source Gold Award For the third year in a row Go-Ahead Passenger cars 58.3% Railways 1.9% achieved a gold rating in Business in HGVs 20.0% Domestic aviation 1.6% Vans 11.0% Other 0.8% the Communitys BITC 2009 Domestic shipping 3.7% Mopeds & Motorcycles 0.5% Corporate Responsibility Index Buses 2.3% the highest rating amongst comparable participating public transport operators.
Source: National Atmospheric Emissions Inventory IPCC categories 2007.
Chart included in Department for Transport:A Carbon Reduction Strategy for Transport July 2009.
Other includes LPG emissions: road vehicle engines: aircraft support vehicles.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review
