Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives review continued Our strategy Our long-standing strategy is to deliver high quality passenger transport services in dense, urban markets, primarily through bus and rail.
To run our companies in a To provide high quality, To prioritise our operations To run our business with socially & environmentally locally focused passenger in high density urban strong financial discipline to responsible manner transport services markets in the UK deliver shareholder value As a public transport operator, We believe that providing a high We are unique among the other Our aim is to deliver shareholder corporate responsibility is integral quality service encourages passenger major public transport groups as we value through a combination of to the way we run our business.
growth and offers an attractive operate exclusively in the UK.
We earnings growth, strong cash Ensuring the safety and security of alternative to the private car.
We focus our operations in high density generation and balance sheet our passengers and employees is an understand that punctuality, reliability commuter markets, predominantly in management, supplemented by value absolute priority for us and our and value for money are the most the South East of England, where adding acquisitions and disposals.
performance on such issues is linked important factors for passengers there is a strong demand for public to senior managers and the Boards when choosing to travel by public transport.
We are recognised as remuneration.
We believe our devolved having significant expertise in the UK committed to reducing the structure and local focus helps to bus and rail market.
This is welcomed environmental impacts of our generate passenger growth as our by our shareholders and will remain operations and strongly believe that local managers are able to respond our primary focus.
However, we will a sustainable public transport quickly to community needs.
This flat consider investment in overseas network is key to the future of the structure enables us to closely operations if we believe that it will UK.
We believe acting responsibly manage the performance of each add value for our shareholders.
directly contributes to the success operating company while giving local of our business.
In addition, reducing managers the autonomy they need our energy consumption helps to to run their local businesses.
is to combine the value of this local identity culture with the financial benefits of Group scale and transfer of best practice.
Managing progress In order to measure progress against our strategy the Board uses a number of Key Performance Indicators based around operating responsibly and providing a high quality service.
These are underpinned by strong financial indicators to ensure we deliver shareholder value.
KPIs are outlined on pages 13 and 14.
Managing key risks The effective delivery of our strategy is dependent on the Group successfully managing our risks and opportunities.
A full assessment of how we internally manage risks and our key risk factors are outlined on page 20.
12 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Risks KPIs Why its important Priorities
