Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives review continued tenders for each bus route and private A well-functioning operators enter a competitive bidding Our Markets process for the right to operate them.
public transport The contracts are usually five years in This section focuses on the UK bus and duration with a two year extension if system is crucial to rail markets, where over 90% of the TfL performance targets are met.
Route Groups revenue is generated.
the UK: it plays a contracts are awarded on a cost per mile basis.
This means that bus Long term growth in public transport key role in building a operators are not subject to any We firmly believe in the fundamental revenue risk.
strengths of UK public transport.
All strong economy and major political parties support and TfL contracts are price index adjusted, recognise the importance of public is an essential designed to offset inflationary increases transport for the UKs present and in costs.
Broadly speaking, operators means of creating a future needs.
Not only do we anticipate profits are therefore not impacted a long term increase in the demand for by inflation changes.
Public public transport as the population Having a good network of bus depots grows, we also recognise that growth transport also has a is important for London operators.
in an efficient public transport system Go-Ahead has 15 strategically located is a necessity for the UK Government central part to play London depots, with around 85% of to meet its ambitious climate our capacity owned as freehold.
in helping to reduce carbon emissions.
View a map of our London bus depots on page 23 2009 Climate Change Act: Put simply, by To reduce C0 emissions 2 encouraging the Quality Incentive Contracts by 80% by 2050 Companies are awarded bonuses for travelling public out achievingTfL performance targets in areas such as punctuality, cleanliness and of their cars and UK Bus customer service.
These bonuses are called Quality Incentive Contracts onto the lower Bus travel is the most frequently used QICs.
Our London bus operations mode of public transport.
It accounts carbon alternatives rank consistently high in theTfL for two-thirds of all public transport performance league tables, resulting in of public transport, journeys and 95% of local bus journeys bonus payments fromTfL.
In 2009 involve a single bus ride.
quality incentive bonuses totalled congestion can be 14.2m 2008: 13.7m.
The UK bus market is split into reduced and two models: the regulated London market and the deregulated market Bus operator league tables are published emissions can outside London.
by TfL and can be viewed on its website at: http: www.
uk businessandpartners Go-Ahead operates in the UK bus be cut.
busoperators 1232. aspx market through six business units: Lord Adonis, Go-Ahead London, Go North East, Secretary of State for Transport, June 2009 Go South Coast, Metrobus, Brighton Fig 1: London Bus market share & Hove and Oxford Bus Company.
2% 5% Go-Ahead London and most of 21% 9% Metrobus operations are regulated byTransport for London TfL.
13% London regulated market The London bus market is different 20% from the rest of the UK.
Figure 1 shows the London bus market share.
With the 14% recent agreement to acquire East Thames Buses, Go-Ahead will become 16% the largest operator in the capital with a market share of around 21%.
Go Ahead First Group Arriva Transdev TfL is responsible for the provision of East London Bus Group Ned Railways bus services in the capital.
Operating ComfortDelGro Others under a regulated system, TfL issues Source:Transit a specialist transport publication, June 2009 and JPMorgan research, August 2009.
8 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Our markets the mid 1990s the rate of decline has London passenger growth and Bus operating cost base slowed significantly and volumes have the impact of the current climate Ongoing cost control is an important increased in recent years as investment Figure 2 shows that after a period of part of running a good bus operation.
by operators and the Government has relatively flat growth, from the mid As the pie chart on page 22 shows, increased service quality.
1990s bus use in London has increased labour cost accounts for around 60% of significantly.
Indeed, the network total costs.
Fuel accounts for around Within the overall deregulated market underwent considerable expansion in 11%.
Typically, bus operators have some it is important to note that there are the run up to the introduction of the flexibility within their cost base and in considerable local and regional congestion zone in 2003. economic downturns may be able to variations.
Go-Aheads strategy is to match service levels to demand.
focus our operations in dense urban Demand for bus travel in the capital markets which can support a remains strong and the market is comprehensive network of bus routes, For the cost base of our bus operations regarded as being relatively resilient to please go to page 22 offering good value and ease of use for the current economic climate.
Bus use both commuter and leisure travel.
We in the UK is at its highest in London For our bus fuel hedging policy & believe that important factors for with around 2 billion passenger prices please go to page 26 operating successfully include providing journeys a year.
This is due to many high quality and punctual services and localised factors such as: having strong local relationships with Congestion zone charging for private customers and local authorities.
UK Rail car use The deregulated market is generally Limited and expensive car parking Go-Ahead perceived to be resilient to economic facilities Our rail operation, Govia, is owned 65% downturns.
Bus can often be the High proportion of bus lanes almost by Go-Ahead and 35% by Keolis, a cheapest way to travel and offers a low- 300km French-based operator of passenger cost alternative to other modes in a transport services which is majority Significant percentage of the more difficult economic environment.
owned by the French national railway population without car ownership SNCF.
Through Govia, Go-Ahead Bus is typically the cheapest method operates three rail franchises of public transport in the capital For a detailed performance review of Southeastern, Southern and London our deregulated bus operations Midland making us the UKs busiest please go to page 24 For a detailed performance review of our rail operator, carrying almost 30% of rail regulated London bus operations please go to passengers.
There are currently 19 rail page 23 franchises in the UK.
Figure 3 shows UK Bus Concessionary Fares Scheme rail market share by revenue.
In April 2008, the Bus Concessionary Fares Scheme was extended so that Deregulated passenger growth and Our strategy is to operate urban anyone aged 60 or over, or who is the impact of the current climate intensive commuter franchises centred registered disabled, is entitled to free Figure 2 shows that local bus volumes around London.
Around 45% of all travel on any off-peak local bus service significantly declined in the 1970s as car commuter rail journeys into London in any part of England.
The Government ownership widened and investment in are made on our franchises.
has invested 1.2bn in the scheme, public transport reduced.
The Figure 4 shows that across Britain resulting in around 11 million people deregulation and privatisation of the commuting is the most common reason being eligible for free travel.
Operators bus industry took place in 1986.
From for taking the train.
are reimbursed a percentage of the full fare by local authorities for each journey taken.
Fig 2: Bus Passenger Journeys m For detailed information and Overall, we believe that the scheme is a performance reviews of our three rail 8000 positive step for the industry as it franchises please go to pages 28 - 34 7000 increases bus use.
However, the 1986: Deregulation and privatisation implementation of the scheme is 6000 complicated and has given rise to a Rail franchising system 5000 small number of disputes with some The franchise model was introduced 4000 local authorities.
Concessionary fare with the privatisation of the rail industry passengers have continued to grow 3000 in 1996.
Each franchise agreement beyond April 2009, the first anniversary tenders specific rail operations on a 2000 of the scheme, as free travel has contract basis and typically lasts for further increased in attractiveness as a 1000 around eight years.
The Department for result of the economic downturn.
Transport DfT submits an Invitation toTender ITT to interested bidders Concessionary passengers now which outlines the detailed represent just over 30% of Go-Aheads commitments the franchise must deliver, London Great Britain excluding London bus passengers and just over 20% of bus revenue.
2008 09 data to be published in October 2009.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 9 1970 1972 1974 1976 1978 1980 1982 1984 1986 87 1988 89 1990 91 1992 93 1994 95 1996 97 1998 99 2000 01 2002 03 2004 05 2006 07 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives review continued such as timetabling and capacity.
The Broadly speaking, the subsidy and 94% of target, the government provides ITT also outlines the formula to be premium profile takes into account support of 80% of the shortfall below used for annual regulated peak time indexation soTOCs profits are not 94%.
Revenue support is designed to fare increases, which is typically the impacted by inflation changes.
The provide significant mitigation for preceeding years July RPI 1%.
bidding process usually takes around revenue shortfalls in the later part of a year and typically costs around 3-4 the franchise.
There is a symmetrical Once the DfT has issued the ITT, train million per franchise.
system for revenue share if revenue operating companies TOCs enter a exceeds the original target revenue competitive bidding process for the TOCs are required to take the revenue specified in the contract.
right to operate the franchise.
TOCs risk for any franchise contract, subject assume how much revenue growth to revenue share and support Passenger growth & the impact they can generate through passenger mechanisms outlined below.
IfTOCs of the current climate demand and growth.
This is driven by a forfeit their franchise agreements for Figure 6 shows that, since the rail combination of economic conditions any reason the Government may seek industry was privatised, the market has and self help measures such as revenue to enforce penalties.
This may include a experienced an unprecedented level of protection and marketing.
Based on cross default provision of other franchises growth.
Indeed, for the first time since these revenue and cost assumptions operated by the parent group.
the second world war over 1 billion and required returns, the bidder Over the past four years, Govia has train journeys were made in the UK in specifies the premium profile they will achieved the greatest success rate in 2003-04, rising to 1.27 billion in 2008-09. pay to the DfT or the subsidy profile UK rail bidding, winning three franchises they require from the DfT to make Since 1996 the rail industry has been out of four bids.
Most recently, it was running the franchise a viable business.
through a period of unprecedented announced in June 2009 that Govia had investment byTOCs and the UK retained the Southern franchise.
Government, resulting in an improved quality of service.
Punctuality levels have It is important to note that New Southern franchise reached new highs and according to the the rail industry is not a single View a detailed presentation of our new National Passenger Survey published in Southern franchise at www.
goJune 2009, 81% of passengers are homogeneous entity as each ahead.
com goahead ir presentations satisfied with their rail experience.
franchise has distinct Levels of growth in passenger numbers characteristics.
Significant Revenue share & support mechanism and revenue have slowed recently as a variables include the type A franchise agreement typically includes result of rising unemployment, less a revenue share and support discretionary rail travel and more costof franchise eg.
Figure 5 shows the DfT conscious consumers trading down.
At commuter, the age and model which applies to our franchises.
the same time this has been mitigated length of the franchise and the in part by more people choosing to The revenue share mechanism begins at travel by rail, rather than incurring the revenue bid assumptions and the start of the franchise and the costs of private motoring.
revenue support mechanism typically subsidy premium profiles.
starts at the beginning of the fifth year.
If revenue falls to between 94% and 98% of the original target revenue For information on our three franchises specified in the contract, the including subsidy premium profile and eligibility for revenue support go to pages 29 - 33 government provides additional subsidy equal to 50% of the shortfall between these thresholds.
If revenue is below Fig 3: Rail market share Fig 4: National Rail passenger journey purpose Fig 5: Standard DfT revenue share and support model 6% 7% 23% Commuting 37% Business 19% 11% Visiting friends relatives 16% Day-out & holiday 11% 15% 19% 94 98 100 102 106 Shopping 6% Target revenue index 19% First Group Virgin Rail Leisure & Sport 6% National Express Arriva 80% support 50% share Govia Other Education 5% 80% share 50% support Stagecoach no support share Govia estimates.
Chart included in Journey NB: Revenue share begins at the start of the franchise and Solutions ATOC:Door-to-door by PublicTransport, June 2009. revenue support typically starts at the beginning of the fifth year.
10 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Our markets Rail franchises have a relatively high The focus on reducing carbon shows that there are signs the markets proportion of fixed costs which means emissions, combined with the may now be stabilising.
that profits are sensitive to a fall in frustration of driving on congested road Go-Ahead has taken robust revenue.
However, TOCs have taken networks, is improving peoples management action to restructure the action to help mitigate the impact of attitudes towards public transport.
This has helped, in part, to the economic climate by reducing costs, mitigate the impact of the challenging where possible, and implementing economic environment.
revenue enhancing initiatives, such as Aviation Services promoting cheaper off-peak fares and Long term growth greater revenue protection.
In addition, The aviation services division accounts The UK remains one of the largest the revenue support mechanism may for less than 10% of the Groups aviation markets in the world.
Around helpTOCs who are eligible to receive it.
Go-Ahead operates in the 240 million passengers a year travel aviation services market through through UK airports and Heathrow is ground handling primarily aviance UK View the operating cost base and one of the worlds busiest.
Whilst there subsidy premium profile for each of our and cargo handling primarily Plane are challenges for the aviation industry three rail franchises on pages 28 33 Handling.
We have operations at 15 in the short term, the long term growth UK airports, with a particularly strong prospects are positive, driven by a rising presence at Heathrow where we are population, globalisation and economic Modal shift the largest independent handler growth.
In addition, international air While mostly anecdotal, evidence accounting for 28% of all aircraft freight forms a vital component of suggests that passengers are increasingly turnarounds.
Our car parking operation, global supply chains as prosperity grows, making the switch from private car to Meteor, also falls within the aviation trade is liberalised and the demand for public transport.
It is believed that high services division.
fuel prices last year acted as a stimulus for people to use bus and rail services.
Aviation Services and the impact Many passengers have continued to of the current climate For a detailed performance review of use public transport as they found it It has been widely reported that the our aviation services operations please had improved significantly from go to pages 36 - 37 airline industry has experienced previous experiences.
Figure 7 shows the impact the economic climate In addition, the population is increasingly has had on passenger volumes and in seeking greener and healthier lifestyles.
A combination of high Instead of taking the car, people may oil prices in 2007 08 and deteriorating choose to cycle to the train station or economic conditions resulting in fewer walk to the bus stop.
An online survey passengers has impacted airline undertaken by our Brighton & Hove profitability.
Air cargo volumes have bus company showed that 48% of been significantly hit as final demand has respondents had made the switch from fallen and inventory destocking has car to bus for some of their journeys.
However, Figure 7 also View modal shift push and pull factors View the cost base of our aviation services at www.
com goahead operations on page 36 aboutus our markets modal shift Fig 6: UK Rail Passenger Journeys m Fig 7: International air passenger and freight tonne kilometers 1300 15 1200 10 1100 5 1996: Privatisation 1000 0 900 -5 800 -10 700 -15 600 -20 500 -25 Passenger RPKs Air freight FTKs Source: Office of Rail Regulation ORR National RailTrends Source: International AirTransport Association IATA July 2009.
RPK: Revenue passenger kilometer FTK: Freight tonne kilometer The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 1950 1960 1970 1980 1989-90 1999-00 2008-09 Jul 05 Oct 05 Jan 06 Apr 06 Jul 06 Oct 06 Jan 07 Apr 07 Jul 07 Oct 07 Jan 08 Apr 08 Jul 08 Oct 08 Jan 09 Apr 09 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review
