Directors Report: Corporate Governance Other statutory information Directors interests Other statutory 2009 2008 information No.
Sir Patrick Brown Beneficial 10,149 10,149 The Directors present their report and Rupert Pennant-Rea Beneficial 2,000 2,000 audited financial statements for the year ended 27 June 2009.
Andrew Allner n a 1 Keith Ludeman Beneficial 26,012 22,027 Principal activities Nick Swift Beneficial 9,088 The principal activities of the Group throughout the course of the year have 1 Keith Ludemans stated holding in 2008 ncluded 9,569 shares held under the rules of the Executive Directors share bonus plan as described in the Directors Remuneration Report.
been the provision of passenger transport and aviation services.
ordinary shares in issue, of which General Meeting.
Under the 2008 3,902,230 were held in treasury.
This Combined Code, any Director who has Results and dividends included 49,936 new shares issued held office for three years or more The results for the year are set out in during the course of the year following since their last appointment must offer the consolidated income statement on the exercise of share options granted themselves up for reappointment at the page 64.
The Directors propose that a under the Companys all-employee Annual General Meeting, and a Nonfinal dividend of 55.5p be paid, making a share scheme.
The Company did not Executive Director may serve longer total of 81.0p for the year 2008: 81.0p.
purchase any of its own shares during than nine years, subject to annual reThe proposed final dividend, if the year, and no shares were purchased election.
approved, will be payable on 20 between the year end and the date of November 2009 to shareholders on The Directors interests in the share this report.
the register at the close of business on capital of the Company at 27 June 6 November 2009.
There are no restrictions on the 2009, with comparative figures for the transfer of ordinary shares in the 2008 year end, are shown above.
There A review of the business of the Group Company other than: were no changes in these interests up during the year and its prospects for to 2 September 2009. the future, together with a description certain restrictions which may from of the principal risks and uncertainties time to time be imposed by laws and Details of the Executive Directors facing the Group, can be found in the regulations for example, insider interests in awards granted to them as Directors Report: Business Review trading laws : and participants in the LongTerm Incentive from pages 1 to 41.
Plan can be found in the Directors restrictions pursuant to the Listing Remuneration Report on page 58.
Rules of the Financial Services Directors and their interests Authority whereby certain employees No Director was interested in any The names of the persons who at any of the Company require the approval contract or arrangement which was time during the financial year were of the Company to deal in the significant in relation to the Groups Directors of the company are: Sir Companys securities.
Patrick Brown, Rupert Pennant-Rea Andrew Allner, Christopher Collins, All shareholders have the same voting Indemnification of Directors rights for each share, regardless of the Keith Ludeman, and Nick Swift.
In accordance with the Companys total number of shares held.
On a show Christopher Collins retired from the Articles of Association and to the of hands at a general meeting of the Board as a Non-Executive Director extent permitted by law, the Directors Company, every holder of shares following the close of the Annual are granted an indemnity from the present in person or by proxy and General Meeting on 23 October 2008.
Company in respect of liabilities entitled to vote has one vote and, on a He was replaced by Andrew Allner incurred as a result of their office.
In poll, every member present in person whose appointment was effective from respect of those matters for which the or by proxy and entitled to vote has 24 October 2008.
Directors may not be indemnified, the one vote for every ordinary share held.
Company maintained a Directors and The Notice of Meeting specifies Directors are appointed by ordinary Officers liability insurance policy deadlines for exercising voting rights resolution at a general meeting of throughout the financial year.
This policy either by proxy notice in person or by holders of ordinary shares.
The has been renewed for the next financial proxy in relation to resolutions to be Directors have the power to appoint a year.
Neither the Companys indemnity passed at the 2009 Annual General Director but any person so appointed nor the insurance provides cover in the Meeting.
All proxy votes are counted will hold office only until the next event that a Director is proven to have and the numbers for, against or Annual General Meeting and will then acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
withheld in relation to each resolution be eligible for appointment by ordinary are announced at the Annual General resolution at that meeting.
Under the Shareholder and control structure Meeting and published on the Companys Articles of Association, one At 27 June 2009, the Companys issued Companys website www.
gothird of the Directors, or the nearest share capital comprised a single class of ahead.
number to one third of the Directors, shares referred to as ordinary shares.
At must retire from office at each Annual The Company is not aware of any this date there were 46,892,279 agreements between shareholders that The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 59 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Corporate Governance Other statutory information continued may result in restrictions on the transfer The 22nd Annual General Meeting of Group EmployeeTrust, holds 0.1% of of securities or on voting rights.
the Company will be held at the Hilton the issued share capital of the Company Newcastle Gateshead, Bottle Bank, in trust for the benefit of the Executive The authorities for the Company to Gateshead, NE8 2AR onThursday 29 Directors of the Group and their allot relevant securities up to an October 2009 at 14:00 hours.
Details dependents under the LongTerm aggregate nominal amount of of the business to be considered can be Incentive Plan.
The voting rights in 1,432,609 and for the disapplication found in the Notice of Meeting which relation to these shares are exercised of pre-emption rights on the allotment will be available on the Companys by the trustees and dividends are of equity securities for cash up to an website www.
com from 2 waived while the shares are held by the aggregate nominal amount of October 2009.
214,891, as passed by special resolutions to re-appoint Ernst &Young resolutions at the 2008 Annual General Under the rules of the Companys LLP as the Companys auditors and to Meeting, were not utilised in the Share Incentive Plan, employees of the authorise the Directors to determine financial year or up to the date of this Group are entitled to acquire shares in the auditors remuneration.
These authorities will expire at the Company.
In order to preserve the upcoming Annual General Meeting There are no agreements between the certain tax benefits these shares are of the Company and approval for new Company and its Directors or held in a trust by Halifax Corporate authorities will be sought.
In the last employees providing for compensation Trustees Limited for participating three years no shares have been issued for loss of office or employment employees.
Whilst these shares are held on a non-pre-emptive basis, other than whether through resignation, in trust, the voting rights attached to those issued under all-employee share purported redundancy or otherwise them will not be exercised by the schemes which are not included for the that occurs because of a takeover bid.
trustee or the employees for whom purposes of this authority.
The Company is party to a number of they are held.
As at the date of this banking agreements which are report, 0.5% of the issued share capital The authority for the Company to terminable upon the provision of 14 of the Company is held by Halifax make market purchases of its own days notice upon a change of control of CorporateTrustees Limited.
In the ordinary shares, as passed by special the Company.
event of an offer being made to acquire resolution at the 2008 Annual General these shares the employees are entitled Meeting, was still in effect at the end of Substantial shareholdings to direct Halifax CorporateTrustees the financial year and will expire at the As at 2 September 2009, the Company Limited to accept an offer in respect of upcoming Annual General Meeting of had been notified, in accordance with the shares held on their behalf.
the Company, where approval for a the Disclosure andTransparency Rules, new authority will be sought.
Under the During the financial year 49,936 of the interests in its shares existing authority, the maximum ordinary shares were allotted to representing 3% or more of the voting aggregate number of shares that can be employees and former employees of rights in the Company as shown below.
The authority the Company under the rules of the also limits the maximum number of These holdings include, where Companys Sharesave scheme a savings shares held in treasury to 10% of the applicable, the aggregate of investment related share option scheme.
These issued share capital of the Company management clients interests within the shares held an aggregate nominal value and states minimum and maximum respective asset management of 4,993.60 and the Company prices payable for shares purchased companies and may have since changed received a total consideration of under the authority.
During the financial without triggering a further notification.
In accordance with year this authority was not utilised.
best practice guidelines, options granted Share schemes under this scheme do not exceed 10% The business of the Company is LloydsTSB OffshoreTrust Company of the issued ordinary share capital managed by the Directors, who may Limited, as trustee ofThe Go-Ahead during a rolling ten year period.
Vesting exercise all powers of the Company which are not required to be exercised by the Company in general meeting, Substantial shareholdings subject to the Companys Articles of Direct indirect No.
% Association, relevant statutory law and Newton Investment Management Ltd Direct 3,352,486 7.80 any direction given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution.
D Ballinger Direct 2,525,580 5.81 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group Indirect 2,319,693 5.40 The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special Direct 16,000 0.04 resolution at a general meeting of Capital Research and Management Co Indirect 2,311,612 5.38 shareholders.
The current Articles of Schroders plc Indirect 2,416,616 5.10 Association were adopted at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
Members of JP Morgan Chase & Co Indirect 2,110,118 4.85 the Company can request a copy of the Artemis Investment Management Ltd Direct 2,086,486 4.85 Articles of Association by contacting J Moyes Direct 2,054,061 4.50 the Group Company Secretary at the Legal & General Group plc Direct 1,705,480 3.96 Registered Office.
60 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 of awards under the LongTerm Employees are encouraged to Charitable donations Incentive Plan for the Executive participate directly in the success of the Charitable donations, sponsorship and Directors are satisfied by market business through the Groups HMRC community support over the year purchases of shares, and therefore there approved share option and share amounted to 257,000 2008: 302,000. is no further dilution of the issued share ownership schemes.
Political donations and expenditure The Groups savings related share It is the Groups policy not to make option scheme Sharesave has one Employees political donations and accordingly no scheme currently in operation, whereby The Groups responsibility is to provide such payments were made in the year eligible employees were invited to enter a positive work environment conducive 2008: Nil.
Additionally, the Company into a three year savings contract which to the recruitment and retention of did not incur any political expenditure will mature in June 2010. staff and one which meets its business as defined in the Companies Act 2006 objectives by motivating and The Group also operates a Share 2008: Nil.
encouraging its employees to be Incentive Plan SIP.
This is an ongoing responsive to the needs of its scheme whereby eligible employees can Land and buildings customers, maintaining, and wherever purchase Go-Ahead shares on the In the opinion of the Directors, there is possible, improving operational open market each month.
Deductions no material difference between the performance.
from salary for the purchase of these market value of the Groups interest in shares are made before tax and land and buildings and its net book The Group is committed to providing national insurance is calculated and value.
equality of opportunity to employees employees retain the full tax and and treats employees fairly regardless of national insurance benefit for all shares Suppliers gender, ethnic origin, age, religion, belief, that remain in the SIP for five years or Each Group operating company agrees race and, where practicable, physical more from their purchase.
terms and conditions for its business disability.
Appropriate training, career transactions with suppliers.
Payment is development and promotion The Group is committed to developing then made on these terms, subject to opportunities are provided for all a culture of openness across all its the terms and conditions being met by employees.
The Group gives full and fair businesses and ensuring the highest the suppliers, including the timely consideration to applications for standards of probity and accountability.
For employment made by disabled persons.
We engage with our employees, who the year ended 27 June 2009, the trade It is the Groups policy to provide are encouraged to discuss matters of creditor days for the Group as a whole continuing employment under normal interest to them and subjects affecting was 37 days 2008: 33, based on the terms and conditions, wherever day-to-day operations with operating ratio of trade creditors at the end of possible, for existing employees who company management.
The Board also the year to the amounts invoiced during become disabled, and to provide actively encourages employees with the year by trade creditors.
training, career development and serious concerns regarding the interests promotion as appropriate to all of others or the Group to come Post balance sheet events disabled employees.
The Group and its operating On 30 July 2009 the Group entered companies have policies in place to Our companies maintain relationships into an agreement to acquire the assets ensure processes exist whereby with recognised trade unions and have of EastThames Buses fromTransport employees can raise serious concerns established a network of local for London for a total cash constructively without fear or employee representatives who are consideration of 5m.
On 1 September victimisation, subsequent discrimination consulted on key business decisions.
2009 the Group entered into an or disadvantage.
Three of our companies have agreement with Arriva to acquire their Stakeholder Boards, which bring Further details of our responsibilities as Horsham bus operations, also for 5m.
together employees, individual passengers an employer, including operating in a These transactions are expected to be and representative bodies to share socially and environmentally responsible completed in the second quarter of the views.
We produce a range of internal manner, can be found on pages 38 to new financial year.
newsletters, information circulars and 41 and also in the Groups Corporate intranet sites that keep employees Responsibility Report which is Going concern abreast of developments at their published separately and can be found The Groups business activities, together specific employing company and across on the Companys website www.
gowith the factors likely to affect its future the Group as a whole.
development, performance and position to recognise and reward outstanding are set out in the Directors Report: contributions by our employees.
Business Review on pages 1 to 41.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 15 to 20.
In addition note 22 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 61 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Corporate Governance Other statutory information continued its financial risk management objectives: state that the Group has complied auditors are unaware: and details of its financial instruments and with IFRSs, subject to any material each Director has taken all the steps hedging activities: and its exposures to departures disclosed and explained in a Director might reasonably be credit risk and liquidity risk.
the financial statements: and expected to have taken to be aware Cash conversion from the Groups bus make judgements and accounting of relevant audit information and to and rail operations was excellent and estimates that are reasonable and establish that the Companys auditors the balance sheet remains strong, with prudent.
are aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for By order of the Board The Directors believe that the Group is keeping proper accounting records that well placed to manage its business risks are sufficient to show and explain the successfully, despite the current Groups transactions and disclose with uncertain economic outlook.
reasonable accuracy at any time the After making enquiries, the Directors financial position of the Group, enabling have a reasonable expectation that them to ensure that the financial Carolyn Sephton the Company and the Group have statements comply with the Companies Group Company Secretary adequate resources to continue in Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS 2 September 2009 operational existence for the Regulation.
They are also responsible for foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they safeguarding the assets of the Company continue to adopt the going concern and hence for taking reasonable steps basis in preparing the Annual Report for the prevention and detection of and Accounts.
Directors responsibilities in relation Responsibility Statements to the financial statements We confirm that to the best of our The Directors are responsible for knowledge: preparing the Annual Report and the the financial statements, prepared in Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by accordance with applicable UK law and the European Union, give a true and those International Financial Reporting fair view of the assets, liabilities, Standards as adopted by the European financial position and profit of the Union.
Company and the undertakings Under company law the Directors must included in the consolidation taken as not approve the Group financial a whole: and statements unless they are satisfied that the Directors Report: Business they present fairly the financial position Review includes a fair review of the of the Group and the financial development and performance of the performance and cash flows of the business and the position of the Group for that period.
In preparing Company and the undertakings those financial statements, the Directors included in the consolidation taken as are required to: a whole, together with a description select suitable accounting policies in of the principal risks and uncertainties accordance with IAS 8 Accounting that they face.
Policies, Change in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply Directors statement as to disclosure them consistently: of information to auditors The Directors who were members of present information, including the Board at the time of approving the accounting policies, in a manner that Directors report are listed on page provides relevant, reliable, comparable 42.
Having made enquiries of fellow and understandable information: Directors and of the Companys provide additional disclosures when auditors, each of these Directors compliance with the specific confirms that: requirements in International Financial to the best of each Directors Reporting Standards IFRSs is knowledge and belief, there is no insufficient to enable users to information that is, information understand the impact of particular needed by the Companys auditors in transactions, other events and connection with preparing their conditions on the Groups financial report of which the Companys position and financial performance: 62 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
