Directors report The directors present their annual report together with the audited financial statements of the company and the group for the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009. profits and dividends The groups profit before taxation and exceptional items for the period amounted to 118.5m 2008 53 weeks : 142.0m.
An interim dividend of 7.3p per share 2008: 7.3p was paid on 29 January 2009.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 15.1p per ordinary share 2008: 15.1p, adjusted for the bonus element of the rights issue, making a total dividend for the period of 22.4p per share adjusted 2008: 22.4p.
Subject to the approval of shareholders at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 14 September 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 14 August 2009.
Activities Greene King plc is the holding company for a group whose principal activities are operating managed, tenanted and leased public houses, brewing beer, and wholesaling beers, wines, spirits and soft drinks.
Business review Under the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the company is required to produce a business review containing a fair review of the business of the company and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company.
Shareholders are referred to the chief executives review, the financial review, the KPIs, the risks and uncertainties section and the corporate social responsibility report for the required information.
They are intended to provide a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the business of the group during the financial year and the position of the group at the end of the year.
Directors Details of the current directors are given on pages 28 and 29.
All of these directors held ofce throughout the period.
Under article 85 of the companys articles of association Justin Adams and Ian Bull retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of the directors service agreements, remuneration, and interests in share options and awards are set out in the remuneration report on pages 76 to 82.
There have been no changes in their interests between 3 May 2009 and the date of this report, save as set out therein.
Directors interests in shares The beneficial interests of each of the directors and their immediate families in the ordinary share capital of the company are shown below as at the end of the year, the previous year and as at 30 June 2009, being the latest practicable date prior to the date of this report.
The changes since the year end are as a result of the directors taking up rights to acquire ordinary shares including, in the case of the executive directors, rights acquired as a result of their holdings of restricted shares under the companys long-term incentive plan pursuant to the rights issue completed on 29 May 2009: 4 May 2008 3 May 2009 30 June 2009 Tim Bridge 813,736 813,736 1,301,762 Rooney Anand 54,441 90,401 152,354 Justin Adams 313 1,654 19,264 John Brady 5,000 5,000 8,000 Ian Bull 2,313 2,313 30,821 Ian Durant 13,950 13,950 22,320 David Elliott 99,191 125,280 178,370 Jonathan Lawson 666 666 13,053 Norman Murray 30,000 30,000 36,700 Jane Scriven 5,000 5,000 8,000 At 3 May 2009 and 30 June 2009, Tim Bridge had a non-beneficial interest in 89,768 2008: 89,768 shares, in addition to the holding shown above.
Interests in contracts No director had a material interest in any contract, other than an employment contract, that was significant in relation to the groups business at any time during the period.
Substantial shareholdings As at 1 July 2009, the company has been notied of the following interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the company.
4.16 Capital Research & Management Company 5.19 Legal & General Group plc 3.98 Standard Life Investments Ltd 5.91 GREENE KING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Share capital Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the company, which comprises a single class of shares, ordinary shares of 12p, are set out in note 25 to the accounts on page 61.
The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the articles of association.
There are no special control rights in relation to the companys shares and the company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
On 23 April 2009 the company announced an underwritten rights issue of 80,749,647 new shares at 270p per share to qualifying shareholders.
The rights issue was undertaken on the basis of three new shares at 270p per share for every five shares held by qualifying shareholders.
Shareholders approved the necessary resolutions at a general meeting of the company on 12 May 2009 and, on 29 May 2009, following the exercise of a number of options under the companys share schemes, a total of 80,755,421 new ordinary shares were issued to qualifying shareholders or subscribers for those shares.
A total of 94,591 ordinary shares, with an aggregate nominal value of 11,824 were allotted, for cash, during the period in connection with the companys sharesave and executive option schemes.
The trustees of the companys employee benefit trust EBT, Kleinwort Benson Guernsey Trustees Limited, transferred 282,750 ordinary shares to employees to satisfy the exercise of share options and the vesting of LTIP awards.
Although no ordinary shares were acquired by the EBT during the period, the company does make regular use of the EBT to satisfy the exercise of share options and the EBT does therefore make market purchases of the companys shares from time to time to ensure that it has sufficient shares to enable it to do so.
Voting rights In a general meeting of the company, on a show of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are the holder.
The AGM notice gives full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
Under the Free4All Employee profit Share Scheme, participants are the beneficial owners of the shares but not the registered owners.
The registered owner is the trustee, Killik & Co Trustees Ltd.
The trustee will invite participants to direct it on the exercise of any voting rights attaching to the shares held under the scheme by the trustee on the participants behalf.
The trustee will only be entitled to vote on a show of hands if all directions received from participants are identical.
The trustee is under no obligation to call for a poll.
In the case of a poll, the trustee will follow the directions of the participants.
No voting rights will be exercised in respect of any own shares.
Transfer of shares There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company other than those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws and regulations for example, under the Market Abuse Directive.
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, directors of the company and persons discharging managerial responsibility are required to obtain prior approval from the company to deal in the companys securities, and are prohibited from dealing during closed periods.
Change of control All of the companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control and full details of these plans are provided in the directors remuneration report on pages 76 to 82.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, at that time.
The groups banking facility agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control.
Certain of the companys trading contracts also contain similar provisions.
There are two employees who, on a change of control of the company resulting in the termination of their employment, would be entitled to compensation for loss of ofce.
However, in the context of the company as a whole, these agreements are fide minimis.
Articles of association The companys articles of association may only be amended by special resolution at general meetings of shareholders.
At the general meeting of the company on 12 May 2009 a resolution to amend the borrowing limit in the articles was passed.
The previous articles required the borrowing to be restricted so that the aggregate amount borrowed by the group should not, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the company, exceed a multiple of the adjusted capital and reserves of the group.
The resolution removed the requirement to deduct goodwill and other intangible assets from the calculation of adjusted capital and reserves, thus resolving a technical breach of the borrowing limits of the articles and bringing the provisions of the articles more into line with other companies in the sector.
At the 2009 AGM a special resolution will be put to shareholders proposing amendments to the companys articles of association to give effect to certain provisions of the new Companies Act 2006.
Appointment and replacement of directors The number of directors on the board shall be no less than five nor more than twelve.
Directors may be appointed by the company by ordinary resolution or by the board of directors.
A director appointed by the board of directors holds ofce until the next following AGM, and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
At each AGM all those directors who were elected, or last re-elected, at the AGM held in the third calendar year before the current year shall retire from ofce and may stand for re-election.
GREENE KING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Other information Management and governance Financial statements and notes Business review Overview Directors report The company may by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has been given, remove any director from ofce.
Any director automatically ceases to be a director if i they give the company a written notice of resignation, ii they give the company a written offer to resign and the directors decide to accept this offer, iii all of the other directors remove them from ofce by notice in writing served upon them, iv they are or have been suffering from mental ill health and have a court order for their detention or the appointment of a guardian made in respect of them, v a bankruptcy order is made against them or they make any arrangement or composition with their creditors generally, vi they are prohibited from being a director by law or vii they are absent from board meetings for six months without leave and the other directors resolve that their ofce should be vacated.
Powers of the directors The business of the company is managed by the directors who may exercise all the powers of the company, subject to its memorandum and articles of association, any relevant legislation and any directions given by the company by passing a special resolution at a general meeting.
In particular, the directors may exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, issue shares, appoint and remove directors and recommend and declare dividends.
Communications with shareholders Shareholders who are interested in signing up to e-communications should refer to the shareholders information page for further information on how to register via www.
Charitable donations Donations by the company for charitable purposes made during the period amounted to 18,700 2008: 33,200.
The group makes no political donations.
Payments to suppliers The group understands the benets to be derived from maintaining good relationships with its suppliers and where possible enters into agreements over payment terms.
Where such terms have not been agreed it is the group policy to settle invoices 60 days from the end of the month of invoicing.
This policy is dependent on suppliers providing accurate, timely and sufciently detailed invoices.
Payment in respect of 72 days average purchases from trade creditors of the group was outstanding at the end of the period 2008: 68 days.
Directors and ofcers indemnity insurance The group has taken out insurance to indemnify, against third party proceedings, the directors of the company whilst serving on the board of the company and of any subsidiary.
This cover indemnifies all employees of the group who serve on the boards of all subsidiaries.
These indemnity policies subsisted throughout the year and remain in place at the date of this report.
Financial instruments The groups policy on the use of financial instruments is set out in note 24.
Post balance sheet events Details of events occurring after the year-end are set out in note 31.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors The directors who were members of the board at the time of approving the directors report are listed on pages 28 and 29.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the companys auditors, each of these directors confirms that: to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the companys auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in ofce and a resolution to re-appoint the rm as the companys auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
Annual general meeting The AGM will be held at 12 noon on Tuesday 8 September 2009 at the Millennium Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference Centre, Newmarket, Suffolk.
The notice of the AGM is set out in the separate circular to shareholders.
The directors consider that all of the resolutions set out in the notice of AGM are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders as a whole.
The directors will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
By order of the board Lindsay Keswick Company Secretary 1 July 2009 GREENE KING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09
