Board of directors Rooney Anand Ian Bull Chief executive Finance director Rooney Anand, age 45, was appointed to the Ian Bull, age 48, joined Greene King as finance board of Greene King in 2001 as managing director and was appointed to the board in director of Brewing Company, having joined 2006.
He joined from BT Retail, having been the company from Sara Lee, the international CFO, and then subsequently CEO of BT consumer goods business, where he was Retail Enterprises.
He was previously VP president and managing director of its UK Finance with Disney, covering Europe, bakery division.
He was previously with Middle East and Africa, having initially United Biscuits.
In 2005 he was appointed joined as finance director for its UK home to the role of chief executive.
David Elliott Jonathan Lawson Managing director, Pub Partners Managing director, Local Pubs David Elliott, age 55, was appointed to the Jonathan Lawson, age 38, was appointed board of Greene King in 1998 when he to the board of Greene King in April 2007, joined the group as managing director of when he joined the group as managing Pub Partners.
He has a wealth of experience director of Local Pubs.
He was previously in the pub industry, having worked at retail operations director of Sainsburys Scottish & Newcastle Retail in a variety Convenience.
Justin Adams Managing director, Brewing Company Justin Adams, age 43, joined Greene King in 2005 as managing director of Brewing Company.
He was previously managing director of Maxxium UK and Ireland, a spirits, champagne and wine joint venture company and, before that, managing director of Guinness Germany Diageo.
GREENE KING PLC 2 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Tim Bridge, DL Norman Murray Chairman Non-executive director Tim Bridge, age 60, is chairman of Greene Norman Murray, independent non-executive King.
He joined Greene King in 1970 and director, age 61, was appointed to the board was appointed to the board in 1977.
He is chairman of Cairn Energy plc held a variety of positions within the group, and a non-executive director of Robert becoming managing director in 1990 and Wiseman Dairies plc.
He was also recently chief executive in 1994.
In 2005 he stepped president of the Institute of Chartered down as chief executive to take over the Accountants in Scotland.
He is a non-executive director of William Ransom & Son plc and Weatherbys Ventures Ltd. Jane Scriven Ian Durant Non-executive director Non-executive director Jane Scriven, independent non-executive Ian Durant, independent non-executive director, age 49, was appointed to the board director, age 50, was appointed to the in 2005.
She is chairman of Origin8 Deliboard in 2007.
He is finance director Cafs Ltd and a former director of Geest plc, of Liberty International plc.
having been responsible for their continental European operations, and previously trained as a solicitor with Norton Rose.
John Brady Non-executive director John Brady, independent non-executive director, age 57, was appointed to the board in 2005, having been a director of McKinsey and Company until 2004 and having led their European retail and marketing practices.
He is also a non-executive director of Invest Northern Ireland.
GREENE KING PLC 29 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Other information Management and governance Financial statements and notes Business review Overview
