What we do Greene Kings main businesses are Retail Local Pubs, Destination Pubs and Loch Fyne Restaurants : Pub Partners, our tenancy and leasing division: Brewing Company: and Belhaven, our Scottish business, which operates the same three profit streams separately from the rest of the UK operations.
In total we operate about 2,500 pubs and restaurants, two breweries Bury St Edmunds and Dunbar and a number of regional depots.
Our head ofce is in Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, and we also have regional ofces in Scotland.
Number of pubs Retail 113 Destination Pubs, Local Pubs and Loch Fyne Restaurants Our Retail business includes our managed pubs, restaurants and hotels within England and Wales.
Number At year end, we had 772 outlets.
The instantly recognisable brands formats of Hungry Horse, Hardys of pubs House, Old English Inns and Loch Fyne Restaurants all sit within our Retail division.
These, together with the 449 pubs in our Local Pubs division, put us rmly in local communities across the country.
31 Tenancy Leased Pub Partners 78% 22% tenanted and leased pubs This business operates all of our tenanted and leased pubs within England and Wales.
There were Number of outlets 1,391 pubs within Pub Partners at the year end, split 22% leased and 78% tenancy.
Pub Partners business model is based upon ensuring optimum profit achievement for both licensee and Greene King.
Maintaining licensee viability is our main aim and, to help achieve that, we provide industry-leading support and award-winning training programmes.
1 1 Brewing Company cask ale in UK industry-leading brands Brewing Company has, for many years, been Britains leading cask ale brewer, investing more in cask ale than any other brewer and providing top level support and service to customers.
We also lead the off-trade premium ale market with our thriving take home business.
The business is responsible for No.
2 brewing, distributing, marketing and selling our wide range of crafted ale brands, including Greene King 1 premium cask ale in UK IPA, Old Speckled Hen and Abbot Ale.
Our range also includes Ruddles, St Edmunds and Olde Trip and numerous seasonal beers to help licensees drive cask ale sales.
Our aim is to provide the best quality brands and service to our many and varied customers Greene King outlets, other pub companies, free trade customers and supermarkets.
Leading Belhaven ale in Scottish on-trade Scotland Belhaven, our Scottish division, mirrors the Greene King model with managed and tenanted pubs Number of pubs operating as well as a brewing business.
Its pubs division now comprises over 300 tenanted, leased and managed pubs, from Stranraer in the South to Wick in the North, and its brewing business is conducted from Dunbar.
Belhaven continues to be operated quite separately from the other 325 Greene King businesses.
GREENE KING PLC 2 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Percentage contribution to operating profit Retail 46.3% Pub Partners 31.1% Brewing Company 9.3% Belhaven 13.3% Hungry Horse Every Hungry Horse pub is a friendly Loch Fyne Restaurants Loch Fyne Restaurants, Number of local that goes out to impress everyone with its quality the home of superb seafood and shellsh, has 48 inns hotels family food offer, sense of fun and affordable prices.
restaurants in the UK, all renowned for their unique buildings and warm ambience.
What sets Loch Fyne Hardys House A Hardys House is the best choice apart is its approach to environmental issues combined 58 for quality pub food, friendly atmosphere and personal with its attention to detail and focus on quality.
It now touch in its locality truly providing something has sustainability ambassadors in each restaurant who for everyone.
are able to pass on the latest environmental thinking Number of to customers and colleagues alike.
restaurants Old English Inns Interesting and characterful hotels with great quality food and drink, where staff are passionate about providing friendly hospitality, whatever your occasion.
48 Tenancies Our tenanted model is based on a more Leases Our leased model offers longer, assignable hands-on approach to working with our licensees.
lease agreements with full repairing and insuring liability Pub Partners tenancy agreements are for three years, sitting with the lessee.
Lease agreements are generally with a shared repair liability between the tenant and for a minimum of ten years with options to increase in Greene King.
These tenancy agreements offer free five-year periods to a maximum of 25 years, assignable of tie for wines, spirits and minerals and other exible after three years.
These lease agreements attract the options.
They are an excellent t for first-time more entrepreneurial licensees who require more licensees and those that dont wish to take on the freedom to run the business as they would like.
Greene King IPA Award-winning Greene King IPA brand.
Its new mate in the coop, Old Crafty Hen, retains its top spot as the best selling cask beer in the also won a Monde award and has wowed customers UK and is making a significant contribution to the in its first year.
resurgence of interest in cask ale, attracting new No.
Recently given a new look Abbot Ale Universally recognised for its outstanding 2 premium ale in take home reecting its roots in the heart of Suffolk, its association quality, award-winning Abbot Ale is the top-selling with rugby, as the ofcial beer of England Rugby, premium cask ale in London and one of the top two Harlequins and Sale Sharks, continues to grow.
Brewed longer to a unique recipe that uses the nest barley from local farmers, this legendary ale Old Speckled Hen Gold medal winner in the bursts with avour and retains its place as a favourite prestigious Monde Awards, Old Speckled Hen is the with the nations discerning beer drinkers.
leading premium ale in supermarkets.
Its consistent growth since we acquired the brand ten years ago 1 AC Nielsen On Trade Survey MAT to March 2009 continues apace, and it is also our leading export 2 AC Nielsen Scantrack data MAT to 18 04 09 Managed pubs Belhaven operates 96 managed Tenanted pubs Belhaven operates 229 tenanted and pubs, the vast majority of which are not overtly leased pubs 48 tenanted and 181 leased, across most branded.
Food has become an increasingly important of Scotland.
The team prides itself on being the most part of the operation, with sales growing by 49% in considerate landlord in Scotland and has introduced 2008 09 and now representing 25% of total managed a package of measures designed to increase tenants pub turnover.
In 2008 09 seven ex-Retail sites were transferred Brewing Belhaven Best consolidated its position as to Belhaven, then extensively refurbished and nally Scotlands leading ale by increasing ale volume market successfully reopened as Eating Inns, a food-led, share to over 20% in 2008.
Belhaven Best, the ofcial destination, family brand.
The seven sites have beer of the Scottish Golf Union, has benefited from all shown substantial year-on-year sales growth.
tightly targeted TV advertising endorsing it as Scotlands Best.
Other Belhaven brands include 80 -, Twisted Thistle and St Andrews Ale.
GREENE KING PLC 3 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Other information Management and governance Financial statements and notes Business review Overview
