Substantial shareholdings At 18 March 2010, the only notified holdings of substantial voting rights in respect of the issued share capital of the Company which may have altered since the update of such notification, without any requirement for the Company to have been informed were: Number of Percentage of shares held issued share capital Aberforth Partners LLP 10,383,890 9.98 A. J. Davison as trustee of various settlements 6,768,018 6.51 Schroders plc 5,021,221 4.83 Legal and General Investment Management Limited 4,107,434 3.94 F&C Asset Management plc 3,862,618 3.71 Norges Bank 3,133,000 3.01 Various other trustees jointly hold shares with A. J. Davison above, some of whom, by reason of such joint holdings and other holdings in their own name, have declarable interests as follows: N. A. Bailey 3.26% jointly held with A. J. Davison and others.
the case of a poll, every shareholder present Authority to purchase shares in person or by proxy has one vote for every share in the capital of the Company held At the AGM on 13 May 2009, the shareholders by him.
passed a resolution authorising the purchase by the Company of its own shares to a maximum The Companys articles of association set of 10,350,000 ordinary shares of 2p each.
out the circumstances in which shares may That authority has not been used as at 2 January become disenfranchised.
The balance remains in force until the is entitled, unless the directors otherwise conclusion of the AGM in 2010 or 12 August 2010, determine, in respect of any share held by whichever is the earlier.
It is the Boards intention him to be present or vote at a general meeting to seek approval at the AGM for the renewal of either personally or by proxy or to exercise this authority.
any other right in relation to meetings of the Company in respect of that share in certain circumstances if any call or other Additional information sum is payable and remains unpaid, if the shareholder is in default in complying with a duly served notice under section 793 1 Following the implementation of the European of the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 or if Directive on Takeover Bids by certain provisions of the shareholder has failed to reply to a duly the Companies Act 2006, the Company is required served notice requiring him to provide a to disclose certain additional information in the written statement stating he is the beneficial directors report.
This information is set out below.
The Company has one class of share in issue A notice convening a general meeting can being ordinary shares of 2p each.
As at contain a statement that a shareholder is 18 March 2010, there were 103,990,470 such not entitled to attend and vote at a general ordinary shares in issue.
There are no shares in the Company that grant the holder special meeting unless his name is entered on the register of members of the Company at a rights with regard to control of the Company.
specific time not more than 48 hours before At general meetings of the Company, on a the meeting and if a shareholders name is show of hands, every shareholder present in not so entered he is not entitled to attend person or by proxy has one vote only and, in and vote.
33 At each Annual General Meeting, any director Under the Companys articles of association the directors may, in their absolute discretion, appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting plus a proportion of the other refuse to register the transfer of a share in certified form in certain circumstances directors must retire from office but each is eligible for reelection by the shareholders.
where the Company has a lien on the share provided that the directors do not exercise Under the CA 2006 and the Companys articles of association, a director can be their discretion so as to prevent dealings in partlypaid shares from taking place on an removed from office by the shareholders in a general meeting.
open and proper basis, where a shareholder has failed to reply to a dulyserved notice The Companys articles of association set under section 793 1 CA 2006 or if a transfer of a share is in favour of more than four out the powers of the directors.
The business of the Company is to be managed by the persons jointly.
In addition, the directors may decline to recognise any instrument directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company and do on behalf of the of transfer unless it is in respect of only one class of share and is deposited at the address Company all such acts as may be exercised and done by the Company and are not by any at which the register of members of the Company is held or at such other place as relevant statutes or by the Companys articles of association required to be exercised or the directors may determine accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such other done by the Company in a general meeting, subject to the provisions of any relevant evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to statutes and the Companys articles of association and to such regulations as make the transfer.
In respect of shares held in uncertificated form the directors may only may be prescribed by the Company by special resolution.
refuse to register transfers in accordance with the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 Under the CA 2006 and the Companys as amended from time to time.
articles of association, the directors powers include the power to allot and Under the Companys Code on dealings in securities in the Company, persons buy back shares in the Company.
At each Annual General Meeting, resolutions are discharging managerial responsibilities and some other senior executives may in certain proposed granting and setting out the limits circumstances be restricted as to when they on these powers.
can transfer shares in the Company.
The Company is not party to any significant There are no agreements between agreements which take effect, alter or shareholders known to the Company which terminate upon a change of control of the may result in restrictions on the transfer of Company, following a takeover bid.
shares or on voting rights.
There are no agreements between the Details of the significant holders of the Company and its directors or employees Companys shares are set out on page 33. providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, Where, under an employee share plan purported redundancy or otherwise that operated by the Company, participants occurs because of a takeover bid.
Details of are the beneficial owners of shares but not the directors service agreements and terms the registered owner, the voting rights are of appointment are set out in the Directors normally exercised by the registered owner at Remuneration report on pages 77 to 88. the direction of the participant.
However, provisions in the employee share plans operated by the Company may allow The Companys articles of association may options to be exercised on a takeover.
only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
The Companys articles of association set out how directors are appointed and replaced.
Directors can be appointed by the Board or by the shareholders in a general meeting.
