Our vision is to be the number one for sandwiches and savouries from a united team who are passionate about being the best in bakery.
For our customers We offer a wide range of fresh, delicious, quality bakery food.
Every single sandwich we sell is handmade in our shops each day by our highly trained staff, on our own bread from our bakery.
All our savouries are freshly baked in the ovens in our shops throughout the day.
In our bakeries we hand finish millions of products each week.
We believe we are different because we make and bake most of our food from scratch.
Our people are passionate about baking and each product is carefully prepared to give our customers quality and freshness at great value prices.
For our people We never forget that its our people who make us a successful company.
Thats why we want all our people to feel individually valued and looked after, and for each person to share in the Companys Our success.
Ten per cent of our profits are shared with our people through our profit share scheme, ensuring that the interests of our shareholders and our people are aligned.
vision For our communities We promise to continue to make a difference to peoples lives.
Through our award winning Greggs Breakfast Club scheme, Childrens Cancer Runs, the Greggs Foundation and other fundraising activities, we strive to make a positive impact on local communities in the areas where we operate.
For our shareholders We have a proven track record of success and return on investment.
Importantly, in todays economic climate, more than ever, we offer the assurance and commitment that our business is run with integrity and that we are a responsible company.
We are proud that Greggs is a trusted, valued and respected business.
Our values Greggs began as a family business and we have retained good, honest family values as the business has grown.
Our values are our commitment to the way we treat each other.
We aspire to be a company that everyone is proud to shop with.
Our values apply to all our customers, our people, our shareholders and our suppliers.
We will be enthusiastic and supportive in all that we do, open, honest and appreciative, treating everyone with fairness, consideration and respect.
