Internal Audit Directors and their interests The internal audit function visits every division The names of the directors in office during the on an annual basis and reviews performance of year, together with their relevant interests in the share the Division across a range of financial and non capital of the Company at 27 December 2008 and financial requirements, reporting findings to senior 2 January 2010 or at date of appointment if later management and direct to the Audit Committee.
are set out in note 25 to the accounts.
Details of The Board confirms that it has reviewed the directors share options are set out in the Directors effectiveness of the system of internal control Remuneration report on pages 77 to 88. covering all material controls, including financial, In accordance with the Companys articles of operational, compliance and risk management association, Julie Baddeley, Richard Hutton, Roger systems during the year under review and up to the Whiteside and Bob Bennett will retire from the Board date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
All, being eligible, offer themselves for reelection.
Accountability, Audit and Going Concern The Board acknowledges its responsibility Directors Indemnities and conflicts to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and As at the date of this report, indemnities are prospects.
This is fulfilled by the statements in force under which the Company has agreed contained in the Chairmans statement and Chief to indemnify the directors, to the extent permitted Executives report, which supplement the statutory by law, in respect of losses arising out of or in accounts themselves.
A statement of directors connection with the execution of their duties, powers responsibilities in respect of the preparation of or responsibilities as directors of the Company.
accounts is given on page 36.
A statement of The indemnities do not apply in situations where auditors responsibilities is given in the report of the the relevant director has been guilty of fraud or auditors on page 37. wilful misconduct.
After making enquiries, the directors have a Under the authority granted to them in the reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate Companys Articles of Association, the Board resources to continue in operational existence for has considered carefully any situation declared the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue by any director pursuant to which he she has to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the or might have a conflict of interest and, where it accounts see basis of preparation on page 45. considers it appropriate to do so, has authorised the continuation of that situation.
In exercising its Fixed assets authority, the directors have had regard to their statutory and other duties to the Company.
In the opinion of the directors, the market value of all of the Groups properties is not significantly different from their historical net book amount.
