Halfords Group plc 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements 7 January 2009, makes a total for the year of 15.90 pence per ordinary of Halfords Group plc the Company together with its subsidiary share.
The total final dividend payable to shareholders for the year is undertakings the Group for the 53 weeks to 3 April 2009. estimated to be 22.7m.
Lloyds TSB Offshore Trust Limited, trustee of the Halfords Employee Share Trust, has waived its entitlement to dividends.
Principal activities Donations Halfords Group plc is a public limited company incorporated in England, registered number 04457314, with its registered office at Icknield Street During the year the Group contributed 26,000 2008: 30,000 to Drive, Washford West, Redditch, Worcestershire, B98 0DE.
charities in the UK, including donations to BEN, a charity supporting individuals and families linked to the motor industry and associated trades.
The principal activity of the Group is the retailing of automotive, leisure and cycling products.
The Group operates from 438 stores 2008: Halfords has continued its partnership, for the second year running, 429 in the UK, and via overseas branches, 22 stores in the Republic with the Meningitis Trust.
Over the two years colleagues throughout of Ireland 2008: 18, five in the Czech Republic 2008: 3 and one in Halfords have raised over 140,000 for the Trust with stores selling Poland 2008: nil.
The principal activity of the Company is that of a special pin badges, holding events and individual employees holding company.
undertaking all sorts of challenges ranging from running marathons to holding charity auctions.
The Group also supported the Help for Business review Heroes charity to raise money for wounded servicemen and women.
The Chairmans statement on page 4, the Business Review on In 2009, Halfords has decided to partner a new Charity Of The Year, pages 8 to 19 and the Finance Directors report on pages 20 to 23 Macmillan Cancer, and will work closely with the charity to raise money provide a review of the business and progress against its key and awareness through the sales of pin badges, events and much more.
performance indicators during the year and descriptions of possible future developments and the principal risks and uncertainties facing The Groups policy is not to make any donations for political purposes.
the Group, and form part of this Directors Report.
Environmental However, the Companies Act 1985 defines the term donations very considerations are reviewed within the Corporate Social Responsibility widely and, as a result, certain expenses legitimately incurred as part Report on pages 24 to 35 which also forms part of this Directors Report.
of the process of talking to Government at all levels and making the Groups position known, are now reportable.
Although during the year Corporate governance no such expenditure or political donations were made, resolutions were The Corporate Governance report on pages 41 to 46 forms part of this passed at the 2008 Annual General Meeting AGM that provided for Directors Report.
limited authority for such expenditure, such authority remaining valid Profits and dividends until the earlier of 23 October 2009 or the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2009, and as such the Company will be asking for this limited The Groups results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income authority to be renewed at the AGM to be held on 29 July 2009.
Performance monitoring The profit before tax on ordinary activities was 77.5m 2008: 90.2m and the profit after tax amounted to 55.8m 2008: 64.0m.
The successful delivery of the Groups strategic objectives is monitored by the Board through Key Performance Indicators KPIs and the The Directors propose that a final dividend of 10.90p per ordinary share be periodic review of various aspects of the Group operations.
The Board paid on 5 August 2009 to shareholders whose names are on the register considers the following KPIs as appropriate measures for the delivery of of members at the close of business on 19 June 2009.
This payment, the Groups strategy.
together with the interim dividend of 5.00p per ordinary share paid on Financial and operational Definition Revenue and like-for-like sales Growth in revenue measures delivery against our store growth objectives and, through like-for-like revenue, the strength of our customer offer.
Operating profit Continued growth of operating profits enables the Group to invest in its future and provides a return for shareholders.
Targets are set relative to expected market performance.
Number of store openings The Group is committed to bringing its products offering to as many consumers as possible through the development of its property portfolio.
This also contributes to revenue growth and though international store openings provides economic diversification.
Multi-Channel Profitability The profitable expansion of the Groups multi-channel footprint is key to retaining existing and attracting new customers, many of whom use the Internet as a key part of their shopping experience.
The web facilitates the detailed measurement of the source of sales, through indicators such as visitor numbers, dwell time and rates of conversion.
wefit werepair jobs Halfords unique service fitting proposition is key to maintaining our differentiation from more mainstream operators.
Fitting and repair jobs completed, together with other service propositions such as Bike Care Plans, represent a good measure of awareness and execution of this core proposition.
indd 38 25 06 2009 15:39 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 39 Colleagues In addition, David Wild and Dennis Millard, having been appointed to the Board since 23 July 2008, will seek reappointment at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board seeks to instil high standards of customer care and service in the Group and the commitment of every colleague to this business Directors interests requirement is considered to be critical.
The Group has established The Directors interests in shares and options over shares in the a framework of communication for colleagues concerning business Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages performance and Company benefits.
Group-wide training reinforces the 47 to 53.
Groups commitment to colleague involvement and development.
No Director had a material interest at any time during the year in any The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity contract with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, other in employment and to ensuring that no applicant or colleague than his service contract.
receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, ethnic origin, religion, disability, sexuality, or age, or is Directors indemnities disadvantaged by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown Article 144 of the Companys Articles of Association provides that every to be justified.
The Group applies employment policies which are fair Director is entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of the Company and equitable and which seek to promote entry into and progression against all costs and liabilities incurred by him in the execution of his within the Group.
Appointments are determined solely by application of duties or the exercise of his powers or otherwise in connection with job criteria, personal ability and competency.
his duties, powers or office including any liability incurred by him in defending any proceedings, civil or criminal, which relate to anything The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for done or omitted to have been done or omitted by him as an officer of employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their the Company and in which judgement is given in his favour or in which particular aptitudes and abilities, wherever suitable opportunities exist, he is acquitted.
and training and career development support are provided, where appropriate.
Should a colleague become disabled when working for the During the year the Company maintained liability insurance for its Group, efforts are made to continue their employment and retraining is Directors and officers.
The Directors of the Company, and the Directors provided, if necessary.
of each of the Companys subsidiaries, have the benefit of an indemnity provision in the Companys Articles of Association.
The indemnity A whistle-blowing policy and procedure is in place and has been provision, which is a qualifying third-party indemnity provision as notified to staff.
The policy enables them to report any concerns defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, has been in force on matters affecting the Group or their employment, without fear throughout the year.
of recrimination, and reduces the risk of things going wrong or of malpractice taking place and remaining unreported.
In addition, the Directors Responsibilities Group takes a zero-tolerance approach to matters of discrimination, The statement of Directors responsibilities in preparing the Annual harassment and bullying in all aspects of its business operations, Report and the Financial Statements can be found on page 54 of the whether they relate to sex, race, national origin, disability, age, religion Annual Report.
or sexual orientation, and policies and procedures are also in place for Disclosure of information to Auditors reporting and dealing with these matters.
The Directors of the Group have taken all the steps that they ought Owning shares in the Company is an important way of strengthening to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of colleagues involvement in the development of the Groups business any information needed by the Groups Auditors in connection with and bringing together their and shareholders interests.
The Group preparing their report and to establish that the auditors are aware of therefore encourages the Groups colleagues to participate in its that information and so far as the Directors are aware there is no such Sharesave Scheme.
information of which the Groups Auditors are unaware.
The Directors Directors are responsible for maintaining the integrity of financial information which includes the Annual Report, together with other financial The following persons were Directors during the 53 weeks to 3 April statements, presentations and announcements on the Groups website 2009 and up to the date of this Report: halfordscompany.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation Richard Pym resigned 22 August 2008 and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in Dennis Millard appointed 28 May 2009 other jurisdictions.
David Wild appointed 4 August 2008 Nick Wharton Paul McClenaghan Nigel Wilson Keith Harris Bill Ronald In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Bill Ronald, Nick Wharton and Paul McClenaghan are retiring by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves for reelection at that meeting.
indd 39 25 06 2009 15:39 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Halfords Group plc 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Supplier payment policy Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
The Group does not follow any formal code or standard on payment practice, but agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee when orders for goods and services are placed, and includes the relevant that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment terms in contracts, where appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the Companys share to when making payments, subject to the terms and conditions being met schemes and plan may cause options and awards granted to employees by suppliers.
The number of trade creditor days outstanding at the period under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
end for the Group was 39 days 2008: 43 days.
The Company is a holding The Company has Term and Revolving facilities and under the terms of company and had no trade creditors at the end of the financial year.
these credit facilities, the Company is required, in the event of a change Major Shareholders of control, to give notification to the facility agent and if so required by At 10 June 2009, the Companys share register of substantial the majority lenders the facilities may be cancelled.
shareholdings showed the following interests in 3% or more of the Authority to purchase shares Companys issued ordinary shares: On 8 June 2006 the Company announced a share buy-back Number of % of issued programme, to be effected over the following two years, of up to 50m.
Holder shares shares At the AGM on 23 July 2008 shareholders approved a special resolution authorising the Company to purchase a maximum of 21,118,112 M & G Investment Management Ltd 15,306,401 7.33% shares, representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital at 18 Bank of New York Mellon Corporation June 2008, such authority expiring at the conclusion of the AGM to be Institutional Group 12,605,477 6.00% held in 2009.
The 50m share buy-back programme was completed Ameriprise Financial Institutional Group 11,773,143 5.60% ahead of schedule on 31 January 2008.
The Directors intend to optimise Artemis Investment Management Ltd 9,536,391 4.54% the Groups balance sheet to enhance shareholder returns using Capital Research Global Investors 9,306,000 4.43% where appropriate share buy-back as a flexible tool in balance sheet Legal & General Investment management.
In the 53 weeks to 3 April 2009 4,687,816 shares of 1p Management Ltd UK 9,134,643 4.35% each 2008: 9,453,738, representing a nominal value of 46,878 2008: F&C Asset Management plc 8,064,963 3.84% 94,537, have been purchased and cancelled, representing 2.8% of Aberforth Partners LLP 7,392,544 3.52% the Companys issued share capital as at 3 April 2009.
The aggregate Rathbone Investment Management Ltd 7,127,889 3.39% consideration including stamp duty paid for the shares was 13.1m.
The Takeover Directive Auditors As at 3 April 2009 and 28 March 2008, the Companys authorised Having retained the services of  LLP as share capital was 2,950,000 divided into 295,000,000 ordinary shares statutory Auditors since 2003, the Group has reviewed, in line with of 1p each nominal value ordinary shares.
On 3 April 2009 there corporate governance best practice, the rotation of its external were 209,786,251 2008: 214,348,661 ordinary shares in issue.
As a result of this process KPMG LLP will be recommended ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
for appointment as Auditors for the forthcoming year.
A resolution All ordinary shares rank equally with respect to voting rights and the rights to proposing their appointment is contained in the Notice of the AGM and receive dividends.
Shares acquired through Company shares schemes and will be put to shareholders at the meeting.
plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
Going concern The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Group has Annual Report and Financial Statements: to attend and speak at general adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies: and to exercise voting rights.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any class preparing the accounts.
of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at the Alveston Manor Hotel, Clopton Bridge, There are no known arrangements under which the financial rights are Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire, CV37 7HP, on Wednesday held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known 29 July 2009 at 12.30 pm.
The notice of the AGM and explanatory agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
notes regarding the special business to be put to the meeting are set The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are out in a separate circular to shareholders accompanying the Annual contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors may be Report and Financial Statements.
appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next AGM.
By order of the Board At each AGM one-third of the Directors rounded down will retire by ALEX HENDERSON rotation and be eligible for re-election.
The Directors to retire will be COMPANY SECRETARY those who wish to retire and those who have been longest in office 10 JUNE 2009 since their last appointment or reappointment, with the proviso that all must retire within a three year period.
