Halfords Group plc 36 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 THE BOARD DAVID WILD DENNIS MILLARD CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CHAIRMAN Prior to joining Halfords David was Senior Vice-President for New Dennis Millard was appointed Chairman of Halfords on 28 May 2009. Business Development at Wal-Mart US, a position he had held Dennis was previously a non-executive Director of EXEL plc and EAG since January 2007.
Prior to this appointment he was President and Limited and he was Group Finance Director of Cookson Group plc Managing Director of Wal-Mart Germany.
Before joining Wal-Mart, from 1996 to 2005.
He is currently Chairman of Smiths News plc, a David spent eighteen years at Tesco, latterly as Group Supply Chain non-executive Senior Independent Director at both Premier Farnell plc Director.
He spent the six years prior to this focused on the Companys and Xchanging plc and a non-executive Director at Debenhams plc.
He Continental European expansion, both as Chief Executive of Central is also Chairman of each of these companies Audit Committees.
The Europe and, before that, as European Corporate Development Director.
Board considers that Dennis has enough time available to perform his duties as Chairman of Halfords.
NICK WHARTON PAUL McCLENAGHAN FINANCE DIRECTOR COMMERCIAL DIRECTOR Nick was appointed as Finance Director in February 2007.
He joined Paul was appointed as Director of Trading in March 2007.
He joined Halfords Limited as Finance and Planning Director in March 2002, Halfords Limited as Trading Director in May 2005.
Prior to this Paul becoming Business Development Director in 2003.
Nick has also worked for the Dixons Group, most recently as Trading Director for its held Board responsibility at Halfords Limited for Information Systems Vision and Audio division.
He also held the positions of Buying Director and Human Resources.
Prior to this Nick held senior finance and for Brown Goods and Commercial Director for Dixons Asia.
From general management positions with Boots Opticians, Boots Healthcare 1 March 2008 to 22 August 2008 Paul was acting joint Managing International, Do-It-All Limited and also within Cadbury Schweppes.
Director while maintaining his existing responsibilities.
From 1 March 2008 to 22 August 2008 Nick was acting joint Managing Director while maintaining his existing responsibilities.
indd 36 25 06 2009 15:39 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 37 KEITH HARRIS NIGEL WILSON NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Keith joined the Board as a non-executive Director in May 2004.
He has Nigel joined the Board as a non-executive Director in May 2004 and been Executive Chairman of Seymour Pierce Limited since its acquisition was appointed Senior Independent Director on 1 April 2006.
On 7 May from Investment Management Holdings plc.
Prior to this Keith was 2009 Nigel resigned as Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Chairman of the Football League and Chief Executive of HSBC Officer of United Business Media plc to take up the position of Group Investment Bank plc.
Keith is currently on the Boards of Benfield plc and Chief Financial Officer at Legal & General plc.
Previous appointments Sellar Investments Limited.
The Board considers that Keith has enough include Group Finance Director and subsequent Managing Director time available to perform his duties as a non-executive Director of of Viridian Group plc, Group Finance Director at Waste Management Halfords and as Chairman of the Companys Remuneration Committee.
International, Head of Corporate Finance and Group Commercial Director at Dixons Group plc and a consultant at McKinsey & Co. From 22 August 2008 to 28 May 2009 Nigel also operated as Chairman.
The Board considers that Nigel has enough time available to perform his duties as the Senior Independent Director of Halfords and as Chairman of the Companys Audit Committee.
BILL RONALD NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Bill joined the Board as a non-executive Director in May 2004.
He is Chairman of Bezier Limited and Chairman of Europackaging Limited.
He is also a non-executive Director of Alfesca and Dialight plc.
Previously he was Chief Executive of Uniq plc for three years, prior to which Bill spent 23 years in a variety of roles within the Mars Corporation.
His final positions there were Managing Director of the UK confectionery operation and Vice-President of Masterfoods Europe.
The Board considers that Bill has enough time available to perform his duties as a non-executive Director of Halfords.
