DIRECTORS REPORT Sector review Infrastructure Sensors We make products which detect hazards to protect assets and people in public and commercial buildings.
Infrastructure Sensors contributed 41% of Group revenue 186m and 39% 33m of Group profit.
Our principal products are sensors for re, security, automatic doors and elevator safety.
STRATEGIC ACHIEVEMENTS Organic revenue and profit growth Benets from recent reorganisation in Security and Elevator Safety Major new product launches in Automatic Door Sensors and Elevator Safety Disposal of South African Security Sensor business assets Product margins maintained STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS Organic profit and revenue growth Expansion in Asia New technology through internal external collaboration Relentless manufacturing efficiency improvement Maintaining profitability through focussed cost control 1 1 2 3 4 KPIs Revenue growth profit growth Return on sales ROCE R&D Sector performance % % % % % 11 16 17.7 63 5.5 Group target 5% 5% 18% 45% 4% GROWTH DRIVERS Growth in population, ageing and urbanisation Increasing regulation and rising expectations of health and safety New technology WHERE WE OPERATE Belgium Japan Brazil New Zealand China Republic of Ireland Czech Republic Singapore France Spain Germany UK India United Arab Emirates Italy USA 5 1 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year gure.
2 5 Return on sales is dened as adjusted profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 3 Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of sector operating net assets.
4 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
See note 1 to the accounts 22 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW SUB-SECTORS AUTOMATIC DOOR SENSORS FIRE DETECTION SECURITY SENSORS ELEVATOR SAFETY MARKET TRENDS AND GROWTH DRIVERS Our Infrastructure Sensor products are primarily used in non-residential buildings such as schools, hospitals, retail stores, ofces, airports and hotels.
These markets are driven by strong underlying population growth and urbanisation combined with increased health and safety regulation.
Purchasing in these sectors tends to be non-discretionary, often dictated by public safety legislation.
Our defensive position is strengthened by a high proportion of revenue from products tted to existing buildings rather than new construction.
While these market characteristics provide some buffering against the current economic downturn, we expect the worldwide slowdown in commercial construction projects to continue.
In some territories government spending on infrastructure projects within economic stimulus programmes may boost demand.
Legislation driven, worldwide demand for our Fire detectors has been relatively resilient, though we saw sales growth softening towards the end of 2008 09.
Tightening of Chinese re product standards is forcing out some local competitors and we anticipate continued growth in China during 2009 10.
The trend towards increasingly rigorous re safety regulations is unabated and customers continue to migrate toward more sophisticated re detection technology.
Our re products have very low exposure to the residential sector.
Our Security Sensors sell into a global market we estimate to be worth in excess of 2 billion annually.
We provide open-platform intruder detection sensors for alarm systems capable of scaling from family homes up to commercial and industrial properties.
Our latest sensors meet the growing need for detection outside buildings, in a standalone role or integrated with CCTV.
Market forecasts suggest growth of 5% in the medium to long term, although the current economic situation has introduced volatility in the short term varying from country to country.
We are well positioned to take market share from competitors on the basis of value and service.
We continue to forecast medium-term Automatic Door Sensor market growth of 3% to 4% annually, although growth may be lower in the short term.
During 2008 09 we won several major new customers and European sales rose faster than the global market rate.
In the USA we have diversied into security and industrial markets to counter weaker demand to the pedestrian door sector.
During the first half of 2008 09 the Elevator market maintained an annual growth rate of about 5%.
The Asian economies accounted for most new elevator construction with the European and US markets which represent over 70% of our Elevator Safety revenues driven more by service and upgrading.
Towards the end of the financial year demand for new elevators declined signicantly, particularly in China.
In Europe and North America demand from service and modernisation projects remained strong.
Adoption of EN81 elevator safety regulations in more territories is driving demand especially for door sensors and emergency communications products where we are the market leader.
SECTOR STRATEGY Our primary strategic goal in this sector is to be the worlds leading supplier of safety-critical sensor products and supporting technology for infrastructure monitoring in non-residential buildings.
We focus on safety-critical niches, like re detectors and safety products for elevators and automatic doors, because these are non-discretionary purchases mandated by public safety and building regulations.
The large majority of our sales are to the non-residential building sector, although our security products currently have some exposure to the residential market.
We are positioned as independent, expert suppliers of safety-critical components, not as complete QUEENS AWARD system suppliers or installers.
This stance avoids competition with our customers the global Export sales success at businesses that install and maintain complete building monitoring systems.
Fire Fighting Enterprises was recognised by a Queens Award International Fire Detection product approvals continue to be an important requirement for success, for Enterprise 2009 in the and manufacturing improvements have enhanced competitive advantage.
During 2008 09 we International Trade category.
spent almost 2m on approvals for products sold into the re market.
com 23 DIRECTORS REPORT Sector review continued development pipeline will carry the business forward well into the next decade.
Our planned REVENUE 2.5m investment in a Chinese joint venture to develop our re detection business did not proceed million after it was agreed that our mutual objectives could be achieved without a formal JV arrangement.
In the Security Sensors sector, our strategy is to reposition the business in line with our other three % Infrastructure Sensor activities.
We will develop a more diverse geographical customer base in North 186m 11 America, Eastern Europe and Asia Pacic: increase the proportion of non-residential sales: and grow OEM business.
As expected, product approvals are slowly becoming a barrier to entry in the security 2009 186 industry adding protection against new market entrants.
We sold our multi-branch South African wholesale security product distribution business part of the 2005 acquisition of Texecom to 2008 167 management in January 2009.
Our new strategy in South Africa is to sell just our own products through this newly formed management-owned distributor.
2007 155 We remain the dominant world supplier of Automatic Door Sensors for pedestrian doors and 2006 132 have increased our penetration of the industrial door market.
The launch of a new laser-based activation sensor for automatic doors is a world first and confirms our market leadership.
This 2005 118 new technology platform will be a key feature of future innovative product development.
In addition, streamlined logistics channels will improve customer service and efficiency.
In 2006 07 we reorganised our five Elevator companies into three regionally focused businesses PROFIT so that they could work collaboratively on a global scale.
The basis of the strategy is to build a million worldwide sales presence for the full range of our elevator products.
Increased R&D investment has resulted in the launch of important new products in emergency communications, information displays and touch-sensitive elevator controls.
% 33m 16 SECTOR PERFORMANCE 2008 09 was a good year overall, with double-digit growth in revenue and profits.
2009 33 We set new records for Fire Detection sector revenue and profit during 2008 09.
We achieved double-digit sales growth in point re detectors both in the UK and overseas and continued 2008 29 to gain market share, notably in Europe.
2007 28 In Security Sensors, the benets of last years reorganisation delivered improved profit despite a market headwind.
Strong export growth did not compensate for falling demand in the UK, 2006 24 our largest market.
Competitive pricing and investment in lean process engineering held margins.
24 2005 In the Automatic Door Sensors market we continued to grow sales and profits boosted by doubledigit growth in industrial applications.
The new global Elevator sales strategy and expansion of sales ofces during the past two years led to good revenue growth.
Our Elevator business achieved operating cost savings during the year which not only boosted 2008 09 profits but also positioned it for a challenging market in 2009 10.
SECTOR OUTLOOK Overall, we anticipate slower growth in our Infrastructure Sensors markets during 2009 10, but we are managing our businesses to at least maintain profits at current levels.
Developing nations are becoming increasingly aware of life safety issues and are adopting US and European safety regulations and product approvals.
The recession in the developed world economies, together with slower growth in the developing world, has reduced investment in new commercial construction projects.
However, in some economies, government scal stimulus spending may offset the impact of this contraction.
Continuing consolidation among Fire Detection manufacturers and a shift towards Asian manufacture will continue to challenge operating margins.
We will continue to innovate in our manufacturing processes and in product development.
The significant cost and scale of continuous investment in worldwide product approvals also defends our margins against potential market entrants.
Whilst the demand for Security Sensors products in the UK may respond to a predicted increase in crime, we anticipate tough market conditions mitigated somewhat by us growing market share in both the UK and new export markets.
Increasing regulation continues to drive growth for our Automatic Door Sensors.
Our ongoing commitment to achieving worldwide product approvals, a continuous stream of new products and establishment of local resources in our global markets are key to us sustaining returns in the coming year.
Current demand from Elevator service and modernisation customers remains stable: this niche has proved resilient during previous economic downturns.
In the short term, we expect to see reduced demand for products built into new elevators, particularly in China and Dubai.
On the plus side, significant new products will extend our offering and increased cross-selling between our businesses offers opportunities for sales growth, particularly in the USA and Europe which represent 70% of our Elevator product revenues.
24 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009
