DIRECTORS REPORT Strategic review Organic growth is central to our value creation strategy, and we continue to identify good quality prospects for further acquisitions MACRO-ECONOMIC, REGULATORY AND COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT Our expectation for 2009 10 is that the macro-economic environment will continue to be challenging but that there will be opportunities to offset this with market share growth in developed regions, rising demand in developing regions and value-enhancing acquisitions.
Increasing environmental and safety legislation in our markets creates demand for our products.
Global, national and regional product approvals or technical validations are an increasing cost and technical challenge, but also provide a hurdle to new market entrants.
While the slowdown in our markets has reduced our rate of organic growth, we have a resilient business mix.
Many Halma businesses have products which are driven by non-discretionary customer spend, are sold into diverse geographic regions and end-markets and benefit from strong market positions providing upgrading and replacement sales opportunities.
We aim to not be over-reliant on any single region, market or customer.
For example, our largest customer constitutes less than 3% of Halma revenue.
Our wide spread of activity means that competition issues are managed at Group company or sub-sector level.
Details are given in the Sector reviews on pages 22 to 32.
GROUP STRATEGY AND FORWARD VISION ADDING VALUE THROUGH OUR STRATEGY We have a clear vision of how the world is changing.
Increased regulation and legislation, long-term demographic trends and generally higher safety, health and environmental expectations are relevant examples.
As the world changes, our customers and their needs OUR STRATEGY change too.
Create sustained shareholder value by operating in markets Within our operating businesses growth strategies tend to have a three to five-year horizon.
offering consistent high-returns and long-term growth However, at Group level, our strategy for acquiring businesses, developing positions in markets and investing in manufacturing resources has a horizon of 10 years or more.
STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS We position our businesses in markets which we identify as relatively non-cyclical.
We select Organic growth Acquisitions markets with good prospects of long-term, sustained growth whatever the prevailing macroeconomic conditions.
Our criteria for choosing markets are that they are underpinned by resilient DELIVERING THE STRATEGY growth drivers.
Niche market focus Strong financial resources Strategic actions to mitigate the impact of adverse market conditions, and in the short-term to Entrepreneurial culture Investment in innovation exploit the new economic landscape to our advantage, vary across our businesses.
In some markets we have anticipated falling demands by cutting costs so that overheads are aligned with Decentralised decision International operations making revenue.
Our strong balance sheet and committed debt facilities will enable us to take advantage Acquisition disposal of opportunities requiring capital expenditure in existing businesses or investment in acquisitions.
High quality management expertise Throughout our businesses we will continue to invest in customer-facing resources and maintain Intercompany Progressive dividend collaboration policy R&D spend to extend technology leadership.
Our aim is to emerge from the current downturn with larger market shares, improved competitive positions, and strong margins.
OUR PRIMARY GROWTH DRIVERS Demand for energy and water resources Demand for energy and water continues to rise fuelled by population growth and increasing 1 afuence.
According to the US Governments energy statistics ofce, total world consumption of marketed energy is projected to increase by 44% between 2006 and 2030 despite sustained high oil prices projected over the long term.
Some of our Health and Analysis businesses are positioned to benefit from the rising demand for energy and water, notably our companies making water treatment, water testing and water distribution management products.
Continued investment in oil and gas exploration and extraction drives demand for our Industrial Safety products.
Growth in population, ageing and urbanisation About half of the worlds population, 3.3 billion people, now live in urban areas, expected to rise to almost 5 billion by 2030.
Unprecedented urban growth is predicted in the developing world 2 where the urban population is expected to double between 2000 and 2030.
Urbanisation drives investment in non-residential buildings like shops, ofces, schools and hospitals, the primary market for our infrastructure sensors.
Population growth and urbanisation are strongest in Asia, while the ageing population in the West drives demand for health products.
Energy statistics published by the US Government 2 United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division and Population Fund 16 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW Increasing demand for healthcare RETURN ON SALES Worldwide demand for healthcare and health-related products continues to grow.
During 2008 US healthcare spending rose to $2.4 trillion 17% of GDP, and is projected to reach $4.3 trillion by 3 2016 20% of GDP.
Growing populations drive demand in the developing world and healthcare 4 spending in China is predicted to grow at 11% per year between 2007 and 2012.
Population ageing creates rising healthcare demands and health services are becoming available to an % increasing number of people in the developing world as incomes rise.
Continuous advances in medical technology create new medical procedures, stimulating demand for new 17.3 instruments and equipment.
Increasing regulation and rising expectations of health and safety Every year over 2 million people die from occupational accidents or work-related diseases.
5 According to the ILO, workers suffer 270 million occupational accidents and 160 million REVENUE GROWTH TO ASIA PACIFIC AND cases of occupational disease annually.
Governments worldwide continue to introduce safety AUSTRALASIA and environmental legislation to protect workers from injury, sickness or death at work.
Failure to address these risks carries a huge potential cost to our customers.
Globalisation accelerates the spread of health and safety regulation.
Multinational businesses based in developed economies effectively export their home market safety standards to the developing countries they operate in.
These practices gradually become integrated into the % regulatory frameworks of the host countries increasing the market for our safety products.
New technology 26 During 2008 09 our businesses invested 5% of revenue 22.9m on R&D.
In some businesses we develop novel products using state-of-the-art technology, but most of the R&D spend is used to adapt proven technology to new applications and extend our customer base.
R&D resources are located in each subsidiary to ensure market needs are understood and met efficiently.
This agility results in products with superior value for customers delivering strong product margins and sustained revenue growth.
OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS Organic growth Our strategic priorities for 2009 10 are to continue to deliver organic growth where markets support it and maintain a balance between investment and profitability.
Whilst we must continue to achieve high returns, it is important for us to ensure we continue to invest to protect our success in the medium term too.
Acquisitions We have the financial headroom to support further acquisitions within our existing sectors.
The characteristics of target businesses and their markets are most important.
They have to be a good t with our operating culture and strategy in addition to being value-enhancing nancially.
Asian business expansion Continued revenue growth in Asia remains a priority.
Asian markets offer significant and consistent growth potential for our businesses.
Asian revenue grew by 26% during 2008 09 and now comprises around 12% of total revenue.
The Halma China hubs, established three years ago, now support 19 Halma companies with local sales and manufacturing.
Our new manufacturing hub in Shanghai is operational.
A new Halma hub was set up in Mumbai, India in mid-2008.
Management development We will continue to strengthen our management.
Increased investment in training has improved the quality and exibility of our senior management and the opportunity for movement of managers between Group companies.
Active management of our people resources is a key factor in our ability to sustain long-term growth.
For example, Executive Board responsibilities are adjusted regularly to match our strategic priorities.
High rate of innovation Innovation is continually improving from an already high standard.
Our emphasis is on both product and process innovation since the latter often results in significant competitive advantage for niche businesses.
The quality of entries in our annual innovation awards, together with the high number of new products launched each year, underline this success.
3 The National Coalition on Health Care, USA and Keehan, S. et al.
Health and Spending Projections Through 2017, Health Affairs Web Exclusive W146: 21 February 2008 4 China Healthcare Sector Analysis 5 International Labour Organisation www.
