qxp:Halma 26 6 09 09:53 Page 59 DIRECTORS REPORT Other statutory information Activities Shares held in treasury are non-voting and are not eligible for dividends.
Halma p. l. c. is a holding company.
A list of its principal subsidiary Details of employee share plans are set out in note 23 to the accounts.
companies and their activities is set out on pages 98 and 99.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the Ordinary dividends Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code, The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 4.78p per share and, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
Directors can be appointed if approved, this dividend will be paid on 19 August 2009 to ordinary by the Company by ordinary resolution at a general meeting or by the shareholders on the register at the close of business on 17 July 2009.
If a director is appointed by the Board, such director will hold ofce Together with the interim dividend of 3.15p per share already paid, this until the next annual general meeting and shall then be eligible for rewill make a total of 7.93p 2008: 7.55p per share for the financial year.
The Company can remove a director from ofce, including by passing a special resolution or by notice being given by all Share capital and capital structure the other Directors.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special Details of share capital issued in the financial year are set out in note 21 resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in to the accounts.
the Matters Reserved for the Board, copies of which are available on Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details request, and the Corporate governance statement on page 48. of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year, There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate are shown in note 21 to the accounts.
The Company has one class of upon a change of control of the Company, principally bank loan ordinary shares which carry no right to xed income.
Each share carries agreements and employee share plans.
the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
The only significant agreement, in terms of its likely impact on the There are no other classes of share capital.
There are no specic business of the Group as a whole, containing such provisions is that restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, with governing the 165m revolving credit facility which on change of control, both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association if the majority lenders require, can result in 30 days notice being given and prevailing legislation.
No person has any special rights of control to the Company for all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
payable, at which time the facility would be cancelled.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general The Companys share plans contain provisions as a result of which meetings of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies or, if the options and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate representative.
On a show of control of the Company in accordance with the rules of the plans.
of hands, each holder of ordinary shares who being an individual is present in person or being a corporation is present by a duly appointed The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company corporate representative, not being himself a member, shall have one and its directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of vote and on a poll every holder of ordinary shares present in person or ofce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
Annual general meeting Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be The Companys Annual general meeting will be held on 30 July 2009. received not later than 48 hours before the meeting.
A holder of ordinary The Notice of meeting is enclosed with this Annual report and details shares can lose the entitlement to vote at general meetings where that the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
holder has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide Allotment authority the Company with information concerning interests held in those shares.
Under the Companies Act 1985 the Directors may only allot shares if Except as set out above and as permitted under applicable statutes, authorised by shareholders to do so.
At the Annual general meeting an there are no limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage, ordinary resolution will be proposed which, if passed, will authorise the number of votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
Directors to allot and issue new shares up to an aggregate nominal The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certicated share that is value of 6,115,160 up to 61,151,600 new ordinary shares of 10p each, not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares which is equal to approximately 16% of the issued share capital of the in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis or where Company excluding treasury shares as at 16 June 2009 the latest the Company has a lien over that share.
The Directors may also refuse to practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of meeting.
register a transfer of a certicated share unless the instrument of transfer In accordance with the Directors stated intention to seek annual is: i lodged, duly stamped if necessary, at the registered ofce of the renewal, the authorities will expire at the conclusion of the annual Company or any other place as the Board may decide accompanied by general meeting of the Company in 2010.
Passing this resolution will give the certicate for the share s to be transferred and or such other evidence the Directors exibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, when as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor opportunities arise, by issuing new shares.
to make the transfer: ii in respect of only one class of shares: iii in favour of a person who is not a minor, infant, bankrupt or a person of unsound As at 16 June 2009 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of mind: or iv in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
the Notice of meeting, the Company had 375,413,293 ordinary shares of 10p each in issue of which 1,438,837 were held as treasury shares, Transfers of uncerticated shares must be carried out using CREST and which is equal to approximately 0.4% of the issued share capital of the the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an uncerticated share Company excluding treasury shares as at that date.
in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
The Companies Act 1985 also requires that, if the Company issues new There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the shares for cash or sells any treasury shares, it must first offer them to Company except certain restrictions which may from time to time be existing shareholders in proportion to their current holdings.
At the imposed by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : or Annual general meeting a special resolution will be proposed which, if where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys passed, will authorise the Directors to issue a limited number of shares certicated shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has for cash and or sell treasury shares without offering them to failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in shareholders first.
The authority is for an aggregate nominal amount of those shares.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between up to 5% of the aggregate nominal value of the issued share capital of holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the the Company as at 16 June 2009 the latest practicable date prior to the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
qxp:Halma 26 6 09 09:53 Page 60 DIRECTORS REPORT Other statutory information continued publication of the Notice of meeting.
The resolution will also modify Supplier payment policy statutory pre-emption rights to deal with legal, regulatory or practical The Company does not follow any particular supplier payment code problems that may arise on a rights or other pre-emptive offer or issue.
The Company has due regard to the payment terms of The authority will expire at the same time as the resolution conferring suppliers and generally settles all undisputed accounts within 30 days authority on the Directors to allot shares.
The Directors consider this of the due date for payment.
At 28 March 2009 the Companys trade authority necessary in order to give them exibility to deal with creditors represented 18 days 2008: 31 days of its annual purchases.
opportunities as they arise, subject to the restrictions contained in the Donations resolution.
There are no present plans to issue shares, except under Group companies made charitable donations amounting to 15,334 share plans previously approved in general meeting.
There were no political Directors donations 2008: nil.
Brief biographies of the Directors of the Company are set out on pages Substantial shareholdings 46 and 47.
Richard Stone retires by rotation at the Annual general On 16 June 2009, the Company had been notied, in accordance with meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
With regard chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following to his re-election, the Board confirms that, following formal performance voting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
evaluations, Richard Stones performance continues to be effective and Percentage of he continues to demonstrate commitment to his role.
of voting rights Notice period for general meetings other than AGMs ordinary and issued The EU Shareholder Rights Directive the Directive will be implemented shares share capital in August 2009.
A special resolution will be proposed at the Annual Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 22,317,670 5.97 general meeting to permit the Company in accordance with the Directive Capital Research and Management Co 19,089,943 5.10 to retain the ability to call general meetings other than annual general Barclays Bank PLC 15,724,354 4.20 meetings at 14 days notice rather than at 21 days notice.
Legal & General Group Plc 14,874,651 3.98 Sanderson Asset Management Ltd 14,891,762 3.98 Purchase of own shares Silchester International Investors Ltd 11,438,811 3.06 The Company was authorised at the 2008 Annual general meeting to Norges Bank 11,262,404 3.01 purchase up to 37,000,000 of its own 10p ordinary shares in the market.
This authority expires at the end of the 2009 Annual general meeting.
In Auditors accordance with the Directors stated intention to seek annual renewal, Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this a special resolution will be proposed at the Annual general meeting to Annual report confirms that: renew this authority, until the end of next years annual general meeting, in respect of up to 37,000,000 ordinary shares, which is approximately so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information 10% of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares as of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and at 16 June 2009 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as Notice of meeting.
The Directors consider it desirable that the possibility a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit of making such purchases, under appropriate circumstances, is information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of available.
Their present intention is that the shares purchased under that information.
the authority will to the extent statutory requirements are met be held in treasury for future cancellation, sale for cash or transfer for the purposes This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. of, or pursuant to, an employee share plan, although in the light of circumstances at the time it may be decided to cancel them immediately Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce as on repurchase.
The effect of any cancellation would be to reduce the auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the number of shares in issue.
For most purposes, while held in treasury, forthcoming Annual general meeting.
shares are treated as if they have been cancelled for example, they By order of the Board carry no voting rights and do not rank for dividends.
Following approval of the performance share plan PSP at the 2005 Annual general meeting, the Directors made, and intend to continue to Carol Chesney make, routine purchases of Halma shares in the market for holding in Company Secretary treasury until required for vesting under the PSP.
In the year to 28 March 16 June 2009 2009, 524,200 shares were purchased in the market for treasury.
Otherwise, the Directors have no present intention of using this authority.
In reaching a decision to purchase shares, the Directors will take into account the Companys cash resources, capital requirements and the effect of any purchase on the Companys earnings per share.
It is anticipated that renewal of the authority will be requested at subsequent annual general meetings.
As at 16 June 2009, which is the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of meeting, options were outstanding to subscribe for a total number of 6,754,079 ordinary shares, or 1.8% of the Companys issued share capital.
If the proposed authority were to be used in full and all of the repurchased shares were cancelled but the Companys issued share capital otherwise remained unaltered, the total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares at that date would represent approximately 2.0% of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
Deeds of indemnity Following amendment of the Companys Articles of Association at the annual general meeting in 2006, the Company has entered into deeds of indemnity, which are qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, with each of the current Directors.
60 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009
