DIRECTORS REPORT Why we are resilient Growth drivers Our three operating sectors, When we acquire, we only invest Health and Analysis, Infrastructure in companies exposed to relatively Demand for Growth in population, Sensors and Industrial Safety, were non-cyclical markets, with strong chosen because they offer markets growth drivers, and where high energy and water ageing and where sustained growth is barriers to entry deter new resources urbanisation underpinned by strong, market entrants.
See page 16 for more information Many of our markets are highly about our growth drivers.
Halma products financial strength frequently satisfy demand created by health, safety and environmental legislation.
Regulation is a powerful driver which stimulates Rising expectations non-discretionary purchasing.
Increased demand of health for healthcare and safety Geographical diversity Halma is a global business diverse manufacturing facilities REVENUE BY DESTINATION 2009 operating in 20 countries.
We such as our factories in Tunisia and sell to approximately 160 countries.
the Czech Republic and the new The geographical diversity of our manufacturing hub in Shanghai, United Kingdom customer base enhances the China.
Although Halma has its United States of America defensive qualities of our earnings origin in the UK, last year 77% of Mainland Europe stream.
In line with our strategic our revenue was from customers Asia Pacic and Australasia objective, revenues are growing outside of the UK.
Africa, Near and Middle East faster outside of the UK and USA, See page 71 for geographical Other countries particularly in Asia and revenue analysis.
To satisfy customer needs, we have an extensive and growing worldwide network of sales channels.
We also have increasingly geographically Product and market diversity Our businesses sell into a varied Our largest customer accounts for REVENUE BY SUB-SECTOR 2009 range of specialised niche under 3% of revenue and our top markets.
The combination of a 20 customers account for less very broad customer base, the than 20% of revenue.
Fire Detection Health Optics diversity of our technology and See page 70 for sector Security Sensors Fluid Technology a wide product portfolio provides revenue analysis.
Gas Detection Automatic demand resilience.
The quality Door Sensors Bursting Disks of our market-leading products Elevator Safety Safety Interlocks and their continual renewal Water through high R&D investment Asset Monitoring Photonics ensures that our strong market positions are defendable.
The largest single market we sell into, re detection, represents approximately 17% of revenue.
