BUSINESS REVIEW WE ADD VALUE THROUGH Providing EXPERTISE Within weeks of acquiring Riester, Halma specialists were working on the shopoor to radically transform the production process.
Involving all staff, the reorganisation has boosted productivity by up to 44%, lead With guidance from Halma, we have times have been halved, inventory is down by 25% and the production area required raised efficiency, cut waste, reduced for the same level of revenue has been reduced by 30%.
costs, improved customer service and Production is now more exible and the freed up resources and factory space business reacts faster to customers needs.
Thomas Hlle Operations Director Rudolf Riester www.
com 25 DIRECTORS REPORT Sector review continued Health and Analysis We make products used to improve personal and public health.
We develop technologies and products which are used for analysis in safety, life sciences and environmental markets, including water.
Health and Analysis contributed 36% 165m of total revenue and 34% 29m of total profit.
STRATEGIC ACHIEVEMENTS Organic revenue growth Extra sales resources and strong growth in developing markets Acquisition of Fiberguide, Inc and Oerlikon Optics USA Inc. Colorado Manufacture start-up in China US product validations and licensing deal for water UV Increased collaborative R&D and marketing STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS Organic revenue and profit growth Control overheads to increase profitability Extend intercompany R&D and marketing collaboration Extend global sales channels Increase manufacturing in local markets High R&D to maintain technology leadership Seek value-enhancing acquisitions 1 1 2 3 4 KPIs Revenue growth profit growth Return on sales ROCE R&D Sector performance % % % % % 23 3 17.4 45 5.3 Group target 5% 5% 18% 45% 4% GROWTH DRIVERS Demand for energy and water resources Growth in population, ageing and urbanisation Increasing demand for healthcare Increasing regulation and rising expectations of health and safety New technology WHERE WE OPERATE Australia Malaysia China South Korea France Switzerland Germany UK Holland USA Japan 1 5 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year gure.
2 5 Return on sales is dened as adjusted profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
3 5 Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of sector operating net assets.
4 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
See note 1 to the accounts 26 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW SUB-SECTORS WATER PHOTONICS HEALTH OPTICS FLUID TECHNOLOGY MARKET TRENDS AND GROWTH DRIVERS During the past year demand trends in our Health and Analysis markets were variable.
Sales have declined in some niches, particularly where customers reduced inventory levels, while in others demand was resilient.
There was a delay in Water customers capital investment spending in the second half of 2008 09 as utilities waited for governments to announce economic stimulus funding.
This added to the anticipated reduced investment in the UK, where utilities are towards the end of their 5-year spending cycle.
In both the municipal and industrial water UV treatment sectors the underlying trend remains positive.
Equipment validations from independent test labs and government agencies are becoming more important and US validations are increasingly required globally.
This will favour those businesses who, like us, can afford to make the upfront investment in product approvals.
Our Photonics products sell into diversied markets including life sciences, medical, research, space, defence and homeland security.
About two-thirds of our Photonics sales are in the USA, with many niches dependent on government-sector budgets.
Short-term demand patterns in these niches are expected to be uneven, although the diversity of our markets should ensure growth remains available to us.
Increasing environmental monitoring, product performance testing particularly the growth of solid-state low energy lighting and food safety regulation are examples of markets offering promising growth prospects for our Photonics products which measure and analyse light.
The photonics industry is expected to benefit from the US Governments injection of billions of dollars 1 into science research under the Stimulus Plan.
The long-term trends of increasing life expectancy in the developed world, combined with rising incomes and increased healthcare access in developing countries, provides stable demand for our Health Optics products.
In the coming year, sales of our products to individual ophthalmic specialists are expected to be more resilient than sales of general medical instruments to hospitals.
Continuing consolidation among Fluid Technology customers disrupted demand patterns during 2008 particularly where it resulted in inventory reduction.
However, we expect continued strong underlying demand for medical and environmental monitoring instrumentation and anticipate a return to better revenue growth as we move through 2009 10.
SECTOR STRATEGY Our Health and Analysis sector has grown strongly in previous years both organically and through acquisitions.
Its current focus is on critical technology for the health, scientific and environmental markets where we see excellent opportunities for sustainable long-term growth.
It contains some of our most advanced technology and has a relatively high R&D spend.
Unlike our other two sectors, payback on R&D projects can be swift although the development risk is higher too.
Our Health and Analysis businesses have traditionally been strong in Europe and the USA but weaker elsewhere.
In recent years we have successfully targeted significant growth in developing regions.
Our Water business makes products for water UV treatment, leakage control and quality testing.
We are the world leader in leakage control instrumentation and aim to strengthen this position through continued new product development and building strong sales distribution in developing countries.
Our Water UV treatment businesses develop products for both the drinking water and wastewater markets.
A new licensing agreement will allow us to access the drinking water market segment whilst recent North American product approvals will allow us to compete in the growing wastewater recycling sector.
We manufacture our own UV lamps and continue to pay close attention to emerging UV light source technologies.
Through strong organic growth and closely targeted acquisitions, we have built a strong presence in the global Photonics components market.
This strategy will continue as we seek to deepen our product range and broaden our international presence.
R&D and new technology are significant growth drivers and need to be targeted at those markets offering the best returns rather than the most interesting technical challenge.
Photonics technology is used widely across the Halma group www.
com 27 DIRECTORS REPORT Sector review continued and there are many opportunities for internal collaboration.
In April 2009, we created a new business REVENUE by merging the newly acquired Colorado assets of Oerlikon Optics USA Inc. with Ocean Thin Films million part of the Ocean Optics business.
This new entity will be focused on providing high value optical thin lm coatings.
% Our Health Optics business has three strong global brands making high quality instruments for 165m 23 health applications - Keeler, Volk and Riester.
In recent years, incremental product development has resulted in healthy organic growth and this pragmatic approach to R&D will continue.
The 2009 165 acquisition of Riester in 2007 added greater diversity to our geographic footprint and our Health Optics businesses continue to collaborate to grow revenues in regions where they have historically 2008 135 been weaker.
In 2008 09, sales outside the USA and Europe represented 36% of revenues compared with 26% the prior year.
2007 116 In Fluid Technology we make critical components for scientific, medical and environmental instrument 2006 110 manufacturers.
Our growth strategy is to extend our product range and increase penetration of new and developing markets via organic growth and acquisitions.
We have developed unique technology 2005 93 to solve individual customer needs and are working hard to offer these solutions to a wider customer base, particularly in Europe and Asia.
SECTOR PERFORMANCE PROFIT Our Health and Analysis sector had a relatively disappointing year with profits up by 3% despite million achieving revenue growth of 23%.
Good progress in Health Optics and Fluid Technology was more than offset by profit declines in Water and Photonics.
% Despite growing revenues, profits in Water declined with our water leak businesses experiencing very 29m 3 weak demand from UK water utilities.
International growth was satisfactory for all water products and useful progress continues to be made in Asia, in particular.
Operating costs were reduced in early 2009 to improve profitability in anticipation of continued short-term weakness in the market.
2009 29 Photonics profits declined on higher sales.
Operating costs increased at a higher rate than revenue 2008 28 due partly to delayed new product introductions.
Action has been taken to reduce costs and improve profitability in 2009 10.
Following their acquisition in 2008, new management teams 2007 24 are in place at Fiberguide and Oerlikon Optics now merged with Ocean Thin Films and both will be earnings enhancing in 2009 10.
2006 23 Our Health Optics businesses achieved record revenues and profits benefiting from strong growth 2005 15 in international markets and from recently launched new products.
Record revenues and profits were once again achieved by our Fluid Technology businesses supported by continued investment in distribution channels and R&D.
Some reduction in demand from existing customers during the year was offset by the addition of new customers.
SECTOR OUTLOOK We anticipate that demand in our Health and Analysis niche markets during 2009 10 will be relatively resilient, but not immune from the unfavourable economic environment.
We expect continuing weak demand in 2009 in the UK municipal Water sector, offset by increasing demand in export markets.
Worldwide, government spending via economic stimulus packages may help us, with the USA alone planning to spend $7.5 billion on water programmes.
The industrial water customers will offer growth opportunities underpinned by rising health and safety regulation.
Increasing regulation in China governing drinking water, wastewater discharge and the environment will also stimulate growth in the medium term.
We foresee continued strong demand in several key Photonics markets offset by softening in others.
1 The US Stimulus Plan will inject $13 billion into science and R&D investment via government agencies and drive demand for our products in the medium term.
In the short term our major focus is on improving profitability through much improved control of operating costs.
We expect a attening of demand for our Health Optics products in the developed world during 2009.
Growth will therefore be achieved through revenue increases in developing regions, like Eastern Europe and Asia, plus market share growth through improved products, quality and customer service levels.
Our Fluid Technology business has opportunities to grow through international market development, new product introduction and market-leading customer service levels.
A significant element of our revenue goes to OEM scientific instrument manufacturers and demand amongst those customers has been volatile during 2008.
However, there were signs of improved stability during early 2009 10 and we are well placed to exploit this if it continues.
1 US Stimulus Plan in February 2009 US President Barack Obama signed into law an economic stimulus plan worth about 550bn aimed at boosting the US economy.
co. uk 1 hi business 7874407. stm 28 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009
