BUSINESS REVIEW WE ADD VALUE THROUGH Encouraging COLLABORATION In this section: Sharing best practice Cross sector communication helps to resolve business challenges Meeting the demand creating Halma hubs to benefit and service new clients www.
com 39 Halma Innovation & Technology Exposition The first ever Exposition was held in London in 2009 with the goal of building on Innovation and Collaboration between Halma companies.
02 01 Tan Eng Aun, Divisional Finance Director, Elevator Safety, and Dinesh Musalekar, General Manager, TL Jones India, met during HITE to discuss how the Indian business can be expanded and how the division can assist 02 Steve Cech, VP Technology, Volk and Frederic Duchesne, Technical Director, SERV, explored the potential use of optical components in safety interlocks 03 Patricia Seniw, VP Finance, Perma Pure, talked to Rob Randelman, President, Ocean Optics about their distributor network in South America 04 Adrian Beasley, Technical Director, Keeler, explained the technology used in their eye testing system 05 Chong Siew Tan, General Manager, E-Motive showed Martin Zhang, Director Halma China, a world-leading interactive LCD display technology which can be used either in an elevator or as interior building signage 01 Encouraging global and cross sector collaboration Global collaboration Cross sector problem solving Halmas value creation This exciting event gave Halma companies Seminars were held covering core technologies strategy in action from across the world the opportunity to and applications common to many Group share knowledge of their markets and home companies.
For example they emphasised the regions.
Relationships already established by potential to share photonics technologies more programmes such as HEDP were reinforced widely across the Group.
and new ones created to support future growth opportunities.
40 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW BEAs Laser Scanners initial market is for industrial automatic doors, but its performance exceeds existing laser sensors at a fraction of the cost and it will potentially open up many other markets for the company.
03 04 05 Showcasing award winners Encouraging R&D Halma hubs The Halma Innovation Awards recognise New product innovation is a key element The Halma China hubs in Shanghai and Beijing individuals and teams who convert their of Halmas growth strategy.
A number of have been instrumental in growing revenues ideas into commercial success.
additional new product ideas came from the in the region.
The new manufacturing hub in event building on recent successes arising Shanghai will enable further Group companies This year the first prize of 20,000 was from existing collaboration.
to start manufacturing in the region for the first won by a team from BEA for their new time.
The presence of personnel from the new Laser Scanner automatic door sensor.
Halma India hub at the Exposition highlights the opportunity to repeat these successes in India.
