Earnings per share is calculated as profit before exceptional Earnings per share growth % items for the year, attributable to the equity shareholders 50 of the Group, divided by the weighted average number of 40 shares in issue during the year.
This is a measure of the profit performance of the Group.
30 20 Earnings per share decreased by 39% in 2009, reecting 10 the fall in the underlying profitability of the Group.
0 Since 2005, earnings per share has increased by a total of 13%.
-10 -20 -30 05 06 07 08 09 Cash conversion is calculated as the operating cash ow for Cash conversion % the year, stated as a percentage of operating profit before 170 exceptional items and is a measure of the Groups ability to 153 convert profit into cash.
136 Cash conversion increased by 64% to 165% in 2009.
This 119 was due to our continued focus on credit control together 102 with the working capital inow resulting from the reduction 85 in revenue billed.
com 35 05 97 29 06 95 27 07 107 17 08 101 24 09 165 39 DEVELOPING THE SKILLS WE NEED TO LEAD THE UPTURN Controlling discretionary spend is a priority, however this year we are increasing our focus on people development, as we view excellent consultant training as non-discretionary.
36 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 haysplc.
com 37 Directors Report Business Review Corporate Responsibility PEOPLE MAKING A DIFFERENCE difficult market conditions that they are currently experiencing.
Whether this be by sponsoring academic courses or working with the unemployed to coach them on CV writing techniques, Hays is working to share skills and knowledge with others.
I recently received a letter from the Chief Executive of Marie Curie Cancer Care thanking us for raising almost 500,000 over the last three years in the UK.
This impressive total was contributed to by hundreds of people in their own way, all showing that they wanted to be part of making a difference.
Globally across the Group we have similar success stories, where our people are making a difference by supporting various charities in their local markets.
As a significant quoted company in the UK, we recognise Hays broader role in setting a leading example in corporate responsibility and we believe that it is an important contributor to our strategic success.
Customers increasingly expect companies to conduct their business in a responsible way and we recognise the ethical importance of managing the impact of our business on people, the world and its resources.
Climate change is rightly a concern for everyone.
Although Hays carbon footprint is small in relation to the size of our business, we are committed to reducing our impact.
We are pleased that Hays plc is included in the FTSE4Good Global, Alistair Cox Europe and UK Indices, which provide tools for responsible Chief Executive investors to identify and invest in companies that meet globally-recognised corporate responsibility standards.
We touch many lives around the world and, as a result of this, we have a long-standing commitment of conducting our business in a responsible, ethical and sustainable manner.
Dear shareholder We will continue to ensure that we address the issues that our employees, clients, shareholders and other stakeholders view At Hays we play an important role in powering the world of work as important.
by helping clients and candidates make the most of employment opportunities.
Each week around 250,000 people go to Alistair Cox Hays.
com, our jobs portal, for advice and opportunities and, in Chief Executive the past year, we placed around 320,000 people into temporary and permanent roles across 28 countries and 17 specialisms.
Each of these placements represents a need satisfied for a client, and a chance to build something new for a candidate.
We are proud of our role in this process.
Our consultants build a deep understanding of a clients business and its culture, to ensure we connect the right person to the right job at every opportunity.
We believe that a new employee can be revitalising for a business, and for a candidate, a new job can be a life-changing experience.
In this fast-paced world of business, it is sometimes easy to forget that we play an integral role in the communities within which we operate and live.
Our people work hard for good causes, supporting both charities and initiatives that play an important part in the wider world of work.
We lead a number of employment programmes globally, using our expertise to help job seekers improve their prospects and adapt to the 38 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 This corporate responsibility objectives matrix is a living CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OBJECTIVES document that will evolve in line with our three-year corporate Corporate responsibility encompasses a broad range of responsibility business plan.
We have highlighted some of these philosophies, activities and standards.
Our objective is to initiatives further in the remainder of this Report.
consider the issues that are material to our business in order to make substantive progress and to achieve the best possible outcomes for all our stakeholders.
We have identied the areas that, for us, represent key areas of focus at present.
From these we have developed our current corporate responsibility objectives, which will help us to channel our resources toward improvement plans and, in turn, to improve transparency and accountability.
Current corporate responsibility objectives Associated work programmes 1.
To continue our programme of enhancing the services Rolling out a global candidate database.
Improving performance monitoring via Customer Services experience measures.
Developing and improving our in-house training resources to cover all aspects of our business.
To continue the development of our leadership development Developing our internal communications activities.
Improving our employee satisfaction measure through our TALKback survey.
Continuing to embed our Hays Leadership and Management Competencies into our key people-related processes.
To improve the collection of carbon emission data in Developing our involvement with Green500.
relation to our activities and to continue the development Extending the span and quality of our carbon emission data and implementation of a meaningful carbon emission collection and management arrangements.
Exploring the use of energy-saving technology.
To establish an international network of Hays Charity Forums Rolling out Hays Charity Forums in our principal operating in support of good causes.
Developing staff engagement through improved communications and creative participation opportunities.
To establish a standard approach to health and safety Rolling out compliance and competence training globally management and compliance across our principal countries to employees and employed temporary workers.
To improve the quality and depth of our corporate Established a corporate responsibility steering group to drive responsibility reporting.
strategy and improve internal communications.
Developing a three-year rolling corporate responsibility business plan.
Giving shareholders greater visibility of our corporate responsibility activities.
