Remuneration Report Governance Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce the report of the Board covering the remuneration policy and practice for the Company.
2009 performance and reward This year has seen the most challenging recruitment markets on record.
As a result, most of the listed recruitment companies have reported year-on-year reductions in profit of over 70% for trading in the 2009 calendar year so far, and some are at or below breakeven.
In our last quarter update, we reported a year-on-year reduction in net fees of 40% on a like-for-like basis, which gives an indication of the fall in demand in our markets.
Our ability to deliver significant levels of profits in our main businesses in this environment underlines the speed with which we have taken action to reduce our cost base and the strength of the Groups operating model.
Whilst we have minimal visibility on the year ahead, it seems reasonable to assume that trading conditions will continue to be tough until there are clear signs of economic recovery in our principal markets.
In this environment, we will continue to balance shorter-term actions to protect profitability with longer-term investment to build market share and strengthen our business.
We rmly believe that the experience of our Lesley Knox management teams, the early actions we have taken to reduce Remuneration Committee Chairman the cost base, our financial strength and strategy of continuing to invest in the long term, position us well to deal with both the short-term challenges and to capitalise on the longerterm opportunities.
Bonuses for executive directors for 2009 ranged between 59% and 64% of the maximum bonus opportunity.
30% of Contents each bonus award is to be paid in cash and 70% of the bonus 56 Remuneration Report is to be awarded in shares and deferred for a further three-year 58 Composition and terms of reference of the period.
Whilst the market has been very challenging in 2009, Remuneration Committee the Remuneration Committee Committee believes that 58 Advisers to the Remuneration Committee the Groups results compare favourably with those of our competitors and it is appropriate that bonuses for targets 58 Remuneration policy achieved should be paid in line with the transitional 58 How the executive directors were paid in 2009 arrangements agreed for 2009.
59 Elements of executive director remuneration package for 2008, 2009 and 2010 financial years 2010 remuneration arrangements 60 Summary of share-based incentive schemes Due to the market uncertainties in 2008 and the associated 61 Proposed changes for the 2010 financial year difficulties in setting long-term targets based on absolute financial measures, the Committee implemented a one-year 62 Shareholding policy structure for the 2009 financial year that kept the total value 62 Service contracts of the package constant, but placed greater emphasis on the 62 Non-executive directors annual bonus whilst ensuring there remained a strong link 62 Policy on external appointments with longer-term performance through significant deferral into 62 TSR performance shares.
When we put in place these transitional arrangements 63 Information subject to audit for 2009, we informed shareholders that they were a temporary 56 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 measure for one year only.
The key issue for the Committee These proposals are designed to provide a clear link with for the 2010 financial year was how to replace the one-year shareholder interests.
The deferral into shares will provide arrangement in a time of continuing market uncertainty.
a retention mechanism, which will be necessary as the During 2009, the Committee undertook an extensive review sector recovers.
Our review of the structure In the light of the uncertain economic outlook, the Committee re-confirmed the following design criteria for incentive plans has decided to apply a single performance measure for the for executive directors and other senior executives at Hays: 2010 PSP awards, but may revert to two performance measures for future years.
Therefore, for 2010 PSP awards, relative Total simplicity and clarity to ensure strong line of sight Shareholder Return TSR will be the sole long-term incentive for management: performance condition measured against a tailored sector peer alignment between reward and profitability and shareholder group.
In addition, vesting will be subject to satisfactory interests: and financial performance over the performance period as determined by the Committee.
More detail on the 2010 motivation of management to drive operational improvement proposals can be found on page 61 of the Report.
in the short term, but also to make the strategic investment necessary to make Hays the international leader in recruitment.
Given the current economic uncertainty, the need to manage costs effectively and remuneration trends, no base salary To enable investors to see clearly the changes to executive increases have been awarded to executive directors and director remuneration, the Remuneration Report explains the senior executives for the 2010 financial year.
arrangements for the 2008, 2009 and 2010 financial years on page 59.
The Committee is keen to ensure there is an open dialogue with shareholders about our remuneration policy and a broad based In making changes, the Committee has been mindful of consensus amongst our shareholders on remuneration policy the current economic climate, which has a direct impact on matters.
Certain aspects of the 2010 arrangements are still the recruitment sector, increasing technological change in under consultation as at the date of the Report.
Any material the industry and also shareholder concerns about executive changes as a result of further consultation will be explained to pay.
The proposed changes are intended to provide much shareholders in the Chairmans letter accompanying the Notice greater clarity for both participants and shareholders by of the Companys 2009 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee has considered the most recent guidance from Given the continuing economic uncertainty, the Committee the ABI, NAPF and Risk Metrics and believes that its remuneration has decided that, for 2010, it is appropriate to rebalance policies are appropriate.
the mix between the short-term and long-term elements of the incentive package for executive directors and to: The Committee unanimously recommends that shareholders vote to approve the Remuneration Report at the 2009 Annual reduce the overall incentive package: General Meeting.
maintain the cash bonus potential at the 2008 and 2009 levels: Lesley Knox Remuneration Committee Chairman increase the proportion of bonus based on financial measures from the 2008 and 2009 levels: increase the total annual bonus potential from the 2008 level, offset by a corresponding increase in the level of compulsory deferral into shares.
This change represents a decrease on 2009 maximum annual bonus levels: remove the share match for the element of annual bonus that is deferred into shares: adjust the long term element of the package by increasing the award under the Performance Share Plan PSP compared to 2008 levels: and, reduce the threshold payout under the PSP.
