EUROPE  bestpractice Hays Sales & Marketing specialists used our international network to recruit Walt Disneys in-house web teams in France, Spain and Italy.
Being able to co-ordinate assignments across different countries, with a market-leading presence on the ground, is a service that few of our competitors can match.
AUSTRALIA  swineflu Hays has helped set up emergency teams to deal with the public response toswine u.
In Victoria, Australia, Hays recruited around 250 administrators and managers, taking responsibility for managing the interviewing, onboarding, referencing and rostering.
Drawing on our unrivalled candidate databases and project management expertise, we achieved all this in the space of 48 hours.
INDIA January2009: HaysarrivesinIndia In January 2009 we opened our first Indian office in Mumbai.
We entered India this year not because the short-term prospects are great, but because we think the long-term opportunities are considerable.
With a population of over one billion, India promises to be one of the largest specialist recruitment markets of the future and Hays is the first international specialist recruitment group to enter this market organically.
RUSSIA March2009: HaysarrivesinRussia In March 2009 we opened our first Russian office in Moscow.
We entered Russia because it has the eighth largest economy in the world and a specialist recruitment market that is at very early stages of development.
Our business has successfully replicated into countries as diverse as Brazil, Singapore, UAE, Hungary and Denmark in recent years, and so we are very confident that it will take off in Russia too.
com 19  CaseStudies INNOVATING FORTHE FUTURE LOCATE  tolocalmarketissues In our Health and Social Care business, we have responded to structural shortages of skilled physicians, nurses and qualied social workers in most developed nations by launching a global resourcing service called LOCATE, which identies and attracts candidates from all over the world.
This year, we have recruited hundreds of healthcare professionals from India, the EU and the Middle East into the UK and Australia.
As populations age, we expect the structural shortage of skilled physicians in the more developed countries to become more severe and so we see these services as a great source of long-term growth.
20 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009   Our enhanced corporate accounts structure brings together all Hays capability across multiple specialisms, in both temporary and permanent placement markets, into one point of contact for large public sector and private sector clients.
This year in the UK, we have recently won a contract with Buckinghamshire County Council to source all their skilled recruitment over the next 10 years, which will involve 1000s of hires every year.
In Australia, we have been selected as a preferred supplier across multiple specialisms for Westpac Group and ANZ Bank, which are two of the largest banks in the country.
In Singapore and Hong Kong, we have been appointed preferred supplier to all GEs businesses.
  Hays has partnered Abbey since 2004, managing all their recruitment needs.
Our onsite team provide end-to-end services, from candidate attraction, screening and interviewing to onboarding.
Last year we recruited around 6,000 people for Abbey from administration staff to lawyers and accountants.
We have not only improved the quality of their recruitment, but we have also reduced their recruitment costs.
This year the contract was extended to include Santanders Alliance & Leicester and Bradford & Bingley operations.
HAYSLEADERSHIP  Hays Leadership works alongside the National College for School Leadership providing career opportunities and counselling to headteachers.
Over the last two years, we have advised 1,200 potential headteachers and placed hundreds into new roles.
Overall in the UK, our Education recruitment business has grown by more than 40% over the last two years and we are now one of the top three leaders in this market.
HAYSDIGITAL&CREATIVE  forourclients Hays Digital & Creative provides a broad range of technology-driven communication products and services, from candidate attraction, mobile messaging and web-based recruitment, through to video production and the use of social media.
We are seeing high levels of interest for these services.
For example, this year we have built 330 bespoke recruitment microsites for our clients across 20 countries.
Hays Digital & Creative has recently built a microsite for the Greater Gorgon Gas Fields Project, recruiting experts from around the world to work on Australias largest natural resources project.
com 21 Directors Report Business Review Operating Review: UK & IRELAND Net fees by specialism % Net fees by region % Accountancy & Finance London 4 Construction & Property North & Scotland 9 25 IT Home Counties 29 Other Midlands & East Anglia 39 16 South West & Wales Ireland 9 20 26 23 Temporary: Permanent % Private: Public sector % 60% 40% 67% 33% Temporary Permanent Private Public Regional highlights Specialisms 16 Number 1 market position Consultants 2,315 Diverse sector exposure Offices 212 Broad geographic coverage 2009 highlights Private sector market conditions deteriorated through the year, particularly in our permanent placement business Public sector net fees increased 5% Early and continued actions taken to reduce the cost base Excellent progress on our IT efficiency projects Enhanced account management and service offering has yielded several major client wins Well placed to deal with the market conditions and capitalise when markets improve 22 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009
