Directors Report Business Review Chairmans Statement BUILT TO WITHSTAND TOUGH TIMES Whilst we are disappointed to report a 39% reduction in earnings per share for the year, we consider it a good result in the current environment, and we believe we have achieved one of the market-leading financial performances in our sector.
Last year I also expressed my confidence that Hays will emerge from any downturn a more efficient business, with an increased market share.
Whilst dealing with short-term trading conditions has been the priority this year, we have been careful not to lose sight of these longer-term objectives.
We have continued to expand into new markets, which we believe present significant long-term opportunities, including entry into two of the worlds largest economies: India and Russia.
We have continued to commit resources to areas of the market that have been relatively resilient, particularly in the public sector, both in the UK and Australia.
Our financial strength has enabled us to protect our infrastructure in businesses that are at early stages of development, particularly in Continental Europe and Asia.
As we set out later in this Annual Report, we have continued to innovate through the downturn, rening how we operate and go to market, including the enhancements we have made to our account management structure, training programmes and branding.
On the efficiency front, we have ring-fenced our investment in upgrading our IT systems to ensure that we will go into the economic recovery with the most capable Bob Lawson and efficient IT systems in our sector.
Your Board has already Chairman tasked the executive with preparing robust planning scenarios to enable us to capitalise on an improvement in the global economies, whenever that may occur.
Dividend Our dividend policy is designed to support a sustainable Last year, we anticipated that the economies in which we dividend across the economic cycle, whilst also delivering a operate would be challenging and in fact the markets for progressive dividend during periods of growth.
In view of the recruitment have proved the toughest on record.
We are current economic conditions, the Board is proposing to hold positioned in one of the most cyclical sectors of the economy the final dividend at last years level of 3.95 pence.
This would and, as a result, many of our markets in the later stages of the result in a full-year dividend of 5.80 pence 2008: 5.80 pence.
year were experiencing reductions in year-on-year demand of over 40% as the economic downturn increasingly impacted Board governance client and candidate confidence.
The business has adapted well The Board has met 10 times this year, which included two to these conditions, with all of our largest businesses remaining overseas visits to the Groups operations in Ireland and very profitable and cash generative.
On a Group basis, we Germany.
In addition, the Board discussed the development of protected profits well and delivered an excellent cash ow our strategic priorities.
These priorities focus upon developing performance.
I think this financial performance is testimony scale in key international markets, developing our use of IT for to the decisiveness with which our management team acted competitive advantage, brand deployment and creative use of to reduce the cost base and the agility of our business model.
Continuing activities only, pre-exceptional items.
04 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Four key characteristics that have enabled us to deal with the current economic conditions: BALANCED PORTFOLIO 28 countries 17 specialisms temp & perm STRONG COST CONTROL Market leading conversion rate & exible cost base HIGHLY CASH GENERATIVE With low capital intensity STRONG MANAGEMENT With proven track record underpinned by Hays DNA Our Board evaluation process is now beginning to demonstrate UK for the Marie Curie Cancer Care charity, which provides its value to your Company, in that all directors feel that the support for terminally-ill patients.
This year, some great Board has become more effective in the last year and has initiatives have been undertaken by our people, much in clear priorities going forward, centred on our people and skills, their own time, to support charities that they have chosen.
further increasing the international component of the business I think these activities are a great example of the spirit that and driving efficiency.
Fundamentally, we have little forward pervades the Hays organisation.
visibility and so developing an organisation and culture that is exible and agile is going to be a key component of our Summary future success, and Board time is being devoted to this Whilst I expect tough trading conditions to persist through complex subject.
the next year, I am confident that the experience of our management teams, our leading market positions, the early People actions we have taken to reduce the cost base, our financial This has been a particularly tough year for our people.
Many strength and strategy of continuing to invest in the long term have had to leave in order to match our resources to the market position us well to deal with both the short-term challenges and those remaining have had to accept additional roles and and to capitalise on the longer-term opportunities ahead.
responsibilities whilst experiencing a reduction in income from the variable element of their pay.
Bob Lawson Chairman As indicated through this Annual Report, our staff have continued to apply themselves with energy and passion and, on our many visits to our companies and offices, I have been immensely impressed with their spirit and enthusiasm.
Such commitment and application bodes well for the future of the Company.
It is my privilege on behalf of the Board to express our thanks to all our people around the world.
Corporate responsibility Our approach to corporate responsibility encompasses a broad range of philosophies, activities and standards, which are provided in detail later in the Annual Report.
Here, I would like to single out our charitable work.
As an organisation we encourage and support our employees to participate in a diverse range of charitable activities all over the world.
For example, in Australia we are involved in Camp Quality, which provides activities for children with cancer.
In New Zealand, we support United Way, bringing together resources between businesses and their local communities.
In Germany, we finance a doctor who works with children with cancer at a major university hospital and support a number of initiatives that further help children with cancer.
In France, many of our consultants were recently cycling around Paris to raise funds for the Medical Research Foundation Against Breast Cancer.
In the UK this summer, around 40 of our employees hiked 26 miles across Yorkshire to raise money for charity.
Over the last three years, we have raised almost 500,000 in the haysplc.
com 05  BusinessOverview Group prole , PROFESSIONAL ANDSKILLEDWORK.
Netfeesbyspecialism % Netfees m 100 Accountancy & Finance UK & Ireland 90 Construction & Property International 80 28 IT 70 33 Other 60 50 40 30 19 20 20 10 Netfeesbydivision % Operatingprot m 100 UK & Ireland UK & Ireland 90 Asia Pacic International 80 22 Continental Europe & 70 Rest of World 60 50 49 40 30 29 20 10 Temporary:Permanent % Private:Publicsector % 56% 44% 78% 22% Temporary Permanent Private Public Continuing activities only, pre-exceptional items.
06 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 05 05 78% 22% 75% 25% 06 06 71% 29% 70% 30% 07 07 65% 35% 66% 34% 08 54% 46% 08 58% 42% 09 40% 60% 09 49% 51% UAE Switzerland Sweden Spain Russia Portugal Poland Netherlands Luxembourg Italy India Hungary Germany France Denmark CzechRep.
Canada Brazil Belgium Austria Singapore Japan China&HK Aus&NZ UK&Ireland Areas of specialism  17SPECIALISMS.
10% of country activity 10% of country activity Accountancy&Finance Construction&Property  Sales&Marketing Banking ContactCentres Education Executive FinancialServices Healthcare HumanResources Legal Oil&Gas Pharmaceutical Purchasing ResourceManagement Resources&Mining haysplc.
