Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance range of experience and independent judgement they each bring to the Board on all matters.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision, including the review of the financial results, material contracts, Group strategy, investor relations, Board appointments, dividend recommendations, major capital projects and acquisitions and disposals.
The Board met 10 times during the year.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, plans the programme for Board visits to operations in the UK and overseas and presentations from senior executives.
During the year, the Board visited the Companys businesses in Ireland and Germany, reviewing operations and receiving presentations from local management on performance and opportunities.
The Board also received presentations from other senior management within the Group.
The agenda for the Board and its Committee meetings is considered by the relevant Chairman and issued with supporting papers during the preceding week.
For each Board meeting, directors receive a Board pack, including monthly management accounts, brieng papers on commercial and operational matters and major capital projects, including acquisitions.
Bob Lawson The attendance of those directors in place at the year end Chairman at Board and Committee meetings held during the year was as follows: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee No.
Attended The Board of Hays plc is committed to the highest standards of R A Lawson 10 1 corporate governance and bases its actions on the principles set A R Cox 10 out in the June 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance C W Eccleshare 9 3 0 6 the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council.
P S Harrison 10 4 1 8 Further information on the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website, frc.
L M S Knox 10 4 0 8 R J Smelt 10 1 8 The Financial Services Authority requires listed companies P H Stoneham 10 4 0 7 incorporated in the UK to disclose how they have applied the P Venables 10 main principles set out in Section 1 of the Code and whether they have complied with the principles in Section 1 throughout A procedure exists for the directors, in the furtherance of their the financial year.
This statement describes how the Company duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, applied the principles of the Code.
under the guidance of the Company Secretary and at the Companys expense.
All directors have access to the advice and Throughout the year ended 30 June 2009, the Company has, services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the without exception, complied with the provisions set out in Chairman for ensuring that Board procedures are complied Section 1 of the Code.
with and that applicable rules and regulations are followed.
The Board On appointment, directors receive a formal induction, which The Board provides leadership and stewardship.
The Board includes visits to relevant business units and functions and comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director discussions with senior management.
These are tailored to and five independent non-executive directors.
All directors the individual needs of the directors and continue throughout served throughout the financial year.
The biographical details their tenure.
Brieng sessions on legislative and accounting for all of the directors appear on page 45 and demonstrate the developments are held for the Board when appropriate.
46 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Board independence At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief 12 November 2008, shareholders authorised the directors, until Executive are separate.
A formal division of each individuals the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held on responsibilities has been agreed and documented by the Board.
11 November 2009, to purchase up to 206,364,799 Ordinary shares of 1 pence each in the Company and to allot new shares The non-executive directors bring an independent view to the up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,585,884, being Boards discussions and the development of its strategy.
Their approximately one third of the Companys issued share capital.
range of experience ensures that managements performance The authority to allot shares was not used.
Renewal of both in achieving the business goals is challenged appropriately.
authorities will be proposed to shareholders at the forthcoming In conjunction with the executive directors, they ensure that Annual General Meeting.
financial controls and systems of risk management are both The Board intends to continue to return surplus cash to rigorous and adequate for the needs of the business.
shareholders where circumstances allow and it is not required All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to finance the organic expansion of the business, acquisitions to be independent as detailed in the Code.
and dividend payments, via the on-market purchase of its own shares.
Shares will only be purchased if to do so would result in The letters of appointment for non-executive directors are an increase in earnings per share and is in the best interests of available for review at the Registered Office and prior to each shareholders generally.
No share purchases are anticipated in annual general meeting.
A pro forma letter of appointment the 2010 financial year.
is also available on the Companys website, haysplc.
The Board will be seeking the approval of the shareholders to Under the Code, the Board appoints one of the non-executive renew this authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting directors to act as Senior Independent Director whose main as detailed in the separate Circular to Shareholders.
responsibility is to be available to shareholders should they have concerns that they have not been able to resolve through Appointment and replacement of directors normal channels, or when such channels would be inappropriate.
The Company may by ordinary resolution appoint any Mrs L M S Knox serves as the Senior Independent Director.
The Board may appoint any individual willing to act as a director either to ll a vacancy or act as an Board effectiveness additional director.
The appointee can only hold office until the An external review of the Boards effectiveness and the next annual general meeting whereupon he she will be put effectiveness of its Committees was undertaken in 2007 by forward for election.
In 2008 and 2009 the Board conducted its own reviews.
The findings of the 2009 review have been considered The Articles of Association prescribe that there shall be no less by the Board and certain actions will be implemented as a than five and no more than 15 directors.
The Chairman has met with the non-executive directors reduce below five, then the Board shall, as soon as practical, individually, without the executive directors being present, to appoint an individual to ll the vacancy.
The Company may consider the findings of the review.
The Senior Independent by ordinary resolution vary the minimum number of directors.
Director has also met with the other non-executive directors At each annual general meeting, not less than one third of the to review the Chairmans performance, having consulted directors must retire by rotation and any director who has been with the executive directors.
This has enabled constructive in office for three years or more since his her last appointment feedback to be given to each director.
As part of the review, or re-appointment must retire by rotation.
A retiring director is the effectiveness of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination eligible for re-election.
The Audit Committee also undertook its own separate review reported on page 53.
Responsibilities and membership of Board Committees Following the review, the Chairman is satisfied that each of the The Board has agreed written terms of reference for the directors being put forward for re-election at the forthcoming Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and Audit Annual General Meeting continues to be effective, that their Committee.
The terms of reference for all three Board Committees ongoing commitment to the role is undiminished and that are published on the Companys website, haysplc.
com, and are each non-executive director being put forward for re-election also available upon request from the Company Secretary at the continues to be independent.
Powers of directors Nomination Committee The directors are responsible for the management of the Mr R A Lawson chairs the Nomination Committee.
Mrs L M S business and may exercise all powers of the Company subject Knox and Messrs C W Eccleshare, P S Harrison, R J Smelt and to legislation, any directions given by special resolution and P H Stoneham were members of the Committee throughout the the Companys constitution.
The Chief Executive attends by invitation when appropriate.
