Corporate Governance BOaRD OF DIRECTORS 1.
7. n Audit Committee l Remuneration Committee s Nomination Committee t Reserves Committee u CSR Committee 46 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 4.
General Sir Michael Wilkes nls non-Executive Director Chairman and non-Executive Director non-Executive Director and Senior Mr Turnbull is the Regional Managing Mr Hibberd has extensive international Independent Director Partner of the Calgary office of the law firm energy project planning and capital markets General Sir Michael Wilkes KCB, CBE, of McCarthy Ttrault LLP.
Mr Hibberd has been president retired from the British Army in 1995 as extensive knowledge of corporate and chief executive officer of MJH Services Adjutant General and Middle East Adviser to governance issues and has acted for many Inc. a corporate finance advisory company, the British Government.
As Adjutant boards of directors and special committees since 1995, prior to which he spent 12 years General, Sir Michael was the most senior in that regard.
Mr Turnbull started his career with ScotiaMcLeod in corporate finance and administrative officer within the Army and a with the law firm of MacKimmie Matthews in held the position of director and senior member of the Army Board.
From 1987 to 2001, he was a partner vice-president, corporate finance.
He is distinguished career, he has seen active with Gowlings LLP formerly Code Hunter chairman of Canacol Energy Ltd. coservice across the world while also LLP.
In 2001 and 2002, he was a partner chairman of Sunshine Oilsands Ltd. and commanding at every level from Platoon to with the law firm of Donahue LLP.
Mr currently serves on the boards of directors Field Army including commanding 22 Turnbull has been a partner with the law firm of AltaCanada Energy Corp. Avalite Inc. Special Air Service Regiment and serving of McCarthy Ttrault LLP since July 2002.
Iteration Energy Ltd. Pan Orient Energy as the Director of Special Forces.
Sir He is a non-executive director of Crescent Corp. and Zapata Energy Corporation.
Michael is a non-executive director of the Point Energy Corp. Storm Exploration Inc, Mr Hibberd also served as a director of AIM listed companies Stanley Gibbons Seaview Energy Inc. Hawk Exploration Inc. Rally Energy Corp. until October 2007 and Group and Blue Star Capital plc.
In addition, Canadian Superior Energy Inc. BNP as a director of Deer Creek Energy Limited he holds non-executive positions on a Resources Inc. and Sunshine Oilsands Ltd. until December 2005.
Mr Hibberd joined number of private companies including He joined Heritage in 1997.
John McLeod nlt 2. anthony Buckingham su 7.
Salim Macki nl non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer non-Executive Director Mr McLeod is a Professional Engineer with Mr Buckingham is the founder of Heritage.
Mr Macki was a Member of the State nearly 40 years of varied resources Mr Buckingham commenced his Council, Former Ambassador, Government extraction experience.
He is the president of involvement in the oil industry as a North of Sultanate of Oman and has been a McLeod Petroleum Consulting Limited, the Sea diver and subsequently became a director of Oman Oil a wholly owned president, chief executive officer and a concession negotiator acting for several Government company since 1996.
Mr director of Tuscany Energy Ltd. Paris companies including Ranger and Premier Macki holds a masters degree in Energy Inc. and California Oil and Gas Oil plc.
He was previously a security adviser petrochemical engineering and has spent Corporation.
He has held positions and has to various Governments.
most of his working life in the oil industry, served on various boards including where he is highly regarded internationally.
Constellation Oil & Gas Ltd. and CanArgo 3.
Paul atherton tu He holds, or has previously held, many Energy Inc. as president and chief Chief Financial Officer senior executive positions in various private executive officer of Arakis Energy Company, Mr Atherton is a qualified accountant, and state-owned entities in Oman and as vp, operations of Pengrowth Gas having qualified with Deloitte & Touche, and internationally.
Company, chief executive officer and holds a degree in geology from Imperial director of Rally Energy Corp. and Canoro College London.
He has a corporate finance Resources.
Currently, Mr McLeod serves as background with specific experience in the a director of Diaz Resources Ltd. Ranger international mining and resource sectors.
Energy Ltd and Ralliste Energy Corp.
He is a He joined Heritage in 2000 and Past-President of the Association of subsequently joined the Board of Directors Professional Engineers, Geologists and in 2005.
