Directors Report The Directors of the Company submit their report together with the Corporate Governance Statement consolidated audited financial statements for the year ended In accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure 31 December 2009 for the Company and the Group.
1, the disclosures required by DTR 7.2.
7 may be found in the Corporate The Company was incorporated as Heritage Oil Limited on Governance Report on pages 48 to 54.
6 February 2008 in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991, as amended the Jersey Companies Law to become the ultimate Results and Dividends holding company of the Group.
Heritage Oil Limited changed its The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December name to Heritage Oil Plc on 18 June 2009.
HOC is a wholly owned 2009 are set out on pages 68 to 98. subsidiary of the Company.
The proposed disposal of the Ugandan interests is expected to The Company has had a Premium Listing on the Main Market of the complete within the first half of 2010.
After completion of the LSE since March 2008.
The Group has two share classes traded: transaction, Heritage will have the financial flexibility to consider Ordinary Shares issued by the Company which trade on the Main various options to create further shareholder value and will also Market of the LSE and Exchangeable Shares issued by HOC which consider returning a portion of the transaction proceeds to trade both on the Main Market of the LSE and on the TSX.
The shareholders via a special dividend, which could be in the range of Company is a member of the FTSE 250 Index.
The Company has not declared or paid any other dividends since incorporation and the Company does not Principal Activities have any current intentions to pay further dividends in the The Group is an independent, international oil and gas exploration, foreseeable future.
Future payments of dividends are expected to development and production company with a focus on Africa, the depend on the earnings and financial condition of the Company and Middle East and Russia.
It has exploration projects in Kurdistan, the such other factors as the Board of Directors of the Company DRC, Malta, Pakistan, Tanzania and Mali, and a producing property consider appropriate.
The Group operates through a number of subsidiaries which are set out on page 76.
Directors The Directors of the Company as at 31 December 2009 are listed Business Review below.
They all served as Directors throughout 2009 and up to the The Business Review includes the financial performance during the date of signing the financial statements.
financial year, future developments, performance of the Group and Appointment Dates principal risks and uncertainties.
A review of the business is incorporated by reference, forming part of this Directors Report, Michael Hibberd Chairman 18 March 2008 and further information can be found in the pages below: Anthony Buckingham Chief Executive Officer 25 February 2008 Chairmans Statement on pages 8 to 9: Paul Atherton Chief Financial Officer 6 February 2008 The Chief Executives Statement on pages 12 to 13: Gregory Turnbull 18 March 2008 Operations Review on pages 18 to 29: Financial Review on pages 30 to 37: and Salim Macki 12 August 2008 Corporate Social Responsibility Review on pages 38 to 43.
John McLeod 18 March 2008 General Sir Michael Wilkes 18 March 2008 The cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements on page 33 of this Annual Report forms part of this Annual Report Biographical details of all Directors can be found on page 47. and is incorporated by reference into the Business Review.
With the exception of General Sir Michael Wilkes and Salim Macki, all In addition, the Company has published a separate CSR report to the Directors were previously, and continue to be, Directors of HOC.
be sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
Directors Election and Rotation Key Performance Indicators With regard to retirement and re-election of Directors, the Company Heritage uses a number of financial and operating Key is governed by its Articles of Association the Articles, the Performance Indicators KPIs against which it monitors Combined Code and the Jersey Companies Law.
These KPIs will continue to be developed as the the power to appoint a Director during the year but any person so Companys operations evolve.
appointed must stand for election at the next AGM.
It is the 2009 2008 Companys policy that all Directors should retire and stand for 1 re-election at least once every three years.
A retiring Director is LTIFR 0.00 0.03 eligible to stand for re-election.
Staff turnover 3% 3% 2 Production from continuing operations -13% 80% In accordance with the above provisions, Michael Hibberd and 3 Reserves and Resources additions 103% 272% Paul Atherton will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the next AGM.
Average realised price -35% 5% Powers of the Directors 1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate per 10,000 hours worked.
Subject to the Companys Articles, relevant statutory law and any 2 Excludes production from Block 8, Oman which was sold in April 2009.
direction that may be given by the Company in general meeting, the business of the Company is managed by the Directors who may exercise all powers of the Company.
62 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors Indemnity Provisions Ordinary 1 Name Shares held % Held Under the Companys Articles, Directors are indemnified out of the 2 assets of the Company against any loss or liability incurred by Albion Energy Limited 84,540,340 29.4 reasons of having been a Director of the Company.
Capital Research and Management Company 31,920,045 11.1 Share Capital Lansdowne Partners Limited 28,776,161 10.0 Capital Structure Harrier Holdings Ltd re LCAM 9,903,861 3.44 The Company has two classes of shares, namely the Ordinary Shares and the special voting share the Special Voting Share.
1 Includes voting rights attaching to the Special Voting Share as well as the Ordinary Shares.
The Ordinary Shares and the Special Voting Share carry no right to 2 Number of Ordinary Shares held by both Albion Energy Limited and fixed income.
The Ordinary Shares have a right to one vote for every Anthony Buckingham.
share at general meetings whilst the holders of Exchangeable Shares have rights through the Special Voting Share held by the Albion and Anthony Buckingham entered into the Relationship trustee of the Voting and Exchange Trust to one vote at general Agreement as part of the listing on the Main Market of the LSE.
meetings for every Exchangeable Share on the same basis as if The purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that they had exchanged them for Ordinary Shares.
For clarity, the transactions and relationships between the Group, Albion and Voting and Exchange Trust is a Canadian Trust that holds the Anthony Buckingham are at arms length and on normal Special Voting Share for the benefit of the registered holders of the commercial terms.
Exchangeable Shares pursuant to the terms of a Voting and Exchange Trust Agreement dated 27 February 2008 as amended Annual General Meeting 24 April 2008.
The AGM will be held at 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey, Channel Islands on 17 June 2010.
Formal notice of the Details of how to vote and deadlines for exercising voting rights are AGM including details of special business will be set out in the set out in the Notice of AGM.
Notice of AGM and will be available on the Companys website at www.
Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in writing in any usual form or in any Registrar other form acceptable to the Directors.
Directors may refuse to The Companys share registrar is Computershare Investor Services register any transfer of certificated shares which are not fully paid or Channel Islands Limited of Ordnance House, 31 Pier Road, where the register of transfer is not in the acceptable form.
St Helier, JE4 8PW, Jersey, Channel Islands.
The issued share capital of the Company and total voting rights of Creditors Payment Policy the Company as at 29 April 2010 are as follows: It is the Company and Groups policy to settle all debts with 284,842,830 Ordinary Shares of the Company are issued and creditors on a timely basis and in accordance with the terms of outstanding, which constitutes 98.9% of the total voting rights of credit agreed with each supplier.
Average creditor payment days for the Company: and the period under review were approximately 45 days.
3,024,108 Exchangeable Shares of HOC each carrying one voting right in the Company, are issued and outstanding, which Employees constitutes 1.1% of the total voting rights of the Company.
The Company is committed to equal opportunity in recruitment, promotion and employment.
During 2009, the average number of The Executive Directors interests in the Ordinary Shares, employees for the Group including full-time contractors, Exchangeable Shares, options granted under the employee share consultants and Directors based in the following locations was: scheme and interests in the LTIP are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 59.
Jersey 3 Canada 5 Repurchase of Shares Russia 40 As approved at the General Meeting held on 25 January 2010, the Company may make market purchases of its own shares.
Any Europe 27 shares which have been so purchased may be held as treasury Uganda 48 shares or cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase.
Kurdistan 23 The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during 2009 Tanzania 10 or in 2010 up to 29 April 2010, being the date of this report.
South Africa 8 Total 164 Major Shareholders In accordance with DTR 5, the shareholders listed on the following Political and Charitable Donations table have notified the Company of their interests in the Ordinary The Company made charitable, social and community-related Shares of the Company as at 29 April 2010: donations during the year totalling $334,526 2008 $355,997.
The Group has undertaken a wide range of community schemes, including public health, education, environment, public facility and community relations based programmes further details of which can be found on pages 38 to 43 and also in the separate CSR 63 Directors Report continued report accompanying this Annual Report.
In line with Group policy, and Group budgets, the cash flow forecasts and reviewed the no political donations were made during 2009. availability of banking facilities.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Change of Control Agreements Statements.
The Company confirms that there are no significant agreements to which it is party that would take effect, alter or terminate upon Statement of Directors Responsibilities a change of control following a takeover bid except those The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and disclosed below: the financial statements for the Group in accordance with the Executive Directors service contracts contain certain applicable Jersey law and regulations.
provisions in relation to change of control as disclosed in the Remuneration Report: Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group financial the LTIP rules contain a provision whereby in the event of a statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required change of control all awards will vest in their entirety subject to to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with the achievement or otherwise of the performance conditions: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by on 16 February 2007, HOC issued 1,650 $100,000 convertible the European Union EU and applicable law.
bonds at par to raise $165,000,000 by way of a private placement.
Issue costs amounted to $6,979,268 resulting in net The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as proceeds of $158,020,732.
The bonds at par have a maturity of adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the five years and one day and an annual coupon of 8.00%.
The Group and the performance for that period.
bondholders had the right to convert the bonds into Ordinary Shares at a price of $4.70 per share.
As at 29 April 2010, In preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to: $37,900,000 of bonds have converted, leaving 1,271 $100,000 select suitable accounting policies and then apply convertible bonds outstanding: and them consistently: bondholders have a put option requiring the Company to redeem present information, including accounting policies, in a the bonds at par, plus accrued interest, in the event of a change manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and of control of the Company, together with an additional cash understandable information: payment of up to $19,700 on each $100,000 bond.
The amount provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific of additional payment depends upon the date of redemption and requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand market value of the Companys Ordinary Shares at the date of the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions any change of control event.
on the entitys financial position and financial performance: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS Important Events Subsequent to the Year End as adopted by the EU: and Events since the balance sheet date are summarised in note 25 to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless, the financial statements on page 98. having assessed the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern, it is inappropriate to presume the Company will Audit and Auditors continue in business.
Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that its to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991. relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are Auditors are aware of that information.
reasonably open to them for safeguarding the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the Auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that Under applicable law, regulations and listing rule requirements, the the existing Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed.
KPMG Audit Directors are also responsible for the preparation of a Directors Plc has expressed their willingness to continue as Auditors.
An Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement.
ordinary resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company and authorising the Directors to set their remuneration The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
the statutory and audited information on the Companys website.
Jersey legislation and United Kingdom regulation, governing the Financial Risks and Financial Instruments preparation and dissemination of financial statements, may differ Information on financial risk management, including credit and from requirements in other jurisdictions.
liquidity risks and information about financial instruments is set out in the financial review on pages 34 to 36 and the notes to the Approved by the Board on 29 April 2010 financial statements on pages 83 to 84 respectively.
Going Concern After making due enquiries, the Directors have made an informed judgement at the time of approving the Financial Statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate Anthony Buckingham resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Chief Executive Officer future.
In making this assessment they have considered the Company 29 April 2010 64
