Overview COMPANY OVERVIEW Operational success has transformed Heritage dramatically but its strategy remains unchanged.
The Company typically focuses on regions which may have been overlooked and where it can be an early entrant.
Heritage will seek out opportunities for high impact exploration, targeting the potential for significant hydrocarbon reserves.
OUR STRATEGIC OUR BUSINESS ASSETS POSITIONING MODEL Kurdistan remains a core area of Focus on core areas where we Our business model is underpinned focus with near-term exploration have technical understanding by our core values and appraisal drilling First mover advantage as High impact exploration drilling demonstrated in Uganda and Business Model Strategy to commence in Malta in 2010 Kurdistan Production and Access to Capital Commerciality Balanced Portfolio Geographical diversification Focus on high impact exploration Exploration and across Africa, the Middle East and targeting regions with significant Strategic Positioning Development Russia hydrocarbon reserves potential, Key Partnerships Acquire and Invest and Relationships such as Kurdistan and Malta Vision and Diverse portfolio of assets Responsible Business Identification encompassing a mix of Strong balance sheet giving exploration, development and Heritage the ability to grow Experience & Knowledge production through acquisitions and farm-ins 04 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 7 2 1 3 6 8 4 5 GEOGRAPHICAL PRESENCE exploration production KuRDISTan REGIOn OF 3 1 2 IRaq KuRDISTan MALTA PAKISTAN Significant discovery announced in 2009 with Planned to acquire 1,000 kilometres of A number of structural leads have been the Miran West discovery well.
Exploration seismic in 2010 with the first exploration well mapped in the Zamzama North Block.
and appraisal drilling continues in 2010. in the area planned for the fourth quarter.
Further seismic data is being acquired with The Miran West-2 well has intersected The well will target a structure with a the first exploration well planned for the fourth hydrocarbon-bearing intervals over potential 500 mmboe.
quarter of 2010. approximately 1,800 metres within the Cretaceous formations.
The well is drilling to the deeper Jurassic and Triassic exploration targets with the potential to contain substantial volumes of additional hydrocarbons.
DEMOCRaTIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 5 4 6 DRC TANzANIA MALI Currently awaiting Presidential Decree.
Seismic data was acquired in 2009.
The Seismic data shows the presence of tilted Management considers the DRC side of the data is currently being analysed and will be fault blocks.
Previous drilling in the region Albert Basin to be potentially as prospective used as the basis for a drilling programme.
encountered oil and gas shows indicating for significant oil accumulations as the the potential for a working hydrocarbon Ugandan side.
An infill seismic programme of approximately 1,000 kilometres is planned for this year to identify potential drilling targets.
7 8 RUSSIA uGanDa Production set to increase over the year Pioneering company with entry into Uganda with additional development drilling.
Proved Zapadno Chumpasskoye Field up a multi-billion barrel basin.
Commercial development project was approved in threshold for development achieved.
2009 to develop the field utilising Proposed sale of the assets for up to $1.5 horizontal drilling technology and expand billion expected to complete within the first the current production facilities.
05 Overview COMPANY OVERVIEW continued Experienced management and technical teams with a track record of finding world-class oilfields.
The Company has long-established relationships and an extensive network of contacts in its core activity areas.
top from left to right Gregory Turnbull Non-Executive Director John McLeod Non-Executive Director General Sir Michael Wilkes Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Salim Macki Non-Executive Director bottom from left to right Paul Atherton Chief Financial Officer Anthony Buckingham Chief Executive Officer Michael J. Hibberd Chairman 06 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 January 2009 TRaCK RECORD Discovered the Buffalo-Giraffe Field in Block 1, Uganda Exceptional track record of February 2009 creating shareholder value and Completed the successful monetising assets Kingfisher-3A well, Uganda Expect to receive approval from First oil from West Bukha Field, Oman the Government of Uganda and complete the proposed disposal april 2009 of the Ugandan interests for up to Sale of Oman holdings $1.5 billion within the first half May 2009 of 2010 Confirmation of a major oil discovery with the Miran West-1 Sold Oman holdings in 2009 for well, Kurdistan $28.4 million, including working capital adjustments June 2009 Successful equity placement raising Raised approximately $100 gross proceeds of $217 million million from the sale of assets in august 2009 the Republic of Congo between Successful production test of the 2002 and 2006 Miran West-1 well, Kurdistan Development expertise gained november 2009 from developing and operating the Commenced drilling Miran West-2 zapadno Chumpasskoye Field, appraisal well Russia December 2009 Executed a Sale and Purchase Agreement with ENI International B. V. to sell Ugandan interests for up to $1.5 billion January 2010 Tullow Uganda Limited exercised its right to pre-empt the sale of the Ugandan interests april 2010 Letter received from the Government of Uganda stating it supports the sale and transfer of Heritages Ugandan interests Miran West-2 well intersected significant hydrocarbon-bearing intervals over approximately 1,800 metres Three zones identified for testing once drilling has completed 07
