50 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 Board of Directors Samih Darwazah Mazen Darwazah Non-Executive Chairman, 79 Executive Vice-Chairman, CEO of MENA, 51 Samih Darwazah, remained as Chairman of the Company following Mazen Darwazah was appointed Executive Vice-Chairman in 2005. his resignation as Chief Executive Officer in July 2007.
Since joining Hikma in 1985 he has held various positions within the Prior to forming Hikma Pharmaceuticals Ltd in 1978 Mr Darwazah Group, including Chairman and CEO of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited held various managerial positions with Eli Lilly.
As CEO of the MENA business Mazen is responsible for the 1996 he served as Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources in Jordan strategic development of the business in this region.
and was a member of the Advisory Economic Council to His Majesty Mazen is also a director of the Jordan International Insurance the King of Jordan.
He also founded the Jordan Trade Association.
Company and holds a number of non executive directorships of various Samih is a qualified pharmacist and holds a masters degree from non-governmental and educational organisations.
He has previously the St. Louis College of Pharmacy, Missouri.
He is also Chairman of served as the President of the Jordanian Association of Manufacturers Labatec Pharma SA.
of Pharmaceuticals and Medical Appliances.
A. in Business Administration from Beirut University, Lebanon.
Said Darwazah Ali Al-Husry Chief Executive Officer, 52 Non-Executive Director, 51 Said was appointed Chief Executive Officer in July 2007.
He joined Hikma Ali Al-Husry was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 2005.
He in 1981, and was Chairman and CEO of the Group holding company joined Hikma as Director of Hikma Pharma Limited in 1991 and has held from 19942003. various directorships within the Group.
For these reasons Ali is not Said played a key role in the development of the Group strategy considered an independent director.
during his tenure, including the acquisition of West-ward Pharmaceuticals In 1995 he was a founder of The Capital Bank of Jordan and was in the USA and the development of the Injectables business in Europe Chief Executive Officer until 2007 where he continues to be a director.
During this period the Companys facilities in the He is Chairman of Endeavour Jordan, a director of the Microfund for USA, Jordan, and Portugal, received FDA approval.
Said was Minister Women and a member of the Board of Trustees of the Jordan Museum.
of Health for the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan from 20032006.
He brings great financial experience to the Board as well as an in-depth He is currently a member of the board of Central Bank of Jordan and knowledge of the MENA region and Hikma Pharmaceuticals.
Ali has a Chairman of the Dead Sea Touristic and Real Estate Investments and the degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Southern Health Care Accreditation Council of Jordan.
He has a degree in Industrial California and an M. B.
Engineering from Purdue University USA and an M. B.
Governance and financial results 51 Micheal Ashton Sir David Rowe-Ham Independent Non-Executive Director, 64 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 74 Michael Ashton was appointed to the Board in October 2005 and is Sir David Rowe-Ham was appointed to the Board in October 2005 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
and holds the position of Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Michael has over 30 years experience in the pharmaceutical Sir David brings to Hikma a wide experience in financial matters, industry, having previously held positions with Pfizer, Inc. and Merck, Inc. corporate governance, public affairs and the development of listed He was formerly Chairman, President and Chief Executive of Faulding, Inc companies.
He is also Chairman of Arden Partners plc and Olayan and Chief Executive of Skyepharma PLC.
He is also a non-executive Europe Ltd. director at Transition Therapeutics, Proximagen Neuroscience plc and Phosphagenics Limited.
Breffni Byrne Dr. Ronald Goode Independent Non-Executive Director, 64 Independent Non-Executive Director, 66 Breffni Byrne was appointed to the Board in October 2005 and is Ronald Goode was appointed to the Board in December 2006.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Ron has spent over 30 years in the international pharmaceutical As a chartered accountant with over 30 years of experience in industry, including senior positions with Pfizer and Searle.
public practice, including significant international responsibilities, he has He is currently the Chairman of The Goode Group, advisers to extensive experience in financial reporting, international operations, the pharmaceutical industry, on the Advisory Board of ART Recherches corporate governance and general financial and commercial matters.
et Technologies Avancees Inc. a TSX-listed company, a director of Breffni is Chairman of NCB Stockbrokers, a non-executive director of Mercy Ships International and a trustee of Thunderbird School of Irish Life and Permanent plc, Cpl Resources plc, Coillte Teoranta the Irish Global Management.
He was formerly President and Chief Executive state forestry company and other companies.
Officer of Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and eXegenics Inc. Board Committee membership key Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee
