42 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 Corporate responsibility report Developing a long-term sustainable strategy that addresses the social issues affecting society today in a way that makes sense for our business and reflects the core Hikma values Overview from Mazen Darwazah, Vice-Chairman 2009 achievements 2009 has been a rewarding and productive period Corporate responsibility is and always has been an for our corporate responsibility CR programme.
essential part of the Hikma way.
Strong commitments Throughout the year, we have focused on developing to our community and the environment have helped a long-term, sustainable strategy, which not only to make Hikma what it is today a highly successful addresses the very real social issues affecting society international pharmaceutical company with a today but does so in a way that makes sense for our reputation for integrity.
business and reflects the core Hikma values.
Over the last three years we have sought to Since the Company was founded in 1978, we formalise our approach to CR to ensure that it is have been committed to honesty, integrity and the increasingly embedded in the way we conduct highest possible standards in everything we do.
We began this process in 2006 by creating We are dedicated to the welfare and education a Group-wide CR programme and introducing an of our employees, committed to the communities official Hikma Code of Conduct.
The following year, in which we work and determined to preserve we built on that progress and in 2008 established and protect the environment in which we operate.
a Board-level steering committee and an expanded These principles have guided us for the past 30 years working committee.
and will continue to do so in the future.
In 2009, we increased the number of CR To that end, we have designed a five-year plan Champions across the Group.
The champions are taking us from 2010 to 2015.
The plan revolves focused on raising awareness of social, health and around two broad themes wellbeing and education, environmental issues in our business.
In employee and and four key platforms our people, our community, community matters, we gave particular emphasis to our environment and global welfare.
These have been four events: the Hikma Global Volunteering Day, You chosen specifically because they combine our very are Hikma, Hikmas Day against Breast Cancer and real commitment to stakeholders and society with a Hikmas Day against Diabetes.
Volunteering is an desire to embed CR into the heart of our business.
important part of Hikmas CR approach and the annual Global Volunteering Day focuses each year on a different healthcare theme.
We also spent time in 2009 developing and refining the five-year strategy Number of CR Champions for CR, endorsed and supported by our executive and non-executive Board members.
Champions work to deliver initiatives and engage with employees to encourage and motivate.
Aligning business and CR We believe we owe a duty of care towards our employees, our customers, our suppliers and the 10 wider community.
Our commitment to operating responsibly has and will continue to differentiate us from our competitors.
It has helped us to build our strong brand and, ultimately, it will help us to drive sales and to operate more efficiently.
Delivering Responsibly 43 Hikma responsibility structure Board of Steering Working CR Directors Committee Committee Champion At the end of 2008, we undertook a significant establishing KPIs for senior management to deepen review of our CR governance structure in line with their support for CR in their respective markets.
our ongoing aim of embedding CR throughout the Hikma Group and driving the CR programme from Reporting the Board and senior management to operational We have continued to use the Global Reporting functions.
This year was the first full year of operations Initiatives G3 guidelines as a benchmark tool.
Building for the Board-level CR Steering Committee and on our work in previous years, we have focused in CR Working Committee.
particular on community investment, environmental The seniority and breadth of experience that the impacts, employees and labour practices.
members bring to these committees ensures that Many of our subsidiaries began reporting against CR remains focused and aligned to the business.
GRI metrics for the first time in 2009, including Egypt, Facilitated by the Corporate Communications and Germany, Italy, Jordans APM facility and Saudi Arabia.
CR team, the Group is responsible for agreeing strategy, We have also started to use dedicated reporting software, endorsing activities, reviewing activity reports and underlining our commitment to the GRI approach assessing progress.
This approach provides coherence and enhancing comparative reporting in the future.
and economies of scale as well as a framework to share best practice across our markets.
People On the ground, CR Champions work to implement We value our people as our most important asset.
our strategy across the Group.
At the end of 2009, To successfully grow our business, we need to develop we had a team of ten CR Champions, each dedicated and reward our people.
to one of our manufacturing facilities.
During the With our commitment to maintaining the course of 2010, we will build on this initiative, highest quality standards and cGMP current good adding two new Champions to the existing team.
manufacturing practices, technical training has These Champions work to deliver initiatives, always been a top priority across the Group.
In 2008, engage with and report to country managers and analysis of GRI data helped us to identify areas of encourage and motivate employees to make CR part need for further training.
On this basis, we targeted of their day-to-day operations.
All our Champions are an increase in non-technical training for 2009.
In line full time employees with a range of experience and with these targets and in recognition of the important expertise, which ensures that CR remains focused role CR plays within the Group, a two-day training on business benefit and is embedded in employees workshop was held in 2009, focusing on developing working lives.
the champions knowledge and understanding of Our Champions deliver monthly reports to the CR CR and discussing future strategic aims.
Of course, department and their country managers.
These we also maintained our Continuing Education managers then report back to the Group on progress, Scheme, which supports employees in full funded encouraging diligence and continuity.
We are now further education programmes.
44 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 Corporate and social responsibility report continued diabetes and Health and safety cancer.
Sponsoring Health and safety lie at the core of our business.
symposia and We cannot operate successfully and deliver quality conferences for products without ensuring the health and wellbeing doctors, we have of our employees.
helped to build Communication of Hikmas Health and Safety a strong knowledge Policy to meet and, where possible, exceed all the base in the labour laws and regulations with regards to workplace MENA region.
health and safety in all the countries in which we In 2009, two operate was prioritised during the year.
We are important events committed to continuous improvements in health and were organised safety and will be working towards the Group-wide to raise awareness of implementation of OHSAS ISO 18001, the occupational cancer and diabetes health and safety management system, or its among our employees employees employees equivalents in 2010. and our communities Our Health and Safety Policy is becoming more and to promote widely implemented across the Group.
Developed in healthier lifestyles Hikmas Day against Breast 2007 and launched in 2008, the policy involves the Cancer and Hikmas Day against Diabetes.
appointment of an HSE supervisor in each business The Day against Breast Cancer was a Group-wide unit.
The appointment process continued during 2009. event with participation from all business units.
Free Health and safety training was offered to all breast examination and mammograms were offered employees across the Group in 2009.
This was part to female employees in some business units.
Other of a commitment made in 2008 and we are proud initiatives included poster and brochure campaigns, to have achieved this goal.
We have also made awareness e-mails, lectures on prevention and significant progress on absenteeism and occupational fundraising in support of cancer research.
Occupational injury rates were less than A similar approach was taken with our Day 1 per cent in 2009 and, in many countries, a zero against Diabetes.
Awareness of the causes and risks rating was achieved.
We hope to make further of diabetes was heightened through lectures and improvements in 2010, following the launch poster campaigns at a number of Hikma business of an explicit programme targeting zero level units.
In others, blood sugar analysis tests were offered occupational injuries.
to employees and in the US, employees took part in Promoting the health and safety of our employees the American Heart Foundations Heart Walk campaign.
is clearly aligned with our key business objectives to deliver better health to the markets we serve.
Ethics In 2009, our businesses focused on developing a Hikma is committed to the highest ethical principles strong presence in the growing fields of heart disease, and we endeavour to ensure that all our employees conform to the highest possible standards of integrity Occupational injury rates and honesty.
We are members of the Global Compact, a Occupational injury rates were less than UN-sponsored initiative for businesses committed 1% and in many countries zero.
to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.
1% Hikma remains committed to upholding these principles and embedding them into its operations.
In 2009, further steps were taken to train existing staff and all new joiners now receive guidance on our commitment to the Global Compact as part of Delivering Responsibly 45 This year, staff worldwide participated in a variety of Community charitable activities, including donating blood, cleaning The number of participants more than doubled for the hospitals, kindergartens and orphanages and spending Hikma Global Volunteering Day from 500 in 2008. time with the children, and raising money for research.
Of course, we are active in our communities throughout the year through a number of other 1, 200 initiatives, including providing funding for students in the fields of Technical Pharmacy and Applied Medical Sciences.
The time, interest and funding that we provide to local students is a real indication of our ongoing commitment to the communities in which we work.
Over the long term, these efforts should also help to ensure that we can continue to attract their induction programme.
In November 2009, we well-trained employees in each of the markets in issued a Communication on Progress report which we are operating.
underlining our actions to date.
Across the MENA region, Hikma volunteers also We now audit all our main suppliers with regard supported poor local communities, providing financial to their employment practices.
The practice was and practical assistance to those in need.
In the initiated two years ago and we constantly seek United States, fundraising was undertaken and to improve communication with suppliers and support was given to local homeless groups, gain more feedback from them.
disadvantaged families and the elderly.
We are also making progress with our Code Hikma has also partnered with the Global Fund of Conduct.
In 2009, more than 65% of all to fight Aids, TB and Malaria.
In 2009, the Company employees signed the code and it was incorporated and the Samih Darwazah Foundation donated the into the induction process for new employees.
seed money to establish the MENA Chapter of the In 2010 our Code of Conduct will be included Global Fund.
This is located in Amman Jordan, and in performance appraisals.
will operate across the Middle East and North Africa.
In 2009, we also updated our Equal Treatment A board of directors has been selected, an executive of Employees & Harassment policy, which states that director has been hired and in 2010, the Chapter will we do not condone favouritism or inequality in any launch its first awareness and advocacy campaigns.
Across the Group, we continued through 2009 In 2009, Hikma Pharmaceuticals was awarded to give generously to local causes, donating medicines the Best Company in an Emerging Market Award at to NGOs and communities in crisis.
Our employees the annual Scrip Awards.
This award is testament to also volunteered their time to many NGOs worldwide.
the continued progress the Company is making to be a leader in the MENA region across all areas of its business including CR.
Charitable donations in 2009 Community Active and effective engagement with the community is an essential part of our CR strategy.
$1.2m The Hikma Global Volunteering Day, held in April each year, aims to encourage employees across the Group to invest time in their local communities.
The number of participants more than doubled this year from 500 in 2008 to 1,200 in 2009.
Aligned with our business objectives, the Volunteering Day aims to support better health in our local communities.
46 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 Corporate and social responsibility report continued In many units, real advances have been made in Environment energy and water consumption since 2008.
In Algeria, Hikma, like every business, has an impact on the electricity consumption fell 11% year on year from environment, both locally and globally.
We are 1.5 million KWh to 1.3 million KWh while diesel working towards limiting that impact by educating consumption was 21% lower at 57,000 litres over the our staff and encouraging them to think about their same period.
The business also intends to drive forward effect on the environment in everything they do.
a more aggressive recycling programme and incinerate We are also actively exploring ways in which we hazardous waste in a more effective manner.
can reduce carbon emissions across the Group and Hikma Jordan and AMC reduced diesel reduce waste, particularly harmful waste.
consumption by at least 10%, thanks to a concerted Hikmas Environmental Policy five key pledges: effort to be more energy efficient.
Hikma Jordans water consumption fell dramatically, 1. to integrate our environmental policy across from 44,674 cubic metres to 27,168 cubic metres, the Group: Portugal reduced water consumption by 15% to 2. to reduce our impact on climate change: 74,431 cubic metres and Saudi Arabia cut water consumption by 16% to 47,430 cubic metres.
3. to comply with environmental legislation and Across the Group, Company vehicles have been regulation in every country in which we operate: upgraded to more environmentally efficient options.
4. to strive for continuous improvement in our In addition, there is an ongoing and regularly environmental protection: and reinforced awareness campaign, which stresses Hikmas desire to reduce its environmental impact 5. to implement and develop ISO 14001 or its and stresses the part that each and every employee equivalent at every production site across can play in this endeavour.
We will be reporting back the Company.
on our progress to all our stakeholders.
In 2008, we made good progress in this area, Following initial work in 2009, Hikma will be obtaining the ISO 14001 certification at our AMC assessing its carbon emissions in Jordan during 2010. facility and our Hikma Jordan facility.
In 2009, both This analysis is based on the Carbon Disclosure Project facilities gained the continuity certificate.
In 2010, we framework and will provide valuable insights across are committed to continuing our work on ISO 14001 the Group on how to measure our emissions and and exploring more international accreditations.
take steps to reduce our emissions as a Group in the GRI data collection continued to heighten coming years.
awareness of energy usage in 2009 and helped to identify ways to drive a reduction in energy Moving forward our five-year plan consumption across our business units.
The collection We have designed a five-year plan taking us from 2010 and analysis of data improved considerably in to 2015.
This revolves around two broad themes, 2009 and we expect to report further progress wellbeing and education.
Wellbeing is intrinsically in 2010. linked to our role in the pharmaceutical industry and our core duty of care to those around us.
Education is integral to the effective development of the Company and the communities we serve.
Energy consumption These themes will be a reference point for our CR efforts over the next five years and within this Diesel consumption decreased in Algeria framework, we have created four key areas of focus: our people, our community, our environment and global welfare, which reflects our awareness of the -21% need to enhance health and wellbeing wherever we operate and wherever we do business.
While we have implicitly recognised these areas as being of crucial importance in the past, explicit recognition will, we believe, allow us to reinforce our efforts to drive CR internally and on the world stage.
Delivering Responsibly 47 OUR PLATFORMS Community People Environment Ethics Hikma does not exist in isolation.
Our people are our greatest asset.
Mitigating our environmental Hikma should encourage all It wishes to engage in its local They are ambassadors for the impact should be offered as counterparties to adopt the communities, recognising the Company and we aim to support standard by Hikma as a company.
policies and behaviours of importance of establishing a them as fully as possible, in terms We should promote a sustainable Hikma, and to support the strong community footprint in of training, welfare, recognition presence in our communities high levels of ethical business all countries of operation and supporting diversity through recycling, waste reduction practice undertaken by Hikma and energy efficiency Aim Aim Aim Aim Efficient use of resources Building our brand Making us stronger Preferred partner for business ACTING RESPONSIBLY Partnership with the Jordan Professional and technical You are Hikma Member of UN Global Compact River Foundation training and development Energy and water conservation, Member of PACI Global Volunteering Day recycling and waste management Transparent remuneration Audit of main suppliers Fundraising for local homeless structure with job grading and Solvency recovery pilot employment practices groups, disadvantaged families levelling and the elderly Compliance with health and safety regulation WELLBEING Partnering with the Hikmas Day against Local clean water initiatives Stakeholder engagement Global Fund to fight Breast Cancer Focus on hazardous Adherence to highest AIDS, TB and Malaria Hikmas Day against Diabetes waste reduction quality standards across our Distribution of free medicines global business Free breast exams and Local fundraising for research mammograms for all employees and treatment of chronic diseases EDUCATION Funding students in the fields of Staff education seminars Environmental awareness Staff training on Global Technical Pharmacy and Applied lectures Compact principles Awareness sessions on key Medical Sciences diseases Awareness campaigns Incorporating Code of Conduct Educational bursaries in induction training Health and safety training for Staff training Community open days at Hikma all employees Internships and work experience GRI REPORTING EC1 Direct economic value LA7 Rates of injury, disease, EN3 Direct energy PR1 Life cycle stages in which generated including revenues, lost days, absenteeism consumption H&S impact of products are costs, donations, investments measured for improvements LA10 Average hours of training EN8 Total water withdrawal EC8 Development and impact per employee per category HR2 Percentage of suppliers EN22 Total weight of waste of infrastructure investments contractors undergone human SO3 Percentage of employees for public benefit rights screening trained in anti-corruption policies 48 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 Governance and financial results 49 Section Four 4 Governance and financial results 50 77 Board of Directors Consolidated financial statements 52 82 Senior management Notes to the consolidated financial statements 54 122 Corporate Governance report Company financial statements 60 125 Directors report Notes to the Company financial statements 63 129 Remuneration Committee report Shareholder information 75 131 Directors Responsibility Statement Principal Group Companies 76 132 Independent auditors report Advisers
