60 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 Directors report The Directors are pleased to present their report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Executive and Non-Executive Directors served the Company Business Review throughout the year.
At the 2010 Annual General Meeting, Ronald The company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set out a fair Goode will retire in accordance with Article 104 of the Articles of review of the business during the year and a description of the principal Association and, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election.
risks and uncertainties facing the Company, noting the performance and The explanatory notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting sets development of the Company during the year and the position at the out why the Board believes Ronald Goode should be re-elected.
The information that fulfils these requirements and which is Details of Directors share-based incentives and interests in the incorporated in this report by reference, is included in the following ordinary shares of the company are provided in the Remuneration sections of the Annual Report: Committee Report on pages 67 to 74. a review of the business and strategy and expected future developments Creditor payment policy is set out in the Chairmans statement on pages 6 and 7, the Chief The Companys policy, which is also applied by the Group, is to settle Executives Review on pages 12 to 15 and the Business and Financial terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each Review on pages 28 to 36: transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of and abide by the the principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 37 to 39 and terms of payment.
Trade creditors of the company at 31 December 2009 financial risks are described on page 39: were equivalent to 63 days purchases 2008: 48 days, based on the key financial performance indicators are described on page 28: average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
information on environmental, social and community issues is set out Charitable and political contributions in our Corporate Responsibility report on pages 42 to 47: During the year the Group made charitable donations of approximately the principal operating subsidiaries are set out on page 131: $1.2 million 2008: $2.4 million, principally to local charities serving the Corporate Governance report is set out on pages 54 to 59. the communities in which the Group operates.
Donations of medicines accounted for approximately $108,000 2008: $1.4 million of total donations made.
Principal activity The Group does not make political donations.
The principal activities of the Group are the development, manufacture and marketing of a broad range of generic and in-licensed Research and Development R & D pharmaceutical products in solid, semi-solid, liquid and injectable final The Groups investment in Research & Development during 2009 dosage forms.
Hikmas operations are conducted through three business represented 2.6% of group revenue 2008: 3.8%.
Further details on segments: Branded Pharmaceuticals, Injectable Pharmaceuticals, and the Groups R&D activities can be found on page 34.
The majority of Hikmas operations are in the MENA region, the United States and Europe.
Going concern The Groups net sales, gross profit and operating profit are shown by Although the current economic conditions may affect short-term business segment in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
demand for the Companys products, as well as place pressure on our customers and suppliers in terms of liquidity issues, the Directors believe Results and dividends that the Groups geographic spread, product diversity and large customer The Groups profit for the year attributable to shareholders in 2009 and supplier base substantially mitigate these risks.
In addition, the Group was $78 million 2008: $57 million.
The Board is recommending a final operates in the relatively defensive generic pharmaceuticals industry dividend of 6.5 cents per share approximately 4 pence 2008: 4.0 cents.
which we expect to be less affected compared to other industries that The proposed final dividend will be paid on 27 May 2010 to shareholders are subject to greater cyclical changes.
on the register on 16 April 2010, subject to approval at the Annual The Group has $378 million of banking facilities of which General Meeting on 13 May 2010.
$193 million were undrawn as at 31 December 2009.
These facilities An interim dividend of 4.5 cents per share was paid on 16 October are well diversified across the operating subsidiaries of the Group and are 2009 approximately 2.8 pence per ordinary share 2008: 3.5 cents with a number of financial institutions.
44% of the Groups short term which together with the final dividend, will make a total of 11.0 cents and undrawn long-term facilities are of committed nature.
See Notes 24, per share for the period 2008: 7.5 cents 27 and 29 for details.
The Directors continue to expect the short-term facilities to be renewed upon maturity.
In addition the Group maintained Directors and their interests cash balances of $68.0 million as at 31 December 2009.
The Groups The names of the Directors as at the date of this report, together with forecasts, taking into account reasonable possible changes in trading details of their roles, backgrounds and abilities, are set out in the performance, facility renewal sensitivities and maturities of long-term Directors biographies on pages 50 and 51.
Details of the independence debt, show that the Group should be able to operate well within the of Non-Executive Directors are set out in the Corporate Governance levels of its facilities and their related covenants.
Governance and financial results 61 After making enquiries, the Directors believe that the Group is adequately The powers of the directors are determined by its Articles of Association, placed to manage its business and financing risks successfully despite the Combined Code and other relevant UK legislation.
At the AGM on the current uncertain economic outlook.
The Directors have formed a 13 May 2010 the Directors will propose, for shareholder approval, the judgement that there is reasonable expectation that the Group has adoption of new Articles of Association to take effect from the close adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the of the meeting.
The amendments to the Articles are to reflect the foreseeable future.
The Directors therefore continue to adopt the going changes to English Company law due to the final amendments to the concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Companies Act 2006 which took effect in October 2009.
Full details of the amendments to the Articles are listed below.
Directors powers Capital structure are detailed in the Corporate Governance Report starting on page 54.
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with The Articles give the Directors the power to appoint and remove directors movements in the issued share capital during the year can be found and they also provide for re-election at three yearly intervals.
The power to in Note 31 to the financial statements.
The Company has one class of issue and allot shares contained in the Articles, are subject to shareholder Ordinary Shares which carries no right to fixed income.
Each share approval at each annual general meeting.
The Articles, which are carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
available on the website, may only be amended by special resolution As at 31 December 2009 the Company had 191,627,607 shares of of the shareholders.
During 2009 the Company issued 2,390,000 ordinary shares pursuant to the exercise of options under the Hikma Significant Agreements and Contracts Pharmaceuticals PLC 2004 Stock Option Plan.
Due to the nature of the Groups business, members of the Group are There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding or on the party to agreements that could alter or be terminated upon a change transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions or control of the Group following a takeover.
However, none of these of the Companys Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
agreements is individually deemed to be significant in terms of its The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the potential impact on the business of the Group taken as a whole.
Companys shares that may have resulted in restrictions on the transfer The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights with and its directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss regard to the control of the Companys share capital and all issued of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
There are no persons, with whom the Company has contractual or Details of any significant shareholdings in the Company can be found other arrangements, who are deemed to be essential to the business on page 61 of this report.
Details of the employee share schemes are set out in Note 36 to the financial statements.
Shares are also held by the Hikma Pharmaceuticals Pre-emptive issue of Ordinary Shares Employee Benefit Trust EBT and are detailed in Note 33 to the During the year under review, and in the period since 1 November 2005, financial statements.
The EBT has waived its right to vote on the shares it the date of the Companys IPO, the Company did not issue any Ordinary holds and also to its entitlement to a dividend.
No other shareholder has Shares pursuant to an authority given by shareholders at annual general waived the right to a dividend.
meeting to issue Ordinary Shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis, At the Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2009, the Directors other than in respect of the placing undertaken on 17 January 2008. were authorised to issue relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,320,227, and to be empowered to allot equity securities Directors indemnities for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to an aggregate nominal amount The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for of 948,034, at any time up to 30 June 2010.
The Directors propose to the benefit of its directors.
These indemnities are uncapped in amount in renew these authorities at the Annual General Meeting to be held on relation to losses and liabilities which directors may incur to third parties 13 May 2010 for a further year.
In the year ahead, other than in respect in the course of the performance of their duties.
of the Companys obligations to satisfy rights granted to employees under its various share-based incentive arrangements, the Directors have Substantial shareholdings no present intention of issuing any of the authorised but unissued share As at the date of this document, the Company had been notified capital of the Company.
pursuant to sections 89A to 89L of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UKLA of the following interests in the voting rights attaching to shares in the capital of the Company: Substantial Shareholdings Name of shareholder Number of shares Percentage held Darhold Limited 57,183,028 29.82% Messrs Samih Darwazah, Said Darwazah, Mazen Darwazah and Ali Al-Husry, each being a Director and shareholder of the Company, are shareholders in the capital of Darhold Limited.
Samih Darwazah, Said Darwazah and Mazen Darwazah are also Directors of Darhold Limited.
62 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 Directors report continued The Takeover Code Rule 9 Auditors At the Annual General Meeting held on 14 May 2009, a vote of the Each person who was a Director of the Company at the date when this independent shareholders of the Company approved the award of up report was approved confirms that: to an aggregate of 200,000 ordinary shares pursuant to the Companys 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan to Said Darwazah and Mazen Darwazah so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of the LTIP Holders and 3,000 ordinary shares pursuant to the which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Management Incentive Plan to Hana Ramadan.
Because of the the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a relationship of the LTIP Holders with Darhold Limited, who at the Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to time of the Annual General Meeting held 57,183,028 Ordinary Shares establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
at 7 April 2009 representing 29.82% of the issued share capital of the Company, and as at 16 March 2010 being the latest practicable date This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with prior to the publication of this document, holding 57,183,028 Ordinary the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Shares, representing 29.82% of the issued share capital of the Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office Company, each of the LTIP Holders and MIP holder together with as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the certain other identified individuals at that date was treated as acting forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
in concert with Darhold Limited for the purposes of the Takeover Code the Concert Party.
As at 7 April 2009, the Concert Party held, in Annual General Meeting aggregate, interests in 66,097,758 Ordinary Shares in the capital of The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Regus, Hikma then representing 34.86% of the then issued share capital of 2nd Floor, Berkeley Square House, Berkeley Square, London W1J 6BD, the Company.
As at 16 March 2010 being the latest practicable date United Kingdom on Thursday, 13 May 2010, starting at 10.30 a. m. prior to the publication of this document, the Concert Party held, in The Notice convening the meeting is given in a separate document aggregate, interests in 65,878,430 ordinary shares in the capital of accompanying this document, and includes a commentary on the Hikma representing 34.354% of the then issued share capital business of the AGM, and notes to help shareholders exercise their of the Company.
On full exercise of the options under the Hikma rights at the meeting.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Pharmaceuticals 2004 Stock Option Plan the 2004 Plan and full Nomination committees will be at the Annual General Meeting to vesting of the LTIP and MIP awards, the Concert Party would potentially answer questions from shareholders.
have, in aggregate, interests in 66,392,930 shares in the capital of the Approved by the Board of Directors on 16 March 2009 and signed on Company representing 34.53% of the enlarged issued share capital its behalf by of the Company, on the basis that no Ordinary Shares were issued other than pursuant to the exercise of such options or vesting of LTIP and MIP awards.
During the period from the Annual General Meeting in 2009 to Henry Knowles 16 March 2010, the LTIP and MIP awards holders together with other Company Secretary members of the Concert Party who hold options over ordinary shares pursuant to the 2004 Plan the Option Holders have exercised, in 16 March 2010 aggregate, options over 664,000 Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company, of which 35,000 Ordinary Shares were sold immediately upon exercise, 480,000 Ordinary Shares were retained and 100,000 were retained but subsequently disposed of by the option holder.
