52 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 Senior management Bassam Kanaan Taghreed Al-Shunnar Majda Labadi Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Strategic Business Development Human Resources Bassam joined Hikma in 2001, playing a Taghreed joined the Company in 1988 Majda joined the Company in 1985 and has leading role in the IPO in 2005.
He qualified as where she has held a variety of roles including held a variety of roles including Purchasing a chartered accountant in 1989 with Deloitte Marketing Planning Director and General Manager at Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited, & Touche USA where he held a variety of Manager of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited.
Strategy Manager at Hikma Investment, roles prior to joining PADICO in 1994 as CFO.
In 2005, Taghreed became Corporate Vice General Manager of Hikma Faramceutica and In February 2009, Bassam assumed responsibility President of Branded Pharmaceuticals in 2007 she was appointed Vice President of for Operations, Manufacturing and Supply MENA.
In February 2009, Taghreed assumed Injectables.
In February 2009 Majda returned Chain management in Europe and MENA.
responsibility for Sales and Marketing, R&D to Jordan and assumed her current position as He currently holds non-executive directorships and Business Development MENA and EU.
She has been responsible in Zara Holding, Aqaba Development Co.
In March 2010 Taghreed was appointed to for establishing a central HR function and and Capital Bank in Jordan.
Bassam has an a new role in charge of Strategic Business implementing a number of group wide HR Executive M. B.
A. from Northwestern University Development for the Group.
Taghreed has initiatives including a group wide compensation and a B.
A. from Claremont McKenna a degree in Pharmacy from the University structure and performance evaluation process College USA.
of Jordan and completed her Executive and the development of Group HR policies M. B.
A. INSEAD in December 2007. and procedures.
Majda holds a masters degree in Health Economics and a B.
A. from the American University of Beirut.
She is currently enrolled in the DBA program at Instituto fide Impressa Madrid.
Henry Knowles Susan Ringdal General Counsel and Investor Relations Company Secretary Director Henry joined the Company in September Susan joined the Company in November 2005, 2005.
Before joining Hikma, he worked for having previously worked for the pharmaceutical the international law firm, Ashurst, where distribution and retail pharmacy group Alliance he specialised in corporate law.
Since joining UniChem plc as Investor Relations Manager.
Hikma, Henry has advised on all aspects of She also has experience as an equity analyst at the Groups business, including commercial Morgan Stanley in London.
A. negotiations, supervising corporate governance in History from Cornell University and an M. B.
A and compliance and contributing to the from London Business School.
execution of the Groups acquisition strategy.
Henry is admitted as a solicitor in England and Wales and holds an M. A. in Social and Political Science from Cambridge University.
Governance and financial results 53 Fadi Nassar Dr Ibrahim Jalal Corporate Vice President Michael Raya Senior Corporate Vice Active Pharmaceutical Corporate Vice President President Technical Affairs Ingredients API and CEO West-Ward Ibrahim joined Hikma in June 1979 as Fadi joined Hikma in 1988 and has worked Michael joined the Company in 1992 from Technical Director and has held a variety of in various roles within the Group including Vitarine Pharmaceuticals where he worked roles including Corporate Technical Vice Operations, Purchasing and Business from 1984 until 1992 in various roles, including President for Compliance and Senior Corporate Development.
He was promoted to Corporate Vice President, Quality Control.
Prior to this, Vice President for R&D.
He has played a Vice President, API in 2007.
Fadi holds a Michael worked at Schering-Plough and leading role in Hikma securing FDA approval bachelors degree in Chemical Engineering Hoffman LaRoche.
Michael joined Hikma in for its manufacturing units.
Ibrahim holds from Newcastle University and a masters 1992 and was appointed CEO of West-Ward a PhD in Pharmacy from the University of degree in Chemical Engineering from in 2009, where he has been instrumental Wisconsin Madison USA.
Fadi is also a graduate of in the turnaround of the company and INSEADs International Executive Program.
the globalisation of the product portfolio.
Michael holds a masters degree in Industrial Pharmacy from Long Island University and a bachelors degree in Chemistry from St. Francis College.
Michael is also a graduate of INSEADs International Executive Program.
Ragheb Al-Shakhshir Khalid Nabilsi Corporate Vice President Corporate Vice President Research and Development for Finance Ragheb joined Hikma in 2000 as a Research & Khalid joined Hikma in 2001 and was a member Development Manager.
Prior to joining Hikma of the IPO team in 2005.
Prior to assuming his he held a variety of roles as Senior Scientist at current role Khalid held several senior positions Novartis Pharmaceuticals, and at Alcon Labs.
in the Finance department including Group From 2003-2008 Ragheb led the Hikma R&D Financial Controller.
Following qualification Injectable team and from February 2009 as a CPA he held a variety of roles in financial assumed the responsibility of Vice President for accounting, reporting and financial advisory Research and Development.
Ragheb has a PhD services, most recently with Atlas Investment in Industrial and Physical Pharmacy from Purdue Group where he was involved in merger and University and a B.
A. in Chemical Engineering acquisition advisory services.
Prior to Atlas, from the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
Khalid has managed several multinational audit engagements at Arthur Andersen in Amman, Jordan.
A. from the University of Hull in the UK.
