Board of Directors Andy Duncan G Simon Fox Non-Executive Director Chief Executive officer and Managing Director HMV UK & Ireland Aged 48 Simon Fox was appointed to the Board with effect from 4 September 2006 and became Chief Executive officer on 28 September 2006 and additionally Managing Director of HMV UK and Ireland on 1 February 2007.
He was previously Neil Bright Chief Operating officer for Kesa Electricals plc with responsibility for Comet in Group Finance Director the UK, Kesas subsidiaries in Continental Europe and e-commerce developments.
Prior to his appointment as COO of Kesa, he was Managing Director of Comet, which he led through its demerger from Kingsher.
Prior to this he founded Ofce World, the UKs first out-of-town ofce supplies retailer.
He began his career as a graduate trainee at Security Pacic Bank and thereafter worked at Boston Consulting Group and Sandhurst Marketing plc.
G Neil Bright Group Finance Director Philip Rowley Aged 46 Non-Executive Director Neil Bright was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director in March 1998.
He joined HMV in August 1996 as Group Finance Director from its then parent company, Thorn EMI plc where he was Group Planning Manager.
He is a Chartered Accountant, having trained and qualied with Coopers & Lybrand Simon Fox in London.
He was appointed a non-executive director of Holidaybreak plc Chief Executive on 27 November 2008 and became Chairman of their Audit Committee on 1 January 2009.
G Gerry Johnson Managing Director Waterstones Aged 48 Gerry Johnson was appointed to the Board with effect from 26 July 2007.
He joined Waterstones as Managing Director on 1 October 2005, and led Waterstones through its acquisition and successful integration of Ottakars.
He is a career retailer having started his working life at Tesco in 1978, holding a variety of roles over 11 years, latterly as Superstore Manager.
He spent five years at Asda Groups Allied Maples Division before moving to Wickes PLC in 1994.
In 2001 he was appointed Managing Director of Booker and was a main board director of its parent company, Big Food Group PLC.
G Andy Duncan Non-Executive Director Aged 46 Andy Duncan was appointed to the Board on 13 March 2009.
He is Chief Executive of Channel 4, a position he has held since July 2004.
Prior to this he was a member of the BBCs Executive Board from 2001 to 2004 as a Director of Marketing, Communications and Audiences.
He also led the project to launch Freeview and was Chairman of the joint venture with BBC, Sky and Crown Castle for its first two years.
Prior to that, from 1984 to 2001, he worked at Unilever where he held a series of Senior Director positions.
He has also been Chairman of the Media Trust since 2006.
Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees HMV Group plc 18 Annual report and accounts 2009 Robert Swannell G Lesley Knox Chairman Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Aged 55 Lesley Knox was appointed to the Board on 23 April 2002 and appointed as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 22 April 2009.
She was a founder director of British Linen Advisors, a specialist merchant bank focusing on growth companies.
Prior to that she was Corporate Finance Gerry Johnson Director then Head of Institutional Asset Management at Kleinwort Benson Group.
Managing Director, She is Chairman of Alliance Trust PLC and Senior Independent Director of Hays plc Waterstones and is a member of the Board of Governors of the Museum of London.
She was formerly a non-executive director of Signet Jewelers Ltd and a director of the arts charity, The Federation of British Artists Limited.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees G Christopher Rogers Lesley Knox Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Aged 49 Senior Independent Director Christopher Rogers was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2006.
He is Group Finance Director of Whitbread plc, having been appointed in May 2005.
Previously he was Group Finance Director of Woolworths Group plc and Chairman of the Woolworths Group Entertainment and Wholesale Publishing businesses.
He qualied as an accountant with Price Waterhouse and joined Kingsher Group as Corporate Finance Manager in 1988.
Subsequent appointments included Group Financial Controller at Kingsher plc and Finance Director and Commercial Christopher Rogers Director of Comet Group plc.
Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees G Philip Rowley Non-Executive Director Aged 56 Philip Rowley was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2007.
He was Chairman and CEO of AOL Europe until February 2007.
He is a qualied chartered accountant and was Group Finance Director of Kingsher plc from 1998 to 2001.
Prior to that his roles included Executive Vice President and Chief Financial officer of EMI Music Worldwide, and Chief Operating officer and CFO of Golden Books Family Entertainment, the largest childrens book publisher in the US.
He was also the co-founder and Managing Director of Tribeca Technologies, a New York-based technology company and a former non-executive director of Tradus plc previously QXL ricardo plc until its delisting in March 2008.
He is currently a non-executive director of each of ARM Holdings Plc and Misys plc, Chairman of Skinkers Ltd and is on the Board of trustees of Scidev.
net, the science and development network.
Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees G Robert Swannell Chairman Aged 58 Robert Swannell was appointed to the Board as Chairman on 2 February 2009.
He is a senior advisor of Citi Europe and formerly Chairman of Citis European Investment Bank and Vice-Chairman, Citi Europe.
He is a Non-Executive Director of The British Land Company PLC and 3i Group PLC and a member of the Takeover Appeal Board.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 19
