Business and financial review continued Bringing content to life The music, lm, games and books we G Social gaming sell play an important part in the lives of our customers.
By providing imaginative Gamerbase multi-player, pay-to-play gaming zones are being rolled out to selected HMV stores.
The concept promotes social interactive experiences, HMV and gaming for individuals and groups and, as a driver of HMVs Waterstones are bringing this exciting games sales and customer loyalty, is a productive use of space.
content to life for our customers and creating new opportunities for sales and loyalty HMV Group plc 8 Annual report and accounts 2009 G Neighbourhood cinema G Book-related events In partnership with Curzon Articial Eye, hmvcurzon aims to Waterstones stores hold thousands of events each year, bring quality, multi-screen digital cinema to the heart of local ranging from events with first-time published authors to some communities via selected HMV stores.
Utilising non-trading of the best-known celebrities in the UK today.
In addition to areas of the store, the first hmvcurzon cinema in Wimbledon, store events, Waterstones is proud to be associated with London will provide lm and non-lm programming in an 15 literary festivals, including the Cheltenham Literary Festival, intimate and high quality environment and creates further which features approximately 400 events over its 10-day programme, opportunities for entertainment sell-through.
and the Bath Childrens Literary Festival.
Waterstones also has a full programme of childrens events and activities, with many stores holding fun days and storytelling throughout the year.
G Live music and tickets By extending the HMV brand into the growing live music and entertainment market, our customers will be able as never before to access and experience music in all of its forms via HMV.
Our new JV venues and ticketing offer provide valuable opportunities to cross-sell merchandise packages of tickets, CDs, download, DVDs, games and band-related merchandise.
The purehmv loyalty scheme provides a powerful database of purchasing activity, while privileged access to events at our venues are important rewards for purehmv loyalty card holders.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 9
