Business and financial review Strategic review Simon Fox Chief Executive officer HMV Group plc 4 Annual report and accounts 2009 Against a difficult economic environment, G Driving cost efficiency the Group delivered sales and profit growth, driven by good trading in our To date, we have delivered annual savings of 16m from the initiatives that were laid out in March 2007. largest business, HMV UK & Ireland.
Waterstones book hub, which simplies our supply chain by The performance of both HMV International consolidating orders from multiple publishers into one delivery and Waterstones was more adversely per store, became operationally live in February with the impacted by weak trading conditions, take-on of fullment for waterstones.
com and an initial tranche of stores.
The migration of the balance of stores is expected and key initiatives are underway to improve to be complete in the first quarter of the new financial year.
the operating effectiveness and financial In HMV UK & Ireland, games and technology suppliers were performance of these businesses.
successfully transferred to a dedicated, centralised distribution centre, which is enhancing availability and service levels for I am pleased to report, below, that good these product categories.
progress continues to be made on the Savings from consolidating the procurement of goods not Groups three-year transformation plan, for resale and the consolidation of HMV UK & Ireland and Waterstones back ofce continue to be delivered as planned.
such that we have been able to take our first steps into a new, long-term strategy G Protecting and revitalising our stores to extend HMVs brand and activities into live music and entertainment venues and ticketing.
This is being funded G HMV by the proceeds from a successful Our stores traded robustly this year, and we have continued to evolve the mix of products to take account of the structural 5% equity placing, which raised 24m.
changes taking place in our markets and to better reect the Combined with a new 220m bank  interests of HMV customers.
facility to 2011, this provides for the Games and technology products now represent almost a quarter of HMV UK & Irelands sales, up from 20% in the prior year, and in maintenance of a strong and prudent HMV Canada this category has increased to12% from 7%.
business in the UK and rapidly growing credentials as a category specialist have been enhanced by the successful national roll-out of Re Play, a pre-played games offer.
This enables customers to trade-in software against new games titles or, uniquely among UK retailers, any of the products sold in our stores.
4 1 1 4 3 HMV UK& Irelands evolving product mix the beginning of the transformation plan to the 2007 2009 end of year two 1 Music 37% 1 Music 28% 2 Visual 47% 2 Visual 45% 3 3 Games and technology 14% 3 Games and technology 24% 2 4 Other 2% 4 Other 3% 2 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 5 Business and financial review continued Strategic review continued HMV has responded quickly to the opportunity to develop Blu-ray, the high denition video format, which has potential to provide value growth to the visual market.
Blu-ray departments containing a wide range of software have been rolled out to all HMV stores, and on a number of this years key titles Blu-rays share of the visual category has exceeded 20%.
In total, HMV UK & Irelands visual sales volumes grew by 7% in a market that grew 2%.
The UK music market was more resilient than expected, with volume decline of approximately 3% last year, and HMV UK & Ireland outperformed the market with unit sales up 5.0%.
Music is now 28% of HMV UK & Irelands sales, down from over 30% in the prior year.
In HMV International, music still accounts for 38% of sales and here our focus is on increasing the representation of games, technology and related products.
The HMV next generation store format has been rolled out to a total 15 stores in the UK.
This format contains improved display and merchandising for the new product categories and increased interactivity for our customers.
A number of the G Entry into live music and ticketing key features and learning were rolled out as quick wins to all existing stores in HMV UK & Ireland, including merchandising of technology, clothing and other  accessories The value in the music market has increasingly transferred to live and books, and further opportunities have been identied for performance.
This is an area of strong interest to HMVs core customers roll out during the new financial year.
We have also continued and has the potential for powerful synergies with our current product offering.
to t out new stores in the next generation format, which this In January 2009, the Group announced the beginning of a new strategy to year included Liverpool One and London Westeld.
enter the UKs approximately 1bn live music and ticketing market, by acquiring a 50% investment in Mean Fiddler Group, a new 50:50 joint venture with HMVs highly recognised brand and prime high street MAMA Group plc, the UKs second largest multiple live music venue operator.
locations are also being further leveraged to offer customers The joint venture company contains 11 live venues, attracting around related entertainment experiences.
HMV UK & Ireland this two million concert-goers each year.
These include the 5,100-capacity year acquired the assets and recruited the key personnel of Hammersmith Apollo, Edinburghs Picture House and Forum in London, Gamerbase, the operator of a multi-player games concession in all of which were rebranded HMV during the year.
The further venues are HMV Trocadero in London.
Further such pay-to-play areas have Londons Heaven, Garage, Jazz Caf, Borderline, G-A-Y and G-A-Y Late, since been opened in HMV stores in Manchester and Edinburgh, Birminghams Institute and Moshulu in Aberdeen.
with additional locations planned for the new financial year.
The Group has invested an initial cash consideration of 20.0m including Furthermore, in partnership with Curzon Articial Eye, operator fees, with a further adjustment of up to, plus or minus, 3.3m depending of the Curzon cinema chain, a new multi-screen digital cinema is upon the profitability of the joint venture.
MAMA Groups management expertise being piloted, commencing in autumn 2009, utilising non-trading has been retained to operate the venues, and the joint venture will actively consider expansion where high-quality venues become available.
We believe space above the HMV Wimbledon store.
Some additional this is a low-risk entry strategy into the live music market, which is expected to cinemas may follow, depending upon the learning of the trial provide synergies of approximately 1m per annum and be earnings neutral and further location analysis.
and cover the Groups cost of capital in its first full year of operation.
As the first step in a new partnership with Orange, the leading HMV UK & Ireland also entered into a separate ticketing arrangement with mobile phone operators products and services will be sold Seatem, a leading UK ticket agency, to sell tickets through our stores and online via hmv.
com to events at the joint venture and other MAMA Group in selected HMV UK stores during our new financial year, venues, as well as a wide range of other events and venues, including theatre with a focus on music, games and video mobile handsets tickets, music and entertainment performances and some sports.
of the year, dedicated hmvTickets counters had been rolled out to 25 stores.
Our entry into live music and ticketing provides significant new operational and brand synergies, which include: Leveraging HMVs in-store and online traffic to market live events Driving additional event-related footfall to HMV stores and hmv.
com Creating opportunities for combined merchandising in venues, stores and online Driving greater value from HMVs loyalty card through the provision of content and access to money cant buy rewards HMV Group plc 6 Annual report and accounts 2009 Following a successful two-region pilot, HMV UKs multi-channel G Growing revenue from new channels loyalty card, purehmv, launched nationally after the end of the year.
The scheme targets HMVs most loyal customers and enables them to redeem points accumulated from purchases An MP3 music downloads offer was launched via hmv.
com, made in-store or online against money-cant-buy rewards.
comprised of over four million tracks, priced from 0.69 for Following the administration of the high street entertainment single track downloads and 6.99 for albums, which are now retailer Zavvi in early 2009, we have now acquired 25 of its stores compatible with any digital music player, including the Apple iPod.
in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
These stores are located In addition, the same music catalogue is now available to stream predominantly in towns and cities where there was no overlap for a monthly subscription of 5.99.
Further enhancements were with HMV and will deliver incremental profit.
Our existing eight made to hmv.
coms search, site navigation and categorisation Fopp stores continued to trade well.
These stores offer a tailored and, during the period, sales from the website increased by range of music, video and books from secondary retailing over 16% on the prior year.
locations, and there is potential to increase Fopps footprint waterstones.
com is continuing to benefit from the multi-channel in the new financial year.
loyalty card, as well as fullment from the new book hub, and grew by over 60% on the prior year.
The website also became G Waterstones the exclusive source for UK customers to download e-books Waterstones multi-channel loyalty scheme, which launched for the Sony Reader, with an encouraging consumer response in the prior year, had by the end of the period attracted 2.8 million since the September 2008 launch.
members, exceeding our original three-year target for 1.5 million cardholders.
A significant proportion of transactions in branches and online at waterstones.
com are made through the card, G Outlook enabling us to provide more targeted communication to our customers.
We are working hard to maximise both the market share Our related product offer was enhanced by good sales of the opportunity that has arisen from the withdrawal of competitors, Sony Reader, a portable electronic device on which to download and the investments that have been made over the last two and store books in digital format, which was launched in the years to improve performance.
UK exclusively through Waterstones, and we are pleased with the associated download sales of ebooks from waterstones.
Whilst we are cautious about the economic environment, We are also maximising Waterstones customers interest in at this very early stage in the year we are confident of our knowledge-based games by merchandising Nintendo DS software plans for the current financial year, as well as our new initiatives and related hardware, and high-quality gift stationery ranges have to deliver growth beyond the life of the current three-year now been rolled out to all stores.
In total, Waterstones related transformation plan.
products increased to 4.6% of sales from 3.1% a year ago.
Eight former Books Etc stores in London were taken on and successfully rebranded as Waterstones, thereby strengthening our representation in the capital.
Waterstones contribution to specialist bookselling was recognised by the industry, when it was named both High Street Retailer of the Year and Bookselling Company of the Year at the Bookseller Retail Awards.
In addition, Simon Fox the successful brand campaign the Writers Year was named Chief Executive officer Book Marketing Campaign of the Year.
29 June 2009 The new book hub is changing the way Waterstones operates for the long term, and a number of business benets are being created.
With the supply chain tasks removed from our stores, our booksellers are able to focus their skills and knowledge on customer service and sales.
Enabling our stores to return books to the hub, rather than our suppliers, allows Waterstones to recycle slower moving stock within the chain, thereby reducing returns and creating significant efficiencies for book publishers and us.
Since relocating fullment for waterstones.
com to the hub, our Internet sales have grown further and the number of titles available to our customers has increased.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 7
