Business and financial review continued Our business and markets G Visual G Music 33% of total Group sales 21% of total Group sales Visual DVD & Blu-ray, remains the Groups leading product category, As reflected in the Groups medium-term and long-term plan, sales of music providing over 45% of HMV sales.
During 2008 09, the UK market grew via physical media are in structural decline.
However, the physical market by 2%, including the effect of retail capacity withdrawal, with the total market remains significant, worth over 1bn, which is approximately 85% of the total worth over 2bn.
For HMV, this remained an important growth category, UK retail market.
Furthermore, 2008 09 market performance was robust, with UK volumes up 7%, reflecting strong market share gains.
with market volumes down 3% for the year, although down 10% in the last four months as retail capacity withdrawal impacted.
The Group continues In the medium term, the visual packaged media market is anticipated to plan for over 10% per annum declines in the packaged music market, to remain stable, with growth of high-definition Blu-ray offsetting a decline offset in part by growth in digital distribution.
Music, however, remains core in the mature DVD market.
Over and above this, the total market is expected to the HMV brand, whether through the sale of product and merchandise to benefit from growth in the currently underdeveloped paid-for online or via the new investments in venue management and ticketing.
G Games, technology and other G Books 18% of total Group sales 28% of total Group sales The UK market for games hardware and software surpassed expectation The total UK book market has a history of steady but modest growth, in 2008, with strong hardware growth contributing to the UK games software although 2008 09 proved challenging, with a total market decline of 2% after market reaching 2bn.
Whilst growth in 2009 has slowed, the installed console adjusting for the prior year publication of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
base excluding handheld units is still expected to reach 18 million during The outlook remains for a stable, yet highly competitive and promotional market, the year, with the Nintendo Wii in particular driving a broadening demographic.
inclusive of continued growth from online channels, which are anticipated to Consequently, continued games software growth is anticipated, with the market account for a quarter of the market by 2012.
An embryonic market for digital forecast to exceed 3bn by 2012.
A particular characteristic of the games books developed also during 2008 09, with Waterstones successfully launching market is the importance of used or pre-played games.
During the year the Sony Reader for e-books.
Although this new market is currently constrained HMV UK developed a strong pre-played games offer, and rolled this out across by a limited catalogue of digital books, the market has potential to become the store estate.
Technology products, predominantly MP3 MP4 players and up to 10% of online sales by 2012. related accessories, have also developed into an important component of the HMV offer, representing almost 5% of HMV UK & Ireland sales for the year.
HMV Group plc 10 Annual report and accounts 2009 G Our business and markets G Stores and online G Competition The Group has an attractive portfolio of 722 stores, all of The product markets in which we operate are structurally which are: changing and, therefore, in the Groups opinion, market leadership is critical.
In all the territories and markets in which leasehold and located in prime retail locations we operate we face competition from supermarkets, particularly tailored in size to meet the requirements of local markets, but in the segment dened as new release, chart or bestsellers, always provide the widest available ranges in core categories and from online players, which provide an extensive range.
inspiring environments in which to shop, supported by In entertainment, the market in which there is the most knowledgeable service and advice.
profound structural change, specialist retailing capacity has been withdrawing from the market.
Here, there are opportunities for us to maximise our leading market position.
In books, As online continues to develop as a key channel to Waterstones remains the market leader on the high street, market for our product categories, the Group is making though independent bookselling remains a more vibrant the necessary investments to compete by replicating its part of the market than is the case in entertainment.
Online, specialist brand credentials via transactional websites.
co. uk is an established and clear market leader of Recent developments include: our product categories.
As a specialist retailer, both through 55 million visits to hmv.
com and 18 million to waterstones.
com our stores and websites, we seek to differentiate HMV and during 2008 09 Waterstones by: integration of MP3 music downloads into the hmv.
com offer, providing the widest ranges and availabilities, driven by and launch of streaming service to access over 4 million digital best-in-class inventory management systems music tracks on subscription offering customers superior product campaigns utilising waterstones.
com migrated to in-house fullment for enhanced high-quality merchandising skills, direct supplier relationships customer service and range expertise early entry into emerging market for e-books for download the authoritative product knowledge and advice offered via waterstones.
com by our employees provision to our customers of added value experiences, including special events to meet artists and authors and G Economic environment to attend live performances at our stores During the year under review, the Group has faced challenging innovative CRM to drive and maintain customer loyalty, economic conditions in all of the geographical territories in including in HMV UK access to rewards which are not which it operates.
The Group is not immune to macro economic usually available for purchase.
trends: a significant proportion of our sales are made on impulse, meaning footfall on the high street is an important driver: and the products we sell can be deemed to be discretionary.
However, our businesses and product markets exhibit the following characteristics: the products we sell are relatively low ticket items to purchase music, lmed entertainment, games and books are attractive gifts.
Typically, 40% of the Groups sales and the majority of the operating profit are made in its third financial quarter November, December, January, which includes the key Christmas season many of our customers, as with our colleagues, are passionate about, and committed to our markets, whether music, video, games or books.
Consequently, sales of our products are often more resilient than other consumer items.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 11
