Directors report The Directors submit their report and audited financial statements Growth of digital entertainment for the 52 weeks ended 25 April 2009, which were approved on Physical entertainment media is a key driver of footfall to behalf of the Board on 29 June 2009. the Groups stores and of online customers to its various Internet sites.
Technological advances and changing consumer preferences have given rise to new methods of digital delivery, Principal activities and business review The principal activities of the Group are the retailing of preboth legal and illegal, of music, film, electronic games and books, recorded music, video, electronic games and related thereby reducing the purchase of physical media formats.
entertainment products under the HMV and Fopp brands and The Group has responded to these challenges by the launch the retailing of books principally under the Waterstones brand.
of its own websites and continued investment to grow these The Group has operations in seven countries, with the principal businesses, however further unforeseen technological markets being those of the UK and Canada.
developments could have a further adverse impact on the During the period under review the Company entered into Groups future profitability and cash flows.
a joint venture agreement with MAMA Group plc whereby the Company became a 50% shareholder in Mean Fiddler Group Seasonality Limited, a company which operates medium sized live music The business of the Group is highly seasonal with the Christmas venues in the United Kingdom.
The consideration paid in respect season being the most important trading period in terms of sales, of this transaction was 20.0m including fees.
In addition, the profitability and cash flow.
Lower than expected performance Company purchased 19 stores which previously traded under the in this period may have an adverse impact on results for a full Zavvi brand for the sum of 2.0m including stock.
At the same financial year.
time as these transactions, the Company completed a successful 24.0m equity fundraising, details of which are set out on page External factors 17.
Retail markets are sensitive to economic conditions and if the Commentary on the strategy of the Company, the current economic downturn is prolonged this could further performance of the Group during the year, likely future reduce consumer spending on the high street which could affect developments and details of the Mean Fiddler Group Limited joint revenue and profit.
Other external factors which could affect the venture and acquisition of the formerly branded Zavvi stores, can Group include acts of terrorism or war or an outbreak of a be found in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3, and pandemic disease which could reduce the number of customers the Business and Financial Review on pages 4 to 17, which are visiting the Groups stores, causing a decline in revenue and profit.
deemed to be incorporated by reference in and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
Credit risk and liquidity The Group has adequate medium-term financing in place to support its business operations.
The Board regularly reviews Risks and uncertainties The Board has a policy of continuous identification and review and stress tests its liquidity and covenant headroom to ensure of key business risks and uncertainties.
It oversees the compliance with its facilities.
In view of the global economic and development of processes to ensure that these risks are financial conditions, the Board has assessed its exposure to managed appropriately and operational management are counterparty risk and its treasury policies have been amended to delegated with the tasks of implementing these processes and restrict counterparties with which deposits, investments and other reporting to the Board on their outcomes.
The key risks identified transactions may be made.
by the Board are as follows: Failure of supply The Group has agreements with key suppliers and an interruption Competition The Group operates in highly competitive markets where, for or loss of supply of core category products from these suppliers certain of its product ranges at certain times in the product life would affect the Groups ability to trade.
cycle, the Group must adapt and invest in strategies to remain competitive with supermarket and pure Internet retailers.
Damage to reputation or brands In addition, such is the competitive nature of its markets that The HMV and Waterstones brands are material assets of the at times in the past, pressure has been brought to bear on the Group and maintaining their reputation is key to the success of Groups weaker competitors which has led to one-off closing or the Group.
Failure to protect these brands, an event that materially liquidation activity for a limited period of time.
In the past, such damaged the reputation of these brands and or a failure to competitor actions have adversely impacted the Groups pricing, sustain their appeal to customers could have an adverse impact margins and profitability which in the future, may also have an on the financial performance of the Group.
adverse impact on the Groups business and financial condition.
Information Technology systems The Group relies on a number of important IT systems, both for its stores and its Internet sites.
Any significant system performance problems could affect the Groups ability to trade as well as its profitability.
HMV Group plc 40 Annual report and accounts 2009 Key personnel With regards to the appointment and replacement of Directors, The performance of the Group depends on its ability to continue the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the to attract, motivate and retain key head office and store staff.
Combined Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
The retail sector is very competitive and the Groups people The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of are frequently targeted by other companies for recruitment.
The powers of the Directors are detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 20.
Retail store network The Directors interests in the shares of the Company, Retaining a portfolio of good quality real estate, in prime retail together with their remuneration where applicable and further areas and at commercially reasonable rates remains critical to details of their service agreements are detailed in the Directors the performance of the Group.
All of the Groups stores are held Remuneration Report on pages 24 to 34. under operating leases and consequently the Group is exposed No Director, at any time during the period under review, had to the extent that any stores become unviable as a result of a material interest in any contracts with the Company or any of rental inflation.
Where a store location becomes surplus to its subsidiary undertakings, other than the Executive Directors requirements, the Groups policy of occupying prime, highly who had such an interest through their service agreements with marketable locations serves to limit such lease exposure.
the Company, details of which are summarised on page 33.
None of the Directors or their families at any time during the period under review, or subsequently, were interested in any Strategic initiatives In March 2007, a new strategic plan was laid out for the shares of the Companys subsidiary undertakings.
transformation of the Group, which included a number of key Each Director has been given an unlimited indemnity from initiatives for improving the financial performance of the Group the Company in respect of certain losses which they may incur to over a three-year period.
Good progress was made during the third parties in the course of acting as Directors of the Company year on the transformation programme, which remains on track.
and any subsidiary undertaking in which they hold a directorship.
However, the failure of one or more of these initiatives could result in an adverse impact on the profitability and cash flows Principal shareholders of the Group.
As at 25 June 2009 the Company had been advised of the following holdings representing 3% or more in its issued Results and dividends Ordinary Shares: The consolidated profit after deducting taxation amounted to Number of Percentage 44.2m 2008: 89.0m.
The Board of Directors recommends a Ordinary of issued final dividend of 5.6p per Ordinary Share.
This together with the Shares share capital interim dividend of 1.8p, already declared and paid, makes a total UBS Global Asset Management 51,120,722 12.07 for the year of 7.4p per Ordinary Share 2008: 7.4p per Ordinary Standard Life Investments Ltd 38,503,508 9.09 Share.
Subject to approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the final dividend will be paid on 13 October 2009 to Schroders plc 37,074,869 8.75 those shareholders whose names are on the register of members Barclays PLC 29,206,752 6.90 on 4 September 2009.
Tameside Metropolitan Borough Council 27,137,485 6.41 Directors Carl Symon and Roy Brown retired as Directors of the Company Blackrock Inc 23,253,362 5.49 with effect from the close of business on each of 5 September Prudential plc 21,706,205 5.12 2008 and 22 April 2009 respectively.
Carl Symon was not involved JPMorgan Chase & Co 21,161,383 5.00 in the selection or appointment of his successor as Chairman.
Robert Swannell was appointed Non-Executive Chairman of the Fidelity International Ltd 20,297,195 4.72 Company on 2 February 2009 and Andy Duncan was appointed Legal & General Investment as a Non-Executive Director on 13 March 2009.
All other Directors Management Ltd 19,667,751 4.63 served throughout the year under review and details for all present Directors are listed, together with their biographical Morgan Stanley Securities Ltd 17,956,590 4.24 details, on pages 18 and 19.
In accordance with the Articles of Deutsche Bank AG 17,764,232 4.19 Association of the Company, Robert Swannell and Andy Duncan will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Companys Articles of Association require one-third of the Directors to retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and in any event, each Director must offer himself or herself for re-election at least once every three years.
Accordingly, Lesley Knox and Neil Bright will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 41 Directors report continued Policy on payment of creditors Share capital At the Annual General Meeting held in September 2008, The Group does not impose standard payment terms on its shareholders authorised the Company to purchase up to a suppliers but agrees specific terms with each and ensures that each supplier is made aware of such terms.
It is the Groups maximum of 40.3 million of its own Ordinary Shares, representing policy to pay its suppliers in accordance with the terms that they 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
During the period under review the Company did not purchase any of its have agreed.
The Group had 59 days purchases outstanding at 25 April 2009 2008: 61 days, based on the trade creditors at that own shares for cancellation.
date and purchases made during the year.
The Company is a Details of the Companys share capital can be found in Note 28 which is incorporated by reference and deemed to be holding company and therefore has no trade creditors.
Since the end of the period under review the Company has not increased its issued share capital.
Financial instruments The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares which carry The Groups Treasury Department is principally responsible for managing financial risks to which the Group is exposed, such as no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote funding risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign at general meetings of the Company.
The percentage issued nominal value of the Ordinary Shares is 100% of the total exchange risk.
Treasury manages these risks using policies approved by the Board.
issued nominal value of all share capital.
There are no specific Details of the Groups financial risk management policies can restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the be found in Note 26 to the Accounts, a breakdown of the Groups Articles of Association of the Company and prevailing legislation.
net debt position is found in Note 27 and interest charges can be found in Note 10 to the Accounts.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any Employee policies special rights of control over the Companys share capital and The Group aims to employ and develop the best people, putting all issued shares are fully paid.
them in the right positions with a significant level of delegated Details of the employee share schemes are set out in authority and supporting them with the infrastructure and Note 29 and in the Directors remuneration report on pages technology required to perform at the highest levels and at the 24 to 34 both of which are incorporated by reference in and lowest costs with the quickest response time.
shall be deemed to form part of this report.
Responsibility for employment rests primarily with each business operation under the general guidance of central policy Charitable donations and procedural guidelines.
Group companies are committed to The Group made charitable donations of 18,000 in the period the maintenance of a work environment free of discrimination on the grounds of age, gender, nationality, ethnic or racial origin, under review 2008: 12,000.
It is Group policy not to make donations to political parties or independent election candidates non-job related disability, sexual orientation or marital status.
and therefore no political donations were made during the period.
The Group gives full consideration to applications from disabled persons where a disabled person can adequately fulfil The Group is also involved in charitable fundraising, details of which can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Statement the requirements of the job.
Where existing employees become on page 39. disabled, it is the Groups policy, wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career development and promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
In order to promote employee involvement in the Group, regular meetings are held between local management and employees to allow a free flow of information and ideas.
The Company encourages staff involvement in the Groups performance via a combination of employee bonus and share schemes.
The Group has established a Share Incentive Plan, details of which are set out on page 27, in which the UK employees are entitled to participate provided they meet certain service conditions.
HMV Group plc 42 Annual report and accounts 2009 Significant agreements Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely The Companys Senior Bank Facility agreement, details of which can be found in Note 26 to the financial statements, contains to affect its future development, performance and position are provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or set out in the Business and Financial Review on pages 4 to 17. other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company.
In addition, this report describes the management of risks and uncertainties, including credit risk and liquidity, with further The rules of the Companys share plans set out consequences of a change of control of the Company on the information on the Groups borrowing facilities detailed in the employees rights under the plans.
All outstanding awards on the financial statements.
The Directors report that having reviewed current change of control will vest immediately to employees to the extent that any performance conditions are satisfied and, unless the performance and forecast they have a reasonable expectation Remuneration Committee otherwise decides, will be pro-rated to that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue the extent that the vesting period for each outstanding award has been completed at that time.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial Details of payments to the Executive Directors under their statements.
service contracts as a result of a change of control can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 33 and are Annual General Meeting deemed to be incorporated by reference in and shall be deemed The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 2.30pm on 3 September 2009 at Nomura House, 1 St Martins-leto form part of this report.
The special business to be proposed at that meeting will be the renewal of the Directors authority to Auditors allot new Ordinary Shares and to disapply pre-emption rights The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors report are listed on pages 18 and 19. in certain circumstances: the renewal of the Directors authority Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys to buy back the Companys shares in the market: to avoid an inadvertent breach of Companies Act 2006, the renewal of the auditors, each of these Directors confirms that: Groups authority to make political donations: the deletion of to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is certain provisions of the Companys Memorandum of Association no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which are no longer required: the passing of a resolution to which the Companys auditors are unaware: and ensure that going forward the Company can continue to call general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on each Director has taken all steps a director might reasonably 14 days notice: and, certain amendments to the incentive be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors arrangements.
The Notice of Meeting and details of the special are aware of that information.
business to be proposed can be found in the accompanying letter to shareholders.
A statement of the Directors responsibility for the consolidated and Company financial statements can be found on page 44, By order of the Board which is deemed to be incorporated by reference in and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
Elaine Marriner Company Secretary Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and ordinary resolutions reappointing them as 29 June 2009 auditors and authorising the Directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Shelley House, 24 York Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire SL6 1SR HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 43
