Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Growth strategy Questions & answers with management 1.
How have you delivered on your strategy in 2009?
What are the Companys key goals for 2010?
2009 was a strong year for Hochschild.
We actively pursued our We have a number of goals in 2010.
Operationally, we are growth strategy: maximised our existing asset base, invested in focused on achieving our production target of 29 million silver selective acquisitions and developed our exploration pipeline for equivalent ounces, up 4% year-on-year.
This is a challenging longer-term growth.
target, particularly in light of the lower production at Arcata where we are experiencing higher dilution as a result of Regarding our asset base, we achieved our production target of narrower veins, but we are confident that we can deliver.
28 million attributable silver equivalent ounces, representing a Other key operational areas will be cost management and record year of production for Hochschild, up 8% on 2008. further improving health and safety.
We also exceeded our target of reducing unit cost per tonne by 5%, achieving a decrease of 11% for the full year, in line with We are also planning for future growth, with particular focus our plan of producing profitable ounces.
on exploration, where we have announced an increase in spend from $28.6 million in 2009 to $50 million in 2010.
Lastly, we will Moving to acquisitions, we have delivered on our strategy of maintain our disciplined approach to acquisitions and evaluate securing selective, value added investments with over $239.5 high-margin precious metals projects in existing operational million spent in 2009, supported by funds from the $260 million clusters and in new mineral rich regions of the Americas.
We increased our ownership in strategic partners Lake Shore Gold and Gold Resource Corporation 5.
You mention costs, what is your outlook for 2010?
which are together adding 2.7 million silver equivalent ounces We implemented a cost reduction programme at the end of to our 2010 target.
2008 which delivered excellent results in 2009, achieving a 11% Finally, we continued to invest in exploration and we are pleased reduction in unit cost per tonne, above our guidance of 5%.
to report that our brownfield programme generated solid Going forward, we are seeing inflationary pressure in labour results at the Companys key operations, supporting our longand supply costs.
However, we are extremely experienced at term goal of achieving a minimum eight-year total resource operating in different price environments and will continue to life, including a four-year reserve life.
In addition, we are rigorously manage the costs that are under our control.
progressing projects in our pipeline, notably, our 100% owned Peruvian projects Crespo and Azuca which have both reported 6.
Why do you have a lower life of mine than your competitors?
For further details see p22 q We specialise in narrow vein, underground mining and, due to the geologic nature of our deposits, it is extremely costly 2.
What was your greatest challenge in 2009?
to prove up reserves and resources beyond a certain number Our greatest challenge was meeting our production target in a of years and not the most efficient use of financial resources.
year in which we had industrial action at our San Jos operation Our expertise is knowing and understanding the geology in in Argentina and at our mines in Peru.
This was the first time in the areas we operate.
In 2009, we increased our resource life over two decades that we experienced labour related stoppages from 5.9 to 7.1 years and continue to maintain an extremely in Per and it was a new and very challenging situation.
We high conversion rate to reserves.
We are confident about the continue to work closely with employees and unions to ensure longevity of our three main operations and are investing in that we maintain good relations across our operations.
brownfield exploration to extend their mine life.
The Company raised $260 million in October 2009, what was 7.
Your production split is moving towards gold, do you see the rationale for this?
yourselves as a gold or silver producer?
Following an extremely active 18 months, where we had Our production profile will change over time as new operations invested over $232 million in acquisitions, we raised additional and projects move into production.
For example, the funds so that we could continue to pursue our growth strategy contribution from our investments in gold producers, Lake and prepay existing debt.
The $260 million gross proceeds Shore Gold and GRC is likely to increase the proportion of raised reflects our track record and we are pleased to say that gold that we report.
However, we very much see ourselves as we have already delivered on our promise with further strategic a precious metals company, focused on producing profitable investments in Lake Shore Gold and Gold Resource Corporation ounces in the Americas.
and the prepayment of $85.7 million of our debt.
14 Growth strategy D elivering our growth strategy R The following pages explain how we are delivering our strategy for future growth 8.
How do you plan to compensate for your ageing mines, 10.
2009 was a strong year for precious metals, what is your Ares and Moris?
We have known that Ares and Moris are ageing mines for some 2009 was a very interesting year for gold and silver prices time and have therefore proactively identified and invested which, following the downturn in 2008, increased by 27% and in near-term production opportunities which will more than 57% respectively.
Whilst we are positive about the prospects for replace their contribution to our production.
For example, our precious metals, our focus is on producing profitable ounces production target this year includes 2.7 million silver equivalent over the long term.
ounces from Lake Shore Gold and GRC.
What is your policy on hedging?
Our goal is to be 100% unhedged.
However, in response to the volatile market conditions in 2008, we sold forward a proportion of our 2009 production to ensure stable cashflow to fund acquisition opportunities.
This enabled us to invest in Lake Shore Gold and GRC which have delivered significant returns and are also providing future growth potential.
Below: Employee at the Arcata plant, Peru 15
