Governance Accounts Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Governance Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report for the DIRECTORS INTERESTS year ended 31 December 2009.
Details of the interests of those Directors serving at 31 December 2009 in i the Companys shares or ii PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW derivatives or financial instruments relating to such shares, are shown below: Hochschild is a leading precious metals company with a primary focus on the exploration, mining, processing and sale No of ordinary No of ordinary shares as at shares as at of silver and gold.
31 December 1 January The Group has four underground mines in production 2009 2009 supported by fully developed infrastructure, three of which 1 Eduardo Hochschild 182,415,206 181,350,426 are located in southern Peru and the fourth in Argentina.
2 Roberto Daino 1,725,000 1,725,000 The Group also has one open pit mine in Mexico and numerous prospects at various stages of development.
Miguel Arambur 0 0 A number of these projects and prospects are structured as Ignacio Rosado 0 0 joint ventures or option arrangements with local or overseas mining partners, whilst others are owned and operated Sir Malcolm Field 14,285 14,285 exclusively by the Group.
Jorge Born Jr. 0 0 In addition, the Group has strategic investments in a number Nigel Moore 14,285 14,285 of mining companies including Lake Shore Gold Corporation and Gold Resource Corporation.
Dionisio Romero 100,000 100,000 The growth strategy, corporate responsibility and Fred Vinton 0 0 financial review and risk sections of this Annual Report on 1 Eduardo Hochschild holds an indirect interest in the Company through an pages 4 to 41 contain the information required to be intermediate holding company which he controls and which owns the entire disclosed in this report under section 417 of the Companies issued share capital of Pelham Investment Corporation which, in turn, owns Act 2006 which, together with the Corporate Governance shares in the Company.
2 Roberto Dainos interest is held by Navajo Overseas Corporation.
Report, are incorporated into this report by reference.
There have been no changes in the above interests in the RESULTS AND DIVIDEND period from 31 December 2009 to 23 March 2010.
1 The Groups adjusted EBITDA for the year amounted to RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT $249.9 million 2008: $142.3 million.
Revenue for the year was $539.7 million 2008: $433.8 million and attributable Prior to the Companys IPO, Pelham Investment Corporation, profit to equity shareholders after tax before exceptional Eduardo Hochschild and the Company amongst others items was $52.9 million 2008: $15.8 million.
entered into a relationship agreement to regulate the An interim dividend of $0.02 per share was paid to ongoing relationship between them the Relationship shareholders of the Company on 22 September 2009.
The principal purpose of the Relationship The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend Agreement is to ensure that the Group is capable of carrying of $0.02 per share 2008: $0.02 per share.
Subject to on its business for the benefit of the shareholders of the shareholders approving this recommendation at the Company as a whole.
Further details on the Relationship forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM, the dividend Agreement are set out in the Corporate Governance Report will be paid in UK pounds sterling on 27 May 2010 to on pages 49 to 53. shareholders on the register at the close of business on 30 April 2010.
Shareholders may elect to receive their CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR dividend in US dollars.
The US dollar dividend will be converted into UK pounds sterling at the exchange rate The Directors are committed to ensuring the health and prevailing at the time of payment.
safety of the Groups employees, operating the Groups business with respect for the environment and by actively DIRECTORS engaging with local communities.
The Group has sought to reinforce this commitment by allocating resources and The names and biographical details of the Directors serving undertaking numerous initiatives over many years.
at the date of this report are given on page 42.
The CSR Committee has continued to discharge its All directors were in office for the duration of the year under responsibilities during the year by: review except for Fred Vinton who was appointed by the monitoring the Groups performance against agreed Board on 1 August 2009.
As such, Mr Vinton will stand for policy on all CSR-related issues, particularly on safety election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM in and occupational health, community relations, and accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
In the environment: addition, Eduardo Hochschild and Dionisio Romero will be retiring by rotation at this years AGM and, being eligible, reviewing managements investigation of incidents or offer themselves for re-election by shareholders.
accidents that occur, in order to assess whether policy improvements are required: and 1 Calculated as profit from continuing operations before exceptional items, net finance income cost and income tax plus depreciation, amortisation and exploration expenses excluding Personnel and Other expenses.
44 Gov Governance ernance A Accou ccoun nt ts s reviewing compliance with national and international SHARE REPURCHASE AUTHORITY standards to ensure that effective systems of standards, procedures and practices are in place at each of the The Company obtained shareholder approval at the AGM held Companys operations.
in May 2009 for the repurchase of up to 30,735,022 Ordinary Shares which represents 9.09% of the Companys current Further details on the Groups activities in this area are given issued share capital the 2009 Authority.
Whilst no in the corporate responsibility report on pages 26 to 33. purchases were made by the Company pursuant to the 2009 Authority, it is intended that shareholder consent will REHABILITATION OF LAND be sought on similar terms at this years AGM when the 2009 Authority expires.
The Company has a policy of closing mine facilities as the lives of the mines progress in order to reduce liabilities at SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS the end of the mine life.
Total current estimates of end-of-life closure costs for the Groups operations are about $61.3 As at 23 March 2010 the Company had been notified of the million, which includes amounts estimated for ongoing following interests in the Companys Ordinary Share capital maintenance of sites.
A provision for this amount was made in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Financial Services as at 31 December 2009 2008: $38.9 million which was Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules: calculated following a review of the mines estimated closure costs by external consultants and which has been updated Number of Percentage Ordinary of issued by management.
Shares share capital Eduardo Hochschild 182,415,206 53.96 EMPLOYEES Vanguard Group Inc. 27,840,000 8.23 Employees of Minera Santa Cruz, S. A. are voluntarily Blackrock Global Funds 15,442,182 4.57 affiliated to the Asociacin Obrera Minera Argentina the Altima Global Special Argentine Mineworkers Union.
The Groups employees at Situations Master Fund Limited 12,003,175 3.55 the Peruvian operations became members of unions which were formed during 2008.
Details of how the Group engages with its employees are provided in the corporate RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS responsibility report on pages 26 to 33.
Details of related party transactions undertaken during the SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY year under review are given in note 31 to the Groups financial statements on page 120.
It is the Companys policy that, subject to compliance with trading terms by the supplier, payments to suppliers are ADDITIONAL STATUTORY INFORMATION made in accordance with terms and conditions agreed in advance.
This section provides information as at 31 December 2009 At 31 December 2009, the Company had an average of which is required to be disclosed in the Directors report.
42 days purchases owed to trade creditors 2008: 23 days.
References below to the Articles are to the Companys Articles of Association as at the date of this report, copies POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS of which are available from the Registrar of Companies or on request from the Company Secretary.
The Company does not make political donations.
During the References below to the Companies Act are to the year, the Group expended $6 million 2008: $4.6 million on Companies Act 2006. social and community welfare activities surrounding its mining units.
a Structure of share capital The Company has a single class of share capital which EVENTS SINCE THE BALANCE SHEET DATE is divided into Ordinary Shares of 25p each, which are in registered form.
Details of events occurring since 31 December 2009 are Further information on the Companys share capital is set out in note 39 to the Groups financial statements on provided in note 38 to the Group financial statements.
page 133. b Rights and obligations attaching to shares SHARE CAPITAL The rights attaching to the Ordinary Shares are described in full in the Articles.
The issued share capital of the Company as at 1 January 2009 In summary, on a show of hands at a general meeting or was 307,350,226 Ordinary Shares of 25p each.
During the year class meeting, every member present in person has one vote to 31 December 2009 this increased by 30,735,000 Ordinary for every Ordinary Share held and on a poll, every member Shares as a result of shares issued by way of a placing on present in person or by proxy has one vote for every Ordinary 7 October 2009 at a price of 295p each.
45 Governance Accounts Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Governance Directors report continued Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any contains an undertaking by the Controlling Shareholders of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf that they will, and will procure that their Associates will, at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member that is a abstain from voting on any resolution to approve a corporation is entitled to appoint more than one individual to transaction with a related party as defined in the FSA act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a Listing Rules involving the Controlling Shareholders corporate representative.
c Transfer of shares g Appointment and replacement of Directors The relevant provisions of the Articles state that: Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may holds office only until the next following AGM and is then be refused in the circumstances set out in the CREST eligible for election by the shareholders but is not taken Regulations and where, in the case of a transfer to joint into account in determining the Directors or the number holders, the number of joint holders to whom the of Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four: The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, decline to of their body to be the holder of any executive office for such register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid period subject to the Companies Act and on such terms as share.
The Directors may also decline to recognise any they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such instrument of transfer relating to a certificated share unless appointment.
Each Director is required to retire at the AGM the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped if required held in the third calendar year following the year in which he and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and was elected or last re-elected by the Company.
Each Director such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Directors other than the Chairman and any Director holding executive may reasonably require: and ii is in respect of only one office shall retire at each AGM following the ninth class of share.
The Directors may, in their absolute anniversary of the date on which he was elected by the discretion, refuse to register a transfer if it is in favour Company.
The Company may, in accordance with and subject of more than four persons jointly: and to the provisions of the Companies Act by ordinary resolution the Directors may decline to register a transfer of any of of which special notice has been given, remove any Director the Companys shares by a person with a 0.25% interest before the expiration of his term of office.
The office of if such a person has been served with a notice under the Director shall be vacated if: i he is prohibited by law from Companies Act after failure to provide the Company with acting as a Director: ii he resigns or offers to resign and information concerning interests in those shares required the Directors resolve to accept such offer: iii he becomes to be provided under the Companies Act.
bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: iv a relevant order has been made by any court on the ground d Restrictions on voting of mental disorder: v he is absent without permission of No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting the Directors from meetings of the Board for six months or class meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any and the Directors resolve that his office be vacated: vi his call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share resignation is requested in writing by not less than three remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
quarters of the Directors for the time being: or vii in the In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he failed case of a Director other than the Chairman and any Director to provide the Company with information concerning holding an executive office, if the Directors shall resolve to interests in those shares required to be provided under require him to resign and within 30 days of being given notice the Companies Act.
of such notice he so fails to do.
In addition, under the terms of the Relationship Agreement: e Deadlines for voting rights Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the Company for as long as the Major Shareholder has an interest of 30% in respect of which the business being voted upon is being or more in the Company, it is entitled to appoint up to two heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in Non-Executive Directors and to remove such Directors so relation to corporate members, by a corporate representative.
appointed: and Under the Articles, the deadline for delivering proxy forms for as long as the Major Shareholder has an interest of cannot be earlier than 48 hours excluding non-working days 15% or more of the Company, it is entitled to appoint up to before the meeting for which the proxy is being appointed.
one Non-Executive Director and to remove such Director so appointed.
f Shareholder Agreements The Relationship Agreement entered into prior to the IPO h Amendment of Articles of Association between, amongst others, the Major Shareholder as Any amendments to the Articles may be made inaccordance defined in the Relationship Agreement and Eduardo with the provisions of the Companies Act by way of special Hochschild collectively the Controlling Shareholders resolution.
and the Company: contains provisions restricting the Controlling i Powers of the Directors Shareholders rights to exercise their voting rights to Subject to the Companys Memorandum of Association, the procure an amendment to the Articles that would be Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by inconsistent with the Relationship Agreement: and special resolution, the business and affairs of the Company shall be managed by the Directors who may exercise all such powers of the Company.
46 Gov Governance ernance A Accou ccoun nt ts s Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, In summary, a Change of Control occurs if i an offer shares may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the is made to all or as nearly as may be practicable all Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or in the shareholders other than the offeror and or any of its absence of any such resolution, as the Directors may decide.
associate to acquire all or a majority of the issued ordinary Subject to applicable statutes and any ordinary resolution of shares of the Company or if any person proposes a scheme the Company, all unissued shares of the Company are at the with regard to such acquisition other than an Exempt disposal of the Directors.
At each AGM the Company puts in Newco Scheme as defined and such offer or scheme place annual shareholder authority seeking shareholder having become unconditional in all respects or having consent to allot unissued shares, in certain circumstances become effective the right to cast more than 50% of the for cash, in accordance with the guidelines of the Investor votes which may ordinarily be cast on a poll at a general Protection Committee.
meeting of the Company Voting Rights has or will become unconditionally vested in the offeror and or an j Repurchase of shares associate as defined of the offeror: or ii the right to cast Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the more than 60% of the Voting Rights has or will become Company may purchase its own shares in accordance with unconditionally vested in the ultimate controlling the Companies Act.
Any shares which have been bought back shareholder of the Company at the time of issue and or an may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be associate as defined : or iii the right to cast more than cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, 50% of the Voting Rights has or will become unconditionally thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued share vested in any person or persons acting together by reason capital.
The Company currently has authority to buy back up of the acquisition of the Companys ordinary shares or to 30,735,022 Ordinary Shares and which will expire at the Voting Rights from the ultimate controlling shareholder of 2010 AGM.
The minimum price which must be paid for such the Company at the time of issue.
Condition 6 d of the shares is specified in the relevant shareholder resolution.
terms and conditions of the bonds gives bondholders an early redemption option early repayment at face value plus k Dividends and distributions accrued interest upon a Change of Control occurring.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company Awards made under the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare shall, upon a change of control of the Company, vest early dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the unless a replacement award is made.
The Directors may pay interim dividends whenever prorated to take account of the proportion of the period the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the from the award date to the normal vesting date falling Directors, justifies its payment.
If the Directors act in good prior to the change of control and the extent to which faith, they are not liable to holders of shares with preferred performance conditions and any other conditions applying or pari passu rights for losses arising from the payment of to the award have been met.
interim dividends on other shares.
Certain arrangements in respect of derivative instruments entered into by the Group would terminate on the l Significant agreements occurrence of a change of control thereby triggering A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid an event of default vis a vis the counterparty.
may cause a number of agreements to which the Company, or any of its trading subsidiaries, is party, to take effect, alter or terminate.
Such agreements include commercial trading ESSENTIAL CONTRACTUAL AND OTHER ARRANGEMENTS contracts, joint venture agreements and banking arrangements.
Further details are given below of those The Directors consider that the following are the contractual arrangements where the impact may be considered to be and other arrangements to which group companies are significant in the context of the Group.
a party and which are considered to be essential to the business: Under the terms of the $200 million syndicated secured term loan facility agreement dated 28 January 2008, a the mining concessions and operating permits granted change of control entitles JP Morgan Chase Bank N. A. by the governmental authorities in the jurisdiction of the JPMCB as the administrative agent to take certain Groups operations: and actions.
In summary, if so directed by a majority of the collective agreements with trade unions in respect of the lenders, JPMCB may cancel the facility and declare all workers at the Groups mines in Peru.
outstanding loans, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued under the facility documentation immediately due and payable.
Furthermore, a change POLICY ON FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT of control entitles JPMCB to direct the enforcement of all liens and security interests created under the The Companys objectives and policies on financial risk facility documentation.
management can be found in note 38 to the Group financial statements.
Information on the Companys exposures to Under the terms and conditions of the $115,000,000 5.75% foreign currency, commodity prices, credit, equity, liquidity, Convertible Bonds due 2014, condition 5 a sets out the interest rates and capital risks can be found in this note.
conversion rights of the holders of the bonds and the calculation of the conversion price payable.
The conversion price will decrease if a Change of Control occurs.
Change of Control is defined in Condition 3 and Condition 5 b x sets out the consequential adjustment to the conversion price.
47 Governance Accounts Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Governance Directors report continued DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE AUDITORS Since Directors are increasingly being added as defendants A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors in legal actions against companies, the Board believes that will be put to the members at the forthcoming AGM.
the risk of Directors being placed at significant personal financial risk is increasing.
The Board also believes that AGM the provision of appropriate indemnities and the funding The fourth AGM of the Company will be held at 10 am on of Directors defence costs as permitted by legislation are 26 May 2010 at the offices of Goldman Sachs, River Court, reasonable protections for the Directors and are important 120 Fleet Street, London EC4A 2QQ.
The shareholder circular to ensure that the Company continues to be able to attract incorporating the Notice of AGM is available at and retain the highest calibre individuals as Directors.
com Accordingly, the Articles contain a provision whereby each The shareholder circular contains details on, amongst other of the Directors is indemnified by the Company in respect of things, the business to be considered at the meeting and the liability in relation to: i any negligence, default, breach of biographical details of the Directors standing for re-election duty or breach of trust relating to the Company or any at the AGM.
associated company: ii execution of their duties as Directors of the Company: and iii the activities of the Company or any STATEMENT ON DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION associated company as trustee of an occupational pension TO AUDITORS scheme.
For these purposes, associated company has the meaning given to it by section 256 of the Companies Act 2006.
Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys auditors, each Director confirms that to the However, a Director will not be indemnified for any liability best of his knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit incurred by him to the Company or Group companies: any information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
criminal or regulatory fines: the costs of defending any Furthermore, each Director has taken all the steps that he criminal proceedings in which he is convicted: or the costs ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself of defending any civil proceedings brought by the Company aware of any relevant audit information and to establish in which judgement is given against him.
that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Company has purchased and maintains liability This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, insurance for its Directors and officers as permitted by in accordance with the provisions of section 418 2 of section 233 of the Companies Act 2006. the Companies Act 2006.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Companies Act 2006 allows Directors of public The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest of directors where the Companys Articles of the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Association contain a provision to that effect.
Shareholders applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair approved amendments to the Companys Articles of view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or Association at the AGM held on 9 May 2008 which included loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the provisions giving the Directors authority to authorise matters consolidation taken as a whole: and which may result in the Directors breaching their duty to the Management report includes a fair review of the avoid a conflict of interest.
development and performance of the business and the The Board has established effective procedures to enable position of the Company and the undertakings included the directors to notify the Company of any actual or potential in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a conflict situations and for those situations to be reviewed description of the principal risks and uncertainties that and, if appropriate, to be authorised by the Board, subject they face.
to any conditions that may be considered appropriate.
In keeping with the approach agreed by the Board, Directors DISCLAIMER conflicts were reviewed during the year under review.
Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability Directors of the Company who have an interest in matters to any person in relation to this Annual Report except to under discussion at Board meetings are required to declare the extent that such liability could arise under English law.
this interest and to abstain from voting on the relevant Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated matters.
Any related party transactions are approved by a reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission committee of the Board consisting solely of Independent shall be determined in accordance with section 90A of the Directors.
In addition, the Directors will be able to impose Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. limits or conditions when giving any authorisation, if they The names and functions of the current Directors of the think this is appropriate.
Company are set out on page 42 of this Annual Report.
GOING CONCERN On behalf of the Board The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation Raj Bhasin for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue Company Secretary to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 23 March 2010 financial statements.
