Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility A committed ApproAch During the year, the CSR Committee considered: The investigations into the fatalities that occurred during Since the Groups listing in London in 2006, it has endeavoured the year and oversaw the implementation of associated to maintain its corporate culture of fostering respect for recommendations the wellbeing of its employees, the environment and the communities in which it operates.
The execution of the yearly plan in each of the four areas of CSR focused on by the Group To achieve this objective, the Group has adopted a number The implementation of recommendations from external of policies demonstrating its commitment to: consultants following health and safety, and environmental Take all necessary steps to ensure: audits at the Groups operations A safe and healthy workplace Progress on the implementation of the safety-driven management information system designed in conjunction The prevention of environmental contamination with Det Norske Veritas DNV detailed further in the Safety Respect for, and commitment to, the communities section of this report on page 27 in which it operates Detailed presentations on the management of community Comply with all relevant legislation and international and labour relations across the Group standards Revision of the Community Relations short-term and longPromote continuous improvement in its management terms plans.
systems incorporating best practice To support the CSR Committee, a working group of relevant Adopt a proactive approach in preventing and, where this personnel meets on a monthly basis to consider, at an operational is not possible, managing, the risks that may hinder level, local health and safety policies and environmental achievement of its CSR objectives protection programmes and community relations matters.
These meetings are attended by the CEO and COO.
Encourage employees to adopt the Groups values through the use of training and internal communications.
Monitoring performance Management The Group continues to make progress in measuring its The Board has ultimate responsibility for establishing Group performance against its CSR objectives.
Accordingly, policies relating to CSR and ensuring that national and performance indicators appear after each section of this international standards are met.
The Corporate Social Report and, where Group-wide information is not available, Responsibility Committee has been established as a formal performance only in respect of the wholly-owned Peruvian committee of the Board with delegated responsibility for various operations has been disclosed which represents almost 70% CSR issues, focusing on compliance with national and of the Groups attributable production.
international standards and ensuring that appropriate systems and practices are in place Group-wide to ensure the effective management of CSR-related risks.
The CSR Committee is chaired by Roberto Daino Deputy Chairman and Executive Director who has Board-level responsibility for CSR issues.
26 Corporate responsibility Our commitment to the health and safety of our employees, respect for the environment and active engagement with local communities is an intrinsic part of Hochschilds culture Roberto Daino, Chairman CSR Committee 1.
WorkplAce Developments during the year a Safety Notable developments during the year include: The Hochschild approach The attainment of Level 4 implementation of the DNV Our people and their safety remain of paramount importance management information system which provides a framework for the Group and is reflected in everything that we do.
Ensuring to improve occupational health and safety performance safety of the Groups employees is considered a vital element in including risk and opportunity identification, analysis, target measuring the successful achievement of corporate strategy to setting, and measurement which the Board and management are committed.
Following the successful launch of a Group-wide competition The Group has continued to invest, during 2009, in operating in 2008 for the Luis Hochschild Safety Prize, ten of the controls and processes to ensure that the highest standards numerous practical suggestions to improve safety that were of safety are met.
As a testament to the Groups commitment submitted were implemented during 2009 in all mining units to achieving an internationally recognised level of health and The launch of numerous Group-wide initiatives to encourage safety management, OHSAS18001 accreditation at all safe working practices including: operations was maintained during the year.
The commissioning of a safety video focusing on dealing However, it is with sadness that there were three fatalities with hazards associated with particular aspects of the during 2009.
The Group has conducted investigations into the mining process circumstances leading to each occurrence with steps taken to implement the associated recommendations.
The award of two prizes every month at each mine to the individual and group that exemplify the Groups approach to safety The production of a safe practices manual distributed to all mining personnel in the organisation.
Below: A safety briefing at the Arcata plant, Peru 27
