Governance Senior management Isac Burstein Jos Augusto Palma VP Business Development Vice President and General Counsel Isac Burstein joined the Group as a geologist in 1995.
Prior Jos Augusto Palma joined Hochschild in July 2006 after to his current position, Isac served as Manager for Project a 13 year legal career in the United States, where he was a Evaluation, Exploration Manager for Mexico, and Exploration partner at the law firm of Swidler Berlin and subsequently, Geologist.
He holds a BSc in Geological Engineering from the at the World Bank.
He also served two years in the Government Universidad Nacional fide Ingenieria, an MSc in Geology from of Peru.
Jos has Law degrees from Georgetown University the University of Missouri and an MBA from Krannert School and the Universidad Iberoamericana in Mexico and is admitted of Management, Purdue University.
Isac is on the Board of to practice as a lawyer in Mexico, New York and the District Gold Resource Corp. of Columbia.
Prior to his current role Jos served as Senior Adviser to the Executive Committee.
Ignacio Bustamante Chief Operating Officer Eduardo Villar Ignacio Bustamante joined Hochschild in 1992 and assumed Vice President, Human Resources his current role in January 2008.
Previously, he has served as Eduardo Villar has been with the Group since 1996.
Prior to General Manager of the Peruvian operations and between 1998 his current position, he served as Human Resources Manager, and 2003 as Chief Financial Officer of Cementos Pacasmayo.
Deputy HR Manager and Legal Counsel.
Eduardo holds a Whilst at Cementos, Ignacio served as Chief Financial Officer Law Degree from the Universidad fide Lima and an MBA from and Vice President of Business Development and later as the Universidad Peruana fide Ciencias Aplicadas.
President at Zemex Corporation, a group subsidiary.
Ignacio is also one of Hochschilds representatives on the Board of Lake Shore Gold Corp.
He holds a BSc in Business and a BSc in Accounting from the Universidad del Pacfico in Peru and an MBA from Stanford University.
Raymond Jannas Vice President, Exploration & Geology Raymond Jannas joined Hochschild in 2007 after working for eight years at Gold Fields Limited where he served as Worldwide Project Generation Manager between 2006 and 2007 and as South America Exploration Manager.
Raymond has over 30 years experience as a geologist throughout the Americas.
He holds a BSc in Geology from the Universidad fide Chile and an MSc and PhD in Geology from Harvard University.
