Corporate responsibility The launch of a pilot programme at the Peruvian operations c Corporate HR aimed at assuring the emotional wellbeing of workers the The Hochschild approach Wellbeing Programme.
This initiative incorporates the use The Corporate Human Resource Vice Presidency supports of consultations and workshops to assist employees to deal the execution of the Groups strategy by the recruitment and with issues relating to stress and work-life balance as well retention of employees through the use of innovation and best as promoting personal skills practice.
The Group seeks to differentiate itself from its peers by emerging as an employer of choice.
By taking this approach, The establishment of on-site clinical laboratories at the Peruvian the Group seeks to enhance its ability to attract and retain the operations to perform occupational health examinations necessary skills.
Group wide roll-out of routine occupational health Developments during the year examinations of mineworkers at the start and end of their Notable developments during the year include: employment and on an annual basis Development and implementation of a performance evaluation In partnership with the Community Relations team and process focusing not only on the required skills and the local authorities, a study was undertaken on the provision achievement of objectives but also the practices employed of healthcare services to the communities located close to to achieve set targets the Groups Peruvian operations which has led to the commissioning of a mobile medical unit.
Initiatives to increase the Groups profile locally and internationally through partnerships with universities including the offer of scholarships at the Colorado School of Mining: Targets for 2010 Implementation of the Occupational Health module of SAP The continuation of a graduate trainee programme where 16 of the best performing graduates from five Peruvian Implementing the Hygiene Audit Programme in Argentina universities with relevant degrees such as mine engineering, and Mexico geology and chemistry were trained and recruited by the Group.
Establishing a blueprint for the Wellbeing Programme for roll-out to other parts of the Group.
Targets for 2010 5% improvement in the measurement of the working environment as gauged by the Organisational Climate survey Health indicators Implementation of the Hochschild Mining Leadership 2009 2008 2007 programme.
Average number of medical attendances at Peruvian General HR indicators operations and at San Jos 1 2 per month 2,690 2,851 2,505 2009 2008 2007 Average number of medical General emergencies at Peruvian Average number of Group operations and at San Jos 2 2 employees 4,969 5,012 4,132 per month 64 53.42 89.58 training Average number of occupational health Average number of hours of examinations at the Groups training undertaken by each 1 wholly-owned Peruvian employee 14.03 19.62 13.59 operations and Moris per Percentage of workforce 3 month 406 238 224 1 trained during the year 94% 83% 68% 1 These figures do not include attendances and emergencies at the Moris mine which have only labour relations been monitored since August 2008.
2 These figures include attendances and emergencies at the Pallancata mine between May 2007 Number of production days and December 2007 only.
3 Figures for Moris were not available for the whole of 2008 and hence have not been included.
lost as a result of industrial unrest 40.5 0 1 1 In respect of Peruvian operations only 29 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued 2. community relAtions cr Developments during the year a Health and nutrition The Hochschild approach After two years of working together with Caritas del Peru, a The Group strives to go beyond keeping a conflict-free relationship specialised NGO, the Group is starting to witness significant with surrounding communities by supporting community based results.
Caritas works both by strengthening the local health organisations and interest groups in their many efforts aimed institutions and by training community health promoters.
As a at improving quality of life.
Sustainability of activities within result, in certain of the communities surrounding our Peruvian the communities is continuously improved by promoting the mines, the rate of acute diarrheic diseases in children under participation of additional development agencies to implement three years old has halved over the past two years.
The Groups CR policy ensures the against illnesses through vaccinations is also common practice creation of new jobs at a local level and appropriate training and the incidence of child malnutrition is subsiding.
programmes with priority given to community members.
The Group has supported the efforts of improving the diets of 2009 has also seen the CR team focus on establishing an improved families with young children living at very high altitude by long-term relationship with surrounding communities through assisting the construction of family greenhouses.
Training on open communication and dialogue.
In this sense, CR members community and family hygiene practices range from maintenance have promoted a closer relationship between operations personnel of community water systems to promoting smokeless kitchen within the mining units with members of the surrounding arrangements.
The strategy of disease prevention through communities and local authorities.
Examples of this include training and promotion of healthy practices at the family level, guided visits of local leaders to the Groups mining operations, coupled with taking care of urgent health needs is the Groups Group employees participating in various forms of voluntary work, approach to improving sustainability of interventions of this kind.
by talks given by Engineers to school children on environmental and other issues of community interest, sponsorship of and b Education and training participation at local and regional fairs, and organisation of trout Education, particularly of primary school children, is essential fishing contests.
for providing life opportunities to citizens at an early stage.
The Groups school programme brings specialised training to school In order to emphasise the long-term nature of the relationship teachers and directors so they can improve the level of education between the Group and the surrounding communities, five CR they provide.
School teachers received not only a variety of strategic objectives have been formulated.
methodological tools but also the possibility of obtaining official diplomas through specialised courses.
Consolidate a culture of mutual respect and life together schools now have their own institutional plan as well as information with communities: centres and other facilities.
Moreover, teachers from different schools have formed networks to exchange experiences and 2.
Achieve and consolidate agreements that are mutually facilitate self-learning.
This collaboration has resulted in beneficial: significant improvements in the standard of mathematics and integral communications skills achieved by the children.
Promote improved and sustainable income generation for community inhabitants: The Group is also committed to assisting youngsters in pursuing professional careers.
Contribute to the improvement of health, nutrition and 70 young community members participated in training education in surrounding communities of direct influence: and programmes enabling them to apply for scholarships from the Group to study at TECSUP.
Consolidate good relationships and co-ordinate activities with institutions for the promotion of sustainable development.
30 Corporate responsibility This page: A selection of photographs from our extensive range of community relations projects 31
