REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Our product markets Home Retail Group operates in the home and general merchandise market, worth approximately 60 billion in terms of UK retail sales.
We are the market leader in this market, PRODUCT MARKETS with an approximate 10% share.
The overall market can be analysed into various product Group Market categories.
A summary of these, including Argos Homebase position size bn where products are sold at Argos, Homebase or both, the Groups overall share position Home enhancement and the market size of each product category, Housewares 1 9.2 is as follows: Furniture 1 8.1 Home improvement DIY tted kitchens bathrooms 2 11.2 Housewares Horticulture, garden furniture and outdoor living 2 3.0 The housewares market is relatively fragmented, according to analysis by Verdict Research, with Sub total 31.5 the ten largest retailers accounting for around 40% of the market.
Argos is market leader, with General merchandise Homebase adding further Group scale.
The comSmall domestic appliances 1 1.4 petition base is very broad across the department Consumer electronics 2 16.4 stores John Lewis, Marks & Spencer, Debenhams Large domestic appliances 3 3.6 and Bhs, as well as fashion and home retailer Toys 1 1.8 Next, some national specialists IKEA, Dunelm, Jewellery 1 3.4 the supermarkets Tesco, Asda, Sainsbury and Sports and leisure equipment 1 1.4 some broader generalists Wilkinson, Matalan, TK Maxx.
Specialist independents are estimated Sub total 28.0 to account for around one-third of the market.
The housewares market in calendar year 2008 Total 59.5 was estimated to have experienced broadly at total retail sales.
Note: All market positions are for calendar year 2008 and by retail sales except for jewellery, which is measured by volume.
Furniture Home improvement The structure of the furniture market shows fairly The largest part of the home improvement marclose resemblance to the housewares market ket is the DIY category excluding furniture and 1st, 2nd, 3rd according to analysis by Verdict Research, with homewares.
There are four national specialists The Groups market position the ten largest retailers accounting for approachB&Q, Homebase, Wickes and Focus accounting for each of its categories.
Argos is market leader, for over 40% of the market according to Verdict with Homebase again adding further Group scale.
Research, with other national operators selling The competition base has a greater proportion of products in this category being Argos, Wilkinson, national specialists DFS, IKEA, the former MFI Robert Dyas, Topps and Wyevale.
Approximately business, Homestyle Group, Magnet, ScS, Land of 50% of the DIY market is estimated to be Leather, Furniture Village, with other signi cant accounted for by specialist independents.
The players being B&Q, John Lewis and Next.
home improvement market also includes the The furniture market in calendar year 2008 kitchens, bathrooms and oorcoverings excludwas estimated to have experienced a mid-toing carpets categories, with additional national high single-digit decline in total retail sales, with competitors in these areas including Magnet, capacity withdrawal also noticeable.
Howden, the former MFI business and HomeForm.
The home improvement market in calendar year 2008 was estimated to have experienced a mid single-digit decline in total retail sales.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 11 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Our product markets continued Horticulture, garden furniture and outdoor living Large domestic appliances This market according to Verdict Research, is This market is again relatively concentrated, mainly dominated by the four national DIY speaccording to GfK, with the two major electrical cialists, with Argos and the two garden centre specialists being then followed by Argos.
Departspecialists Wyevale and Dobbies also being sigment stores such as John Lewis, DIY and kitchen ni cant retailers of products in this category.
specialists including Homebase, and to a lesser Approximately 50% of this market is also estiextent the supermarkets and home shopping mated to be accounted for by specialist businesses, represent other signi cant retailers in independents.
Approximately one-third of the The horticulture, garden furniture and outdoor large domestic appliances market would be living market in calendar year 2008 was accounted for by specialist independents.
estimated to have experienced a mid single-digit The large domestic appliances market in decline in total retail sales.
calendar year 2008 was estimated to have experienced a high single-digit decline in total Small domestic appliances retail sales, according to Verdict Research.
This market is relatively concentrated according to GfK, with Argos being the clear market leader Toys with a substantial market share.
Competition is The toy market is relatively concentrated, accordmainly in the form of the electrical specialists ing to analysis by NPD, with the ten largest Currys and Comet, Boots in terms of personal retailers accounting for over 60% of the market.
care appliances, the supermarkets, and the Argos is the market leader, with Toys R Us and department stores.
Approximately one-third of the former Woolworths business the two major the small domestic appliances market would be national specialists.
The Early Learning Centre, accounted for by specialist independents.
Toymaster, The Entertainer and the Disney Store The small domestic appliances market in are other signi cant specialists, with the supercalendar year 2008 was estimated to have markets also being signi cant toy retailers.
experienced a marginal decline in total retail The toy market in calendar year 2008 was sales, according to Verdict Research.
estimated to have experienced a mid single-digit decline in total retail sales.
Consumer electronics This market is also relatively concentrated, Jewellery according to GfK, with Currys being the market Market competitor analysis on the jewellery leader, followed by Argos and then Comet.
Other market is based on volume sold rather than total 10% competition is mainly in the form of John Lewis retail sales value.
This indicates a highly concenThe Groups market-leading and other department stores, the supermarkets, trated market, according to Mintel, with Argos share of the UK general and national specialists in certain sub-categories being the market leader by volume, followed merchandise and home such as Game in video gaming and Jessops in phoby H. Samuel.
Other major retailers of jewellery enhancement market.
Around one-quarter of the consumer volumes include Next and other fashion jewelelectronics market would be accounted for lery shops, Marks & Spencer and other by specialist independents, while other online department stores, and specialist jewellers retailers represent a small but growing share of selling a greater proportion of precious metal this market.
jewellery such as Ernest Jones Leslie Davis and The consumer electronics market in calendar Goldsmiths.
year 2008 was estimated to have experienced a The jewellery market in calendar year 2008 mid-to-high single-digit growth in total retail was forecasted to have marginal growth in total sales, according to Verdict Research.
This was retail sales value terms, according to Mintel.
almost entirely driven by the video gaming category, with marginal growth or decline in the other major areas of consumer electronics.
1 12 2 H Ho om me e R Re et ta ai il l G Gr ro ou up A p An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 20 200 09 9 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Sports and leisure equipment This market is relatively fragmented according to expected on account of population growth and analysis by Verdict Research, with Argos being an increasing number of households, a reversion the market leader.
Other sellers of equipment to the general trend of rising overall household include the predominantly sports clothing retaildisposable income, technology changes and ers Sports World International, JJB Sports, other new product developments, as well as the John David Group, the department stores, and need to replace many existing household items.
retailers such as Halfords in sub-categories Home Retail Groups key strengths mean we such as cycles and camping.
The majority of are well equipped for the future.
Our strong retail the market is estimated to be made up of brands, multi-channel offering, extensive prodspecialist independents.
uct choice and competitive pricing, together with The sports and leisure equipment market a strong financial position, mean we are relatively in calendar year 2008 was estimated to have well placed to trade through the downturn and experienced a mid single-digit growth in total bene t from renewed consumer con dence later retail sales.
While we have leading positions in multiple product markets, there remains subExpected future development stantial headroom for growth in many categories.
of the competitive landscape The more fragmented markets provide growth We expect our product markets to remain highly opportunities, and we expect to take market competitive in the future.
Supermarkets have share from weaker competitors and to bene t been growing share in certain parts of the from any capacity withdrawal that ensues.
non-food, non-clothing market, building on Our businesses are well established but their regular footfall and the increased space continue to evolve to meet changing customer given to these ranges.
Online retailers, such as preferences.
Our product range is constantly amazon.
co. uk, currently represent a small but expanding.
Our supply chain is highly ef cient growing share of certain product categories.
With all the key determinants However, in categories undergoing a sharper for success in place, we expect to emerge in the slowdown in consumer spending, many specialist long run as a stronger competitor in a more retailers, often with some signi cant market consolidated market.
shares, are experiencing financial dif culties.
In most categories, the independent specialists will face even greater pressures on the ability to weather the challenging economic environment.
Home Retail Groups distribution Although retail conditions are likely to remain tough in the near term, the longer-term outlook infrastructure handles around for market growth remains positive.
A return to long-term growth in the general merchandise 400 million individual products and home enhancement markets would be per year.
Its sourcing operation in Hong Kong, Shanghai and Shenzen employs over 150 people.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 13
