GOVERNANCE Directors report The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for Directors interests the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 the period.
The bene cial interests of the directors, together with non-bene cial interests in Home Retail Group plc shares, are shown below: Principal activities and business review Number of ordinary shares The Groups principal activities comprise home and general merchandise at 28 February 2009 retailing.
The chairmans statement, review of the business and financial Terry Duddy 927,198 statements report on performance of the business during the period, the position at the period end, likely future developments, the principal risks and Richard Ashton 332,110 uncertainties facing the Group and financial key performance indicators, and are incorporated by reference into this directors report.
Details of Oliver Stocken 103,936 corporate responsibility, including charitable donations, employee involveJohn Coombe 45,344 ment and policy on the employment of disabled persons are also set out in the review of the business and are incorporated by reference into this Andy Hornby 24,186 directors report, as is the Groups statement on corporate governance.
There were no material acquisitions or disposals during the period.
Penny Hughes 8,500 Pro t and dividends There were no changes to the above interests as at 29 April 2009.
The Groups consolidated income statement on page 69 shows a loss after exceptional items for the period of 413.1m.
The directors recommend the Substantial shareholdings payment of a final dividend of 10.0p per ordinary share, to be paid on 22 July As at 29 April 2009, the Company had been noti ed under Rule 5 of the 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 22 May Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the fol- 2009.
An interim dividend of 4.7p per ordinary share was paid on 21 January lowing holdings of voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company: 2009 giving a total dividend for the year of 14.7p per ordinary share.
Total number of Percentage of voting rights total voting Directors ordinary shares rights % The names and biographical details of the directors are shown in the Board Schroders plc 87,463,013 9.99 of Directors and Operating Board section on pages 50 and 51.
There has been no change in the directors during the period.
Particulars of directors AXA S. A.
84,288,683 9.61 remuneration are shown in the directors remuneration report on pages 58 Barclays Global Investors 44,313,816 5.05 to 66.
Details of the service contracts of the directors, and how a change of control will affect the service contracts of the executive directors, are sumTaube Hodson Stonex Partners LLP 43,983,617 5.01 marised within the directors remuneration report.
Neither contract for the executive directors provides for extended notice periods or compensation Standard Life Investments Ltd 37,392,176 4.26 in the event of termination or a change of control.
Legal and General Group plc 36,104,209 4.11 The directors retiring at the 2009 Annual General Meeting are Oliver Stocken and Richard Ashton who, each being eligible, offer themselves for Share capital and control re-election.
As at 29 April 2009, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single During the period, the Group maintained liability insurance and thirdclass of shares, referred to as ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary share party indemni cation provisions for its directors, under which the Company capital can be found in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements on has agreed to indemnify the directors to the extent permitted by law in page 105. respect of all liabilities to third parties arising out of, or in connection with, The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are more fully set out the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors of in the Articles of Association of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the Company and any of its associated companies.
These indemnities are the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than the following: Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions as fide ned in Section 309A-B of the Companies Act 1985 and copies are available for inspection at the certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and registered of ce of the Company during business hours on any weekday regulations such as insider trading laws : and except public holidays.
pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the Company requires certain employees to seek the Companys permission to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
52 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Directors report continued The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders Articles of Association which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the Company rights.
There are no shareholdings which carry special rights relating to and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, the appointment or control of the Company.
A change of control of the Company following a removal of directors and the conduct of the Board and general meetings.
takeover bid may cause a number of agreements to which the Company Copies are available upon request and are displayed on the Companys or its trading subsidiaries is party to take effect, alter or terminate.
In accordance with the Articles of context of the Company as a whole, these agreements are not considered Association, directors can be appointed or removed by the Board or shareto be signi cant.
Amendments to the Articles of Association must be approved by at least 75% of those voting in person or by proxy at Purchase of own shares a general meeting of the Company.
Subject to company law and the Articles At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 2 July 2008, authof Association, the directors may exercise all the powers of the Company ority was given for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 87,000,000 and may delegate authorities to committees.
Details of the main Board ordinary shares of 10p each.
The Company did not use this authority to committees can be found in the corporate governance statement on pages make any purchases of its own shares during the period.
General Meeting to be held on 1 July 2009, shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority, details of which are contained in the accompanying Annual General Meeting circular to shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Jurys Inn Details of the Companys interests in its own shares are set out in note 28 Hotel, Midsummer Boulevard, Milton Keynes MK9 2HP, commencing at to the consolidated financial statements on page 105 and 106.
The Notice of Meeting is included in a separate circular to shareholders which accompanies this annual report.
It is Employee share plans also available on the Companys website at www.
Some of the Companys employee share plans include restrictions on the transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plan.
As described Financial risk management in the directors remuneration report, non-executive directors receive part The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group and the of their fees in shares, which may not normally be transferred during a exposure of the Group to price, credit, liquidity and cash ow risk are set out directors period of of ce.
in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 81 to 84.
Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, participants are the bene cial owners of the shares but not the registered owners, Relevant audit information the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner, at the As at 29 April 2009, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit direction of the participant.
information of which the auditors are unaware and each director has taken All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to ensure become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of that the auditors are aware of that information.
any performance conditions at that time.
Auditors Political donations The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness The Group has made no political donations and incurred no items of to continue in of ce and a resolution that they be reappointed will be political expenditure during the period.
proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Creditor payment By order of the Board For all trade creditors, it is, and will continue to be for the next financial year, Group policy to: Gordon Bentley Secretary agree and con rm the terms of payment at the commencement of business with that supplier: 29 April 2009 pay suppliers in accordance with applicable terms: and continually review the payment procedures and liaise with suppliers Registered Of ce: as a means of eliminating dif culties and maintaining a good Avebury working relationship.
489-499 Avebury Boulevard Milton Keynes Trade creditor days of the Group at 28 February 2009 were 51 2008: 52, MK9 2NW based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade suppliers.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 53
