HomeServe Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2009 38 Directors HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2009 39 Brian Whitty 55 Richard Harpin 44 Jonathan Simpson-Dent 42 Chairman since April 2004 and prior Chief Executive since April 2004.
Served as Chief Financial Officer to the demerger of South Staffordshire Appointed to the Board in May from March 2007 to June 2009.
Water spent six years as Chief 2001.
Founder of HomeServe which Previously CFO at General Healthcare Executive and three years as Finance was originally a joint venture with Group.
Prior to that he spent four Director.
Previously Finance Director South Staffordshire Group set up in years at McKinsey followed by of ACT Group plc.
Previously a brand manager seven years at PepsiCo in a number chartered accountant in 1977. with Procter & Gamble, followed of senior finance roles.
Qualified by management consultancy with as a chartered accountant with .
Deloitte and his own company.
Jon Florsheim 49 J M Barry Gibson 57 # Ian Chippendale 60 # Appointed to the Board and as Chief Appointed to the Board in April 2004 Appointed to the Board in January Executive of UK Membership in March and appointed as Senior Non- 2007.
Previously Chief Marketing Executive Director in February 2009. director of Transatlantic Holdings Officer and Managing Director, Currently senior non-executive Director Inc and a Trustee of Victim Support.
Customer Group of British Sky of William Hill plc.
Previously Group Previously Chairman of RBS Insurance, Broadcasting.
Prior to joining BSkyB Retailing Director at BAA plc, Group Group Chief Executive of the Direct in 1994, he was Marketing Director Chief Executive of Littlewoods plc and Line Group of companies, Chief of Dixons Stores Group now DSG non-executive Director of Somerfield Executive of Privilege Insurance and International plc and had marketing plc and National Express plc.
Chairman of the Insurance Division of posts with Tesco.
Mark Morris 49 # Andrew Sibbald 42 Trevor Didcock 45 Appointed to the Board in February Appointed to the Board in June 2007.
Previously in audit, business An experienced corporate financier, he Officer in February 2008.
Previously advisory and corporate finance with is Senior Partner and the co-founder Information Systems Director at the Price Waterhouse before joining Sytner of Lexicon Partners, an independent AA and Group IT Director of RAC Group plc as Finance Director, later corporate advisory business which Motoring Services.
Prior to that he becoming Managing Director.
Currently specialises in the financial services, held various roles in Esso, J P Morgan senior non-executive director of LSL utility and energy sectors.
Previously and Mars, including three years as Property Services plc and a former nonManaging Director, Financial Institutions Head of IT for Mars Confectionery.
executive director of Christian Salvesen Group, Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and plc and Maxima Holdings plc.
a Partner of the Phoenix Partnership.
Rachael Hughes 38 Jonathan King 48 Jeremy Middleton 48 Appointed as Chief Executive of Appointed as Chief Executive of Home Non-Executive Director of the HomeServe Europe in 2005 having Service USA in 2005 following four original HomeServe business set been Managing Director of Domo, years as Managing Director of the UK up in 1993.
Previously a Brand HomeServes joint venture with Veolia Membership business and a year as Manager with Procter and Gamble in France, since its launch in June Business Development Director.
He and a Management Consultant with 2001.
Previously Managing Director of previously worked in retail marketing PriceWaterhouse.
Now acts as a CHEP Argentina SA following a total with the Boots Company as Group business angel specialising in early of seven years with CHEP Equipment Brand Manager for No.
Pooling Systems in North and South America and GKN Group in the UK.
Martin Bennett 40 Anna Maughan 39 Being appointed to the Board as Appointed Company Secretary in Chief Financial Officer in June 2009.
July 2008 following twelve years as Previously Finance Director of UK Assistant Company Secretary.
Also Membership having been Finance Secretary to the industry wide Water Key Director of the Warranties business Companies Pension Scheme.
Prior to # Audit Committee Chairman: Mark Morris joining HomeServe in 2003 he spent Nomination Committee three years as Group Finance Director Chairman: Brian Whitty of Clarity Group and ten years at Remuneration Committee Arthur Andersen where he qualified Chairman: Ian Chippendale as a Chartered Accountant.
