Board of directors Non-executive Chairman Non-executive directors Peter Wallis Will Samuel Angus Cockburn Peter was appointed a non-executive Will was appointed a non-executive Angus was appointed a non-executive director in January 2001.
Peter is director and Chairman designate in director in October 2006.
He has Senior Partner and founder of the July 2006 and became Chairman in been Group Finance Director of respected SRU strategy and market October 2006.
He is a Vice Chairman Aggreko plc since 2000, having research consultancy.
His speciality is of Lazard & Co Ltd, Deputy Chairman previously been Managing Director advice to CEOs on strategic direction.
of Inchcape plc and of Ecclesiastical of Pringle of Scotland and Regional Michael Wemms Insurance Group plc and a nonFinance Director Central Europe for Michael was appointed a nonexecutive director of the Edinburgh Pepsico Foods.
He is a Chartered executive director in November 2006.
Prior to this he Accountant and qualied with KPMG Michael was Chairman of House of was a director of Schroders plc, CoPeat Marwick.
Fraser plc from 2001 until November Chief Executive officer at Schroder Ian Smith 2006 and was an executive director Salomon Smith Barney a division of Ian was appointed non-executive of Tesco plc from 1989 to 2000.
He is Citigroup Inc and Vice Chairman, director in September 2001.
Most a non-executive director of Inchcape European Investment Bank of Citigroup recently Chief Executive officer of plc and Moneysupermarket.
Inc and Chairman of H P Bulmer plc.
Reed Elsevier plc, he was previously He was Chairman of the British Retail He is a Chartered Accountant.
Chief Executive officer of Taylor Consortium from 2004 until 2006.
Woodrow plc, Chief Executive officer Chief Executive of the General Healthcare Group, CEO Matthew Ingle Europe for Exel, Group Commercial Matthew was appointed Chief 26 Director of Ocean Group plc before Executive in October 2005.
He set its merger with NFC to form Exel up Howden Joinery in 1995 and has and prior to that, Managing Director been responsible for its growth into of Monitor Company Europe Ltd, a a successful business today.
Ian began his to joining the Company he had been business career with the Royal Dutch Managing Director of the Magnet Shell Group of companies, working Trade operation.
He was elected to the with Shell UK Oil in various roles.
He Board of the Company in 1998. then moved to the Middle East where he was Marketing Director of Shell Chief Financial officer Oman and set up and managed the Mark Robson Shell joint venture in Jordan.
Mark joined the Board in April 2005 as Chief Financial officer.
Mark spent the previous six years as Group Finance Director at Delta plc.
Prior to this, he had held a number of senior financial positions with ICI between 1985 and 1998.
He is a Chartered Accountant and qualied with Price Waterhouse.
