Galiform Plc Annual report & accounts 2009 Directors report The directors have pleasure in Information about the use of financial Details of employee share schemes submitting their report and the audited instruments by the Company and its are set out in note 30.
Shares held by financial statements for the 52 week subsidiaries is given in note 32 to the the Galiform Plc Employee Share Trust period ended 26 December 2009. financial statements.
Comparative gures relate to the 52 The subsidiary and associated No person has any special rights of weeks ended 27 December 2008. undertakings principally affecting the control over the Companys share profits or net assets of the Group in capital and all issued shares are Principal Group activities, business the year are listed in the table of Parent fully paid.
review and results Company and Principal Subsidiary The principal activity of Galiform Plc and With regard to the appointment Undertakings on page 110. its subsidiaries is the sale of kitchens and replacement of directors, the and joinery products, along with the There have been no significant Company is governed by its Articles associated procurement, manufacture events since the balance sheet date of Association, the Combined Code, and distribution of these products.
other than the extension of the ABL the Companies Acts and related facility detailed in note 23 to the legislation.
The Articles may be The Company is required by the financial statements.
amended by special resolution of the Companies Act to include a business shareholders.
The business of the review in this report.
The information Dividends Company is managed by the Board that fulls the requirements of the The Board is not recommending who may exercise all the powers of business review can be found in payment of a final dividend 2008: nil.
the Company subject to the provision the following sections which are No interim dividend was paid during of the Articles of Association, the incorporated in this report by reference: the year 2008: nil.
Companies Act and any ordinary 27 U Chairmans statement on pages 6 resolution of the Company.
Share capital Under its Articles of Association, Details of the authorised and issued U Chief Executives statement on the Company has authority to issue share capital, together with details pages 8 to 11.
of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year U Review of operations and finance on There are a number of agreements that are shown in note 26.
The Company pages 12 to 19 including a review of take effect, alter or terminate upon a has one class of ordinary shares which principal risks and uncertainties and change of control such as commercial carry no right to xed income.
contracts, bank loan agreements and share carries the right to one vote at employee share plans.
The only one general meetings of the Company.
U Corporate Governance report of these which is considered to be including Going Concern statement significant in terms of likely impact There are no specic restrictions on on pages 42 to 49. on the business of the Group as a the size of a holding nor on the transfer whole, is the bank facility as described of shares which are both governed by U Corporate Social Responsibility in note 23 which requires majority the general provisions of the Articles of report on pages 20 to 25 containing lender consent for any change of Association and prevailing legislation.
Should such consent not The directors are not aware of any community issues and additional be forthcoming, a change of control agreements between holders of the information on employees.
would trigger a mandatory repayment Companys shares that may result in of the entire facility.
The full results for the period are restrictions on the transfer of securities shown in the financial statements or on voting rights.
Directors report continued The directors are not aware of any commitment is such that the Company Substantial shareholdings agreements between the Company should support their re-election.
As at 3 March 2010, the following and its directors or employees that substantial interests 3% or more in Information on the directors service provide for compensation for loss the Companys share capital had been agreements, options and interests notied to the Company: of ofce or employment that occurs of the directors and their families in because of a takeover bid.
Standard Life the share capital of the Company, Investments Ltd 16.94% is set out in the separate Directors Essential contracts Remuneration Report on pages 30 Old Mutual Asset The mission of the Group relies on Managers UK Ltd 5.33% to 41.
Details of indemnity provisions product of no-call-back quality being made for the benefit of directors are Jupiter Asset in stock at all times in order to service given in the Corporate Governance Management Ltd 5.28% the needs of the builder.
The Group Report on pages 42 to 49.
JP Morgan Asset benets from a number of contracts Management UK Ltd 5.07% which are key to providing the volume Suppliers payment terms of product required to enable the Group Cazenove Capital The Group and Companys policy in Management Ltd 4.64% to full this mission but is nevertheless relation to all its suppliers is to settle confident that other commercial J M Finn & Co 4.42% its terms of payment when agreeing solutions would be available should EES Trustees the terms of the transaction and to these contracts be terminated.
International Limited abide by those terms provided that it is as Trustee of Galiform Contracts with key personnel are satisfied that the supplier has provided Employee benefit Trust 4.56% discussed in the review of principal the goods or services in accordance Classic Fund 28 risks and uncertainties on page17.
with the agreed terms and conditions.
Management 4.09% Deutsche Bank AG The number of days purchases Directors and their interests Abbey Life Assurance outstanding for payment by the Group Details of the directors in ofce on Company Ltd 3.96% at the period end was 38 days 2008: 26 December 2009 are shown on Legal & General 41 days and nil 2008: nil for the page 26.
Management Ltd 3.87% Will Samuel, Angus Cockburn, Michael Wemms and Ian Smith will retire by Fixed assets The percentage interest is as stated rotation at the Annual General Meeting There is no material difference between by the shareholder at the time of and, in accordance with Article 76 the book value and the current open notication and current interests of the Articles of Association, offer market value of the Groups interest in may vary.
Acquisition of the Companys In proposing their re-election, Charitable and political own shares the Chairman confirms that the contributions At the end of the year, the directors Nomination Committee has considered In addition to kitchen and joinery had authority under the shareholders the formal performance evaluation products and services donated to resolutions of 15 May 2009 to in respect of those directors seeking various charities, the Group made purchase through the market re-election and the contribution and charitable donations during the 63,391,533 of the Companys ordinary commitment of the directors that period amounting to 599,000 2008: shares at prices ranging between are required to offer themselves for 425,000.
The Group made no 10p and the higher of a 105% of re-election.
He has confirmed to the political donations during the current the average middle market quotation Board that their performance and and previous period.
Galiform Plc Annual report & accounts 2009 for an ordinary share as derived from The Group promotes the importance The conrmation is given and should the London Stock Exchange Daily of diversity and adopts an Equal be interpreted in accordance with the Ofcial List for the five business days Opportunities Policy under which provisions of s418 of the Companies immediately preceding the day on which training and career development Act 2006. the ordinary share is purchased: and opportunities are available to all Deloitte LLP have expressed their b an amount equal to the higher of employees, regardless of gender, willingness to continue in ofce as the price of the last independent trade religion or race.
The Group is auditors and a resolution to reappoint of an ordinary share and the highest committed to meeting the code of them will be proposed at the current independent bid for an ordinary practice on the employment of disabled forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
share as derived from the London Stock people and full and fair consideration Exchange Trading System.
The authority is given to disabled applicants for Annual General Meeting expires at the conclusion of the next employment.
It aims to do all that is The Annual General Meeting is to Annual General Meeting or 15 months practicable to meet its responsibility be held at UBS Investment Bank, from the date of passing.
towards the employment and training 1 Finsbury Avenue, London, of disabled people and welcomes EC2M 2PP on 19 May 2010.
Employees and considers fully applications by The average number of employees disabled persons, having regard to By order of the Board and their remuneration are shown in their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Caroline Bishop note 8 to the financial statements.
It is also the Groups policy to retain Secretary employees who may become disabled At the year end, the Group had 5,619 while in service and to provide 3 March 2010 employees throughout the United appropriate training.
It strives to engage its employees wherever Audit information and auditors possible in its business goals by Each of the persons who is a director means of regular regional and local at the date of approval of this annual staff meetings.
report confirm that: The Board remains committed to U so far as each of the directors is linking reward to business budgets aware, there is no relevant audit and targets, thereby giving employees information of which the opportunity to share in the financial the Companys auditors success of the Group.
In keeping are unaware: and with the structure of the business, the Company is committed to applying this U the director has taken all the policy locally, and as a result, staff of all steps that he ought to have taken levels regularly benefit from achieving as a director in order to make local targets throughout the year.
The himself aware of any relevant audit Board also recognises employees for information and to establish that the their contribution through the use of Companys auditors are aware of employee incentive plans and share that information.
