annual report & accounts 2009 Report of the Directors The Directors present their report, together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009. Business Review and Principal Activities The Company is a holding company whose subsidiaries are primarily involved in international oil and gas services.
The Business Review, encompassing the Chief Executives Review and the Finance Directors Review on pages 4 to 17 together with the Chairmans Statement on page 2, reports on the activities during the year ended 31 December 2009 and likely future developments.
This information, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company, treasury risk management, details of the Groups policies on employment, health, safety and the environment, which are contained within the Business Review on pages 16 and 17 and within the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 25 and 26 and the Corporate Governance Report on pages 37 to 41, are incorporated into this report by reference.
Details of the Companys principal subsidiary and associated undertakings are set out in note 46.
Results The results of the Group are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 55.
Dividends The Directors have agreed to pay a second interim dividend of 7.0p per share, which together with the first interim dividend of 3.5p, takes the total dividend for the year to 10.5p 2008 9.9p per share.
The second interim dividend will be paid on 31 March 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 March 2010.
This second interim dividend will replace the final dividend that would normally be approved at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in April 2010 and paid thereafter.
Directors Brief biographies of the Directors holding office at 31 December 2009 are shown on page 18.
Under the Articles of Association, each Director must retire from office at the Annual General Meeting unless appointed or re-appointed as a Director at either of the last two Annual General Meetings before that meeting.
On 26 August 2009, John Hofmeister and John Nicholas were appointed to the Board.
Hector McFadyen retired from the Board on 3 September 2009.
John Hofmeister and John Nicholas will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Richard Hunting will also retire at the Annual General Meeting and offers himself for re-election.
No Director during the year had a material interest in any contract of significance to which either the Company or any of its subsidiaries were a party.
Directors interests in the shares of the Company are shown on pages 33 and 34.
As at 31 December 2009, no Director of the Company had any beneficial interest in the shares of subsidiary companies.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance The Company maintains insurance against certain liabilities which could arise from a negligent act or a breach of duty by its Directors and officers in the discharge of their duties.
Acquisitions During the year, the Group made the following acquisitions: National Coupling Company Inc. NCC on 12 June 2009 for 31.8m, of which 0.2m is deferred: PT SMB Industri PT SMB on 31 July 2009 for 6.3m, of which 0.9m is deferred and the Welltonic group of companies on 10 December 2009 for 9.2m, of which 1.9m is deferred.
The acquisitions of NCC and PT SMB were for 100% of the share capital.
The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Welltonic Limited, Welltonic Asia Pte Limited and Welltonic Inc. and 49% of the share capital of Welltonic LLC.
Further details are provided in note 38 to the accounts.
uk 20 FINANCIAL STATEMENT annual report & accounts 2009 Report of the Directors continued Disposal On 22 December 2009, the Company sold its interests in Hunting Energy France SA, its former French subsidiary, for a consideration of 11.1m.
Further details are provided in note 39 to the accounts.
Major Shareholdings As at 22 February 2010, the major shareholdings in the Ordinary shares of the Company, other than Directors interests, notified to the Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority, were as follows: Percentage Number of of issued Ordinary Ordinary Notes shares shares Prudential PLC i 13,275,894 10.04 Hunting Investments Limited ii 10,884,743 8.23 Mirabaud Investment Management 10,676,904 8.08 Schroder Investment Management 6,900,999 5.22 Slaley Investments Limited 6,411,679 4.85 F Godson as trustee iii 6,064,655 4.59 Legal & General Investment Management 5,378,124 4.07 David RL Hunting 199,910 other beneficial iv 2,484,583 as trustee iii 2,549,117 5,233,610 3.96 JA Trafford as trustee iii 3,883,766 2.94 Norges Bank Investment Management 3,809,662 2.88 Notes: i Held by certain of its subsidiaries.
ii Included in the holding are 9,437,743 Ordinary shares held by Huntridge Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hunting Investments Limited.
Neither of these companies are owned by Hunting PLC, either directly or indirectly.
iii After elimination of duplicated holdings, the total Hunting family trustee interests shown above amount to 6,368,349 Ordinary shares.
iv Arise because David RL Hunting and his children are or could become beneficiaries under the relevant family trusts of which David RL Hunting is a trustee.
Research and Development Group subsidiaries undertake, where appropriate, research and development to meet particular market and product needs.
The amount incurred and written off by the Group during the year was 0.9m 2008 0.4m.
Charitable and Political Contributions During the year, the Group donated 56,000 2008 51,000 to UK charitable organisations and 106,000 2008 159,000 to overseas charities.
No UK political donations were made 2008 nil.
Property, Plant and Equipment Details of movements in property, plant and equipment are shown in note 14 to the financial statements.
uk 21 annual report & accounts 2009 Report of the Directors continued Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on Wednesday 21 April 2010 at The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS commencing at 10.30 a. m. As well as routine matters such as renewal of the authority to allot and purchase Ordinary shares and to disapply pre-emption rights, resolutions will also be proposed for further authority to allot shares in connection with a rights issue and to amend the Companys Articles of Association to take into account a number of developments in law applicable to companies since the current Articles of Association were adopted in 2008.
Further details of the resolutions are set out in the letter containing details of the Annual General Meeting which accompanies the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, UK legislation and any directions prescribed by ordinary resolution of the Company in general meeting, the business of the Company is managed by the Board.
The Directors have been authorised to allot and issue Ordinary shares and to make market purchases of the Companys Ordinary shares.
These powers are exercised under authority of resolutions of the Company passed at its Annual General Meeting.
Share Capital The Companys issued share capital comprises a single class of share capital which is divided into Ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
Details of the share capital of the Company are set out in note 31 to the financial statements.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
Subject to applicable statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may, by ordinary resolution, decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate representatives and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of Ordinary shares may receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
Holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys annual report and accounts.
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of Ordinary shares may require a general meeting of the Company to be held or the proposal of resolutions at Annual General Meetings.
Authority to Allot Shares and Disapply Statutory Pre-Emption Rights The Directors will seek to renew their authorities to allot unissued shares and to disapply statutory pre-emption rights at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 21 April 2010.
Purchase of Own Shares At the Annual General Meeting held on 22 April 2009, the Company was given authority to purchase up to 13,196,771 of its Ordinary shares until the date of its next Annual General Meeting.
No purchases were made during the year.
The Directors will be seeking a new authority for the Company to purchase its Ordinary shares at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 21 April 2010.
Any shares purchased will either be cancelled and the number of Ordinary shares in issue reduced accordingly or held in Treasury.
Voting Rights and Restrictions on Transfer of Shares On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of Ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every Ordinary share held.
Further details regarding voting at the Annual General Meeting can be found in the notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
None of the Ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Companys Registrars not later than 48 hours www.
uk 22 annual report & accounts 2009 Report of the Directors continued before a general meeting.
A shareholder can lose his entitlement to vote at a general meeting where that shareholder has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares.
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: i is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the registered office of the Company or any other place decided by the Directors accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and or such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: ii is not in respect of only one class of shares: iii is in favour of a person who is not a minor, bankrupt or a person of unsound mind: or iv is not in favour of not more than four transferees.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
The Directors may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of shareholders.
The Directors cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining consent from CREST.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in the Company other than: certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the Directors and certain employees of the Company require approval to deal in the Companys shares: and where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys certificated shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares or on voting rights.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Amendments to the Articles of Association will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in order to implement a number of Companies Act 2006 changes.
Significant Agreements The Company is a party to certain funding agreements in which the counterparties can determine whether or not to cancel the agreements where there has been a change of control of the Company.
The service agreements of the executive Directors include provisions that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a change of control.
Further details of the Directors service contracts can be found in the Remuneration Committees Report on pages 30 and 31.
Appointment and Replacement of Directors Rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors are appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of holders of Ordinary shares or by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The Company may also remove a Director.
The Corporate Governance Report sets out further details of the requirements for re-election of Directors on page 37.
In addition, further details of the workings of the Nomination Committee are set out on page 38. www.
uk 23 2589 Hunting P20-62:64513 Hunting P20-62 25 2 10 15:21 Page 24 annual report & accounts 2009 Report of the Directors continued Policy on Payment of Creditors The Companys and Groups policy is to pay all creditors in accordance with agreed terms of business.
The Company itself has no substantial trade payables.
The total amount of Group trade payables falling due within one year at 31 December 2009 represents 64 days worth 2008 74 days, as a proportion of the total amount invoiced by suppliers during the year ended on that date.
Statement on Disclosure of Information to Auditors In accordance with Companies Act requirements, all Directors in office as at the date of this report have confirmed so far as they are aware there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all reasonable steps necessary in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 4 to 12.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, borrowing facilities, treasury risk management and the primary risks and uncertainties facing the business are described in the Finance Directors Review on pages 14 to 17.
The notes to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital note 35, its financial risk management objectives note 28, details of its financial instruments, hedging activities and sensitivity analysis notes 27 and 28 and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk note 28.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with a broad range of products and services and a diverse, global customer and supplier base.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully in the current economic climate.
Accordingly, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and consequently have adopted the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these financial statements.
Auditors  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office as auditors.
A resolution to reappoint them as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 21 April 2010.
By order of the Board Peter Rose Company Secretary 25 February 2010 www.
: 64513 Proof Event: 32 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Hunting Plc Project Title: Annual Report & Accounts 2009 T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
