68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 20 3 10 09:24 Page 20 Group operating review key themes increasing focus on emerging markets for sales and low-cost manufacturing Our new manufacturing facility and advanced technical centre in Shanghai will support our growth and Engineering Advantage strategy in China and the rest of Asia.
Dr Chon-Kwo Tsai Managing Director Norgren Asia-Pacific 20 Group operating review 68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 20 3 10 07:49 Page 23 Growth in emerging markets is a strategic focus for our Indoor Climate business, which has won some prestigious projects in Eastern Europe including this office, residential, leisure & entertainment complex in Slovakia.
other countries such as India and EMERGING MARKETS HOW WE CONTRIBUTE Brazil, are key end markets for Severe It has become increasingly evident Emerging markets in 2009 Service.
Fluid Power and Beverage that emerging markets are the represented approximately 20% of Dispense both have around 15% relative winners from the recent IMIs total revenue.
This percentage of revenues in emerging markets global economic troubles.
This is for has been growing over a number where they have been making steady two main reasons: the quality of their of years as IMI has invested in its progress.
In both businesses we now national balance sheets is extremely sales, marketing and manufacturing have large manufacturing capacity in strong compared with many western capabilities in the key emerging China which will assist our progress in economies and their economic growth economies including China, India, Brazil this key market.
is expected to far outstrip that of and Eastern Europe.
This investment Indoor Climate, whilst having 17% the developed world in both real and has been driven for two reasons.
of revenues from emerging markets, nominal terms for the foreseeable Firstly, as highlighted above, the has been more focused on Eastern future.
Conversely the growing strain growth opportunities are considerably Europe close to its main European on both government and consumer higher in many emerging countries heartland.
There are significant finances in western economies is likely compared with the more mature opportunities, particularly for its to constrain growth prospects over developed economies of Western balancing and control valves in the next few years.
Secondly Asia, which we will be looking to for a number of years, IMI has been According to the International develop over the coming years.
restructuring its operations to Monetary Fund IMF Chinas economy Our Merchandising business, which move manufacturing from high-cost grew by an impressive 8.7% in 2009, historically has had little presence in western economies to lower-cost despite the sharpest economic emerging markets, is now also actively countries such as China, Mexico, downturn in a generation in many exploring opportunities in China with the Czech Republic and most recently, western economies.
Other emerging many of the global brand owners.
This has both helped to economies such as India, which grew lower the Groups cost base and by 5.6%, also performed relatively well.
also put a greater proportion of The IMFs latest forecasts for 2010 our manufacturing closer to these January 2010 are predicting growth important end markets.
in emerging and developing economies of 6.0% versus 2.1% in advanced Our platform businesses are at economies with China alone forecast different stages of development to grow at 10%.
Severe Service is the most advanced with almost 40% of revenue streams coming from emerging markets.
China has invested heavily to meet its growing power generation requirements and this, together with Viper, our new frozen beverage dispenser is one of our range of products helping our customers to grow sales of branded drinks in key emerging markets.
