68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 20 3 10 07:46 Page 6 Business overview our goals and how we are achieving them WE AIM TO DELIVER SUSTAINABLE ORGANIC GROWTH IN EXCESS OF GDP GROWTH AND OVER TIME TO REACH OPERATING MARGINS OF AT LEAST 15%.
Our clearly defined strategy, which customers.
We also provide Craig Heetland leads the business has served us well in the good times, aftermarket support in the form of relationship between Coca Cola has proved itself equally effective service and spares to our customers and Cornelius, driving initiatives to partner with them and add in the global economic downturn installed product base.
We have faith Our five business platforms share in this strategy and we will continue this common philosophy.
The Severe to pursue it vigorously.
Service, Fluid Power and Indoor We are focused on growth with Climate business platforms serve industry or sector leading customers Fluid Controls markets, where our in niche global markets.
Adding value customers are plant operators and to such customers and improving original equipment manufacturers.
their performance is the route to The Beverage Dispense and sustainable profit growth for our Merchandising businesses operate shareholders.
We operate in markets in Retail Dispense markets, where where we already hold or can achieve our customers are brand owners a market leadership position and and retailers.
where we can clearly differentiate Our strategic growth drivers are ourselves from our competitors with understood by all the senior end-user insight and the application management in IMI and embedded of innovative technology we call this throughout our businesses.
World class We believe in the highest ethical key account management and standards and The IMI Way, our code project management are important of responsible business, is at the disciplines for the effective delivery heart of everything we do.
of bespoke solutions to our leading ACCELERATING OUR KEY ACCOUNT FOCUS Highly talented, customer-focused, components of our business model.
 teams Recognising where value can of people in IMI add long-term be added for both parties is a value for both customers and fundamental part of our approach.
Developing these skills, A centrally-based Key Account understanding the drivers of our Academy helps to train our people customers businesses, and our own, and ensure that best practice is and ensuring that we work with the shared across the Group.
best customer partners, are critical 4 68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 20 3 10 07:46 Page 7 In his role as HR Manager at CCIs office in India, Joe Motha has been responsible for the management of our growth in shared services, global payroll, engineering and sales back office organisation.
INVESTING IN ENGINEERING SEIZING THE INITIATIVE IN ADVANTAGE EMERGING ECONOMIES We invest in techniques that We continue to invest in the emerging improve market and customer insight, markets of Eastern Europe, South frequently working with academics America, the Middle East and Asia, and other partners who can aid particularly China, which continue to offer our understanding.
We then apply good growth opportunities despite the our acquired knowledge and our current global economic difficulties.
engineering capabilities through In recent years we have significantly Engineering Advantage to the increased our ability to generate sales, issues faced by our customers.
manufacturing and procurement The result is relevant, new, opportunities in these territories through value-adding technologies and the development of regional and local products that strengthen our teams with relevant local industry customer relationships.
We have developed a significant manufacturing presence in Mexico, the Czech Republic and Gilbert Wu spearheads our business in China for Norgren with China and are now establishing a presence accountability for key automation in India.
Focused investment of this sort accounts and turning customer insight into Engineering Advantage enables us to support our customers as products.
they enter new markets, whilst also helping to drive value for our customers in established markets.
BALANCE SHEET STRENGTH As Finance Director The Group remains strongly cash talent, market sector or key account of IMI Indoor Climate, generative and maintains a healthy relationships with the ability to Gunilla Andersson drives our business performance and balance sheet with relatively low create significant differentiation, so balance sheet optimisation, levels of debt.
IMIs financial strength strengthening further our leadership generating strong cash flow through disciplined means that it is extremely well placed positions in our well-defined niche approaches to to invest for the future in value markets.
They must also be supportive inventory, debtors and creditors.
enhancing acquisitions, in organic of our growth and margin targets.
growth and in partnering with our key All potential acquisitions and all major customers to develop new, innovative investment proposals must be able to and bespoke engineering solutions.
demonstrate positive economic value Acquisitions must align with our added on a cumulative basis within strategy and should bring technology, three years.
