68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 22 3 10 16:23 Page 16 Group operating review key themes contributing to enhanced energy efficiency TAs innovative differential pressure control valves are now being used following the recommissioning of the installation to regulate the pressure and flow of the hydronic systems.
In the experimental phase, significant energy savings were achieved in one of the main buildings of the Polytechnic that utilise this selfregulating climate control technology.
Daniel W. T. Chan BSc, MPhil, PhD, RPE, CEng, FHKIOA, FBSOMES, FCIBSE, MHKIE, MIMechE, MASHRAE, MIOA Professor Department of Building Services Engineering, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University 16 Group operating review 68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 20 3 10 07:48 Page 19 Cornelius expanded its offering of energy saving products with the latest soft drinks cooling system using 40% less energy than traditional systems.
Energy efficiency is therefore considerably reduce energy ENERGY EFFICIENCY a key driver of our new product consumption and deliver high levels We have long identified energy development activity.
We also make a efficiency as a key market driver major investment each year in training In Severe Service we continue to seek for the Group.
Over the last year seminars for our customers to explain opportunities for our valve, actuation global warming and the resultant how to optimise energy efficiency in and control solutions to support drive towards reductions in carbon new construction projects which pulls renewable and more sustainable emissions has risen even further up through demand for our market power generation projects.
We have the agenda for most governments, leading brands in this area.
had a number of project wins in politicians, companies and individuals.
areas such as thermo solar energy.
In Beverage Dispense we continue This was clearly highlighted at We have also now aligned all of our to develop our portfolio of more the United Nations Climate Change nuclear activity into one division which energy efficient products.
We have conference in Copenhagen in is expected to have a significant role developed beverage cooling systems December 2009.
Whilst no firm in the new generation of nuclear which reduce energy consumption legally binding commitments were power stations which are now being by between 40% and 60% in made the conference clearly planned and built.
Similarly in Fluid comparison with traditional models.
demonstrated that across the world Power we have been working closely This is important in helping the global increased legislation is likely to drive with our key customers to develop drinks companies to meet their public demand for both cleaner energy more energy efficient products.
commitments to reduce their carbon generation from renewables and These are often legislation driven footprints.
In Merchandising we have nuclear power and also for much such as the requirement to meet new utilised new LED lighting systems for more energy efficient buildings and emissions standards on commercial one of our major US retail customers.
This has reduced CO emissions by on 2 HOW WE CONTRIBUTE average 33 tonnes per store.
The main driver in our Indoor Energy efficiency is a key part of our Climate business is energy efficiency responsible business agenda both and associated legislation.
Both in terms of maximising the energy commercial and residential buildings efficiency in our processes and are increasingly required by law to products and in understanding become more energy efficient.
and meeting our customers own Our hydronic balancing systems and responsible business priorities.
thermostatic radiator valves help our There is a significant demand from customers to meet these local and our customers across all of our international regulatory obligations, businesses for more energy efficient products not only to help them meet their own energy efficiency targets but also to help them meet the requirements of greater legislation.
CCIs severe service control valves provide the reliability and performance required in todays demanding solar energy power plants.
