68845 IMI AR pp36-60:Layout 1 20 3 10 07:09 Page 1 directors report The directors present their report, together with Share capital the audited financial statements for the year ended As at 31 December 2009, the Companys share capital 31 December 2009. comprised a single class of share capital which is divided Business review into ordinary shares of 25 p each.
Details of the share capital of the Company are set out in note 22 to the Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 requires the financial statements on pages 106 and 107.
The ordinary Company to present a business review in this report.
shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The information that fulfils the business review requirements can be found in this report and the following As at 31 December 2009, 1,042,588 shares are held in an sections of this report.
All of the information detailed in employee trust for use in relation to certain executive these sections is incorporated by reference into this report incentive plans representing 0.3% of the issued share capital and is deemed to form part of this report: excluding treasury shares at that time.
The voting rights attached to shares held in the employee trust were not Our goals and how we are achieving them on pages exercised during the year.
4 and 5: During the year, 525,912 new ordinary shares were issued Measuring our business performance on pages 6 and 7: under employee share schemes: 251,968 under the all Group operating review including Statement from the employee share ownership scheme and save as you earn Chairman and Chief Executive on pages 8 to 21: plans and 273,944 under executive share plans.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank Financial review on pages 22 to 27: and equally with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
Responsible business on pages 28 to 33.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Principal activities ordinary shares are set out in the Companys articles IMI plc is the holding company of the IMI group of of association, copies of which can be obtained from companies the Group.
The Groups businesses comprise Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company five platforms organised into two principal activities: Secretary.
Subject to applicable statutes, shares may be Fluid Controls, comprising Severe Service, Fluid Power and issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company Indoor Climate: and Retail Dispense, comprising Beverage may by ordinary resolution decide or if there is no such Dispense and Merchandising.
The main subsidiary companies resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision operating within these two principal activities are listed as the Board may decide.
Holders of ordinary shares are on pages 118 and 119.
The revenue, profit and capital entitled to receive the Companys annual report and financial employed attributable to each of these businesses are statements, to attend and speak at general meetings of the shown in note 3 on pages 76 to 79.
Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend and on The years results a liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
The Group consolidated income statement is shown on page Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary 62.
Segmental operating profit amounted to 234.2m 2008: shares may requisition a general meeting of the Company 266.3m and profit before taxation amounted to 186.2m or propose resolutions at annual general meetings.
Earnings attributable to shareholders of Voting rights for ordinary shares held in treasury are IMI plc amounted to 130.2m 2008: 112.9m.
suspended and the treasury shares carry no rights to Dividends receive dividends or other distributions of assets.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 13.2p per share There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares 2008: 12.7p per share on the ordinary share capital payable in the Company other than: on 24 May 2010 to shareholders on the register at the certain restrictions as may from time to time be imposed close of business on 16 April 2010.
Together with the interim by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : dividend of 8.0p per share paid on 16 October 2009, this and final dividend brings the total distribution for the year to pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the 21.2p per share 2008: 20.7p per share.
directors and certain employees of the Company require Research and development approval to deal in the Companys shares.
Expenditure on research and development in the year was None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with 39.1m compared with 38.2m in 2008: of this amount regard to control of the Company.
The only restrictions on 4.9m 2008: 5.1m has been capitalised.
voting rights are those that apply to the ordinary shares Shareholders funds held in treasury, as described above.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must Shareholders funds decreased from 452.4m at the end of be received by the Companys registrars not later than 2008 to 399.8m at 31 December 2009.
48 hours before a general meeting, or any adjournment thereof.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on voting rights.
36 Directors' Report 68845 IMI AR pp36-60:Layout 1 22 3 10 16:26 Page 37 Own shares acquired by the Company to employees in shares and employees can invest their own money to acquire additional shares in a tax efficient manner.
At the annual general meeting of the Company held on A savings-related share option scheme, which is available 8 May 2009 authority was given for the Company to purchase to the majority of UK employees, has operated since 1984. up to 47,975,000 of its ordinary shares of 25p each.
Further details of employee share schemes are set out in The Company did not use this authority to make any the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 60 and in note 20 purchases of its own shares during the period.
At the to the financial statements on pages 103 to 105. annual general meeting to be held on 7 May 2010, shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority, A number of people development initiatives are co-ordinated details of which are contained in the accompanying circular across the Group, including the IMI graduate programme to shareholders.
and high potential programmes called Aspire and Aspire Plus.
These programmes and the Companys approach to As at 31 December 2009, 19,124,700 ordinary shares employee investment and talent development are explained nominal value 4,781,175 were held in treasury representing on pages 32 and 33.
6% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at that time.
It is Group policy to promote equal opportunities in employment consistent with the requirements of the Substantial shareholdings countries in which the Group operates.
The policy applies As at 3 March 2010, the Company has been informed, to both employees and applicants for employment.
pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Companies in the Group are required to eliminate of the following notifiable voting rights in its issued discrimination and communicate and promote the policy share capital: to all employees.
Managing Directors of operating units have responsibility for compliance and each employee is Standard Life Investments Limited 12.21% required to abide by the policy.
Every effort is made to AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 4.86% ensure that applications for employment from disabled Newton Investment Management Limited 3.96% persons are fully and fairly considered and that disabled employees have equal opportunity in training and promotion.
Legal and General Group plc 3.95% As a matter of longstanding policy, where appropriate, So far as the Company is aware, there are no persons employees who become disabled are given suitable training with significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company.
for employment within the Group or elsewhere.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Health, safety and the environment FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules is published on a regulatory information service.
It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working conditions and to operate in a responsible manner with Statement on corporate governance regard to the environment.
Information on our key The required disclosures are contained in the corporate performance indicators in this area is given on pages governance report on pages 42 to 45.
6 and 7 and further information is available on our Employment policies website www.
The Group continues to support employee involvement at all Policy and practice on the payment of trade creditors levels in the organisation and strongly encourages each of Operating units are responsible for setting terms of its businesses to keep its employees informed on Group and payment when agreeing the terms of each business individual business developments and to make its employees transaction, ensuring that suppliers are made aware of aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the the terms of payment and abiding by such terms, subject performance of the business in which they work, using their to the supplier performing to its obligations.
IMI plc is a own consultation and communication methods.
The Group holding company and has no trade creditors.
has a European Works Council which has been in operation Donations since May 2003 and which meets at least once a year to exchange views on pan-European issues facing the Group.
233,000 was given during 2009 2008: 254,000 for At the date of this annual report, there are 18 members community and similar purposes including 224,000 of the European Works Council comprising 14 employee 2008: 245,000 for charitable purposes.
The Group representatives nominated from among employees from supports a range of selected national charities and smaller each of our European businesses with the balance being charitable organisations operating in communities where Company appointees.
The Groups financial results and the Group has a presence.
Our approach to charitable important initiatives are communicated through a number and other donations is explained on page 32.
No political of mechanisms including newsletters and intranets for donations were made during the year and the Company the individual businesses and the Companys website.
intends to maintain its policy of not making such payments.
An all employee engagement survey was conducted in 2009, It will, however, as a precautionary measure to avoid the details of which are provided on pages 32 and 33.
The inadvertent breach of the law, seek shareholder authority Annual Report is available to all employees.
at its 2010 annual general meeting to make limited political donations or incur limited political expenditure, although it The Company operates an all employee share ownership plan has no intention of using the authority.
covering all UK employees of certain operations, under which an annual bonus worth up to 3,000 can be awarded IMI plc Annual Report 2009 37 68845 IMI AR pp36-60:Layout 1 20 3 10 07:09 Page 3 directors report Directors Essential contracts and change of control The membership of the Board and biographical details The Group does not have any single contract or other of the directors are given on pages 34 and 35 and are arrangement which is essential to its business taken incorporated into this report by reference.
retired from the Board on 1 September 2009.
The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter or are set out in the Companys articles of association which terminate the arrangements on a change of control of provide for regular retirement as well as for the the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial appointment and removal of directors by the Board and contracts and employee share plans.
Other than as referred general meetings of the Company.
Each new appointee to in the next paragraph, none of these is considered by the to the Board is required to stand for election at the next Company to be significant in terms of its likely impact on the annual general meeting following their appointment.
In addition, each director stands for re-election at least In the event of a change of control of the Company, once every three years.
Changes to the articles of the Groups main funding agreements allow the lenders association must be approved by a special resolution of the to renegotiate terms or give notice of repayment for all shareholders 75% majority required in accordance with the outstanding amounts under the relevant facilities.
In the legislation in force at the time.
current economic climate this could have a significant In accordance with the Companys articles of association, effect on the liquidity of the business.
Terry Gateley, Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite retire at the The Company does not have agreements with any director forthcoming annual general meeting and are recommended or employee that would provide compensation for loss of for re-election.
Terry Gateley is a non-executive director office or employment specifically resulting from a takeover, with a letter of appointment and does not have a service although provisions of the Companys share schemes contract.
Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite are executive include a discretion to allow awards granted to directors directors and have service contracts terminable on one and employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the The Company maintains directors and officers liability Annual Report and the financial statements insurance and all directors of the Company benefit from The directors are responsible for preparing the qualifying third party indemnity provisions which were in Annual Report, which includes the Directors Report, place during the financial year.
At the date of this Annual Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Report there are such indemnity arrangements with each Statement, and the Group and parent company financial director in respect of the costs of defending civil, criminal statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and regulatory proceedings brought against them, in their capacity as a director, where not covered by insurance Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and and subject always to the limitations set by the Companies parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with those Directors powers International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation the European Union.
Under company law the directors must and the memorandum and articles of association of the not approve the Group financial statements unless they Company in force from time to time.
The directors have are satisfied that they present fairly the financial position, been authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
In preparing those Group financial statements, These powers are exercised under the authority of the directors are required to: resolutions of the Company passed at its annual general select suitable accounting policies in accordance with meeting.
Further details of resolutions that the Company is IAS8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates seeking for the allotment, issue and purchase of its ordinary and Errors and then apply them consistently: shares will be set out in the separate circular containing the notice of the annual general meeting.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Directors interests present information, including accounting policies, in a The interests of the persons including the interests of any manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and connected persons who were directors at the end of the understandable information: year, in the share capital of the Company, and their interests under share option and incentive schemes, are shown on provide additional disclosures when compliance with the pages 57 to 59. specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and 38 Directors' Report 68845 IMI AR pp36-60:Layout 1 20 3 10 07:09 Page 4 A statement in relation to the adoption of the going concern state that the Company has complied with IFRSs as basis in preparing the financial statements appears on adopted by the European Union, subject to any material page 27. departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditor The directors have elected to prepare the parent company The directors who held office at the date of approval of financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom this directors report confirm that, so far as they are Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director has law the directors must not approve the parent company taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company audit information and to establish that the Companys and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
auditor is aware of that information.
In preparing the parent company financial statements, Risks and uncertainties the directors are required to: In common with all businesses, there are a number of risks select suitable accounting policies and then apply and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the them consistently: Groups long-term performance.
The Group has in place make judgements and estimates that are reasonable an established risk management structure and internal and prudent: controls framework which together are designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
A summary of the state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Groups risk management structure is given on pages Standards have been followed, subject to any material 44 and 45.
The Groups financial risk management practices departures disclosed and explained in the financial are also discussed in note 18 to the financial statements.
statements: and In addition, the Groups approach to corporate social prepare the financial statements on the going concern responsibility and associated risks is described on basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the pages 28 to 33.
Company will continue in business.
The principal risks faced by the Group, as identified by the The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Board, are summarised below: records that are sufficient to show and explain the External risk Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Economic and market environment the parent company and enable them to ensure that the The status of the global economy and the levels of activity Group and parent company financial statements comply with in the markets in which the Group operates could adversely the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation affect the Groups revenues.
The Groups cost base includes as appropriate.
They are also responsible for safeguarding many costs that cannot be reduced in the short-term in the assets of the Group and the parent company and hence line with reductions in revenue, which may result in sharper for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection reductions in profitability.
The Group may also be required of fraud and other irregularities.
to reassess the carrying value of acquired goodwill and The directors are responsible for the maintenance and other assets if certain end markets deteriorate further or integrity of the corporate and financial information included for longer, which may result in impairment charges.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Mitigating actions governing the preparation and dissemination of financial The diverse nature of the Groups products, services, statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
customers and markets served, together with the Directors responsibility statement under the Disclosure development of aftermarket revenues and appropriate and Transparency Rules contingency planning, help to mitigate the impact of Each of the directors listed on pages 34 and 35 confirm unfavourable economic conditions.
that: Key customers the Group and parent company financial statements in this Certain of the Groups businesses benefit from close annual report, which have been prepared in accordance commercial relationships with key customers.
The loss with applicable UK law and with the applicable set of of certain of these key relationships whether through accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the competition, consolidation or insolvency could have a assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the material impact on the Groups results.
The Groups Company and the Group taken as a whole: and top ten customers represent approximately 14% of the management report which comprises the Directors total group revenues.
Report and the business review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
IMI plc Annual Report 2009 39 68845 IMI AR pp36-60:Layout 1 22 3 10 16:27 Page 40 directors report Mitigating actions Appropriate training is provided to employees on key risk areas such as competition law and anti-corruption and The Group devotes resources to ensure that these good also on The IMI Way which provides a guiding set of values relationships are maintained and developed while building that exemplify how IMI employees should behave.
strong relationships with new accounts to ensure a diverse portfolio across business sectors and geographic regions.
The IMI Hotline is available for any concerns to be reported in confidence.
The Group also monitors the markets that it operates in for advance warning of any negative commercial Financial market risks developments.
The Group is exposed to a number of financial market risks Supply chain including credit risk, liquidity risk and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
The Group has a significant number of contracts with A description of these risks and the Group s centralised a broad base of suppliers.
In the current economic approach to managing them is described in note 18 to the environment there is a risk that their access to credit financial statements.
or adverse trading conditions could lead to an inability to meet their contractual commitments to the Group.
Internal risk This could have a material impact on the Group's results.
Talent acquisition Mitigating actions A loss of key personnel or the inability of the Group to The Group actively monitors these risks and is continuously recruit and retain high calibre managers and engineering developing contingency plans to mitigate the impact of any talent may lead to the Group not being able to effectively supplier failure.
implement its business plans and strategy and experiencing delays in the development of, or increased difficulty in the Competitive markets strategic development of the Group, including in developing The Group operates in highly competitive markets.
and selling its products and services.
Significant product innovations, technical advances or the Mitigating actions intensification of price competition could all adversely affect the Groups results.
The Groups continued success depends Succession plans are in place and are regularly reviewed upon its ability to continue to develop and produce new and by the Board.
enhanced products and services on a cost effective and A number of people development initiatives are timely basis in accordance with customer demands.
co-ordinated across the Group, including the IMI graduate Mitigating actions programme and high potential programmes called Aspire and Aspire Plus.
The Groups initiatives in research and development are targeted to sustain its competitive advantage and the Compliance and internal controls Group takes appropriate action to ensure that its cost The Company operates various corporate governance, base remains competitive.
compliance and internal control frameworks which The Groups processes for managing investment in research are essential for the effective management of such and development include appropriate stage gates for geographically diverse businesses.
Failures in these reviewing progress against clearly defined, often customer controls might have a material impact on the Group.
driven, technical and commercial objectives.
Mitigating actions Legal, regulatory and political risks The IMI Way provides a guiding set of values that exemplify The Groups worldwide operations expose it to different how IMI employees should behave and has been issued with legal and regulatory requirements and standards in each face-to-face training to all employees.
of the jurisdictions in which it operates including those Further training is being provided to strengthen employee for financial reporting, taxation, environmental, operational, awareness of the Groups values.
The Group is also exposed to the potential for litigation from third parties Concerns regarding breaches in compliance matters or internal controls can be reported in confidence via the which may arise in the ordinary course of business.
All such reports are followed up and are The Groups worldwide operations also expose it to the monitored by the Chief Compliance Officer and reported effect of political risk which can include sudden changes to the Audit Committee.
in regulations, expropriation of assets, imposition of During the year the Group has increased its Group trade barriers and wage controls and limits on the export of currency.
Assurance resources to provide more assurance on the adequacy of the Groups financial control and reporting Mitigating actions process.
The Group is committed to good governance practices Products and technology and during the year has increased its resources dedicated The Group is exposed to risks associated with the to legal and regulatory compliance in order to further enhance its capability to identify and manage the risk of commercial failure of products, projects and technologies such as product liability and warranty claims.
and safety of our products is of the highest importance and 40 Directors' Report 68845 IMI AR pp36-60:Layout 1 22 3 10 16:28 Page 41 there is an associated risk if they are below standard.
longevity of members and statutory requirements.
For product claims not covered by insurance, the costs This may result in the cost of funding defined benefit that cannot otherwise be recovered may be material to pension arrangements becoming an increasingly significant the Group.
burden on the Groups financial resources.
Mitigating actions Mitigating actions The Group maintains a continued focus on quality and has The Group and the trustees of the schemes continually processes in place to mitigate the reputational and legal review these risks with actuarial and investment advice as implications of any failure.
appropriate and take action to mitigate the risks where possible.
The Group maintains insurance cover for product liability claims where possible and seeks to ensure that it is also Cautionary statements protected so far as possible by the contract terms in The foregoing statements of directors responsibilities for place.
the financial statements and the confirmations regarding Health, safety and environmental audit information are addressed solely to shareholders and made pursuant to and for the purposes required by The Group recognises that it has a duty of care to all of UK legislation and regulations, without any other or special its employees and to others that the Group interacts with assumption of responsibility on the part of the Company through its products and operations.
In the event of any or its directors and officers.
failure in the Groups health, safety and environmental procedures, there is a potential risk of injury or death The business review and other content of this Annual to IMIs employees or others: or environmental damage, Report is addressed to the shareholders of IMI plc as a with the consequential impact on the operations and the body.
Neither the Company nor its directors or officers risk of regulatory action against the Group.
accept or assume responsibility to any person for this Annual Report beyond the responsibilities arising from the Mitigating actions production of this Annual Report pursuant to and for the The Group has established systems in place to ensure purposes required by UK legislation.
that health, safety and environmental matters are Sections of this Annual Report may contain forward-looking appropriately addressed and any such risks are minimised.
statements about the Group, including, for example, These procedures were enhanced during 2009 by the statements relating to: future demand and markets for the introduction of the IMI Corporate Health & Safety Groups products and services, research and development requirements.
relating to new products and services, tax rates, liquidity The Group maintains insurance for the costs associated and capital resources and implementation of restructuring with any employers liability, workers compensation or plans and efficiencies.
Any forward-looking statements are equivalent claims and also maintains insurance covering by their nature subject to numerous risks and uncertainties certain environmental incidents.
In common with all classes that could cause actual results to differ materially from of insurance, the policies do not cover fines or penalties those expressed or implied by such statements depending which could, in the event of a significant failure, be material on a variety of factors, including, for example, those to the Group.
described above under the heading 'Risks and uncertainties'.
IMI undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking M & A activity statements whether as a result of new information, future IMIs growth strategy is in part dependent on acquisitions.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be The execution and integration of acquisitions involves a construed as a profit forecast.
number of risks, including diversion of managements Annual general meeting attention, failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business and risks associated with unanticipated events or The annual general meeting will be held at the Hilton liabilities.
The Group may also be subject to liabilities as a Birmingham Metropole Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, result of past or future disposals.
Birmingham on Friday 7 May 2010, commencing at noon.
Notice of the meeting will be sent to shareholders as a Mitigating actions separate circular.
The Group has a rigorous due diligence process and Auditor ensures clear financial targets are in place.
Resolutions for the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Any potential acquisition is also subject to a formal auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to approval process.
determine the auditors remuneration are to be proposed The Group also puts in place appropriate business at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
integration processes to ensure that the Groups policies, values, ethical code, compliance and control framework are By order of the Board adopted and embedded to ensure a smooth transition.
John OShea Pension funding Company Secretary The Groups defined benefit pension arrangements are 3 March 2010 exposed to the risk of changes in interest rates and the market values of investments as well as inflation, increased IMI plc is registered in England No.
