68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 20 3 10 07:47 Page 16 Group operating review key themes R&D delivers Engineering Advantage for leading customers Norgrens superb fully-integrated module with precise pneumatic control was the key to helping Mindray, despite being a new player, to gain the number one position in the market for anaesthesia machines in China.
It will also help Mindray to become a world-class player in the future.
Richard Li Director R&D, Product, Anaesthesia Shenzhen Mindray Bio-Medical Electronics Co Ltd 14 Group operating review 68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 20 3 10 07:47 Page 17 The DA 516 is part of TAs range of differential pressure controllers.
Stable pressure in heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems is key to delivering the best system controllability to achieve optimal energy efficiency whilst maintaining the desired indoor climate comfort.
World class Key Account Management In our Beverage Dispense business ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE is central to this strategy.
By we have worked closely with the major Our ability to turn insight regarding understanding the value drivers drinks companies and restaurant our customers needs into new for our customers we are able to chains to develop a new range of products and services that bring real create greater value for them.
dispensing equipment which help them value to our customer differentiates to sell more drinks to their customers.
There are great examples of us from the competition.
Applying the Viper, our new frozen beverage Engineering Advantage in all areas of best engineering, innovation and dispenser, is a great example with its the Group.
In Severe Service, our technical know-how to generate value high output capabilities and flexibility engineers, the valve doctors, have for our customers is known at IMI as to serve a wider range of products.
worked closely with a number of Engineering Advantage.
We use intimate knowledge of power generation companies to how the consumer buys to develop HOW WE CONTRIBUTE increase turbine efficiency utilising design solutions in our Merchandising our industry leading turbine bypass There are three layers of Engineering business which drive impulse sales of valve solutions.
Every small Advantage: high margin consumer goods and percentage improvement in efficiency The first is where we understand in turn creates greater profits for in a power plant represents potentially which features and attributes are retailers and brand owners alike.
large financial gains to our customers.
least appreciated or not valued by In Fluid Power, our miniature solenoid our customers, and we seek to value valve technology and pump solutions engineer these out of our products.
enable our customers in the life We also seek ways to provide those sciences sector to develop new features that are valued by our medical devices such as respirators customers through more cost and oxygen concentrators which are effective design.
Collectively these smaller and more portable thereby initiatives seek to deliver solutions at giving them a key competitive lower cost to our customers whilst advantage in their respective markets.
preserving attractive margins for IMI.
In our Indoor Climate business we have The second level is where we seek to developed a new range of differential fully understand how our product is pressure control valves which provide utilised within the customer system the necessary stabilised pressure in and all the cost drivers that flow heating and cooling systems to from that utilisation.
Through this achieve optimal system controllability understanding we can change and energy efficiency.
The larger product designs to substantially valves were developed for demanding reduce overall system or life cost, conditions in large scale projects and often through lower installation, district heating applications.
The third and highest level of Engineering Advantage is where Where other wellhead production we can develop a bespoke product chokes fail, CCIs 100DPC chokes or solution which provides our greatly minimise the risk of customers with unique features unscheduled shutdowns and which allow them to grow their own lost production.
