68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 20 3 10 07:48 Page 20 Group operating review key themes aftermarket focus - delivering product support globally Control valve problems were the leading cause of downtime with the first generation of supercritical boilers built in the USA.
Since we have replaced all of our control valves with the proven DRAG technology from CCI, downtime due to control valves is reduced to almost nothing.
Lee Bell, Senior Engineer Homer City Power plant 18 Group operating review 68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 22 3 10 15:37 Page 19 Norgren is developing its on-line aftermarket solution, Norgren Express, which provides fast, easy access to their pneumatic product range.
parts to repair or refurbish existing Finally in Merchandising we AFTERMARKET machinery.
We are growing our get a significant pull through An attractive aftermarket for service position in this important part of revenue stream from many of our and replacement parts is one of the market through the development merchandising systems as parts the key characteristics that IMI of our Norgren Express offering, require replacement or updating to looks for in its chosen end markets.
which enables customers to order take account of changes in the size Aftermarket support helps to lock parts easily online.
Availability and or shape of the branded products in strong relationships with our key short delivery times rather than price being sold.
This is particularly true global customers, provides more are key to meeting our customers in the cosmetics market where predictable long term revenue requirements.
our base systems require regular streams and also often generates upgrades over their normal life span In Indoor Climate, 60% of activity is more attractive margins than for the of approximately three years.
focused on refurbishment rather than original equipment.
In the thermostatic HOW WE CONTRIBUTE radiator valve TRV market in particular we benefit from having a As detailed elsewhere in this report market leading brand in Heimeier the aftermarket for service and which is often the brand of choice replacement parts provides a when TRVs need replacing or upgrading.
significant revenue stream in most of our businesses.
In Beverage Dispense we have arrangements with the large brand In Severe Service we have an installed owners to remanufacture older base of around 100,000 valves around dispensing equipment to extend the world and generate significant their useful life.
We also have a revenues from supplying parts major parts business, 3Wire, which for these valves which get serviced supplies parts for both beverage on a regular basis.
In 2009 the dispensing equipment and food aftermarket represented over 30% of service equipment right across Severe Service revenues and North America.
3Wire represents generated attractive margins for the approximately 25% of the Beverage business.
Dispense businesses revenue and has Approximately one third of Fluid industry-leading customer service and Powers revenues are generated logistics systems to maintain its from maintenance, refurbishment market leading position.
and overhaul MRO activity where customers require our pneumatics The spares process that Artform now offers to clients such as LOreal provides a truly comprehensive and efficient spares service.
The introduction of Webstore greatly aided this improvement and has turned out to be a key reporting tool from which all their customers are now able to benefit.
IMI IMI plc plc Annual Annual R Report eport 2009 2009 19
