68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 22 3 10 13:47 Page 12 Group operating review our five platform businesses following the industry slowdown a rail and oil, chemical and gas were number of the recently secured orders more resilient with lower levels of in the oil & gas sector were subjected decline.
to increased pricing pressure, albeit The remainder of the Fluid Power this should be more than offset by business is split between standard SEVERE SERVICE further transfer of production to pneumatics products for OEMs and Following a strong first half which newly established facilities in Brno, the maintenance, refurbishment and benefited from operational initiatives the Czech Republic, and Chennai, overhaul MRO market.
As expected, to shorten lead times and reduce the India, both of which are expected to the MRO aftermarket business, where order backlog, second half revenues be operational by the end of 2010. we made good progress with our as expected were 5% lower than last Norgren Express online solution, FLUID POWER year, reducing overall organic growth proved more resilient than the OEM for the year to 3%.
Following the sharp decline in Fluid market.
Power volumes experienced at the New construction orders reduced by We took early and significant actions end of 2008, activity continued to around 20% during the year, with a to reduce the cost base and protect deteriorate throughout much of the sharp slowdown in both fossil power profitability through a combination of first half, leaving first half revenues and oil & gas projects partially offset redundancies and the widespread use down 36% on the prior year.
Volumes by a number of significant new orders of short time working arrangements.
stabilised in Q3, and began to show in the nuclear power sector, including At the year-end, approximately 800 some recovery in the last few weeks our largest ever order for 55m in a Fluid Power employees remained on of 2009, with Asia rebounding quite project for EDF.
Customer service reduced working hours.
The benefit strongly, and some encouraging signs orders however increased by almost of these actions was evident in the of improvement in the US albeit we 30%, reflecting continued buoyancy second half when margins recovered remain cautious on the extent to which in the aftermarket supported by a to 9.6% from 2.9% in the first half this improvement in the US has been focus on upgrades of existing valve on broadly similar volumes.
Overall caused by a slowdown or cessation in installations.
Overall order intake for operating margins for the year as a destocking by distributors and original the year was down 7% on an underlying whole were 6.3%.
basis after adjusting for the net European markets are off their Following on from the opening of impact of the CCI investigation, which lows but demand, generally, remains the new manufacturing facility and resulted in a deferral of around 20m subdued.
Second half revenues were technical centre in Shanghai, China, of orders from the second half of 2007 24% lower than last year, resulting in the business is currently implementing into the first half of 2008. a revenue decline for the year as a further restructuring to move Quotation activity for new whole of 31%.
production lines from the US and construction projects in the oil & gas Western Europe to China and our Despite this difficult market sector has been improving for several other existing low cost facilities in the background we continued to invest months, and this is now beginning to Czech Republic and Mexico.
All of the in our sector strategy where we seek be reflected in order intake which actions taken in 2009, combined with to provide bespoke engineered should support a pick-up in shipments the focused management actions for solutions which add value for our towards the end of 2010 or early 2011. should lead to a further margin 2010, major customers in niche markets.
Quotation activity within new improvement in the year ahead.
The sector business represented construction projects in the fossil approximately 39% of Fluid Powers power sector has only recently started INDOOR CLIMATE revenue in 2009.
We have now to improve, suggesting that any In Indoor Climate, revenue showed an appointed global sector heads for recovery in orders for this market will organic decline of 4% over the year.
commercial vehicles, rail, life sciences, be delayed a further six months or so.
The business continued to enjoy in-plant automotive and oil, chemical Activity within both the nuclear and reasonably resilient demand levels in and gas.
As previously highlighted in aftermarket sectors remains buoyant.
the second half particularly during earlier announcements, certain of Operating margins in the full year the important heating season of these sectors were significantly improved to 19.8% from 18.4% in 2008, September to November.
The Heimeier impacted by the global recession reflecting a healthy aftermarket sales thermostatic radiator valve with commercial vehicles and in-plant mix and further improvements in business, which is mainly focused automotive particularly hard hit.
As expected, on refurbishment markets, showed Other sectors, including life sciences, 12 Group operating review 68845 IMI AR pp01-35:Layout 1 20 3 10 07:47 Page 15 pleasing growth, supported by new BEVERAGE DISPENSE energy efficiency legislation in Germany The overall organic revenue decline for which continued to stimulate additional the year was 15%, reflecting an demand.
Our TA balancing valve improved position in the second half products are more exposed to new where the organic decline reduced to commercial construction markets which MERCHANDISING around 7%.
This was due to weaker became more challenging as the year The organic decline in revenue for the comparators in the second half of progressed, although our focus on more year was 29%.
As expected, second 2008 and a good end to the year when resilient end markets, including half revenues were significantly lower we saw increased demand particularly hospitals, schools, and other than last year with the automotive from the North American soft drink government-backed infrastructure business sharply down and 2008 bottlers as well as a better than projects proved successful.
We comparables impacted by the large expected performance in Asia and continued to invest in our seminar 25m US grocery chain order, much Europe.
The UK beer market remained programmes, training around 45,000 of which shipped in the third quarter.
challenging throughout the year with installers, specifiers, and building the decline in on-trade beer volumes A number of our end-market sectors consultants in hydronic balancing continuing and major brewers were challenging.
Automotive was and the critical role it plays in making reluctant to engage in significant down 33% for the full year reflecting buildings more energy efficient.
3Wire, our North the major challenges facing the US This helped to improve further American parts business, showed automotive industry in 2009 which penetration of our balancing valves greater resilience during the year, resulted in a significant reduction on new projects.
with volumes down by just 9%.
in the number of dealerships.
Pneumatex, the water conditioning The cosmetics, beverage, and The 2009 operating profit margin was business acquired in 2007, grew 7.1%, a slight improvement on the first consumer electronics sectors proved strongly throughout the year.
In more resilient but, collectively, were half.
This reflects the significant cost December 2009, the Group exercised reduction programmes implemented still down over 15% on last year.
30% its option to acquire the remaining across the business, a robust defence During the year we acquired the non-controlling interest in Pneumatex of selling prices, and an improved remaining 19.1% non-controlling for a consideration expected to be contribution from new products.
interest in Display Technologies for around 12m.
approximately 18m in accordance The successful development of new Operating profit for Indoor Climate with the terms of the original products is vital to improving margin increased by 34% to 60.7m.
performance over time, particularly operating margin showed a strong in the growing health and indulgence The full-year operating margin progression on last year, rising from sector which includes water, in Merchandising was 11.1%, an 16.1% to 20.8%.
Second half operating smoothies, juices, dairy and frozen improvement on the 10.3% achieved margins of 24.3% 2008: 18.0% beverages.
We are making progress last year.
The business acted swiftly benefited from a combination of lower in this respect with new dispensing to reduce costs in response to lower overheads and sharply lower material equipment such as Viper, our frozen activity levels and also benefited from costs.
carbonated beverage dispenser, lower steel prices.
The second half Indoor Climate is exposed to a later increasing its market penetration operating margin of 14.0% was cycle than some of our other over the year.
We are also developing particularly strong, despite the sharp businesses and the private sector new, more energy efficient cooling fall in activity levels.
This was due to commercial new construction market, equipment which resonates well with a better mix of sales towards higher around 20% of the business, is the increasing demand from major margin activity and the benefit of cost expected to continue to be challenging customers for products which help savings implemented in the first half.
However, the refurbishment them to reduce their carbon footprint.
As in the case of Beverage Dispense, market, which accounts for around 60% We will continue to focus increased we continued to prioritise higher of sales, is forecast to remain resilient, investment on these higher added margin, more differentiated product benefiting from the drive towards value, higher margin opportunities, opportunities, whilst staging a gradual greater energy efficiency in both whilst managing a gradual withdrawal exit from older, more commoditised residential and commercial properties.
from some of the older, lower margin product lines.
Whilst this process energy Increasing endorsement of new commodity product lines with limited will inevitably dampen top line growth efficiency legislation by governments differentiation.
it will continue to support margin throughout many parts of Europe progression, and an improvement in should help to stimulate further demand.
the underlying quality of the business.
