1849 Black Sun ImpTob p12 p13:Layout 1 30 11 09 20:39 Page 12 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Strategic Review MAXIMISING OUR GROWTH POTENTIAL Alison Cooper Chief Operating Officer Our strategy is underpinned by three Our track record of creating sustainable shareholder core objectives sales growth, cost value has been impressive over many years and optimisation and effective cash utilisation.
These are the building blocks of our has been driven by the consistent application of business and we are committed to delivering a strong performance in each our strategy.
Our enhanced focus on sales is a key driver in creating value for our shareholders and strengthening the long-term sustainability of our business.
As a global tobacco company we recognise the importance of manufacturing, marketing Our strategy is to and selling our products responsibly.
This underpins our growth strategy and is an create sustainable integral part of how we do business.
shareholder value Our overall strategic Key Performance Indicators KPIs by growing our are total shareholder return and adjusted earnings per share.
operations organically and through 1 Sales growth acquisitions 1 We are a sales led business, with strong positions in both mature and emerging Sales markets and sales in over 160 countries.
growth Our balanced operating platform provides stability and creates future growth opportunities.
3 We have invested strategically to create a Cash comprehensive and balanced brand and product portfolio, in turn facilitating a total 2 utilisation tobacco focus, which considerably enhances our growth potential.
Cost Our international strength in cigarette is optimisation complemented by world leadership in cigar, fine cut tobacco, papers and tubes and a small but growing snus business.
12 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p12 p13:Layout 1 1 12 09 14:08 Page 13 World Tobacco Market Industry Overview The cigar market is broadly stable and is Consumer demand will continue to The world cigarette market is broadly concentrated in the developed markets evolve, with ongoing downtrading in stable with around six trillion cigarettes mature markets as well as uptrading of Western Europe and the USA, with consumed globally each year, including in emerging markets.
growth in the emerging markets of China which accounts for around a third Eastern Europe and Asia.
The last decade has been characterised by of total global consumption.
increasing regulation, particularly in mature Industry Growth Opportunities Excluding China, the four largest western markets where legislation on While the tobacco industry is mature, international tobacco companies, Philip tobacco advertising, health warnings and we believe that there are still many Morris International, British American smoking in public places is commonplace.
opportunities to grow profits organically Tobacco, Japan Tobacco and Imperial Regulation is also rapidly developing in and potential further bolt-on acquisitions.
Tobacco, hold 69 per cent of the total emerging markets.
Organic growth opportunities include cigarette market.
Excise duties have also increased, volume development across emerging Smoking incidence is expected to especially in developed markets and, as markets and product categories, market continue to decline in developed mature prices have increased, consumers seeking share gains from competitors, entry into markets, as the percentage of smokers value have downtraded to value brands new markets, new brand launches and within total populations reduces.
However, both within cigarette and into other the introduction of additional products in this is offset by growth in emerging tobacco products.
As a result, the other existing markets.
In the context of broadly market regions, as the number of adults tobacco products sector has grown and stable global market volumes and subject in those regions is expected to grow.
this trend is expected to continue.
to specific market dynamics, we anticipate that price increases will increase industry revenues and profits.
3 Measuring our Strategy: We have strong local, regional and Cash Utilisation Key performance indicators are the international brands with representation We are highly cash generative.
We focus principal measures used by the Board to across the key price segments within on managing capital expenditure, working assess performance against our strategy.
capital, tax and interest costs to optimise On pages 14 and 15 we highlight how These portfolio strengths, combined with our cash flows and ensure that the cash we measure each of our core objectives.
our focus on trade marketing and on our we generate is used effectively.
consumers, are key to sales development.
Risk Management: Our short-term focus is on debt reduction A detailed assessment of strategic We ensure that individual markets have the following the acquisition of Altadis.
We also risks within our operating environment flexibility to align local portfolios to specific continue to make disciplined investments is undertaken by management and is local market and consumer dynamics, across the business to enable us to embedded across the Group.
continue to deliver sustainable growth.
On pages 16 and 17 we provide an update We seek to be agile in responding to While debt reduction will remain a priority, on the principal risks that may impact on changing market dynamics ensuring our given our very strong cash flows, we our business and the management controls brands and products remain relevant to believe we will have scope for further value we have put in place to mitigate them.
evolving consumer preferences enabling creating acquisitions and strategic alliances our highly skilled sales forces to drive within a reasonable timeframe.
Leveraging our Assets: growth across our portfolio.
Our total tobacco focus on pages 18 Cash conversion is an essential prerequisite to cash and 19 demonstrates how we grow sales.
Our sales growth KPIs are cigarette volumes and utilisation, therefore our cash conversion rate is the KPI.
On pages 29 and 30 we highlight how tobacco net revenue.
we are continuing to develop our business in Morocco.
2 Cost optimisation Corporate Responsibility: Cost optimisation is a hallmark of our We manage our business to ensure we business.
We seek maximum returns maintain the high standards of conduct from our investments and seek efficiency and performance expected of an improvements without compromising our international company.
focus on quality and innovation.
We have On page 20 we give an overview of our a long history of value creating acquisitions progress during the year with more detail and are renowned for our ability to integrate in our CR Review, due to be published on new businesses swiftly and efficiently.
This year we have delivered our integration synergy targets whilst driving business initiatives and improvement across the Group.
Our cost optimisation KPI is tobacco adjusted operating margin.
