1849 Black Sun ImpTob p18 p19:Layout 1 1 12 09 15:36 Page 18 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Case Study A TOTAL TOBACCO FOCUS OUR POWERFUL PORTFOLIO SPANS ALL TOBACCO PRODUCT CATEGORIES Portfolio Strength Our comprehensive brand and product We leverage our portfolio to build sales and portfolio considerably enhances our growth continually review our brands and products opportunities.
We have strong local, regional and international brands across all key to ensure they are aligned with local price segments within individual markets allowing us to meet changing consumer consumer preferences.
This portfolio strength, combined with trade marketing excellence and our agility in anticipating and responding to changing market dynamics and consumer preferences drives sales growth.
Our Balanced Portfolio Cigarettes Our success with Davidoff and JPS in recent years has been particularly pleasing.
These brands operate at opposite ends of the cigarette price spectrum and both have INTERNATIONAL STRENGTH WORLD NO.
1 IN FINE seen consistent volume increases year IN CIGARETTES CUT TOBACCO on year.
We have grown global volumes of Davidoff, our key international premium cigarette brand by 27 per cent over the past 5 years, achieving particular success in the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Taiwan and Greece.
Saudi Arabia, the largest individual market for Davidoff worldwide, accounts for 16 per cent of global Davidoff volumes, with compound annual growth of 43 per cent Total in the past five years.
In Greece, with Tobacco successful line extensions, we have grown Davidoff to become the leading brand in WORLD NO.
PAPERS & TUBES IN CIGARS Whilst building sales of Davidoff in our emerging markets we have focused on growing our value brands in mature markets, where consumer downtrading is a key dynamic.
We have achieved tremendous success with JPS in Western Europe and further built on the brands successful track record in the year, improving volumes by 11 per cent.
Our performance in Germany has been exceptional, growing JPS sales consistently 18 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p18 p19:Layout 1 30 11 09 20:47 Page 19 01 Davidoff has grown global volumes by % 27 in the past five years.
01 Davidoff is our over a five year period to establish it as 02 key international the second largest cigarette brand in the premium cigarette country, with a market share of 8.5 per cent.
To maximise the brands growth potential 02 JPS is a highly and strengthen our German portfolio popular value brand in Western Europe.
we also introduced JPS make your own, roll your own and eco-cigarillo products, capturing 7.6 per cent market share of the other tobacco products sector.
A Portfolio Approach: Other Tobacco Products Our other tobacco products business complements our cigarette portfolio and ensures a total tobacco focus across the Group.
We are world leaders in cigars and fine cut tobacco, papers and tubes.
of prestigious cigar brands including Our snus business is in Sweden, where We also have a small but fast growing Cohiba, Montecristo and Romeo y Julieta.
the product is exempt from an EU wide snus business.
These are supported by our local brands ban, and in Norway, although we continue Fine Cut Tobacco which hold strong domestic positions in our to evaluate the potential for expanding into Downtrading from cigarettes into fine key markets of the USA, Spain and France.
cut tobaccos, such as roll your own and Increasing smoking restrictions and the Our involvement in snus, a moist oral make your own products is common in current economic climate have impacted tobacco product that is placed under developed Western European markets, cigar volumes, particularly in the premium the upper lip, began in September 2005, where fine cut tobacco consumption is segment.
We have also seen a trend through the purchase of a 43.1 per cent largely concentrated.
Downtrading within towards smaller cigar formats with growth stake in the Swedish company Skruf.
fine cut tobacco from premium to value in mass market cigars as consumers In 2008 we increased our stake to 100 brands is also increasing.
We are focused on improving per cent.
We have built strong positions across the profitability of our cigar business In 2006, we extended our snus portfolio Western Europe and are growing our through cost management and using beyond the flagship Skruf premium brand presence in Central Europe and in the our broad product portfolio and our with our value brand Knox.
Our premium brands, Golden Virginia innovation capabilities to adapt to the achieved excellent results, particularly and Drum, underpin our world leadership.
in Norway where we have an 18 per cent However, to ensure our fine cut tobacco Papers, Tubes and Snus market share.
portfolio is well suited to changing consumer Our rolling paper brands account for more preferences, our portfolio development than a third of global paper volumes and initiatives have increasingly focused on are sold in more than 50 markets worldwide.
strengthening our position in the value Rizla is the worlds leading papers brand segment and developing fine cut tobacco and number one in the UK, Belgium, variants of cigarette brands.
Cigars Our filter tubes brands are available in around We have a unique portfolio of cigar brands 30 countries, principally in Western Europe Visit www.
Through Habanos, our and North America, and our key filter tubes for more information.
Cuban joint venture, we have a number markets include Germany and the USA.
