1849 Black Sun ImpTob p29 p30:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:09 Page 29 Case Study MOROCCO MOROCCO IS KEY TO OUR GROWTH STRATEGY IN AFRICA Market Overview Morocco is an evolving market.
Consumers We acquired our presence in Morocco as a result are increasingly uptrading from traditional of the Altadis acquisition and continue to develop dark cigarette brands, positioned in the economy or low price segments, to our operations in this important market.
cigarettes in the blonde or American blend mid-price range.
Total cigarette consumption is broadly stable at around 14.6 billion cigarettes and around 18 per cent of the adult population smoke.
Tobacco regulation also continues to evolve.
Although not yet ratified, Morocco is a member of the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, the worlds first global tobacco treaty.
01 A new anti-tobacco law including a ban on smoking in public places, larger health warnings and advertising restrictions has recently been passed by Parliament.
Legislation is also in place prohibiting price reductions and any new brands must be introduced at a price above the minimum official price.
A Growing Business In 2003, Altadis acquired 80 per cent of the Moroccan Government owned tobacco business, with the remaining 20 per cent acquired in 2006.
The acquisition included the exclusive right for the manufacture and distribution of tobacco products in Morocco until the end of 2010.
We are market leader with a cigarette share of 85 per cent.
Our key local blonde cigarette brand Marquise holds around 61 per cent share and is positioned in the economy price segment.
This segment has grown in almost direct proportion to the decline in dark cigarettes which are priced in the same segment.
However, as uptrading into international brands such as Fortuna and Gauloises Blondes increases, the growth in the economy segment has slowed and is starting to reverse.
01 Marquise is our key local brand and is positioned in the economy segment.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 29 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p29 p30:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:09 Page 30 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: OPERATING REVIEW Case Study continued 02 We expanded our portfolio with the The monopoly in distribution ends in 2010 and with our market leading position we launch of Fortuna in 2003 and Gauloises We are market are positioned well to meet the demands Blondes in 2004 and have since grown of increased competition.
market shares to 5.0 per cent and leaders in 6.6 per cent respectively.
Our broad product portfolio and competitive pricing ensures that we are We further strengthened our position, Morocco with able to cover all aspects of the tobacco extending our Moroccan portfolio with market enabling us to continue to take the launch of Davidoff in 2008 and West a share of advantage of evolving market dynamics.
in 2009 in the premium and mid-price cigarette segments respectively.
By aligning our local portfolio to evolving consumer preferences we will seek to further We have also been growing our range of enhance our profits in this key market.
other tobacco products such as cigars, cigarillos and fine cut tobacco.
85 % In 2003, we considerably improved our Visit www.
com premium cigar offerings, with significant for more information.
investment in developing cigar speciality outlets.
In addition, we introduced mass market cigars or cigarillos and have doubled market volumes since 2003, principally led by our Fleur fide Savane range.
We have two factories in Morocco and a threshing plant to process locally grown tobacco, and continue to focus on enhancing our distribution and manufacturing capabilities.
02 In 2004, we introduced Gauloises Blondes and 03 have grown our market share to 6.6%.
In February 2009, we signed a long-term agreement with Philip Morris International for 03 We have doubled our market volumes of mass market cigars since 2003, principally led by our the manufacturing, import, distribution and Fleur fide Savane range.
merchandising of their brands in Morocco.
There are three primary routes to market: supermarket-style shops, van sales and truck sales which are focused on sales in rural areas.
To improve efficiency, customer service and to optimise costs, we are increasingly focusing our route to market on van and truck sales and also improving our telesales operations to enhance delivery capacity and improve distribution efficiency.
