1849 Black Sun ImpTob p31 p32:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:10 Page 31 Manufacturing 01 We continue to drive improvements across our manufacturing footprint.
01 Our quality management systems address continual improvement.
This year 30 of our 56 factories 58 per cent were ISO 9001 certified, with projects underway to implement the standard in eight others.
We are constantly looking at the processes for controlling and improving Our key priority has been integrating the Imperial our environmental performance, and apply the ISO 14001 international standard to our Tobacco and Altadis operations and extending best operations.
Thirty seven of our 56 factories practice across our manufacturing footprint.
68 per cent were ISO 14001 certified, with our factory in Taiwan the latest to achieve this standard.
Outlook Our current focus is on completing our integration projects in Europe, whilst driving Integration Progress In line with our business simplification improvements across our manufacturing Our key priority during the year has been strategy, we delivered additional portfolio without compromising quality integrating the Imperial Tobacco and improvements with the number of blends and our innovation capability.
In addition, Altadis manufacturing operations and decreasing by 9 per cent.
we expect our productivity to improve as implementing standard systems and the benefits of integration continue to We have invested in our operations to processes throughout our 56 factories.
support productivity improvements and Following an extensive review of our innovation.
Investment has been focused in We are seeking to manage the impact manufacturing capacity we have progressed two main areas, in primary and secondary of increasing leaf costs, which are being a number of European restructuring initiatives processing and in our supply chain to support driven by underlying pricing pressure to improve our competitive position and flexibility, process standardisation, and the and the currency translation impact of a address the significant overlap in our continued delivery of our synergy targets.
commodity priced primarily in US dollars.
operations following the Altadis acquisition.
In January, our factory in Taiwan started We operate in a dynamic, competitive In addition, we have strengthened our full production.
Our ability to manufacture industry and constantly keep our USA cigar business by closing our factories in market is contributing to the continued operations under review.
development of our value portfolio.
We reallocate and re-use our surplus In Germany, to support increased capacity manufacturing equipment within the at our Langenhagen factory we have begun Group, giving benefits on product quality, the construction of a warehouse and overheads, productivity and waste reduction.
Our Performance In addition, in Reidsville, North Carolina, We have been focused on reducing our the upgrading of our cigarette and fine working capital across our manufacturing cut tobacco facilities acquired with operations, and have delivered further Commonwealth Brands is also cost savings.
