qxp 24 3 10 21:26 Page 75 Section Tw Two o Two Go Go Gov v ver er ernance finance finance Directors report Company undertakes to indemnify each Director against liability to third parties excluding criminal and regulatory penalties and to The Directors present pay Directors costs as incurred, provided that they are reimbursed to the Company if the Director is found guilty or, in an action the Annual Report and brought by the Company, judgement is given against the Director.
Accounts and audited Events after the balance sheet date There have been no events after the balance sheet date.
consolidated Financial Directors interests The table below shows the beneficial interests in the ordinary shares statements for the year of the Company of the persons who were Directors at 31 December ended 31 December 2009.
This excludes share options but includes interests of the Directors family members.
31 Dec 2009 1 Jan 2009 For the purposes of this report Company means Inchcape plc and Group means the Company and its subsidiary and Ken Hanna 700,000 37,000 associated undertakings.
Andr Lacroix 4,591,600 459,160 Business review John McConnell 1,438,225 57,840 The information that fulls the requirements of the business review can be found in the operating review on pages 22-39, which is Alison Cooper 25,000 incorporated in this Report by reference.
Information on the Nigel Northridge 100,000 environment, employees, community and social issues is given in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 40-49.
Graham Pimlott 200,000 20,000 Directors Will Samuel 120,000 12,000 The names of the Directors, including those Directors offering David Scotland 112,980 11.298 themselves for election, plus brief biographical details, are given on pages 52-53.
Each Director held ofce throughout the year except Michael Wemms 75,640 7,564 Alison Cooper and Nigel Northridge both appointed 1 July 2009 and John McConnell appointed 1 October 2009.
Karen Guerra, There have been no changes to the number of shares held by Raymond Chien and Peter Johnson retired as Directors of the Directors between 1 January 2010 and 9 March 2010.
Company with effect from 14 May 2009.
Employee benefit trust Alison, Nigel and John will offer themselves for election at the 2010 The Executive Directors of the Company, together with other Annual General Meeting.
employees of the Group, are potential beneciaries of the Inchcape Employee Trust Trust and, as such, are deemed to be Principal activities interested in any ordinary shares held by the Trust.
At 31 December A description of the principal activities of the Group and likely future 2009, the Trusts shareholding totalled 13,797,362 ordinary shares developments and important events occurring since the end of the 1 January 2008 2,315,380 ordinary shares year are given in the operating review on pages 22-39.
Between 1 January 2010 and 9 March 2010 the Trust did not Results and dividends transfer any shares to satisfy the exercise of awards under employee The Groups audited consolidated Financial statements for the year share plans.
ended 31 December 2009 are shown on pages 78-136.
Charitable and political donations Given the significant downturn in the markets in which the Group The Company did not make any charitable donations during 2009. operates, the Board does not consider it appropriate to recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009.
No political donations were made during 2009.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors Principal financial risk factors So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit These risks are shown on pages 38-39. information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Authority to purchase shares The Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken At the Companys Annual General Meeting on Thursday 14 May as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant 2009, the Company was authorised to make market purchases audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are of up to 460,366,500 ordinary shares representing approximately aware of that information.
10.0% of its issued share capital at that time.
No such purchases were made during 2009.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the Directors indemnity renewal of this authority at the Companys Annual General Meeting A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by the on 13 May 2010.
Companys Articles of Association and sections 309A to 309C of the Companies Act 2006, has been granted by the Company to each of the Directors of the Company.
Under the provisions of the QTPI the www.
qxp 24 3 10 21:26 Page 76 Governance Directors report continued Creditor payment policy The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The Company has no trade creditors 2008 nil.
The Group is records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions including terms transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time of payment under which business transactions with the Groups the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable suppliers are conducted.
Whilst the Group does not follow any them to ensure that the Financial statements and the Directors single external code or standard, in line with Inchcape Group Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, policy, payments to suppliers are made in accordance with agreed as regards the Group Financial statements, Article 4 of the ISAS terms and conditions.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps Employees for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Company is committed to a policy of treating all its colleagues and job applicants equally and to increasing the involvement of The Directors are responsible for the maintainance and integrity of colleagues through engagement activities.
Full details can be the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 40-49. governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We are committed to the employment of people with disabilities and will interview all those candidates who meet the minimum Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are given on selection criteria.
We provide training and career development for pages 52-53 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: our employees, tailored where appropriate to their specic needs, the Group Financial statements, which have been prepared in to ensure they achieve their potential.
If an indivdual becomes accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give disabled while in our employment, we will do our best to ensure a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and continued employment in their role, including consulting them profit of the Group, and about their requirements, making appropriate adjustments and providing alternative suitable positions.
the operating review on pages 22-39 of the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of Going concern the business and the position of the Group, together with a After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue as a going concern for the foreseeable Share capital future.
As such, the Company and the Group continue to adopt the As at 31 December 2009, the Companys issued share capital was going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
163,245,735.18 comprised of 4,630,714,974 ordinary shares of 1.0p Directors responsibilities each and 487,244,106 deferred shares of 24.0p each.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial statements in Report and Accounts: to attend and speak at General Meetings accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
and to appoint proxies and exercise voting rights.
The shares do not Company law requires the Directors to prepare consolidated carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the rights are set out in the Articles of Association of the Company.
Directors have elected to prepare the Group Financial statements There are no restrictions or limitations on the holding of ordinary in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
There IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held company Financial statements in accordance with United by a person other than the holder of the shares.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under The rights attaching to the Companys deferred shares are set out company law the Directors must not approve the Financial in the Articles of Association of the Company.
Holders of deferred statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair shares have no voting, dividend or capital distribution rights, save view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of for very limited rights on a winding up: the shares are not the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these transferable and do not confer any rights of redemption.
Financial statements, the Directors are required to: Shares acquired through the Company share schemes rank pari select suitable accounting policies and then apply them passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
consistently: significant shareholdings make judgements and accounting estimates that are Disclosures received pursuant to DTR5 are shown on page 62 and reasonable and prudent: and these disclosures are incorporated by reference in this Report.
state whether IFRSs are adopted by the European Union and Share consolidation applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject As announced on 10 March 2010, the Board intends to propose a to any matieral departures disclosed and explained in the 1 for 10 share consolidation of ordinary shares.
The purpose of the Group and parent company Financial statements respectively.
share consolidation is to reduce the total number of ordinary shares now in issue following the Rights Issue undertaken in 2009 and to increase the likely price of the Companys shares to a gure more 76 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 IC027 p68 77 vAW3.
qxp 24 3 10 21:26 Page 77 Section Tw Two o Two Go Gov ver ernance finance appropriate for a listed company of its size and nature in the The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their UK market.
The share consolidation is subject to approval by willingness to continue in ofce.
A resolution to reappoint them as shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Articles of Association The appointment and replacement of Directors are governed by the Companys Articles of Association.
Any changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, by way of special resolution.
Claire Chapman General Counsel and Group Company Secretary The Directors have authority to issue and allot ordinary shares Inchcape plc pursuant to Article 7 of the Articles of Association and shareholder authority requested at each Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Directors also have authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares and this authority is also renewed annually at the Annual General Meeting.
Change of control Save as described in the following paragraphs, the Company is not party to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Certain of the Groups third party funding arrangements would terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
The Groups relationship with its brand partners are managed at Group level.
However, the relevant contracts are entered into at a local level, with day to day management being led by each operating business.
Certain of the contracts may terminate on a change of control of the Company.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee providing compensation for loss of ofce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid, except for provisions in the rules of the Companys shares schemes which may result in options or awards granted to employees to vest on a takeover, except for Dale Butcher.
Dale is entitled to receive an enhanced payment if his contract is terminated due to a change of control of 12 months salary, a bonus payment based on the average of the prior three years bonus payments, a deferred 12 month pension annuity and a payment in lieu of use of his company car.
Key contractual and other arrangements Other than arrangements with SAP and certain of its third party providers of finance, the Companys contracts are at an operating level rather than at Group level.
As a result no individual supplier or customer contract is significant to the business.
Transactions with Directors No transaction, arrangement or agreement required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 or IAS 24 Related Parties was outstanding at 31 December 2009, or was entered into during the year for any Director and or connected person 2008 none.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday 13 May 2010 at J. P Morgan Cazenove, 20 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6DA.
The notice convening the meeting and the resolutions to be put to the meeting, together with the explanatory notes, are set out in the Circular to all shareholders.
