qxp 24 3 10 21:22 Page 54 Governance Executive Committee 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 Andr Lacroix George joined Inchcape from Yum Restaurants 7 Koh Ching Hong Position: Group Chief Executive International previously Pepsi Restaurants Position: Managing Director Appointment to Executive Committee: International, where he spent 10 years holding Inchcape South Asia February 2006 several senior management positions.
Appointment to Executive Committee: See page 52 for full biography August 2009 5 Dale Butcher Skills and experience: Ching Hong joined Borneo 2 John McConnell Position: Group Development Director Motors as its Managing Director in January 2008.
Position: Group Finance Director Appointment to Executive Committee: He was appointed as Managing Director, Appointment to Executive Committee: February 2006 Inchcape South Asia in August 2009 and is February 2006 Skills and experience: Dale joined Inchcape responsible for Borneo Motors and Champion See page 52 for full biography in 1986 and has been in volved in numerous Motors in Singapore and NBT in Brunei.
restructuring and reorganisation projects as 3 Aris Aravanis the Group rationalised its portfolio, and in all Prior to joining the Group, Ching Hong was Position: Chairman and Managing Director acquisitions and disposals since Inchcape Managing Director of Fuji Xerox Singapore, an Toyota Hellas Executive member of the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacic became an automotive only Group.
Appointment to Executive Committee: Senior Management from 1996 to 2008.
In these July 2009 Prior to joining Inchcape, Dale worked for roles he led the transformation and restructuring Skills and experience: During his tenure with British Timken as a financial analyst from of its business model and business approach, Inchcape, Aris has led the establishment and November 1980 to 1982 before joining thereby increasing market share, doubling development of Ten, a finance company that Alghanim Industries in Kuwait as a financial revenue and leading the organisation into the was constituted by Toyota Hellas and EFG controller, where he worked in their motors prestigious Singapore Quality Class, achieving Eurobank, to the top of the automotive nancing and construction divisions.
Dale is a member of the London CBI council 8 Tony George In February 2000, Aris assumed the position of and is a Freeman of the City of London.
Position: Group Human Resources Director General Manager of Toyota Hellas and then Appointment to the Executive Committee: 6 Claire Chapman became Deputy Managing Director and February 2007 Position: General Counsel and Group Company member of the Board of Directors.
During his Skills and experience: Tony joined the Group Secretary service, Toyota has established solid and clear in February 2007.
He has over 22 years of Appointment to the Executive Committee: leadership in the Greek Market.
experience in Human Resources and General March 2007 Management in International FMCG, chemicals, Before joining Toyota Hellas and Inchcape, Aris Skills and experience: Claire joined Inchcape telecommunications and customer service had extensive experience in the finance eld in March 2007 and is responsible for the oriented retail companies.
In his previous role working in various sectors including the food Groups legal and compliance programmes, he was HR Director, Corporate Functions for industry and banking.
mergers and acquisitions, major contracts, Vodafone plc and prior to that, SVP International corporate projects and restructurings and 4 George Ashford Partner Resources for Starbucks Coffee effective corporate governance and Board Position: Chief Executive officer Toyota Belgium Company based in the US.
He has also worked management.
Appointment to Executive Committee: with ICI in India and Diageo plc where, at the October 2006 Claire was formerly a solicitor at Freshelds time of the formation of the Company, he was Skills and experience: George joined Inchcape the first Global Management Development Bruckhaus Derringer from 1991 to 1995 before in March 2006 as Director of Implementation, Director UDV in the UK and latterly was the SVP joining the legal team at the Reuters Group PLC Inchcape Advantage.
In this role George led from 1995 to 2007.
Claire held various roles whilst International HR for the Burger King business.
the implementation of Inchcape Advantage, at Reuters, working for their UK, European and US During his career Tony has lived and worked a company wide strategic programme putting in India, UK, USA and Australia.
She was General Counsel for the UK the customer at the heart of the Groups service from 2000 to 2003 and General Counsel for initiatives.
In October 2006, George was Europe, Middle East and Africa from 2004 to appointed Managing Director European Retail.
2007, advising on a range of matters from major In this role he led the implementation of world commercial and IT contracts, global projects, class retail operation programmes across the integration and key corporate projects.
He was also responsible Additionally she advised on company for the integration of businesses acquired in the secretariat matters from 2004 to 2007.
Baltics and the construction and opening of four greeneld operations in eastern Europe.
George Claire is a qualied solicitor for England and was appointed as Chief Executive officer Toyota Wales and Attorney, New York and has a Masters Belgium in July 2009. in International Law.
54 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 IC027 p50 55 vAW3.
qxp 24 3 10 21:22 Page 55 Section Two Two Go Gov ver ernance finance 910 11 12 13 14 15 9 Ken Lee 11 Spencer Lock an instrumental part in the right sizing of the UK Position: Group Communications Director Position: Chief Executive officer Inchcape business in the second half of 2008, as the Appointment to Executive Committee: Australasia global economy entered the downturn.
Connor November 2006 Appointment to Executive Committee: was appointed Chief Executive officer of the UK Skills and experience: Ken joined Inchcape February 2006 business in November 2009.
Skills and experience: Spencer joined Inchcape Retail as Marketing Director in September 2003, Prior to Inchcape, Connor held senior positions in 1998 and has held various senior operational where he led the development of a pioneering with B&Q plc, Kingsher plc, the LOreal Group roles within the UK Retail business, culminating customer experience programme.
In early 2006 and the Gillette Company.
he was appointed Customer Strategy Director to in his appointment as Chief Executive officer of Inchcape Retail in 2007.
Spencer has been lead the Group wide identication of customer 14 Jean Van der Hasselt responsible for the development of the premium insights to drive the companys Inchcape Position: Managing Director Nordics, brand core partner strategy and the acquisition Advantage programme.
In late 2006 he was South America and Africa and integration of both European Motor appointed to the Executive Committee as Appointment to Executive Committee: Holdings and Lind Automotive Group.
In Group Communications Director with June 2009 November 2009, Spencer was appointed Chief responsibility for Group wide internal and Skills and experience: Jean joined Inchcape in Executive officer of Inchcape Australasia.
2003 as Chief Executive officer of Toyota Belgium, having been in the automotive industry since Prior to joining Inchcape, Spencer was responsible Prior to joining Inchcape, Ken held the position 1985.
During this tenure the network has been for franchise development in Nissan GB and of Group Marketing Director at the RAC from successfully restructured, leading to fewer and previously worked for Ford Motor Company.
1999 to 2003 and was part of the team that better retailers whilst improving market share acquired and then led the business post 12 Bertrand Mallet and maximising the profitability for Toyota demutualisation.
During his tenure the company Position: Managing Director Emerging Markets Belgium.
The successful run out campaign of moved from a car breakdown organisation to a and Group Strategy Director Toyotas best selling model in 2006 led to an customer focused motoring services group.
Appointment to Executive Committee: overall best market share performance.
Before joining the RAC Ken worked for Lex Service July 2008 plc, where as Marketing Director he successfully Prior to Inchcape, Jean held several Director Skills and experience: Bertrand is responsible for established the Hyundai brand in the UK.
positions within the Volvo organisation and was the Emerging Markets region, encompassing all Managing Director for the Volvo Cars operations of our retail and distribution activities in China, 10 Patrick S Lee in Belgium, actively contributing to the set up of Poland and the Balkans.
He oversees both Position: Managing Director the PAG structure, leading to effective synergies current operations and the denition of our Inchcape North Asia within Fords luxury brand cluster.
future expansion plans in these markets.
He also Appointment to Executive Committee: serves as the Group Strategy Director, a role in 15 Immo Rupf November 2006 which he manages the Corporate Strategic Position: Managing Director Skills and experience: Patrick is in charge of our Planning process and key strategic projects for VIR operations in Hong Kong, Macau and Inchcape Russia the Group.
Representing Toyota in all three markets, Appointment to Executive Committee: March 2006 Toyota has maintained the No.
1 position for Before joining Inchcape, Bertrand spent over six Skills and experience: Immo joined Inchcape several years.
years with Euro Disney in both Strategy and Sales as Director of Group Strategy in March 2006 roles, most recently as Managing Director for the Before joining Inchcape, Patrick was the Group and led major strategic initiatives, most French market.
During his tenure, a new sales General Manager, Sales and Marketing of Kerry signicantly the Inchcape Customer 1st and marketing approach was dened and Beverages Ltd from 1998 to 2006.
On 1 August 2008, Immo was implemented.
Prior to Euro Disney, he spent five owned and operated 11 Coca-Cola bottling appointed as Managing Director for Inchcapes years as a senior consultant with Bain and plants in China.
Since then Immo has Company, both in France and in the US.
His main been leading the integration of our acquired areas of focus were around retail and distribution.
Patricks experience in auto retailing came from Russian businesses.
a Toronto Honda dealership where he worked for Bertrand began his career in Sales and three years and was awarded the highest Marketing with Automobiles Peugeot in Sweden.
Prior to joining Inchcape, Immo was a Partner honour Sales Master by Honda Canada for two and Vice President of the Boston Consulting 13 Connor McCormack consecutive years.
Patrick started his career in Group BCG in Munich, Shanghai and Paris Position: Chief Executive officer Inchcape UK brand marketing with Procter & Gamble and from 1989 to 2003 and Group Chief Financial Appointment to Executive Committee: has worked in various locations including officer for Alcoa Asia and Latin America from November 2009 Canada, Switzerland, Thailand and Hong Kong.
His main focus at BCG and Skills and experience: Connor has been with Patrick holds a BBA and an MBA from the Alcoa was on business strategy, corporate the Group since July 2005, having initially joined Chinese University of Hong Kong.
development and performance management Inchcape as Finance Director UK Retail.
Connor for automotive and consumer businesses.
has led the business through the acquisitions and integrations of the Lind Automotive Group and European Motor Holdings, as well as playing www.
