Our Business target specific markets expand geographically extend media distribution Informa has been built around the provision of high quality, market leaders: proprietary business to business information which includes As many of our markets are niche some of the longest-standing brands in the world of and specialist and accordingly quite publishing, conferences, exhibition and training.
small, our leading titles are either Informa was created from the merger of IBC Group plc and the market leaders or number two LLP Lloyds of London Press Group plc in December 1998. in a particular sector.
Although Informa only came into being as recently as 1998, it has a bloodline running back to 1734 when the first issue of the maritime publication Lloyds List was pinned to the wall of Edward Lloyds City of London coffee shop.
Taylor & Francis and Informa merged in May 2004.
Taylor & Francis has over two centuries of experience and its portfolio includes the leading physics and science journal, the Philosophical Magazine, which was launched in 1798.
It has grown very rapidly over the last two decades to become a leading international academic publisher, especially in the areas of Humanities and Social Sciences.
Since the merger with Taylor & Francis, Informa has expanded through a combination of organic and acquisition both strategic and bolt on led growth.
In July 2005, Informa acquired IIR Holdings, which was founded in 1973.
Not only did this allow Informa to bring together the two largest events businesses in the world to create an undisputed powerhouse, it also meant that Informa acquired several market-leading Performance Improvement businesses.
In July 2007, Informa acquired Datamonitor, a world-leading provider of premium global business information.
Datamonitor delivers independent data, analysis and opinion across the Automotive, Consumer Markets, Energy & Sustainability, Financial Services, Logistics & Express, Pharmaceuticals & Healthcare, Retail, Sourcing, Technology and Telecoms industries.
The Groups corporate structure was changed in June 2009 by putting in place a new parent company, registered in Jersey and with its domicile in Switzerland.
com provides more information on the history of the Group and each of its divisions.
Edward Lloyds City of London coffee shop.
informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 3
