Business Profile PrOfessiOnal & cOmmercial infOrmatiOn 8 informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 The Professional & Commercial Information PCI division incorporates a number of products oriented towards 83% the corporate market, including the vertical sectors of Lloyds List customers of telecoms & media, life sciences & pharmaceutical, now use its online offering financial markets, maritime & insurance and commodities.
The product format within PCI varies from the Lloyds List daily newspaper and Scrip News to deep knowledge databases such as Datamonitor with its ten Knowledge Centers, Citeline for the clinical trials customer and EMC for telecoms trends and forecasting.
Informa Global Markets provides real time news, data and analysis electronically across a number of markets 24 hours a day.
Digital delivery remains at the forefront of the PCI divisions strategy in 2009.
The year saw a number of key new launches and many upgrades and relaunches of our online news and data services.
Initiatives such as the new Lloyds List Intelligence and the newly amalgamated InformaHealthcare.
com have resulted in significantly improved customer usage, higher customer value and increased subscription yields.
The PCI divisions revenues include group advertising sales which remain low in relation to the overall group position.
The excellent quality of need to have information which the division provides has enabled the business to maintain high subscription renewal rates core to the divisions strategy.
new online database Celebrating 25 years TWENTY FIVE YEARS OF RETAIL RESEARCH Based on the worlds definitive online database of shipping The Datamonitor Groups retail arm, Verdict Research, celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2009.
The UKs leading movements and company financial performance data, Lloyds authority on the retail industry, Verdict continues to List Intelligence has been under construction throughout 2009. publish unrivalled independent analysis and has come Its predecessor, Lloyds MIU, performed strongly last year as a long way since publishing its first report in 1984 on executives turned to trusted data on which to base difficult grocers and supermarkets.
informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 9
