Business Profile academic infOrmatiOn 6 informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 Building on two centuries experience, Taylor & Francis has grown rapidly over the last two decades to become 22,000 a leading international academic publisher.
The Taylor titles available & Francis Group operates from a network of global digitally offices, including New York, Philadelphia, Florida, Oxford, Melbourne, Stockholm, Beijing, New Delhi, Johannesburg, Singapore and Tokyo, plus a larger network of sales offices and distributors.
In 2009 Taylor & Francis secured a large number of new society contracts for 2010.
The titles range in subject from Journal of the Musical Arts in Africa to the Journal of Systematic Palaeontology.
Of particular note is a co-publishing partnership with the Royal Society of New Zealand for its journals including an archive of over three hundred years of important science content covering New Zealand research specialities such as the geosciences, botany, agriculture, marine science and zoology and the publication of the journal Housing Policy Debate which is one of the worlds most respected and highly ranked housing journals.
2009 has been an excellent year with continued growth in revenues, profits and product volumes.
Electronic delivery is going from strength to strength with growth in electronic book revenues of 33%.
There are now 22,000 titles available digitally either as e-books or on databases.
This is allowing the business to deliver products to the customer rapidly, in their choice of format and with great cost efficiency.
Sold over a million copies in its first four editions number 1 journal in the Urban Studies category For nearly a quarter of a century Molecular Journal of the American Planning Association Biology of the Cell has been the leading JAPA has been one of Routledges most cell biology textbook, and has sold over a successful recent acquisitions.
Ranked the million copies in its first four editions.
The Number 1 journal in the Urban Studies category fifth edition is now on sale.
Dr. Bruce Alberts, in the Thomson Reuters Journal Citation one of the authors of the Molecular Biology Reports for the past two years, the journals of the Cell and Essential Cell Biology, was impact factor has increased by approximately recently named one of the first three Science 46%, in that time to 2.250.
Journal Citation and Technology Envoys for the US.
Reports JCR offer a systematic, objective means to critically evaluate the worlds leading journals, with quantifiable, statistical information based on citation data.
To celebrate the Associations hundredth birthday in 2009 Routledge digitized JAPAs entire archive and published a well-received, widely read and cited special centennial issue.
informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 7
