DIRectoRs RePoRt The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of Principal activities Informa plc the Company and its subsidiaries the Group, Informa is a leading international provider of specialist together with the financial statements and auditors information and services for the academic and scientific, report, for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The details professional and commercial business communities.
The of the business, the development of the Group and its subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting subsidiaries and likely future developments are set out the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in in pages 2 to 18 of this document.
The notice concerning Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
forward looking statements is set out on page 133. Business Review new holding company The Business Review is a review of the development On 30 June 2009, pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement and the operational and financial performance of the the Scheme under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006, business during the year ended 31 December 2009 Informa plc Informa, a public company limited by and contains a description of the principal risks and shares, incorporated in Jersey with number 102786 uncertainties facing the business.
Information that forms and domiciled in Switzerland, became the new parent part of the Business Review is found in the following holding company of the Informa group.
The Scheme was sections of the Annual Report: approved by the High Court of Justice of England and Wales and by shareholders at a general meeting of the information about the development and performance Company held on 2 June 2009. of the business, and key performance indicators, of the Company during the financial year and future Informa was incorporated as Informa Limited under the prospects are set out in the Chairmans Statement Companies Jersey Law 1991 on 11 March 2009 and and the Chief Executives Review on pages 14 to 18: changed its name to Informa plc on 29 April 2009. principal risks and uncertainties are described on Pursuant to the Scheme, ordinary shares in Informa were pages 31 to 36: admitted to the UK Listing Authoritys Official List on 30 June 2009 and trading on the London Stock Exchanges information about the Companys Corporate market for listed securities commenced on 30 June 2009.
Responsibility policies, including environmental, The listing of the English registered Informa plcs Old employee, and social and community issues are Informa ordinary shares on the UK Listing Authoritys set out in the Corporate Governance Statement Official List was cancelled on 30 June 2009.
Under the on pages 43 to 44: terms of the Scheme, shareholders in Old Informa received one share in Informa for every share held in Old Informa.
details of the principal subsidiaries are set out in Note 18: and Upon the Scheme becoming effective, Old Informa changed its name to Informa Group plc and became a the results for the year are explained in detail in wholly-owned subsidiary of Informa.
the Financial Review and are summarised in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 60 and the Further information on the terms of the Scheme is set out related Notes.
in the Prospectus relating to the Scheme published by the Company on 1 May 2009, which can be viewed on the In relation to the use of financial instruments by the Companys website at www.
Information on Group, a review is included within Note 24 to the the Companys share capital and the rights issue of Old Consolidated Financial Statements.
There are no Informa which was completed on 27 May 2009 can be found significant differences between the market value of on page 28 and in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial any interests in land of the Group and the amount at Statements.
which those interests are included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
In order to give a view across the year, references in this section and in the Corporate Governance and As a whole the Annual Report provides information about Remuneration reports on pages 38 to 54, to Directors the Groups businesses, its financial performance during and the Board refer to those of Old Informa up to the year and likely future developments.
29 June 2009 and to those of Informa from 30 June 2009.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 27 the Year in Review DIRectoRs RePoRt continued Other than as described in this report, there have not been The remuneration and interests in the share capital any significant changes to the Groups principal activities of the Company of the Directors who held office as during the year under review and the Directors are not at 31 December 2009 are set out in the Directors aware, at the date of this report, of any likely major changes Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 54.
All the Directors in the Groups activities in the new financial year.
There have offer themselves for re-election by the shareholders at been no significant events since the reporting date.
Details of the contracts of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors with the Company can Dividends be found on page 50.
There are no agreements in place between the Company and its Directors and The Directors have declared that a second interim employees providing for compensation for loss of office dividend for the year of 7.85p per ordinary share to be of employment whether through resignation, purported paid on 19 May 2010 to ordinary shareholders registered redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a as at the close of business on 16 April 2010.
No Director was materially interested in with the first interim dividend of 3.6p per ordinary share any contract of significance.
paid on 18 September 2009, this makes a total for the year of 11.45p per ordinary share 2008: 10p.
The Group Directors Indemnities is paying a second interim dividend rather than a final dividend due to the operation of the Dividend Access Indemnities are in force under which the Company Plan described below.
has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted by Jersey law and the Companys Articles of The Company operates a Dividend Access Plan for all Association, in respect of any liability arising out of, or in its shareholders.
Those shareholders who hold fewer connection with, the execution of their powers, duties than 100,000 shares are deemed to consent to receive and responsibilities, as Directors of the Company, any of their dividends from Informa DAP Limited, a UK Informa its subsidiaries or as a trustee of an occupational pension company.
Those shareholders holding over 100,000 shares scheme for employees of the Company.
The Company may elect to join the Dividend Access Plan by completing has purchased and maintains Directors and Officers an Election Form.
This form is available from the insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and costs Companys Registrars whose contact details can be found for claims in connection with any act or omission by its on page 134.
If shareholders holding over 100,000 shares Directors and officers in the execution of their duties.
do not elect to join the Dividend Access Plan, dividends will be received from the Company which is domiciled Rights Issue and changes in share capital in Switzerland.
Shareholders may elect to receive shares Old Informa raised 242m net of expenses by way of a instead of cash from their dividend allocation through the 2 for 5 fully underwritten rights issue at 150 pence per Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Immediately prior to the Scheme Directors and Directors Interests becoming effective on 30 June 2009, Old Informa had 599,339,255 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence in issue.
On the The names of Directors of the Company are set out on Scheme becoming effective, the issued share capital of pages 24 to 25, which includes brief biographical details.
Informa was 599,339,255 ordinary shares of 27 pence.
The Non-Executive Directors of Old Informa, being Informa also carried out a reduction of its share capital Derek Mapp, Dr Pamela Kirby, John Davis and Dr Brendan by reducing the nominal value of each issued and ONeill, ceased to be Directors on 30 June 2009 when authorised but unissued ordinary share in the capital the Scheme became effective.
Sean Watson resigned at of the Company from 27 pence to 0.1 pence, and the the Annual General Meeting AGM of Old Informa on cancellation of the Companys share premium account.
There were no other changes to the Board The reductions in share capital and share premium of Old Informa prior to 30 June 2009. account were approved by shareholders at a general meeting of the Company held on 2 June 2009.
Both Derek Mapp became a Director of Informa on the reduction of share capital and cancellation of share 12 March 2009 following the incorporation of the premium account were confirmed by the Royal Court Company.
Peter Rigby, Adam Walker, Dr Pamela Kirby, of Jersey on 20 July 2009 and registered with the Jersey John Davis and Dr Brendan ONeill became Directors Registrar of Companies on 22 July 2009. of the Company on 27 April 2009.
28 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 share capital, together with movements in the issued Registration and Domicile share capital during the year, are shown in Note 25 of the The Companys registered office is at 22 Grenville Street, Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company is registered in The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, Jersey under number 102786.
The Company is domiciled being the only share class of the Company, are set out in in Switzerland with its principal office at Gubelstrasse 11, the Companys Articles of Association Articles, which CH-6300, Zug.
Subject to Jersey law, annual general meeting any share may be issued with or have attached to it such preferred, deferred or other special rights and restrictions The AGM will be held on 27 April 2010.
The notice as the Company may by special resolution decide or, if is being despatched as a separate document.
no such resolution is in effect or so far as the resolution does not make specific provision, as the Board may charitable and Political contributions decide.
No such resolution is currently in effect.
Subject to the recommendation of the Board, holders of ordinary The Group made charitable donations during the year of shares may receive a dividend.
On liquidation, holders of 0.2m 2008: 0.2m, principally to local charities serving ordinary shares may share in the assets of the Company.
some of the communities in which the Group operates.
Holders of ordinary shares are also entitled to receive the No political donations were made.
Companys Annual Report and Accounts and, subject to supplier Payment Policy certain thresholds being met, may requisition the Board to convene a general meeting GM or the proposal of The Companys policy, which is also applied by the resolutions at AGMs.
None of the ordinary shares carry Group, is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and to Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and abide by the agreed terms, provided that the supplier speak at GMs of the Company and to appoint one or has provided the goods or services in accordance with more proxies or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, the relevant terms and conditions.
Trade payables of the a corporate representative.
On a show of hands, each Group at 31 December 2009 were equivalent to 52 days holder of ordinary shares who being an individual is purchases 2008: 46 days, based on the average daily present in person or being a corporation is present by amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
a duly appointed corporate representative, not being himself a member, shall have one vote and on a poll, substantial shareholdings every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is As at 2 March 2010, the Company had been notified the holder.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and and voting instructions must be received not later than Transparency Rules DTRs of the FSA of the following 48 hours before a GM.
A holder of ordinary shares can substantial interests in the issued ordinary share capital lose the entitlement to vote at GMs where that holder of the Company: has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning Number interests held in those shares.
Except as 1 set out above of shares % held and 2 permitted under applicable statutes, there are FMR LLC Fidelity 55,380,804 9.24 no limitations on voting rights of holders of a given Prudential plc 50,975,689 8.50 percentage, number of votes or deadlines for exercising Legal & General Group plc 35,939,012 5.99 voting rights.
Standard Life Investments The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a Limited 20,561,397 3.43 certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the As at 2 March 2010, the Companys issued share capital Company from taking place on an open and proper comprised 599,250,457 ordinary shares with a nominal basis or where the Company has a lien over that share.
Details of the authorised and issued Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 29 the Year in Review DIRectoRs RePoRt continued The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a or employees providing for compensation for loss of certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i office or employment that occurs because of a takeover lodged, duly stamped if necessary, at the registered bid except for the Groups banking facilities described in office of the Company or any other place as the Board Note 24 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
may decide accompanied by the certificate for the The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors share s to be transferred and or such other evidence as are set out in the Articles.
Directors can be appointed by the the Directors may reasonably require to show the right Company by ordinary resolution at a GM or by the Board of the transferor to make the transfer: or ii in respect of upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The Company can remove a director from office, including Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out by passing an ordinary resolution or by notice being given using CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a by all the other Directors.
transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and regulations governing the operation of CREST.
provide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the The Directors may decide to suspend the registration Company including to borrow money up to an aggregate of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the of three times a formula based on adjusted capital and register of shareholders.
The Directors cannot suspend reserves.
The Company may by ordinary resolution the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares authorise the Board to issue shares, and increase, without obtaining consent from CREST.
consolidate, sub-divide and cancel shares in accordance with its Articles and Jersey law.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company except: 1 certain restrictions may The Company may amend its Articles by special from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations resolution approved at a GM.
for example insider trading laws : 2 pursuant to the Purchase of own shares Companys share dealing code whereby the Directors and certain employees of the Company require approval to At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, deal in the Companys shares: and 3 where a shareholder under a shareholders resolution passed on 27 April 2009 with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys certificated conditionally upon the Scheme becoming effective, to shares has been served with a disclosure notice and purchase through the market up to 10% of the Companys has failed to provide the Company with information issued ordinary shares as at 30 June 2009.
This authority concerning interests in those shares.
There are no expires at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be agreements between holders of ordinary shares that are held in 2010. known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
employee consultation Shares are from time to time held by a trustee in order The Group places considerable value on the involvement to satisfy entitlements of employees to shares under the of its employees and continues to keep them informed Groups share schemes.
Usually the shares held on trust on matters affecting them and on the various factors are no more than sufficient to satisfy the requirements affecting the performance of the Group.
This is achieved of the Groups share schemes for one year.
The shares principally through formal and informal meetings, email held by these trusts do not have any special rights with updates and via the Companys global intranet site, regard to control of the Company.
While these shares which enables staff to put anonymous questions to the are held on trust their rights are not exercisable directly Executive management.
Employee representatives are by the relevant employees.
The current arrangements consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting concerning these trusts and their shareholdings are set their current and future interests.
In 2009 the Group decided to develop a more thorough There are no significant agreements to which the and focused staff survey, moving away from the 2008 Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate survey which had a broader focus on the brand.
A upon a change of control following a takeover bid nor pilot staff survey was carried out by Taylor and Francis, any agreements between the Company and its Directors globally.
It aimed to identify the major drivers of 30 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 employee engagement, and improve understanding of depends in part on the prevailing economic environment the reasons behind voluntary turnover of staff.
and the strength of the academic, professional and business communities to which it sells.
In addition, All employees worldwide are also invited periodically to the Groups profitability is dependent on maintaining attend webinars, take part in live on-line polls, and ask a strong and highly motivated management team, the Executive Directors questions about the business maintaining brand reputation, quality of information and and its future.
The webinars, including the results of the its ability to use and protect the security of its marketing polls, are posted on the Companys intranet so that those databases.
This section describes some of the principal employees who are unable to attend can view them.
risk factors that the Directors believe could materially affect the Group.
The Group adopts a risk management At a general meeting of the Company held on 2 June 2009, a process that is monitored by the Board and which is new Share Incentive Plan SIP was approved by shareholders intended to ensure a consistent and coherent approach for its adoption pursuant to the Scheme becoming effective to the risk factors that are described in this section and on 30 June 2009.
It is substantially in the same form as the to those other risk factors that may arise or which may one in place for Old Informa.
All UK employees are eligible become material in the future.
to participate in the SIP, an Inland Revenue Approved All Employee Share Incentive Plan offering UK employees the 1.
The Groups businesses are affected by the opportunity to purchase annually up to 1,500 of shares in conditions of the sectors and regions in which the Company out of pre-tax salary.
In addition, from 2008, all they and their customers operate US employees are eligible to participate in the Companys US Employee Stock Purchase Plan which offers US employees the The performance of the Group depends on the opportunity to purchase annually up to $2,940 of shares in the financial health and strength of its customers, which Company at a 15% discount to the prevailing market price.
in turn is dependent on the economic conditions in the industries and geographic regions in which they equal opportunities operate.
Traditionally, spending on parts of the Groups goods and services products has been cyclical due Informa believes in equality of opportunity for all to companies spending significantly less in times employees based on merit and that no employee or job of economic slowdown such as those prevailing applicant should receive less favourable treatment on at present, downward pressure on budgets and the grounds of age, gender, sexual orientation, disability, corporate consolidation in certain sectors e. g. financial colour, race, religion, nationality or ethnicity.
The current global economic conditions also divisions are all disabled friendly business operations.
mean that certain customers might become insolvent which may in turn lead them to default on payment for The Companys equal opportunity policy not only covers products already purchased.
Unforeseen disruptions, fair recruitment, but also the opportunities given to staff on whether caused by natural causes or otherwise, training and development, and the Groups views on equal can also be detrimental to the Groups businesses, opportunities form a part of the employee induction training.
The Groups objective is to provide continued suitable 2.
The markets in which the Group operates are highly employment to staff whose circumstances change, with competitive and subject to rapid change appropriate training if necessary.
Informas offices are required to enable access for all abilities and comply with The markets for the Groups products are highly all applicable local laws.
competitive and in a state of ongoing and uncertain change.
Some of the Groups principal A review of the existing equal opportunities policy competitors have substantial financial resources, is being carried out during 2010 to produce a recognised brands, technological expertise and comprehensive diversity policy.
market experience that may better position them to anticipate and respond to these changes.
If the Group Risks and uncertainties is unable to successfully enhance and or develop A number of factors risk factors affect the Groups its products in a timely fashion, the Groups revenue operating results and financial condition.
In common could be affected.
There are also low barriers to entry with other information providers, the Groups profitability in relation to certain parts of the Groups businesses.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 31 the Year in Review DIRectoRs RePoRt continued 3.
The Groups intellectual property IP rights may not 6.
The Group has exposure to various risks from its use be adequately protected and may be challenged by of financial instruments third parties These risks include capital risk, market risk, credit risk The Group relies on agreements with its customers and liquidity risk.
These risks are described in detail in and trademark, copyright and other IP laws to Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
establish and protect the IP rights subsisting in its 7.
The Group may be adversely affected by its borrowings journals, books and training materials.
However, and debt service obligations in the longer-term these rights may be challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented by third parties seeking to infringe The Group has in place a single credit agreement or otherwise profit from the Groups proprietary which comprises an amortising term loan facility, rights without its authorisation.
In addition, fully drawn in three currency tranches, and a nonalthough there is now a small amount of copyright amortising 500m multicurrency revolving credit legislation relating to digital content, these laws facility.
The 2009 rights issue proceeds were used remain under legal review and there remains to prepay the scheduled 2009 and 2010 term loan significant uncertainty as to the form copyright law repayments, leaving term loan balances at may ultimately take.
Additionally, enforcement of 31 December 2009 of 828m drawn in US dollar IP rights is limited in certain jurisdictions, and the 630m, Euro 135m and Sterling 316m.
global nature of the internet makes it impossible to control the ultimate destination of websites.
The Groups debt service obligations under its credit The Group may also be the subject of claims of facilities could have negative consequences for the infringement of the rights of others or party to Group, including the following: restricting the Groups claims to determine the scope and validity of the IP ability to pay dividends: limiting the Groups ability rights of others.
Litigation based on these claims is to obtain additional financing in the longer-term: common amongst companies that utilise digital IP.
increasing the Groups vulnerability to increases in interest rates: requiring a substantial portion of the 4.
The Groups Academic divisions publications and Groups cash flow for the payment of interest on its events are likely to be adversely affected by changes debt and reducing the Groups ability to use its cash in the purchasing behaviour of academic institutions flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements: hindering the Academic institutions fund purchases of Group Groups ability to adjust rapidly, and increasing the products from limited budgets that may be sensitive Groups vulnerability to general adverse economic to changes in private including endowments and and industry conditions: limiting the Groups governmental sources of funding particularly in the flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changes in current global economic conditions.
Accordingly, its business: and placing the Group at a competitive any such decreases are likely to affect adversely the disadvantage to other, less leveraged competitors.
Groups results within its Academic division.
There can be no assurance that in the event of 5.
Currency fluctuations may have a significant impact unforeseen changes over the longer-term, the Groups on the reported revenue and profit of the Group cash flow will be sufficient for repayment of the Groups The financial statements of the Group are expressed indebtedness nor that the current difficult conditions in pounds sterling but its business operations in the credit markets will not exist if the Group seeks receive revenue and incur expense in other to refinance its credit facilities in the longer-term, currencies in particular, US Dollars and Euros.
The either prior to or at maturity in May 2012. relative movements between the exchange rates 8.
If the financial performance of the Group declines in the currencies in which costs are incurred and it may in the longer-term not be able to maintain the currencies in which revenue is earned can compliance with the covenants in its credit facilities significantly affect the results of those businesses.
The Groups credit facilities contain covenants and undertakings with which the Group must comply, including a maximum net debt to Earnings Before 32 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortisation 10.
The Group relies on the experience and talent of its EBITDA covenant and minimum EBITDA senior management and on its ability to recruit and interest cover covenant, each of which is tested retain key employees for the success of its business semi-annually.
If the Group were to fail to comply The successful management and operations of the with any of the financial covenants in its credit Group are reliant upon the contributions of its senior facilities e. g. due to a reduction in its revenue management and other key personnel.
In addition, arising from continued deterioration of economic the Groups future success depends in part on its conditions or other factors outside the Groups ability to continue to recruit, motivate and retain control, it could result in acceleration of the highly experienced and qualified employees in the Groups obligations to repay those borrowings or face of intense competition from other companies.
In the event that Additionally, many of the Groups key employees the Group anticipates such a breach or otherwise are employed by the Group under profit-sharing believes it had insufficient headroom for its arrangements with respect to the businesses they operations, the Group may be required to sell assets operate, and in times of declining profit there can be at depressed prices.
no assurances that the Group will be able to retain 9.
The Groups continued growth depends, in part, such senior management or other key personnel or on its successful ability to identify and complete indeed that the Group will be able to attract new acquisitions and the Group may have difficulty in the personnel to support the growth of its business.
longer-term in procuring additional debt financing 11 The Group may be subject to impairment losses that for such acquisitions would reduce its reported assets and profit Although the Group has historically been able to Goodwill and intangible assets comprise a substantial obtain debt financing for its acquisitions on terms it portion of the total assets of the Group and economic, considers acceptable, it is highly unlikely, particularly legal, regulatory, competitive, contractual and other in the near-term, that future debt financing will be factors may impair the value of these assets.
In such a available on such terms due to significant market situation, accounting rules would require that the Group deterioration in the credit markets and a tightening of reduce their carrying value and recognise an impairment lender standards and terms.
Additionally, covenants in charge, which would reduce the Groups reported assets the Groups existing and future financing facilities may and earnings in the year as the impairment charge is restrict the Groups ability to undertake acquisitions.
The assumptions used in the estimation of Furthermore, attractive acquisitions are difficult value in use are, by their very nature, highly judgmental to identify and complete for a number of reasons, and the Group could be required to recognise significant including competition among prospective buyers.
impairment charges in the future.
In addition, any acquisition the Group may complete 12 Changes in tax laws or their application or may be made at a substantial premium, and there interpretation may adversely impact the Group can be no assurances that the Group will achieve the expected return on its investment, particularly as the The Group operates in a large number of countries success of any acquisition also depends in part on the and thus its earnings are subject to tax in many Groups ability to integrate the acquired business or jurisdictions.
Relevant authorities may amend the assets.
This process may involve unforeseen difficulties substance or interpretation of tax laws that apply to and integration could take longer than anticipated the Groups businesses, in a manner that is adverse as well as requiring a disproportionate amount of to the Group.
There can therefore be no assurance managements attention and financial resources.
that the various levels of taxation to which the Further, the Group may not be able to maintain Group is subject will not be increased or changed.
In or improve the historical financial performance of addition, if any Group company is found to be, or to acquired businesses or otherwise derive all of the have been, tax resident in any jurisdiction other than anticipated benefits from its acquisitions, such as those in which the Group is currently deemed to be reduced operating costs due to centralised services.
tax resident or to have a permanent establishment in any such jurisdiction this may have a material adverse effect on the amount of tax payable by the Group.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 33 the Year in Review DIRectoRs RePoRt continued Given that the Company has moved its domicile to 16.
The Group is dependent on the internet and Switzerland, the risk may be more pronounced.
its electronic delivery platforms, networks and distribution systems 13.
Risks associated with doing business internationally and the expansion into new geographic regions The Groups businesses are increasingly dependent presents new risk factors specific to these regions on electronic platforms and distribution systems, primarily the internet, for delivery of their products.
The Groups businesses could be adversely affected Any significant failure or interruption of these by a variety of other international factors, including systems, including sabotage, break-ins, terrorist changes in a specific countrys or regions political activities, natural disaster, service outages and and cultural climate or economic condition and computer viruses could cause the Groups systems to changes to, or variances among, foreign laws operate slowly and thus offset the Groups ability to including laws relating to Intellectual Property provide services to customers.
rights and contract enforcement and regulatory requirements.
The Groups expansion into various 17.
Breaches of the Groups data security systems or other geographic regions, also presents logistical and unauthorised access to its databases could adversely management challenges related to business affect the Groups businesses and operations cultures, language compliance and restrictions on The Group has valuable databases and as part of its repatriation of earnings.
The Group may face risks businesses provides its customers with access to in penetrating new geographic markets due to database information.
There are persons who may established and entrenched competitors, difficulties try to breach the Groups data security systems or in developing products that are tailored to the gain other unauthorised access to its databases needs of local customers, lack of local acceptance in order to misappropriate such information for or knowledge of the Groups products, lack of potentially fraudulent purposes.
Because the recognition of its brands, and the unavailability of techniques used by such persons change frequently, local companies for acquisition.
the Group may be unable to anticipate or protect 14 The Groups businesses and strategy are dependent against the threat of breaches of data security or on the strength of the Groups brands other unauthorised access.
This could damage the Groups reputation and expose it to a risk of loss or The Groups businesses are dependent on the litigation and possible liability, as well as increase success of their brands.
The Groups success and the likelihood of more extensive governmental ability to compete is dependent, in part, upon regulation of these activities in a way that could the Groups ability to maintain and protect the adversely affect this aspect of the Groups business.
proprietary nature of these brands and thus to prevent the Groups competitors and others from 18.
The Group is subject to regulation regarding the use producing branded publications, events and training of personal customer data courses based on the Groups brands.
The Group is increasingly required to comply 15.
Increased accessibility to free or relatively with strict data protection and privacy legislation inexpensive information sources may reduce which restrict the Groups ability to collect and use demand for the Groups products personal information.
The need to comply with data protection legislation can affect the Group in In recent years, more public sources of free or a number of material ways including, e. g. making relatively inexpensive information have become it more difficult to grow and maintain marketing available, particularly through the internet, and data and also through potential litigation relating this trend is expected to continue.
For example, to the alleged misuse of personal data.
In some some governmental and regulatory agencies have cases, the Group may rely on third party contractors increased the amount of information they make and employees to maintain its databases and seeks publicly available at no cost.
Such sources may to ensure that procedures are in place to comply reduce demand for the Groups products.
with the relevant data protection regulations.
The Group is exposed to the risk that its data could 34 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 be wrongfully appropriated, lost or disclosed, or of its publishing subscription revenue.
Changes in processed in breach of data protection regulation, government health policies and regulatory pressures by or on behalf of the Group in which case, the may affect pharmaceutical companies ability or desire Group could face liability under data protection to continue to provide the same levels of spending laws and or suffer reputational damage from the with the Group as they do currently.
resulting loss of the goodwill.
The Group may operate in an increasingly 19.
The Groups training business derives revenue from litigious environment, which may adversely affect government spending its financial results A large proportion of the revenue from the Groups The Group may become involved in legal actions and training businesses is derived from US federal and claims arising in the ordinary course of business.
Government spending, to the inherent uncertainty in the litigation process, both in the United States and elsewhere, may be the resolution of any particular legal proceeding could influenced by, among other things, the state of the have a material adverse effect on the financial position economy, competing priorities for appropriation, and results of operations of the Group.
The Group is political factors, changes in administration or control significantly dependent on technology and the rights of local governments and the timing and amount related to it, including rights in respect of business of tax receipts and the overall level of government methods.
This, combined with the recent proliferation of expenditures.
There can be no assurances that business-method patents issued by the United States United States federal and state departments will Patent Office, and the increasingly litigious environment continue to purchase the products of the Groups that surrounds patents in general, increases the possibility training business to the extent they have done that the Group could be sued for patent infringement.
If so historically or at all or the implementation of such an infringement suit were successful, it is possible contracts with government agencies may be that the infringing product would be enjoined by court delayed or cancelled.
order and removed from the market and the Group could be required to compensate the party bringing 20.
The Group may be adversely affected by enforcement the suit either by a damages claim or through ongoing of and changes in legislation and regulation affecting licence fees or other fees, and such compensation could its businesses and that of its customers be significant, in addition to the legal fees that would be incurred defending such a claim.
Compliance with various laws and regulations may impose significant compliance costs and restrictions 22.
The Groups UK defined benefit pension schemes are on the Group or alternatively fines for non-compliance.
currently in deficit and the cost of providing pension In addition, such regulations often provide broad benefits to existing and former employees is subject to discretion to the administering authorities and changes in pension fund values and changing mortality changes in existing laws or regulations, or in their interpretation or enforcement, could require the Group The Group operates a number of defined benefit and to incur additional costs in complying with those defined contribution pension schemes in the UK and laws, or require changes to its strategy, operations overseas.
Although it currently is the Groups policy to or accounting and reporting systems.
In particular, offer defined contribution pension schemes to its new laws and regulations relating to communications, employees, the Group has historically maintained data protection, e-commerce, direct marketing and defined benefit schemes in the UK pursuant to digital advertising have become more prevalent which the Group may be required to increase its in recent years.
Existing and proposed legislation contributions to cover an increase in the cost of and regulations may impose limits on the Groups funding future pension benefits or to cover funding collection and use of certain kinds of information shortfalls under the Groups pension schemes.
The and its ability to communicate such information funding position of the Groups defined benefit effectively to its customers.
Similarly, the Groups schemes has fluctuated and is likely to fluctuate customers are required to comply with various laws, as a result of changes in economic conditions, regulations, administrative actions and policies that demographic experience, movements in interest are subject to change.
For example, the Group relies rates, the investment performance of the schemes on the pharmaceutical industry for a proportion assets and the longevity of the schemes members.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 35 the Year in Review DIRectoRs RePoRt continued 23.
The structure of the Group following the auditors implementation of its Scheme of arrangement in Each of the persons who is a director at the date of 2009 may not yield the anticipated benefits approval of this annual report confirms that: The Scheme was implemented to establish a corporate so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant structure which the Board considers would best audit information of which the Companys auditors support the long-term growth of the Group: however are unaware: and there can be no guarantee that the implementation of the Scheme will yield all or any of the anticipated the Director has taken all the steps that he she benefits.
In particular, the selection of Jersey as the ought to have taken as a director in order to jurisdiction of incorporation, and Switzerland as the make himself herself aware of any relevant audit jurisdiction of tax residence, of the company may information and to establish that the Companys not ultimately facilitate the centralisation of certain auditors are aware of that information.
Group activities or the optimisation of the Groups legal and taxation structure, as these jurisdictions may not Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue offer the stable political and economic environment in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will or the less complex taxation system which are be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Additionally, Swiss or Jersey tax authorities may amend, interpret or apply tax laws in statement of Directors Responsibilities a manner that is adverse to the Group.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the The Group effected an intra-group reorganisation in financial statements in accordance with applicable connection with the scheme.
There can be no guarantee law and regulations.
that a tax authority would not form a different opinion Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial or judgement on the tax treatment of the reorganisation statements for each financial year.
that differs from the position of the Group.
In the event that a differing view of a tax authority is subsequently Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the determined to be correct, this could have a detrimental financial statements in accordance with International impact on the Groups tax position and such detrimental Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the impact could be material.
The financial statements are required 24.
Dividends paid under the Dividend Access Plan may by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the become subject to Swiss withholding tax at 35 per cent Companies Jersey Law 1991. International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial Under current Swiss law withholding tax is payable statements present fairly for each financial year the upon the Companys payment of dividends including Companys financial position, financial performance and dividends paid under the Dividend Access Plan in the cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the event that, and to the extent that, the total value of effects of transactions, other events and conditions in dividends and other distributions paid by New Informa accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria exceeds the value of the Company immediately prior to for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the the scheme becoming effective.
A potential charge International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for to withholding tax at 35 per cent.
on dividends and the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
other distributions may arise upon such payments.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will Further details in relation to certain of these risk factors, be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
and other risks relating to 1 the scheme of arrangement, However, the Directors are also required to: 2 the holding of Companys ordinary shares and 3 relating to US shareholders are set out on pages 11 to 22 properly select and apply accounting policies: of the prospectus issued by the Company on 1 May 2009. present information, including accounting policies, Subject to stated restrictions, the document is available in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, for viewing at: comparable and understandable information: http: www.
com investors redomicile 36 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
12, the Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the year end review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by John Burton Company Secretary 2 March 2010 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 37
