BOARD OF DIRECTORS As at 9 March 2010 1.
Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer Independent, Non-Executive Director Mr Sukawaty joined the Company as Chairman in December 2003 Admiral Ellis joined the Board in June 2005.
He is President and was appointed Chief Executive Of cer in March 2004.
He is and Chief Executive Of cer of the Institute of Nuclear Power non-executive chairman of Xyratex Ltd Nasdaq and Ziggo B. V. Operations INPO, with headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia.
Between 1996 and 2000, he served as chief executive of cer Admiral Ellis also serves as a Director of the Lockheed and president of Sprint PCS.
He was chief executive of cer Martin Corporation and Level 3 Communications.
He is also of NTL Limited from 1993 to 1996.
Previously, he held various a non-executive director of the Space Foundation.
Admiral management positions with US West and AT&T.
He has served Ellis retired from the US Navy in 2004 as Commander, US on various listed company boards as a non-executive director.
He was responsible for the global Mr Sukawaty holds a BBA from the University of Wisconsin and command and control of US strategic forces to meet decisive an MBA from the University of Minnesota.
Admiral Ellis is a graduate of the US Naval Academy, was designated a Naval Aviator in 1971 and held a variety of sea and shore assignments in the US 2.
Sir Bryan Carsberg and abroad.
He holds Master of Science degrees in Aerospace Independent, Non-Executive Director Engineering and in Aeronautical Systems.
Sir Bryan joined the Board in June 2005.
He is currently Chairman of the Council of Loughborough University.
He is an independent, non-executive director of RM plc and Novae Group plc.
Kathleen Flaherty the first Director General of Telecommunications head of Oftel, Independent, Non-Executive Director the telecommunications regulator that preceded Ofcom from Ms Flaherty joined the Board in May 2006.
She previously served 1984 to 1992, Director General of Fair Trading from 1992 to 1995 as a non-executive director of GenTek, Inc. Nasdaq until its sale and Secretary General of the International Accounting Standards at the end of October 2009.
Ms Flaherty also served on the board Committee predecessor of the International Accounting of Marconi Corporation plc until it was sold to L. M. Ericsson in Standards Board from 1995 to 2001.
He was an independent, 2005, and on the board of telent plc until October 2006.
She also non-executive director of Cable and Wireless Communications served on the boards of CMS Energy Corporation NYSE and plc from 1997 to 2000 and non-executive Chairman of MLL Consumers Energy Company NYSE from 1995 to 2004.
Previous Telecom Ltd from 1999 to 2002.
Sir Bryan is a Fellow of the positions include Chief Marketing Of cer at AT&T, President Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales and an and Chief Operating Of cer of Winstar International, Senior Vice Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries: he was knighted in President, Global Product Architecture for MCI Communications, January 1989.
He holds an MSc Econ from the University of Inc and Marketing Director for National Business Communications London London School of Economics.
Ms Flaherty graduated from Northwestern University with a Ph.
D. in Industrial Engineering and Management Sciences.
She is a member of the McCormick Advisory Board, 3.
Stephen Davidson Northwestern University, and sits on its executive committee.
Independent, Non-Executive Director Mr Davidson joined the Board in June 2005.
Mr Davidson is Chairman of Datatec Ltd and Digital Marketing Group plc, the 6.
Rick Medlock senior independent director of Mecom Group plc and also a Chief Financial Of cer non-executive director of several other companies.
He has held Mr Medlock joined the Board in September 2004.
Between various positions in investment banking, most recently at West LB 1996 and 2004, he served as chief financial of cer and company Panmure where he was Global Head of Media and Telecoms secretary of NDS Group plc Nasdaq and Euronext.
Mr Medlock Investment Banking, then Vice Chairman of Investment Banking.
previously served as chief financial of cer of several private equity From 1992 to 1998, he was Finance Director, then Chief Executive backed technology companies in the UK and the US.
Mr Medlock Of cer of Telewest Communications plc.
He has also been is a non-executive director of Cheap ights Limited and Love lm Chairman of the Cable Communications Association.
He holds an International Limited and is chairman of their Audit Committees.
MA first class in Mathematics and Statistics from the University He is also a non-executive director and senior independent of Aberdeen.
director of Orbis Holdings Limited.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
Mr Medlock holds an MA in Economics from Cambridge University.
30 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009
