INMARSAT GLOBAL EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD 7.
Ambassador Janice Obuchowski Independent, Non-Executive Director Franco Carnevale Vice President - Space Segment Mrs Obuchowski joined the Board in May 2009.
She has held Diane Cornell Vice President Government Affairs several senior positions, both in the US government and in the Rebecca Cowen-Hirsch Vice President - Global Government Services private sector.
She served as Head of Delegation and as the US Ambassador to the World Radiocommunications Conference Chris DAguiar Vice President Sales & Marketing 2003 and was Assistant Secretary for Communications and Richard Denny Senior Vice President Global Networks & Information at the Department of Commerce leading the Engineering National Telecommunications and Information Administration Padraig Dowd Vice President Commercial, Product & Service NTIA h. Earlier in her career, she served as Senior Advisor to Management the Chairman at the Federal Communications Commission Alison Horrocks Senior Vice President Corporate Governance FCC.
Mrs Obuchowski is President and founder of Freedom & Company Secretary Technologies, Inc. She is currently a non-executive director on Eugene Jilg Chief Technical Of cer the public company boards of Orbital Sciences Corporation and CSG Systems, Inc. Mrs Obuchowski has previously held Debbie Jones Senior Vice President Corporate Development non-executive director positions with Qualcomm and Stratos.
Christopher McLaughlin Vice President External Affairs She graduated from Wellesley College and received her law Rick Medlock Chief Financial Of cer degree from Georgetown Law, where she was Editor of the Georgetown Law Journal.
Perry Melton Chief Operating Of cer Leo Mondale Vice President Business Development & Strategy 8.
John Rennocks Rupert Pearce Senior Vice President Inmarsat Enterprises & Group General Counsel Senior Independent, Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman Ruy Pinto Vice President Satellite & Network Operations Mr Rennocks joined the Board in January 2005.
He is an Nick Rowe General Counsel independent, non-executive chairman of Diploma plc, Nestor plc and Intelligent Energy plc, and a non-executive director of several Nils Solvang Vice President Information & Communication Technology other companies.
He has broad experience in emerging energy sources, support services and manufacturing.
Mr Rennocks Andrew Sukawaty Chairman & Chief Executive Of cer previously served as a director of Inmarsat Ventures plc, and as Executive Director-Finance for British Steel plc Corus Group plc, Powergen plc and Smith & Nephew plc.
Mr Rennocks is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
Alison Horrocks George Head Senior Vice President Broadband Services Senior Vice President Corporate Governance Bruce Henoch Vice President & General Counsel and Company Secretary Ms Horrocks has been Secretary to the Board since its inception John Mackey Senior Vice President & Chief Technical Of cer and also serves the boards of Inmarsats other main operating Paula McDonald Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Of cer companies.
Between 1988 and 1999, she was group company James Parm President & Chief Executive Of cer secretary of International Public Relations plc, a worldwide public relations company.
She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Bob Roe President Government Services Secretaries and Administrators.
Ronald Spithout Senior Vice President Marketing & Sales The Chief Executive Of cer and his direct reports comprise the Inmarsat plc BOARD COMMITTEES Executive Staff Audit Committee member Remuneration Committee member Nominations Committee member Inmarsat plc 31 Annual report and accounts 2009
