DIRECTORS REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2009 The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report Research and development and the audited financial statements for the year ended The Group continues to invest in new services and technology 31 December 2009. through its research and development programmes.
These include pure research into new products as well as developing References to Group throughout include Inmarsat Global and those services which have been demonstrated to have a Stratos Global Corporation operations unless otherwise noted.
Principal activities and business review Charitable and political donations The Group is the leading provider of global mobile satellite During the year, the Group paid in aggregate US$356,000 to communications services MSS, providing data and voice charities worldwide.
It has over 30 years of experience in designing, launching and operating its satelliteOne of the Companys signi cant donations was the payment based network.
With a fleet of eleven owned and operated of US$150,000 plus US$50,000 of airtime 2008: US$150,000 geostationary satellites, the Group provides a comprehensive to the telecommunications relief aid organisation, Tlcoms portfolio of global mobile satellite communications services for Sans Frontires TSF.
The Company has pledged to pay TSF use on land, at sea and in the air.
These include voice and US$150,000 plus US$50,000 of airtime in 2010. broadband data services, which support safety communications, as well as standard of ce applications such as email, internet, The Company also made a payment of US$103,500 secure VPN access and videoconferencing.
The Companys 2008: US$100,000 to the World Maritime University wholly-owned subsidiary, Stratos Global Corporation Stratos, during 2009 and has pledged to make a further payment offers a broad portfolio of remote telecommunications solutions of US$105,600 in 2010 as part of its support for the education to end-user customers, offering services over the mobile and of maritime specialists.
xed satellite systems of a number of the leading global and regional satellite system operators, predominantly Inmarsat, and The Company also provides satellite telecommunication through their owned and operated microwave and satellite services and equipment in conjunction with support offered telecommunications facilities.
Stratos also provides customised by its distribution partners and manufacturers to service providers turnkey remote telecommunications solutions, value-added in support of disaster relief management in affected areas of services, equipment and engineering services.
The Group has several branch and regional of ces throughout In addition, certain of the Groups worldwide subsidiary the world.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally companies made small contributions to local charitable causes.
affecting the pro ts or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
No political donations were made during the year.
It remains the policy of the Company not to make political donations or The Directors are also required by the Companies Act to present incur political expenditure.
However, the Directors recognise an extended business review, reporting on the development and that occasions arise where it may be in the best interests performance of the Group and the Company during the year and of shareholders for the Company to be able, if appropriate, their positions at the end of the year.
That requirement is met by to participate in public debate and opinion-forming on matters the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cers Business Review the which affect its business.
To avoid inadvertent infringement of the Business Review on pages 4 to 13, the Chief Financial Of cers Companies Act 2006, shareholders will be requested annually Review on pages 14 to 25 and the Corporate Social Responsibility to give authority at the Companys AGM to be permitted to Report on pages 26 to 29.
The cautionary statement set out on make political donations and to incur political expenditure.
the inside back cover forms part of this Annual Report and is incorporated by reference into the Business Review.
Financial instruments Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies The Statement on Corporate Governance on pages 36 to 42 falls of the Group, including hedging policies and exposure of the within the scope of this Directors Report.
entity to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash ow risk are given in notes 3 and 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
Results and dividends The results for the year are shown in the Consolidated Income Post balance sheet events Statement on page 56.
Details of material post balance sheet events are included in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Directors propose the payment of a second interim dividend per ordinary share of 20.63 cents US$ making a total for the year Directors and their interests of 33.36 cents US$ dividend payments are made in Pounds The Directors who were in of ce on 1 January 2009 and served Sterling based on the exchange rate prevailing in the London during the year were as follows: market four business days prior to payment.
The second interim dividend will be paid on 1 April 2010 to shareholders on the Michael Butler, President resigned 30 April 2009 register of members at the close of business on 19 March 2010.
Sir Bryan Carsberg Stephen Davidson Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd Kathleen Flaherty Rick Medlock, Chief Financial Of cer Janice Obuchowski appointed 5 May 2009 John Rennocks, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Andrew Sukawaty, Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer 32 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Biographical information on each of the Directors is contained Inmarsat Global has a Staff Forum to extend two-way on pages 30 and 31 of the Annual Report.
Their biographies communications between employees and management and to illustrate the Directors range of experience, which ensures allow the views of employees to be taken into account in making an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
The Staff Forum is an elected body constituted in accordance with prevailing The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company legislation to provide the formal means of consultation on are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
None of the contractual matters, as and when required.
Directors at any time during the year ended 31 December 2009 or subsequently have had any interests in any shares of the For the Groups other overseas of ces, the following employee Companys subsidiaries.
relations practices are in place: Re-appointment and appointment of Directors for the Inmarsat of ce in Indonesia, there is an elected Staff The Companys Articles of Association require that one-third of Forum which operates in a similar way to the one in the UK: the Directors retire by rotation at each annual general meeting of in the Stratos of ces, in the Company.
Therefore, the following Directors, none of whom The Netherlands: a Works Council is in place: and has been in their current term of of ce for more than three years, Germany: a Works Council exists until May 2010 will retire and put themselves forward for re-appointment at the and then will cease to be active as staff numbers are 2010 Annual General Meeting the AGM.
They have each below the minimum requirement for one to be in place con rmed that they will stand for re-appointment: following the sale of the German companys assets.
Sir Bryan Carsberg In addition, employees worldwide are able, if they wish, to join Stephen Davidson appropriate Trade Union organisations.
John Rennocks Inmarsat Global undertook a staff survey in autumn 2009 The Board has con rmed that all Directors standing for across its worldwide of ces.
The results of the survey have been re-appointment at the forthcoming AGM continue to contribute communicated to all employees and where there were areas effectively as Board members and demonstrate commitment to for improvement, these are being actively managed throughout their roles.
Such commitment was evident as part of the Boards the of ces.
There continued to be an extremely high response annual evaluation process.
rate, with almost 95% of Inmarsat Global staff responding.
The scores across many of the same questions asked in 2006 the The following Director, having been appointed by the Board date of the last survey were consistently higher, including those since the last AGM and, being eligible, offers herself for regarding being proud to work at Inmarsat, feeling appreciated, appointment by shareholders: and that employee morale is good.
The survey also highlighted areas where further actions can yield bene ts, such as greater Janice Obuchowski management of career development and enhancing decision making within the business.
The next staff survey is expected When the Board appointed Mrs Obuchowski in May 2009, it to be held in 2012.
A staff survey was also rolled out to all Stratos felt that her experience as a non-executive director on the employees in the first part of 2010.
Stratos board would be very valuable following the Groups acquisition of that company.
In addition, Mrs Obuchowski has Employees are actively encouraged to attend internal training extremely good knowledge and experience of US regulatory courses to learn about the Companys business, its products and government operations: both areas important to the and services.
Employee involvement in the Groups share and share option Employees schemes is encouraged.
Details of employee share awards The Group has ensured that employees are fully informed and option schemes are shown in note 25 to the consolidated and involved in the business, through the use of various financial statements and on pages 51 and 52 of the Directors communications methods including regular brie ng sessions Remuneration Report.
and discussions with groups of employees, circulation of newsletters, Company announcements, information releases The Group has a positive attitude towards the development of all and dissemination of information through normal management its employees and does not discriminate between employees or channels.
The Group has two intranets one for Inmarsat and potential employees on grounds of race, ethnic or national origin, one for Stratos where copies of all current and relevant corporate sex, age, marital status or religious beliefs.
The Groups workforce and employee policies are available for all staff to read.
is diverse in that it has more than 45 different nationalities amongst the staff.
Inmarsat plc 33 Annual report and accounts 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Equal opportunities Share capital and control The Group gives full consideration to applications from The following information is given pursuant to the new disabled persons and to the continuing employment of staff requirements of the Companies Act 2006, speci cally s992.
that become disabled, including making reasonable adjustments where appropriate or considering them for alternative positions.
The Companys ordinary shares of 0.0005 each are listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE: ISAT.
Details of the authorised and Health and safety issued share capital of the Company, together with movements in The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of the issued share capital during the year, are given in note 24 to health and safety for its employees, customers, visitors, the consolidated financial statements.
contractors and anyone affected by its business activities.
Perry Melton, Chief Operating Of cer, has been identi ed as The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the having responsibility for health and safety issues within the Companys report and accounts: to attend and speak at general Inmarsat Global operations.
Stratos has various managers meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise responsible for health and safety across its operations.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any shares and no requirements for prior Policy and practice on payment of creditors approval of any transfers.
None of the shares carry any special The Groups policy and practice on payment of creditors is: rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person to pay all suppliers within the time limit agreed with each at other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements on the start of business with that supplier: restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: and Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 25.
Shares to pay in accordance with the contractual and other legal acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank pari obligations whenever it is satis ed that the supplier has passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
All of provided goods and services in accordance with the the ordinary shares held by the Inmarsat Employee Share agreed terms and conditions.
Ownership Trust, being 1,172,981 shares, carry voting rights.
At 31 December 2009, the Groups trade creditors represented Inmarsat Global does not have agreements with any Director 59 days equivalent of aggregate amounts invoiced by suppliers or employee of its operations that would provide compensation during the year 2008: 59 days.
for loss of of ce or employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the Companys share option schemes and Interests in voting rights share plans may cause options and awards granted under such At 9 March 2010, the Company had been noti ed, in schemes to vest on a takeover.
The senior management of accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure Stratos have change of control provisions within their employment and Transparency Rules, of the following voting rights as a agreements.
These were in place at the time Stratos was acquired shareholder of the Company: by the Company.
Number of voting rights over the ordinary shares of 0.0005 each Direct Indirect Harbinger Capital Partners Master Fund I, Ltd, Harbinger Capital Partners Special Situations Fund, L. P. and HGW Holding Company L. P. 129,277,349 28.13% Lansdowne Partners Limited Partnership 59,942,059 13.04% BlackRock, Inc. 42,576,471 9.31% Legal & General Group Plc 27,531,525 5.99% 0.67% KDDI Corporation 21,739,149 4.76% F&C Asset Management plc 19,164,056 4.19% Allianz SE 490,186 0.11% 13,343,300 2.91% Note: Percentages are based on the issued ordinary share capital in issue as at the date of the respective noti cations.
Harbinger Capital Partners Master Fund I, Ltd, Harbinger Capital Partners Special Situations Fund, L. P. and HGW Holding Company L. P. also holds voting rights over 992,594 of the Inmarsat plc Convertible Bonds due 2017.
34 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation Auditors and the Articles of Association in force from time to time.
The Each of the Directors has con rmed that: rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Changes to i so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit the Articles of Association must be approved by shareholders in information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and accordance with legislation in force from time to time.
ii the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have The Directors have been authorised by shareholders to issue and taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any allot ordinary shares up to agreed limits and to have the ability to relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys make market purchases of ordinary shares.
At the 2010 AGM, Auditors are aware of that information.
shareholders are being requested to renew these authorities.
This con rmation is given and should be interpreted in Signi cant contracts accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies The Group has in place several signi cant agreements, Act 2006. which include, inter alia, its banking and debt arrangements, distribution agreements with its distribution partners, A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditors of the manufacturing agreements and contracts for the in-orbit Company and to authorise the Board to determine their insurance of its satellites.
Subject to the identity of a third remuneration will be proposed at the 2010 AGM.
party bidder, in the event of a change of control following a takeover bid, the Group does not believe that these agreements 2010 Annual General Meeting would suffer a material adverse effect or be subject to termination Your attention is drawn to the Notice of Meeting enclosed with upon a change of control.
However, there are customary this Annual Report which sets out the resolutions to be proposed clauses in the long-term debt funding agreements specifying at the forthcoming AGM.
that in the event of a change of control following a takeover bid, the lenders have the option to have the debt repaid By order of the Board under the speci c terms of each type of debt.
Alison Horrocks FCIS The majority of the space segment revenue of Inmarsat Global Senior Vice President Corporate Governance is derived from sales to its distribution partners DPs who and Company Secretary operate in accordance with a suite of agreements regarding the 9 March 2010 distribution of Inmarsats services.
Stratos is one of the DPs to whom these distribution agreements apply.
Stratos itself has operating agreements with its own customers.
These contracts vary in monetary value and length of term.
In addition, Inmarsat Global has signi cant on-going contracts with its partners regarding the construction of the Alphasat satellite and its subsequent launch, and with third parties for the manufacture and production of the new GSPS service.
None of the current Directors had a material interest in any contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party during the financial year.
Directors and Of cers liability insurance Inmarsat plc maintains appropriate insurance to cover Directors and Of cers liability for itself and its subsidiaries.
At the date upon which this report was approved and for the year to 31 December 2009, the Company provided an indemnity in respect of all of the Companys Directors.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Inmarsat plc 35 Annual report and accounts 2009
