THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES The Board of Directors and Other members of the Executive Committee 37 Other members of the Executive Committee Jim Abrahamson George Turner President, The Americas Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Company Secretary Has over 31 years experience in hotel operations, branding, Solicitor, qualified to private practice in 1995.
After 12 years with development and franchise relations.
Joined the Group in Imperial Chemical Industries PLC, where he was most recently January 2009 from Global Hyatt Corporation, where he served Deputy Company Secretary, he joined the Group in September 2008. as Head of Development, The Americas, with responsibility for Appointed Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Company development of all of the Hyatt brands in the region, and playing Secretary in January 2009.
Responsible for corporate governance, a key part in Global Hyatts entry into new markets and segments.
risk management, insurance, data privacy, internal audit, company Previously Senior Vice President, Hilton Hotels Corporation secretariat and legal.
Responsible for the business development and performance of all the hotel brands and properties in the Americas region.
The Board of Directors and members of the Executive Committee together comprise the IHG Senior Tom Conophy Leadership Team.
Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer While the Directors have certain specific legal and Has over 29 years experience in the IT industry, including regulatory duties and responsibilities, they work with and management and development of new technology solutions within rely on the detailed knowledge and experience of the the travel and hospitality business.
Joined the Group in February Executive Committee members to secure the effective 2006 from Starwood Hotels & Resorts International where he held running of the business in support of IHGs core purpose the position of Executive Vice President & Chief Technology Officer.
to create Great Hotels Guests Love.
Responsible for global technology, including IT systems and information management throughout the Group.
Kirk Kinsell A Non-Executive Director and a member President, EMEA of the Nomination Committee Has over 27 years experience in the hospitality industry, A member of the Executive Committee including senior franchise positions with Holiday Inn Corporation and ITT Sheraton, prior to joining the Group in 2002 as # An independent Non-Executive Director and a member Senior Vice President, Chief Development Officer for the of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees Americas region.
Became President, EMEA in September 2007.
An independent Non-Executive Director and a member Responsible for the business development and performance of of the Audit and Nomination Committees all the hotel brands and properties in the EMEA region.
An independent Non-Executive Director and a member Tracy Robbins of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources Responsibility Committees Has over 24 years experience in line and HR roles in service An independent Non-Executive Director and a member industries.
Joined the Group in December 2005 from of the Audit, Nomination and Corporate Responsibility Compass Group PLC, a world leading food service company, Committees where she was Group Human Resources Leadership & Development Director.
Previously Group HR Director for An independent Non-Executive Director and a member Forte Hotels Group.
Responsible for global talent management of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees and leadership development, reward strategy and implementation.
Not a main Board Director Age 46.
Tom Seddon Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer Has over 17 years experience in sales and marketing in the hospitality industry, including with IHGs predecessor parent companies from 1994 to 2004.
Rejoined the Group in November 2007, from restaurant business SUBWAY where he was responsible for worldwide sales and marketing activities.
Has responsibility for worldwide brand management, reservations, e-commerce, global sales, relationship and distribution marketing, loyalty programmes and corporate responsibility.
