BUSINESS REVIEW Business review 23 Winning Ways Creating the right environment: Room to be yourself Room to have a great start In spite of the continuing economic recession and its impact on revenues, we continued to open hotels and we anticipate the need Do the right thing to recruit 160,000 people over the next three years.
IHGs online We always do what we believe is right recruitment system attracts and matches candidates to job and have the courage and conviction vacancies.
Over 240,000 CVs were posted to the site during the to put it into practice, even when it last year and over 6,000 people were appointed as a result of might be easier not to.
We are honest their online applications.
and straightforward and see our In China, we have established a number of initiatives as part of our decisions through.
focus on recruiting talented individuals to support the anticipated number of openings over the next few years.
We have introduced a Show we care number of fast-track programmes aimed at bringing in professionals We want to be the company that from human resources and finance backgrounds to support our understands peoples needs better than growth plans.
We have also developed the IHG Academies in anyone else in our industry.
This means partnership with a number of educational bodies to provide training being sensitive to others, noticing to students to equip them with skills required by the hotel industry.
the things that matter and taking These Academies operate in 11 locations, are supported by 25 responsibility for getting things right.
partners in the region and in December 2009 had 5,000 students enrolled on one of these programmes.
Aim higher Our franchisee in Panama continues to provide a school to We aim to be acknowledged leaders in teach our employees the skills required in all aspects of hotel our industry, so we have built a team management, particularly in areas of skills shortage such as of talented people who have a real will food and beverage management.
During the year, we have been to win.
We strive for success and value planning a similar hotel school in Egypt.
We also continue to individuals who are always looking for provide an extensive range of training to our employees including a better way to do things.
e-learning curricula from respected business schools such as Cornell University in the US.
Celebrate difference We believe that its the knowledge of our Room to be involved people that really brings our brands to Great emphasis is placed on employee communication, particularly life.
While other companies may want on matters relating to the Groups business and its performance.
to impose a rigid, uniform view of the Communication channels include global management conferences, world, we do not.
Our global strength team meetings, informal briefings, in-house publications and comes from celebrating local intranets.
The Group has continued to improve the capability of the differences whilst understanding that corporate intranet site, Merlin, which now provides continuous some things should be kept the same.
access to information about people, policies and news across all hotels, corporate offices and reservations centres.
Work better together Regular employee feedback is obtained to ensure that IHG meets When we work together we are stronger.
expectations and delivers on its commitments.
The Group conducts Were at our best when we collaborate a twice-yearly survey that measures employee opinion and to form a powerful, winning team.
This survey covers employees in owned and managed listen to each other and combine our hotels, corporate offices and reservations centres.
We have not expertise to create a strong, focused reported the survey data on our joint venture partners.
and trusted group of people.
Since the first survey in 2007, we have continued to achieve very high response rates with over 89,000 employees participating in the November 2009 survey.
2009 response rates 2008 response rates Financial returns Division region % % Americas hotels 90 89 Our people EMEA hotels 89 86 Guest experience Asia Pacific hotels 93 93 Corporate offices 89 88 Responsible Reservations centres 91 87 business 24 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business review continued IHGs key measure from the survey is the engagement index, We were proud to receive the CIPD People Management Award constructed from a set of questions which measure employee 2009 for Excellence through technology, sponsored by IBM, for our advocacy, retention and effort.
During 2009, IHGs engagement Leaders Lounge.
The Lounge was recognised for the innovative way index improved by one percentage point to 69%.
The survey also it trains people.
highlights that our people are proud of IHG and retention and advocacy has remained stable during the year.
We have used our survey to track awareness and understanding of Great Hotels Guests Love.
Our November 2009 employee survey results show that 90% of our people understand Great Hotels Guests Love and that it has helped them focus on the right things for the business.
Room to grow To meet the demands of our growth and to deliver Great Hotels Guests Love, IHG continues to focus on developing talent.
During 2009, we again conducted our annual review of the Groups 1,300 corporate managers and hotel general managers to identify skills required for the future and how to develop individuals.
The outcome is to increase clarity around our talented individuals, their key development needs and the ability to move these individuals into the positions which will enable them to enhance their skills The succession planning process for senior leadership roles has and meet IHGs key objectives.
continued in 2009, enabling IHG to manage changes in leadership.
During the year, IHG continued to place importance on the growth During 2009, the senior corporate team underwent significant and development of its people in the owned and managed hotels, restructuring to become more efficient and better positioned for and within its corporate and reservations offices, and ensured the economic recovery.
As a result, 18% of senior executive roles training programmes were available to all of its employees.
The were eliminated and 26 senior executives left the Group.
To ensure Groups internal survey indicates that 85% of employees agree that that the key functions and operations areas were appropriately IHG delivers training to assist with their current roles, which is a managed and to provide development for high-potential leaders, three percentage point improvement on 2008. a number of senior roles were combined.
In the Asia Pacific region, we took the decision to create two independent business units In support of the Holiday Inn refresh programme, IHG continued focused on Greater China and Asia Australasia.
This resulted in the intensive and comprehensive training programme entitled one member of the Executive Committee leaving IHG.
Stay Real to ensure that all employees working in a Holiday Inn or Holiday Inn Express hotel receive training to help them deliver Room for you the service experience expected by guests.
IHGs compensation and benefits programmes are designed to be competitive and to recognise and reward achievement.
The benefits We have leveraged technology by introducing a learning offered to employees vary according to region.
IHG contributes to management system to help employees find and book the training both mandatory and company-sponsored retirement plans to and development they require.
A number of online programmes ensure benefits are competitive within each local market.
IHGs have been introduced to help people learn flexibly and develop their employee survey indicates that the majority of employees believe skills in the workplace rather than attend courses in classrooms.
they are fairly paid for the work they do.
IHG has a number of development programmes in place to support The Group offers a range of benefits that are aimed at helping its managers in hotels and corporate offices to deliver Great Hotels employees to achieve a better work life balance.
These include the assessment of individual potential provided to some staff groups and, in our Americas region, and capability, together with clarity on expectations and businessprogrammes are in place to help employees maintain a healthy related education.
During 2009, 49 senior managers attended the lifestyle and also reduce the cost of health insurance claims.
latest stage of IHGs senior leadership programme, concentrating In some regions employee assistance programmes offer a on the role that leaders play in driving performance and results confidential counselling service to help employees deal with through people.
financial and legal matters, relationship problems and stress.
The Leaders Lounge, an online leadership development system, IHG manages performance by helping people to align their has been launched which provides cost-effective and high-quality objectives to our core purpose.
The Group also encourages development and communication to all of our senior leaders.
This managers to acknowledge employee achievements or forum provides input from the Chief Executive and the Executive contributions as part of our Winning Ways culture.
Committee on key issues and challenges for the business as well as inputs from external business thinkers.
BUSINESS REVIEW Business review 25 London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games The selection of Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express as the Official Hotel Services Provider to the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games provides a great opportunity to engage and motivate our people to build our business and our Holiday Inn brand.
It also helps us to reinforce our commitment to the community and our approach to corporate responsibility.
Celebrating diversity IHG benefits from the diversity of its employees, owners, business IHG also received an award from the American Society for Training partners and guests.
The Group regards diversity as a fundamental & Development.
This award recognises organisations that factor in its success in operating as a global organisation and this demonstrate enterprise-wide success through employee learning principle is embedded in IHGs Winning Ways.
and development, showing they are BEST at Building talent, Enterprise-wide, Supported by the organisations leaders and The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all fostering a Thorough learning culture.
Our training and employees without discrimination and continues to be supportive development priorities are linked to the Groups business priorities, of the employment of disabled persons.
Where existing employees we engage with stakeholders and we measure results to show become disabled, it is the Groups policy to provide continuing added value to the business.
employment wherever practical in the same or a suitable alternative position.
Economic conditions The trading environment continued to be difficult throughout 2009 Carleigh Chadwick, Accessibility Manager UK & Ireland, won and as previously mentioned, our corporate teams were the Disability Champion Award 2009 at the Disability Standard restructured in the UK, Atlanta and Singapore.
These efforts have awards run by the Employers Forum on Disability.
This is given supported the business to operate cost effectively during the to the person who has gone the extra mile to raise the profile of economic downturn.
As these were largely structural changes, disability confidence in their organisation.
voluntary redundancies were not sought and all opportunities to External recognition mitigate job losses were explored.
Outplacement services were During the year, IHG won a number of prestigious awards in offered to affected individuals to provide support and access to recognition of its people management and HR practices.
IHG was declared Britains Most Admired leisure and hospitality Ensuring health and safety company for the third year running.
The awards are a peer review Providing and supporting a safe and secure environment for our of corporate reputation and are presented by Management Today guests, employees and visitors is paramount and IHG applies high and the Birmingham City Business School.
standards of health and safety across the Group.
Our Global Risk Management team evaluates policies and procedures, operating a IHGs InterContinental London Park Lane hotel won the Retention range of health and safety and security measures and we require award at the UKs Springboard Awards for Excellence 2009 in all parties to comply with relevant health and safety legislation.
Hospitality, Leisure, Travel and Tourism.
This award recognises successful innovation in consistently tackling labour turnover and All of our Group companies are responsible for protecting the improving retention rates through a business-wide approach health of our employees through suitable work-based strategies: implemented at all levels.
Even in challenging economic times, minimising the risk of injury from work activity: ensuring that the hotels retention rate has increased and a record number sufficient resources, information and systems are in place to of promotions and transfers within IHG have been achieved, address health and safety: and involving employees in continuous demonstrating InterContinental London Park Lanes commitment improvement, reporting and review of health and safety matters.
to celebrating talent and expanding knowledge within the Further information on our approach towards safety and security hospitality industry.
can be found on pages 29 to 34 of this Business Review and in the A number of IHG people have been recognised for achievements online Corporate Responsibility Report at and service excellence.
This included colleagues from Crowne www.
com responsibility Plaza hotels in Australia being awarded the MasterCard-U21Global Scholarship Programme for Women in Travel and Tourism and five overall winners across 19 categories at the Middle East Hotelier Awards.
