38 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Directors report The Directors present their report for the financial year ended The Company has not utilised the authority given by shareholders 31 December 2009. at any of its Annual General Meetings to allot shares for cash without first offering such shares to existing shareholders.
Certain information required for disclosure in this report is provided in other appropriate sections of the Annual Report and Share repurchases Financial Statements 2009.
These include the Business Review, the During 2009, the Company continued to defer the remaining 30m Corporate Governance and Remuneration Reports and the Group of its 150m share repurchase programme in order to preserve financial statements, and these are, accordingly, incorporated into cash and maintain the strength of IHGs balance sheet.
No shares were purchased or cancelled under the authority Activities of the Group granted by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on The principal activities of the Group are in hotels and resorts, with 29 May 2009.
The share buyback authority remains in force until franchising, management, ownership and leasehold interests in the Annual General Meeting in 2010, and a resolution to renew over 4,400 establishments, with almost 650,000 guest rooms in the authority will be put to shareholders at that Meeting.
over 100 countries and territories around the world.
Substantial shareholdings Business review As at 15 February 2010, the Company had been notified, in This Directors Report should be read in conjunction with the accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Chairmans statement and the Chief Executives review on pages UK Financial Services Authority, of the following significant 3 to 5, and the Business Review on pages 8 to 34.
Taken together, holdings representing 3% or more of its issued share capital: these provide a fair review of the Groups strategy and business, significant developments during the year and a description of the Ellerman Corporation Limited 10.00% Direct interest principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
The development and performance of the business during and at the end of the year FIL Limited 5.14% Direct interest are described, together with main trends, factors and likely BlackRock, Inc. 5.11% Indirect interest developments, key performance indicators, environmental and Cedar Rock Capital Limited 5.07% Direct interest employee matters, and social and community issues.
Legal & General Group Plc 3.96% Direct interest Results and dividends Lloyds Banking Group plc 3.84% Direct and indirect interest The operating profit before exceptional items was $363m: the Groups income statement is set out on page 60 of the Group Longleaf Partners Fund 3.74% Direct interest financial statements.
An interim dividend of 7.3p per share 12.2 cents per ADR was paid on 2 October 2009.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 18.7p per share 29.2 cents Directors per ADR to be paid on 4 June 2010 to shareholders on the Register Details of Directors who served on the Board during the year are of Members at the close of business on 26 March 2010.
Details of the beneficial share interests of dividends relating to the year are expected to amount to $119m.
Directors who were on the Board at the year end are shown below.
No changes to these interests occurred between the year end and Share capital the date of this Report.
During the year, 1,423,874 new shares were issued under employee share plans.
The Companys issued share capital at 31 December 31 December 2009 29 2009 consisted of 286,976,067 ordinary shares of 13 47p each.
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC There are no special control rights or restrictions on transfer 1 ordinary shares attaching to these ordinary shares.
Executive Directors Andrew Cosslett 419,927 IHG operates an Employee Share Option Trust ESOT for the Richard Solomons 322,743 benefit of employees and former employees.
The ESOT purchases shares in the market and releases them to current and former Non-Executive Directors employees in satisfaction of share awards.
During the year, the David Kappler 1,400 ESOT released 3,058,848 shares and at 31 December 2009 it held Ralph Kugler 1,169 283,895 shares in the Company.
The ESOT adopts a prudent Jennifer Laing 3,373 approach to purchasing shares, using funds provided by the Group, 2 Jonathan Linen 7,343 based on expectations of future requirements.
David Webster 34,117 No awards or grants over shares were made during 2009 that Ying Yeh would be dilutive of the Companys ordinary share capital.
Current 1 These shareholdings are all beneficial interests and include shares policy is to settle the majority of awards or grants under the held by Directors spouses and other connected persons.
None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary.
These Companys share plans with shares purchased in the market.
shareholdings do not include Executive Directors entitlements to share A number of options granted up to 2005 are yet to be exercised awards under the Companys share plans, which are set out separately and will be settled with the issue of new shares.
in the Remuneration Report on pages 55 and 56.
2 Held in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES Directors report 39 Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, any relevant Policy on payment of suppliers legislation and to any directions given by special resolution, the InterContinental Hotels Group PLC is a holding company and has business is managed by the Board which may exercise all the no trade creditors.
Group companies apply standard payment powers of the Company.
These include the power to allot and terms which are considered reasonable, transparent and to purchase shares.
consistent with prevailing commercial practices.
These are agreed with suppliers and payments are contingent on goods or services During the year, IHG has maintained cover for its Directors and being supplied to the required standard.
officers, and those of its subsidiary companies, under a directors and officers liability insurance policy, as permitted by the Auditors Companies Act 2006.
The Directors who held office as at the date of approval of this The Group has provided to all of its Directors, indemnities in report confirm that they have taken steps to make themselves respect of costs of defending claims against them and third-party aware of relevant audit information.
None of the Directors is aware liabilities.
These are all qualifying third-party indemnity provisions of any relevant audit information which has not been disclosed to for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and are all currently the auditors.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in There were no indemnity provisions relating to the UK pension office as auditors of the Company and their reappointment will be plan, for the benefit of the Directors of the Company, in place put to members at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting Employees The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held at IHG directly employed an average of 7,556 people worldwide 11.00am on Friday, 28 May 2010 is contained in a circular sent during 2009, whose costs are borne by the Group.
When the whole to shareholders at the same time as this Report.
IHG estate is taken into account including staff working in the franchised and managed hotels approximately 335,000 people Going concern are employed globally across IHGs brands.
The wider economic climate currently creates trading uncertainty Further information regarding the Groups employment policies, for the hotel industry and IHG.
The key business risks for IHG are including its obligations under equal opportunities legislation, outlined on pages 32 to 34 in the Business Review but, in particular its commitment to employee communications and its approach over the relatively short term, the main risks are falling consumer towards staff development, can be found on pages 22 to 25 of the demand, restrictions on the availability of finance for hotel owners Business Review.
and a fall in the pace of new room openings.
As highlighted in note 21 to the Group financial statements on pages 88 and 89, the Group Charitable donations refinanced its debt in May 2008 and issued a 250m seven-year During the year, the Group donated $813,900 in support of bond in December 2009 which was used to replace most of the community initiatives and charitable causes.
In addition to this $500m bank facility that expires in November 2010.
At the end contribution IHG employees are encouraged to give their time of 2009, the Group was trading significantly within its banking and skills to a variety of causes and they, as well as IHG guests, covenants and debt facility.
also made donations both in cash and in kind during 2009.
Taking The Groups fee-based model and wide geographic spread means all these contributions into account, total donations in 2009 are that it is well placed to manage through the current downturn estimated at $1,675,000.
and our forecasts and sensitivity projections, based on a range of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show Political donations that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its The Group made no political donations during the year and current facility.
proposes to maintain its policy of not making such payments.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate Financial risk management resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, future and, accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern including its use of financial instruments, are set out on page 21 of basis in preparing the financial statements.
the Business Review and in notes 22 and 23 to the Group financial statements on pages 89 to 92.
A number of IHGs financing arrangements are terminable upon By order of the Board a change of control of the Company.
George Turner Company Secretary 15 February 2010
