8IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business review This Business Review for Market size The global hotel market has an estimated room capacity of the financial year ended 18 million rooms.
This has grown at approximately 2% per annum over the last five years.
Competitors in the market include 31 December 2009 provides other hotel companies, both large and small, and independently a review of the business and owned hotels.
strategy of InterContinental The market remains fragmented, with an estimated eight million branded hotel rooms approximately 45% of the total market.
IHG Hotels Group PLC the Group has an estimated 8% share of the branded market approximately or IHG, commentaries on the 3% of the total market.
The top six major companies, including IHG, together control approximately 41% of the branded rooms, development and performance only 18% of total hotel rooms.
of the business, employee and Geographically, the market is more concentrated with the top environmental matters and a 20 countries accounting for more than 80% of global hotel rooms.
Within this, the United States US is dominant approximately 25% description of the risks and of global hotel rooms with China, Spain and Italy being the next uncertainties impacting largest markets.
The Groups brands have more leadership positions top three by room numbers in the six largest geographic the business.
markets than any other major hotel company.
Drivers of growth US market data historically indicates a steady increase in hotel Business overview industry revenues, broadly in line with Gross Domestic Product Market and competitive environment GDP, with growth of approximately 1.5% per annum in real terms Global economic events and industry cycle since 1967.
The economic conditions of the last year have had a significant Globally, we believe demand is driven by a number of underlying impact on IHG and the wider hotel industry.
We continue to monitor trends: key trends and business fundamentals, such as revenue per available room RevPAR to ensure our strategy remains well change in demographics as the population ages and becomes suited to the developing environment and our capabilities, and we wealthier, increased leisure time and income encourages more believe our business is resilient.
Accordingly, our strategy remains travel and hotel visits: younger generations are increasingly unchanged.
However, we see short-term risks in the pace of future seeking work life balance, with positive implications for openings and the recovery in consumer demand, particularly increased leisure travel: business travel.
increase in travel volumes as airline capacity grows and affordability improves, accentuated in some regions by the The downturn continued to be severe in 2009, with a sharp decline strength of the market positions of low-cost airlines: in global industry RevPAR and bookings.
Our industry has always been cyclical and there are signs that business and consumer globalisation of trade and tourism: confidence is returning and RevPAR is beginning a slow recovery.
increase in affluence and freedom to travel within emerging Historically as an industry, in previous cycles, we have experienced markets, such as China and Brazil: and periods of five to eight years of RevPAR growth followed by up to increase in the preference for branded hotels amongst consumers.
two years of declines in RevPAR.
Demand has rarely fallen for sustained periods and it is the interplay between hotel supply and Branded v unbranded demand in the industry that drives longer-term fluctuations in 2009 branded hotel rooms RevPAR.
The difference in the recovery this time is likely to be as a percentage of the total market slower increases in supply due to the ongoing finance environment remaining at more normal levels compared with 2005 to 2008, US 69% and muted demand recovery as discretionary income growth and corporate profit growth are held back by, amongst other issues, Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA 34% tax increases and reduced access to credit.
The Groups fee-based profit is partly protected from changes in hotel supply or demand Asia Pacific APAC 29% due to its model of third-party ownership of hotels under IHG Source: IHG analysis, Smith Travel Research STR.
IHG profit varies more with hotel revenue demand than it does with hotel profit performance.
Accordingly, IHGs share price saw some significant recovery and stabilisation since the lows of last spring.
Our share price increased by 59% in the 12 months to 31 December 2009 and those of our listed company competitors increased by an average 56% over the same period.
We believe we are well placed over the coming year compared with competitors who own hotels, rather than simply operate them, as IHG does.
BUSINESS REVIEW Loyalty programme Priority Club Rewards, the largest in the industry, over 48 million members Reservations systems 10 call centres around the world covering 29 languages Busines Business r s re evie view w 9 9 Within the global market, just under half of hotel rooms are IHG global room count by ownership type branded: however, there has been an increasing trend towards at 31 December 2009 branded rooms.
Over the last three years, the branded market as represented by the nine major global branded hotel companies has grown at a 3.8% compound annual growth rate CAGR, twice Franchised as quickly as the overall market, implying an increased preference Managed towards branded hotels.
Branded companies are therefore gaining Owned and leased market share at the expense of unbranded companies.
IHG is well positioned to benefit from this trend.
Hotel owners are increasingly recognising the benefits of franchising or managing with IHG which can offer a portfolio of brands to suit the different real estate opportunities an owner may have, together with effective revenue delivery through global reservations channels.
Furthermore, hotel IHG continuing operating profit by ownership type ownership is increasingly being separated from hotel operations, for the year ended 31 December 2009 encouraging hotel owners to use third parties such as IHG to manage their hotels.
Other factors Franchised Potential negative trends impacting hotel industry growth include Managed the possibility of increased terrorism and increased security Owned and leased measures, environmental considerations and economic factors such as the longevity of the downturn.
Our business model IHGs future growth will be achieved predominantly through franchising and managing rather than owning hotels.
Before regional and central overheads, exceptional items, Approximately 641,000 rooms operating under Group brands are interest and tax.
franchised or managed and 5,800 rooms are owned and leased.
The IHG global operating system The franchised and managed fee-based model is attractive IHGs operating system is our means of driving demand to our because it enables the Group to achieve its goals with limited hotels.
It comprises hotel distribution, brands, reservations capital investment at an accelerated pace.
A further advantage is systems, web presence, our rewards scheme and other elements.
the reduced volatility of the fee-based income stream, compared It is the largest such system in the industry and the engine of our with ownership of assets.
business, delivering, on average, 68% of total rooms revenue.
A key characteristic of the franchised and managed business is that it generates more cash than is required for investment in the business, with a high return on capital employed.
Currently 87% of continuing earnings before regional and central overheads, System funds Annual system exceptional items, interest and tax is derived from franchised funds totalling and managed operations.
c. $1 billion The key features of our business model are represented in the following table and charts.
Owned Franchised Managed and leased Brand IHG IHG IHG Brand portfolio IHGs system Marketing and Web presence 7 hotel brands delivers 68% Network of global sites distribution IHG IHG IHG covering all of total rooms across 13 languages major segments Staff Third party IHG usually IHG revenue supplies general manager as a minimum Ownership Third party Third party IHG Market coverage IHG capital None Low none High Leadership positions in 6 largest IHG revenue Fee % of Fee % of total All revenue hotel markets, more rooms revenue plus than any other hotel company revenue % of profit Total hotels 3,799 622 17 Scale 4,438 hotels over 130 million room nights per annum Sales force Global sales team of more than 8,000 professionals 10 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business review continued Business relationships IHG maintains effective relationships across all aspects of its IHG and the IAHI work together to support and facilitate the operations.
The Groups operations are not dependent upon any continued development of IHGs brands and systems, with specific single customer, supplier or hotel owner due to the extent of its emphasis during 2009 and into 2010 on the relaunch of the Holiday brands, market segments and geographical coverage.
For example, Inn and Holiday Inn Express brands and our continued response to IHGs largest third-party hotel owner controls only 3% of the the economic downturn.
Additionally, IHG and the IAHI continue to Groups total room count.
work together to develop and facilitate key Corporate Responsibility CR and operational initiatives within the IHG brands.
Emphasis on revised procurement processes during 2009 continues to improve IHGs relationships with suppliers.
We Many jurisdictions and countries regulate the offering of franchise continue to see opportunities for improving effectiveness and agreements and recent trends indicate an increase in the number efficiency of our buying and sourcing arrangements and are of countries adopting franchise legislation.
As a significant working with suppliers to realise and consolidate these benefits percentage of the Groups revenue is derived from franchise fees, for both IHG and our hotel owners.
the Groups continued compliance with franchise legislation is important to the successful deployment of the Groups strategy.
To promote effective owner relationships, the Groups management meets with owners on a regular basis.
In addition, IHG has an important relationship with the IAHI, the Owners Association.
The IAHI is an independent worldwide association for owners of the InterContinental, Crowne Plaza, Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express, Hotel Indigo, Staybridge Suites and Candlewood Suites brands.
Strategy IHGs ambition IHG is focused on its core purpose of creating Great Hotels Guests Our strategy encompasses two key aspects: Love.
We seek to deliver, among other key performance indicators where we choose to compete: and KPIs, enduring top quartile shareholder returns when measured how we will win when we compete.
against a broad global hotel peer group.
The Groups underlying Where strategy is that IHG will grow a For the three-year period of 2007 to 2009, IHG was fourth among portfolio of differentiated hospitality brands in select strategic its peers on Total Shareholder Return TSR.
countries and global key cities to maximise our scale advantage.
We have also developed and will measure ourselves against a The How aspect of our strategy flows from our core purpose and collection of specific KPIs aimed at delivering our core purpose, our research at the hotel level as to what really makes a difference cascaded to the hotel level.
Successful performance against various combinations of these In support of our overall strategy there are now five key priorities metrics drives payment of a significant percentage of senior one Where we compete and four How we win.
To help our hotels and corporate staff measure their efforts in IHGs strategy achieving Great Hotels Guests Love, IHG provides clear metrics Our strategy has seen significant development through 2009 as aligned with the four How we win priorities against which we moved to make our core purpose a reality, despite challenging progress is gauged.
Our Group strategy also translates into specific economic circumstances.
In 2009, we took a hard look at our regional objectives and priorities.
These are set out in the regional operations and capabilities to focus on what really matters most reviews on pages 14 to 19. to deliver Great Hotels Guests Love.
We have backed this up with a major effort to align our people and measure the most important drivers, resulting in a clear, target-based programme within our hotels to motivate teams and guide behaviours.
Where we compete Key performance indicators Current status and Strategic priorities KPIs 2009 developments 2010 priorities To accelerate profitable Deal signings focused in 90% of deals signed in scale Continue international roll-out of growth of our core scale markets and key markets and key gateway cities: Staybridge Suites and Hotel Indigo: business in the largest gateway cities.
10 signings of Hotel Indigo and execute growth strategies in markets where scale Staybridge Suites outside of North agreed scale markets: and really counts and also America: and in key global gateway continue to leverage scale and cities.
Seek opportunities 439 hotels opened globally.
build improved strategic position to leverage our scale in during the economic downturn.
