36 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 The Board of Directors David Webster Graham Allan Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Nomination Committee Appointed a Director in January 2010.
Appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Restaurants International YRI, a subsidiary of Yum!
InterContinental Hotels Group on the separation of Six Continents PLC since 2003.
Previously Executive Vice President and Chief Operating in April 2003.
Appointed Non-Executive Chairman on 1 January 2004.
Officer of YRI and Managing Director of YRI in Europe.
Has over Also Non-Executive Chairman of Makinson Cowell Limited, a 18 years experience in brand management, marketing, franchising capital markets advisory firm, a member of the Appeals Committee and retail development.
Age 54. of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers and a Director of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC.
Formerly Chairman of Safeway plc and Ralph Kugler a Non-Executive Director of Reed Elsevier PLC.
Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Andrew Cosslett Appointed a Director in April 2003.
Chairman of Byotrol plc, a Chief Executive hygiene technology company, Chairman of Gorkana Limited, a Appointed Chief Executive in February 2005, joining the Group public relations and communications company and Senior Advisor from Cadbury Schweppes plc where he was most recently to 3i PLC.
Was previously President, Unilever Home and Personal President, Europe, Middle East & Africa.
During his career Care, and served on the boards of Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. at Cadbury Schweppes he held a variety of senior regional until May 2008.
Age 53. management and marketing roles in the UK and Asia Pacific.
Also has over 11 years experience in brand marketing with Jennifer Laing Unilever.
A member of the Executive Committee of the World Non-Executive Director Travel & Tourism Council and a member of the Presidents Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Committee of the CBI.
Was Associate Dean, External Relations at London Business School, until 2007.
A Fellow Richard Solomons of the Marketing Society and of the Institute of Practitioners in Chief Financial Officer and Head of Commercial Development Advertising, has over 30 years experience in advertising including Qualified as a chartered accountant in 1985, followed by seven 16 years with Saatchi & Saatchi.
Also a Non-Executive Director years in investment banking, based in London and New York.
of Hudson Highland Group Inc. a US human resources company.
Joined the Group in 1992 and held a variety of senior finance Age 62. and operational roles.
Appointed Finance Director of the Hotels business in October 2002 in anticipation of the separation of Jonathan Linen Six Continents PLC in April 2003.
Responsible for corporate Non-Executive Director and regional finance, Group financial control, strategy, Appointed a Director in December 2005.
Was formerly Vice investor relations, tax, treasury, commercial development Chairman of the American Express Company, having held a range and procurement.
Age 48. of senior positions throughout his career of over 35 years with American Express.
Brands, Inc. David Kappler and Modern Bank, N. A. a US private banking company.
Also serves # Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on a number of US Councils and advisory boards.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed a Director and Senior Independent Director in June Ying Yeh 2004.
Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Foods plc and a Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of Shire plc.
A qualified accountant and Appointed a Director in December 2007.
Vice President and formerly Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury Schweppes plc.
Also Chairman, Greater China Region, Nalco Company, a water served as a Non-Executive Director of Camelot Group plc and treatment and process improvement company.
A member of the Presidents Committee of the CBI Chairman and President, North Asia Region, President, Business and a member of the Trilantic Europe Advisory Council.
Development, Asia Pacific Region and Vice President, Eastman Kodak Company.
Also a Non-Executive Director of AB Volvo.
Was, for 15 years, a diplomat with the US Foreign Service in Hong Kong and Beijing until 1997.
