108 International Power Annual Report 2009 Directors report The Directors submit their report and the International Power plc Group and parent company audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The principal activity of International Power Dividend plc the Company is to act as the holding Following the payment of the 2009 interim company for a group of companies and a dividend of 4.25 pence per Ordinary Share, number of associated companies and joint paid on 29 October 2009, the Directors ventures the Group.
The principal activities propose to pay a final dividend of 8.28 pence of the Group are the generation and sale of per Ordinary Share in respect of the year electricity, and other closely related activities ended 31 December 2009, making a total such as desalination.
Business review The Company is required to present a fair Charitable and political donations review of the business and the Group during The Group does not make political donations.
the year ended 31 December 2009 and of As is normal practice in the US, our North the position of the Group at the end of the American region operates a Political Action financial year and a description of the principal Committee PAC whereby employees risks and uncertainties facing the Group in the US can contribute money voluntarily, known as a Business review.
The which is then used to support political information that fulfils the requirements candidates and parties.
All contributions to of the Business review can be found in the the PAC are kept separate from the Groups following sections of the Annual Report: funds and the Group makes no financial contribution to these funds.
Details of B usiness and financial review charitable donations are set out in the Page Pages 10 to 63 corporate responsibility section.
B oard of Directors Research and development Page Pages 64 and 65 Research and development is not a core element of the business of the Group.
For O ur people the period under review, the Company did Page Pages 67 to 69 not undertake significant expenditure on research and development.
C orporate responsibility The Company will look to take advantage Page Pages 70 to 83 of technical advances as they arise and will C orporate governance report continue to seek to develop power stations in the regions in which the Group operates, Page Pages 84 to 89 making effective use of current and new D irectors remuneration report technology as and when available.
Page Pages 90 to 107 Which are incorporated in this review by reference.
109 Share capital Going concern Appointment and replacement The Companys share capital consists of The Directors are satisfied that the Company of Directors Ordinary Shares of 50 pence each, which rank and the Group have adequate resources The Board has the power to appoint and pari passu with each other in respect of all to continue to operate for the foreseeable replace any Director.
Any Director appointed rights, including dividend, voting and return future.
Accordingly, the Directors continue by the Board has to offer him herself for of capital.
The Company has an unclassified to adopt the going concern basis for the re-election at the Companys next AGM.
share of 1.00 and 21 deferred shares of preparation of the financial statements.
The Companys shareholders may by ordinary one pence each, which carry no rights.
Further details are included in the Basis of resolution simple majority appoint or Preparation contained in note 1f to the remove any person as Director.
All Directors During the period 1 January 2009 to Group financial statements and note 1a to offer themselves for re-election every three 31 December 2009, the Company did the parent company financial statements.
There is no agreement in place not purchase any of its Ordinary Shares.
between the Company and any of the Page Pages 117 and 180 for related information Resolutions will be proposed at the 2010 Directors providing for compensation for Annual General Meeting AGM to renew for loss of office or employment that occurs Disclosure of information to the a further year the Directors general authority because of a takeover bid.
auditor to allot Ordinary Shares: to renew for a year The Directors who held office at the date the partial disapplication of shareholders Restrictions and transfers of securities of approval of this Directors report confirm statutory pre-emption rights over Ordinary There are no restrictions on the transfer of that, so far as they are each aware, there is Shares: and to renew the authority to securities in the Company or on voting rights no relevant audit information of which the purchase a proportion of the Companys except in the circumstances set out in the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Ordinary Shares.
Articles of Association of the Company for Director has taken all the steps that he ought example, failure to disclose interest in shares An explanation of these and other resolutions to have taken as a Director to make himself and non-payment of calls.
being proposed at the 2010 AGM will be aware of any relevant audit information and provided in the Notice of AGM, which will to establish that the Companys auditor is Significant agreements be sent to shareholders during April 2010. aware of this information.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, Shares held in trust Auditor alter or terminate upon a change of control.
As at 31 December 2009 there were no A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Ordinary Shares of the Company held in trust.
auditor of the Company and to authorise the Prompt payment policy Directors to agree the auditors remuneration The Company aims to observe the highest Employee share schemes will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
standard of business practice as both a buyer No employee share schemes have any rights and seller of products and services.
The regarding control of the Company.
Amendments to the Companys Companys average number of days Articles of Association outstanding in respect of trade creditors Substantial shareholdings Any amendment to the Companys Articles for the year ended 31 December 2009 As at the date of this report, the Company of Association requires a special resolution was 24 days.
had been notified of the following direct and 75% majority to be passed at a duly held indirect interests in voting rights equal to or meeting of the shareholders.
exceeding 3% of the Ordinary Share capital of the Company held on behalf of the Essential business arrangements organisations as shown in the table below: The Board has not identified any person with whom the Company has contractual or other Substantial shareholdings Number of shares arrangements which are essential to the By order of the Board business of the Company.
Stephen Ramsay Invesco Ltd 154,181,373 Company Secretary BlackRock, Inc. 88,038,423 8 March 2010 Legal and General Group plc 65,372,495 Standard Life Investments 57,329,050 Governance
