08 International Power Annual Report 2009 Our core values Financial discipline Integrity of communication Respect for the individual Safe behaviour Team first culture Our FIRST values are translated into Integrity of communication practical guidance throughout International International Power is managed on the basis Powers business policies.
These cover of integrity, honesty, openness and fairness the environment, health and safety, in business dealings, both internally and communications, equal opportunities, externally.
Good business decisions are based procurement, ethical business practices, on good quality information presented clearly conduct in the community and charitable and concisely, on time, and with neither contributions.
A Board-approved staff a positive nor negative bias.
This applies EcoElctrica Puerto Rico handbook, the International Power Code equally to information flowing to and from of Business Conduct, incorporates all management.
We seek to build sustainable relevant International Power policies and business relationships based on honest has been cascaded throughout the Group.
We ensure that any corporate reports and Financial discipline other external communications are complete, Our aim of long-term financial success understandable and truthful, and reflect the depends upon financial discipline.
While, as proper operations of the business.
At the a growing company, we are entrepreneurial same time, we respect our confidentiality in our approach to investments, we are Indian Queens UK obligations.
aware of our duty to protect and enhance shareholder value.
Financial discipline means: m aking realistic risk assessments when we value potential investments n ot overpaying for businesses we acquire or develop e nsuring risk can be managed on an ongoing basis c utting out extravagance and waste in business-related expenditures, including administrative and overhead costs 09 Respect for the individual Team first culture International Power is staffed by highly skilled Our business has evolved from a  with a range of expertise.
Mutual driven industry into one in which technical respect is a key priority, demonstrated by: skill, project development expertise, construction and procurement know-how, r especting the opinions of colleagues trading capability, operations, financial, z ero tolerance for physical or verbal abuse information technology, legal, human resources, communications, accounting and h iring new employees with not only Thai National Power Thailand tax acumen all play a substantial part.
With the right competencies, but also a good such a range of disciplines, success depends attitude and work ethic to integrate on teamwork, with each employee being within International Power able to bring his or her individual skills and a pplying equal opportunities to all, expertise to the fore.
Teamwork requires regardless of nationality, gender, age, complete sharing of necessary information, ethnicity or religion inclusion rather than exclusion, and a lend-a-hand philosophy at all levels o perating our business to the highest of the organisation.
professional standards We believe every International Power professional should have ample opportunity to use his or her existing skills and develop new ones.
Safe behaviour It is relatively easy to introduce corporate policies and procedures which demand compliance, but all unsafe acts or omissions can be avoided if the right attitude and safe behaviour are automatically applied to everything we do.
This safe behaviour will help to deliver our goal of zero accidents whilst at work, and can equally apply when not at work.
We therefore need to ensure our employees understand the right things to do, and make sure that they are performed properly, with no short cuts or excuses in short, to behave safely all day, every day.
