Directors and advisers AB D E C A Norman Blackwell Chairman B Adrian Ringrose C Tim Jones 1 3 Norman Blackwell Lord Blackwell Tim Jones D Steven Dance Norman was appointed Chairman of Group Finance Director E Bruce Melizan Interserve in January 2006 having joined Tim joined Interserve as Group Finance F Patrick Balfour the Group as a non-executive director Director in August 2003.
He was previously G Les Cullen the previous September.
His other Novars Group Director of Financial H David Thorpe business interests include non-executive Operations.
Prior to joining Novar in 2001 I David Trapnell directorships at Ofcom and Standard Life Tim spent six years in a variety of senior J Trevor Bradbury and board membership of both the Office financial positions at Exel, both in the of Fair Trading and the Centre for Policy UK and overseas.
Norman will be retiring as a chartered accountant Tims early career non-executive director of SEGRO formerly was in corporate finance and acquisitions.
Slough Estates after nine years at its AGM He is 46. on 29 April.
Steven Dance A former partner of McKinsey & Company, Steven was appointed to the parent Board Norman was Head of the Prime Ministers in January 2008, having joined the Group Policy Unit from 1995-1997 and was in 2004 as Managing Director of RMD appointed a life peer in 1997.
His past Kwikform, the Equipment Services business roles have included Director of division.
He was previously president of Group Development at NatWest Group, Ericos Fixing and Fastening business and non-executive director of Dixons Group prior to that had been involved in M&A and an adviser to KPMG.
His early chairs the Nomination Committee.
career included a variety of general management positions with Coats Viyella in Germany, Portugal, South America and Executive directors the UK.
Steven, 52, is a Chartered 1 Director and a member of the Board of Adrian Ringrose Examiners at the Institute of Directors.
Chief Executive Adrian was appointed Chief Executive Bruce Melizan in July 2003 having served as Deputy Bruce was appointed to the parent Board Chief Executive since the previous in January 2008.
He joined Interserve in January.
He joined Interserve in 2000 2003 as Managing Director of Interserve on its acquisition of the Building & Investments before being appointed to Property Group, became Managing head Facilities Management in January Director of Interservefm a year later 2006.
Prior to joining Interserve he worked and joined the parent Board in 2002. in a variety of roles in organisations such Adrian is also Chairman of the CBIs as Amey, Mowlem and Schlumberger in Public Services Strategy Board, a member several countries including Indonesia, of the CBIs Presidents Committee and Bolivia and Trinidad & Tobago.
Bruce past-President of the Business Services is a member of the Business Services Association.
Association Council and a Trustee of the Safer London Foundation.
4 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 F G H I J Non-executive directors Advisers 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 G Patrick Balfour David Thorpe Group Company Secretary Patrick became a non-executive director David joined Interserve as a non-executive Trevor Bradbury of Interserve in January 2003 and was director in January 2009.
He is Chairman appointed Senior Independent Director in of the Racecourse Association, nonRegistered office October 2005.
He is a solicitor and was executive Chairman of both Clinical Interserve House formerly a partner of Slaughter and May.
Solutions and The Innovation Group and Ruscombe Park Patrick is 68. a non-executive director of SHL Group Twyford Holdings.
Davids executive career Reading 1 2 3 Les Cullen included a decade at Electronic Data Berkshire RG10 9JU Les joined Interserve as a non-executive Systems EDS, which culminated in his T 44 0 118 932 0123 director in October 2005.
He is a nonbecoming President of EDS Europe, and F 44 0 118 932 0206 executive director at both Avis Europe and senior leadership roles at Bull Information info@interserve.
com F&C Global Smaller Companies and is a Systems.
Previous non-executive roles Trustee of Sustrans Ltd.
He has previously include VT Group, Anite and Tunstall www.
com held the post of Group Finance Director Holdings.
He is 60. at fide La Rue, Inchcape and Prudential.
Registered number 88456 1 2 3 Les, 58, chairs the Audit Committee.
David Trapnell David became a non-executive director Registrar and Share Transfer Office of Interserve in July 2003.
Previous roles Capita Registrars include non-executive director and Northern House Chairman of the Audit Committee at Woodsome Park The Royal Mint, Group Chief Executive Fenay Bridge of Marley and Vice-President of the Huddersfield Construction Products Association.
David, HD8 0GA 65, chairs the Remuneration Committee.
com Retired directors Auditors 1 2 3 John Vyse Nicholas Keegan Deloitte LLP John was appointed to the parent Board Nicholas joined Interserve as a nonin 2002 and was Chairman of Interserve executive director in July 2003.
He is Bankers Project Services.
He joined the Group in a non-executive director of Staffline Royal Bank of Scotland plc 1993 and in 1996 was appointed Managing Recruitment Group.
He was previously HSBC Bank plc Director of Tilbury Douglas Construction.
Chief Financial Officer at CompAir He also held the chairmanship of several Holdings and Group Finance Director at Stockbrokers other Interserve subsidiaries.
John retired Evenser Group, Frederick Cooper and from the Board on 3 April 2009.
Nicholas retired J. P. Morgan Cazenove Limited from the Board on 12 May 2009.
Oriel Securities Limited Lawyers Ashurst LLP 1 Member of the Nomination Committee 2 Member of the Audit Committee 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee 4 Senior Independent Director Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 5
