66 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Governance Other Statutory Information Directors the Company or its subsidiaries.
The terms of the Directors service The Directors who held ofce during the year are set out below.
contracts and the Directors interests in the shares and options of the Company in respect of which transactions are notiable to the Vanni Treves Chairman Company under the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.
ON %XECUTIVE $EPUTY #HAIRMAN disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 58 and 64 to 65. retired 1 September 2009 Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive officer Directors indemnitiesARK, OUGHEAD #HIEF PERATING FlCER The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to Bill Spencer Chief Financial officer attract and retain the services of the most able and experienced to retire on 31 March 2010 directors by offering competitive terms of engagement, including $AVID !LLVEY 3ENIOR NDEPENDENT.
ON %XECUTIVE $IRECTOR the granting of indemnities on terms consistent with the applicable %DWARD !STLE.
ON %XECUTIVE $IRECTOR statutory provisions.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions appointed 1 September 2009 as dened by section 234 of the Act were accordingly in force 'AVIN $ARBY.
ON %XECUTIVE $IRECTOR during the course of the financial year ended 31 December 2009 for appointed 1 September 2009 the benefit of the Directors and, at the date of this report, are in #HRISTOPHER NIGHT.
ON %XECUTIVE $IRECTOR force for the benefit of the Directors in relation to certain losses and $EBRA 2ADE.
ON %XECUTIVE $IRECTOR liabilities which they may incur or have incurred in connection with their duties, powers or ofce.
The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions relating to the retirement, election and re-election of Directors.
Share capital The issued share capital of the Company, and details of the s %DWARD !STLE AND 'AVIN $ARBY HAVE BEEN APPOINTED SINCE THE movements in the Companys share capital during the year, are last AGM and therefore will offer themselves for election at shown in note 20 to the financial statements.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares s $AVID !LLVEY HAVING NOT BEEN RE APPOINTED AT EITHER OF THE The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends previous two AGMs, retires by rotation and, being eligible, when declared, to receive the Companys report and accounts, to offers himself for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and exercise voting rights.
"There are no restrictions on the s ""ILL 3PENCER RETIRES ONARCH transfer of ordinary shares in the Company."
Short biographies of all the Directors are set out on page 43.
The rights attached to shares in the Company are provided by the Articles of Association, which may be amended or replaced by Directors powers means of a special resolution of the Company in a General Meeting.
The Directors are responsible for the management of the business 4HE $IRECTORS POWERS ARE CONFERRED ON THEM BY 5 LEGISLATION AND of the Company and their powers to do so are determined by the by the Companys Articles.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association as amended at the previous AGM on 15 May 2009.
O ORDINARY SHARES CARRY ANY SPECIAL RIGHTS WITH REGARD TO CONTROL and which came into force on 1 October 2009.
Further powers are of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights except granted by members in general meeting and those currently in place that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect of a share unless are set out in detail within the appropriate section of this report.
all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid.
There are no arrangements known to the Company by which financial rights Directors interests carried by any shares in the Company are held by a person other 2ICHARD.
ELSON WHO RESIGNED ON 3EPTEMBER OCCASIONALLY than the holders of the shares, nor are there any arrangements undertook special project work for the Group, although none was between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the performed in 2009 or 2008.
Details of these service arrangements transfer of securities or on voting rights known to the Company.
are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 59.
With this All issued shares are fully paid.
exception, other than employment contracts, none of the Directors of the Company had a personal interest in any business transactions of 3HARES ARE ADMITTED TO TRADING ON THE, ONDON 3TOCK %XCHANGE and may be traded through the CREST system.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 67 Allotment of shares Social and community issues At the AGM held in 2009, the shareholders generally and We encourage our local managers to foster community links that unconditionally authorised the Directors to allot relevant securities are appropriate to the businesses they manage.
Further details are up to approximately two-thirds of the nominal amount of issued given in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 35. share capital.
This authority was not exercised during the year.
It is the Directors intention to renew this authority in line with guidance Substantial shareholdings issued by the Association of British Insurers.
The resolution is set The following disclosures of major holdings of voting rights have OUT IN THE.
'- ACCOMPANYING THIS !NNUAL 2EPORT been made and have not been amended or withdrawn to the Company pursuant to the requirements of the Financial Services Also at the AGM in 2009, the Directors were empowered by the Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: shareholders to allot equity securities, up to 5% of the Companys s, ONE 0INE #APITAL, , # 3TEPHEN & -ANDEL R GAVE NOTICE ON issued share capital, for cash under section 570 of the Companies 3 February 2010 that they had an indirect interest on 1 February Act 2006.
It is intended that this authority be renewed, up to 5%, 2010 in 15,354,614 Intertek Group plc ordinary shares, at the forthcoming AGM.
representing 9.67% of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
s, EGAL AND 'ENERAL 'ROUP PLC GAVE NOTICE ON.
OVEMBER Purchase of own shares THAT IT HAD A DIRECT INTEREST ON.
OVEMBER IN At the AGM held in 2009, shareholders generally and unconditionally Intertek Group plc ordinary shares, representing 3.99% of the authorised the Company to buy back up to 10% of its own ordinary ordinary shares in issue at that date.
shares by market purchase until the conclusion of the AGM to be s %MINENCE #APITAL, , # 2ICKY # 3ANDLER GAVE NOTICE ON HELD THIS YEAR.
O SUCH PURCHASES HAVE BEEN MADE TO DATE PURSUANT 19 October 2009 that they had an indirect interest on 19 October to this authority.
The Directors will seek to renew this authority for 2009 in 6,110,000 Intertek Group plc ordinary shares, representing up to 10% of the Companys issued share capital at the forthcoming 3.85% of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
This power will only be exercised if the Directors are satisfied that any purchase will increase the earnings per share of the Charitable and political donations ordinary share capital in issue after the purchase and accordingly During 2009, the Group made charitable donations of 107,000 that the purchase is in the interests of shareholders.
The Directors 2008: 108,000, to a wide variety of charities, including will also give careful consideration to gearing levels of the Company support to employees in the Philippines and Vietnam affected and its general financial position.
Any shares purchased in this way by natural disasters.
may be held in treasury which, the Directors believe, will provide the Company with exibility in the management of its share capital.
At the AGM in 2009 shareholders passed a resolution, on a Where treasury shares are used to satisfy share options or awards, precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to make donations they will be classed as new issue shares for the purpose of the 10% to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure limit on the number of shares that may be issued over a ten-year as such terms are dened in the Companies Act 2006 not period under our relevant share plan rules.
During the year the Group did not make any political donations 2008: nil.
It is the Companys policy not, Policy and practice on payment of suppliers directly or through any subsidiary, to make what are commonly The Group does not follow a single standard on payment practice regarded as donations to any political party.
However, at the but has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers.
Payment terms forthcoming AGM of the Company shareholders approval will are agreed at the commencement of business with each supplier again be sought to authorise the Group to make political donations and it is the policy of the Group that payment is made accordingly, and or incur political expenditure as such terms are dened in subject to the terms and conditions being met.
The Parent Company, Sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006.
Further details Intertek Group plc does not trade and therefore has no trade payables.
OF THIS ARE CONTAINED IN THE.
'- significant relationships Auditors The Group does not have any contractual or other relationships with 4HE AUDITORS 0-' !UDIT 0LC HAVE INDICATED THEIR WILLINGNESS TO any single party which are essential to the business of the Group and continue in ofce and a resolution that they be reappointed will be therefore, no such relationships have been disclosed.
proposed at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006.
