Directors Report The directors submit their report and the audited accounts for The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation the year ended 31 March 2009 as set out on pages 49 to 132 and the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the and page 135.
Company, together with any specific authorities that may be given to the directors by shareholders from time to time, such Principal activities as the power to allot shares and the power to make market The principal activities for the year are contained in the purchases of the Companys shares.
Further information Business Review on pages 12 to 27.
The principal subsidiaries regarding matters reserved for the Board is set out in the which affected our profit or net assets in the year are listed on Corporate Governance report on page 28. page 135.
Directors indemnity and insurance Business Review In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Company The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set has provided to all the directors an indemnity to the extent out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group permitted by the Companies Act 2006 in respect of liabilities during the financial year ended 31 March 2009 and the position incurred as a result of their office, and the Company has taken of the Group at the end of the year.
out an insurance policy in respect of those liabilities.
Neither the indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the event that This review is contained in the Business Review section of the the director is proved to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Annual Report and Accounts pages 12 to 27, with further commentary on the Groups strategy, performance and Acquisitions and disposals development in the Chairmans Statement pages 8 and 9 On 21 August 2008 the Group acquired SAT Corporation, and the Chief Executives Statement pages 10 and 11.
The a mobile solutions company based in Houston, for a cash Business Review includes a description of the principal consideration of 30 million.
The Group also acquired risks and uncertainties facing the Group pages 26 and 27, Quantum Engineering Inc for a cash consideration of a discussion of key financial performance measures pages 20 million on 17 September 2008.
Quantum Engineering 12 to 16, information on our use of financial instruments and is based in Jacksonville, Florida, and is a signalling and train a description of our financial risk management objectives controls company specialising in onboard equipment.
No disposals of operations took place during the year.
Dividends Capital structure The Board has recommended the payment of a final cash Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together dividend for the year of 1.5p per share which, subject to with details of movements in the issued share capital of the approval by shareholders at the AGM on 17 July 2009, will Company during the year, are shown in Note 27 on page 99. be paid on 7 August 2009 to shareholders on the register The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no at 26 June 2009. right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific Board of directors restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of The current directors of the Company and their biographical shares, which are both governed by the general provisions details are given on page 7.
A statement of their remuneration of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
and interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 43.
The Company operates an employee benefit trust to hold shares pending employees becoming entitled to them As previously announced, Martin Jay will retire as Chairman under the Companys employee share plans.
The trust has and director of the Company at the conclusion of the 2009 an independent trustee which waives its rights to vote on the AGM.
Sir Nigel Rudd, who was appointed a non-executive shareholding.
Details of employee share schemes and shares director and Deputy Chairman on 1 January 2009, will succeed held by the Invensys No.
2 Employee Benefit Trust are set out in Mr Jay as Chairman.
Jean-Claude Guez, non-executive director Note 27 on page 100. and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, is also retiring at the conclusion of the AGM.
Steve Hare has resigned from the Shares acquired through the Companys employee share plans Board effective 31 May 2009 and will be leaving the Company rank pari passu with other shares in issue and have no special on this date.
He will be replaced by Wayne Edmunds, who joins rights, save that certain share awards involve retention periods the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 1 June 2009.
Further, non-executive directors use a proportion Read and Francesco Caio will join the Board as non-executive of their fees to purchase shares in the Company which may not directors on 18 July 2009. normally be transferred during a directors period of office.
The rules governing the appointment and retirement At the 2008 AGM the directors were authorised to issue of directors are contained in the Companys Articles of relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of Association.
At the 2009 AGM, Michael Parker will retire by 26.3 million approximately 33% of the issued ordinary rotation and, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election.
Renewal was also sought for Mr Jay and Mr Guez also retire by rotation but will not be the directors to allot relevant securities and to allot equity seeking re-election as they will be retiring from the Board at securities for cash up to a maximum aggregate nominal the conclusion of the AGM.
Sir Nigel Rudd, who was appointed amount of 4.0 million other than on a pre-emptive basis, during the year, will retire and offer himself for election.
shareholders having previously approved similar resolutions.
The directors did not use this authority during the year under The Chairmans Explanatory Letter and Notice of AGM explain review, other than to issue shares to satisfy awards under the the Boards reasons for and recommendations regarding the Companys share option and incentive schemes.
The directors re-election of Mr Parker and election of Sir Nigel Rudd.
will seek to renew allotment authorities at the 2009 AGM in line with revised ABI guidelines.
44 | Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 On 7 May 2008, the Group repaid and cancelled Term Loans and managerial level employees in the Groups performance due in January 2011 of US$190 million and euro 75 million.
The through the Invensys Performance Management System, which repayment of the principal amounts, together with accrued reinforces the links between the Groups business goals, the interest, was made out of cash balances.
On 8 May 2008, the employees contribution and his her remuneration.
Group cancelled bonding facilities of 100 million due for expiry in December 2010.
There were no early redemption Elaboration on these topics and further information concerning penalties on either of these transactions.
employees is set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report, which begins on page 22.
On 26 November 2008, shareholders approved a capital reduction and cancellation of certain reserves by a special Charitable and political contributions resolution.
This was subsequently sanctioned by the During the year Group donations to charities and community High Court of Justice on 21 January 2009.
As a result, the causes worldwide were 0.2 million 2008: 0.2 million, authorised share capital of the Company was reduced from with UK charities receiving nil 2008: nil.
The Board is of 2,327,418,729.19 divided into 5,600,526,027 ordinary the view that it is not appropriate for the Company to make shares of 0.10 each, 3,499,780,822 deferred shares of 0.24 charitable donations given that the Company is only resuming each and 801,285,978 B shares of 1.1574129021 each to the payment of dividends this year.
However, many of the 1,399,999,999.98 divided into 5,600,526,027 ordinary shares Groups subsidiaries are influential companies and important of 0.10 each and 3,499,780,822 deferred shares of 0.24 each, employers in their own countries or localities and it is therefore by cancelling the 801,285,978 B shares.
Further details are believed to be in the best interests of the Group for those included in Notes 27 and 28 to the Group Financial Statements.
companies community involvement to be maintained at reasonable levels.
No donations were made to political parties Articles of Association 2008: nil.
Any alteration to the Companys Articles of Association must be approved by shareholders in accordance with applicable Research and development UK legislation.
As detailed in the Chairmans Explanatory Letter The Group carries out research and development in support and Notice of AGM the Company is proposing, subject to of its activities.
During the year, expenditure on the research shareholder approval, certain amendments to the Articles of and development of new products and processes amounted Association to enable provisions in the Companies Act 2006 to 114 million 2008: 100 million.
effective from 1 October 2009 to be included.
Change of control Substantial shareholders Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the At the date of this Report, the Company has been notified, directors disclose that in the event of a change of control in the in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Company, i the banking facility described in Note 21, totalling of the following interests in the ordinary share capital of 400 million at 31 March 2009, could cease to be available to the Company: the Group: and ii a Master Service Agreement dated 15 May 2007, made with Genpact International, Inc for the provision of Name % interest in issued share capital outsourced business services in relation to certain finance and related functions, would become terminable at the option of Legal & General 4.10% direct interest the Company.
Prudential 10.97% direct interest Schroders 9.73% indirect interest For legal and practical reasons, the rules of the various Standard Life Investments 7.297% direct interest employee share plans operated by the Company set out the 5.701% indirect interest consequences of a change of control of the Company.
The percentage interests stated are as disclosed at the date on The Remuneration Committee has approved changes to which the interests were notified.
Ulf Henrikssons and Steve Hares service contracts entitling them, in the event of a material adverse change to their title, Supplier payment policy responsibilities or status following a change of control of It is the policy of the Group that subsidiary companies should the Company, to terminate their employment and receive develop long-term relationships with suppliers and establish a payment equal to the termination payment set out in the terms of trade consistent with established practice in their Remuneration Report on page 39.
A similar provision is country of operation, and to ensure that suppliers are aware included in the new Chief Financial Officers service contract.
of the terms of payment and that such terms are followed.
The Company is a holding company and has no trade creditors.
Auditors In accordance with section 234ZA 2 of the Companies Act Employee policy and development 1985, each of the directors at the date of approval of this The Group seeks to ensure that fair consideration is given report confirms that, so far as the director is aware, there is to applications for employment received from disabled no relevant audit information of which the Companys persons and offers continued employment, training auditor is unaware, and that the director has taken all the steps and advancement where possible to employees who are that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make or become temporarily or permanently disabled.
himself aware of, and to establish that the auditor is aware of, any relevant information.
Ernst & Young LLP has expressed The Group recognises the need to consult and provide willingness to continue in office as auditor and, in accordance information on matters of concern to employees.
To satisfy that with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, resolutions need, the Group provides employees with published financial proposing its reappointment and to authorise the directors to and economic information through its consultative procedures.
determine its remuneration will be proposed at the 2009 AGM.
Invensys also encourages the involvement of professional Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 45 Directors Report continued Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held on Friday, 17 July 2009 at 11.00am at the Park Plaza Victoria London, 239 Vauxhall Bridge Road, London SW1V 1EQ.
The Chairmans Explanatory Letter and Notice of AGM give full details of the meeting and the resolutions to be proposed.
Post balance sheet events As described in Note 28 to the Financial Statements, the majority of the minority interests balance at 31 March 2008 related to the interests of the minority in Baan Company NV in liquidation Baan.
On 7 May 2009, the Group agreed to acquire 3.67 million Baan shares from some minority shareholders at euro 2.60 per share, representing a total consideration of euro 9.5 million.
The remaining minority shareholders of Baan own approximately 19 million shares.
By order of the Board Victoria Hull General Counsel and Company Secretary 13 May 2009 46 | Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009
