Our Businesses Invensys Operations Management We are a highly valued strategic partner fundamentally Creation of Invensys Operations Management attached to, and enabling, the worlds premier players in vital The decision has been taken to integrate our three industrial industries.
Our customers are some of the worlds largest automation businesses Invensys Process Systems IPS, industrial organisations and include companies that operate Wonderware and Eurotherm into a single division, Invensys large oil refineries: plants that process chemicals, gas, liquefied Operations Management.
This decision has been driven by natural gas LNG, power, pharmaceuticals and minerals: and the convergence of technologies that enable our customers pulp and paper mills.
As these companies look to maximise to optimise their entire operations, the opportunity to create their performance improvement strategies, they turn to us to a continuum of solutions and services for the whole industrial uncover and advance new integrated approaches to plant, market and the potential for cost savings from common sales manufacturing, supply chain and business operations.
and marketing, delivery and back office functions.
Wonderware also sits within Process Systems and is the We have identified significant growth opportunities from worlds leading supplier of real-time operations management more effective coverage of our customer base and attractive software, with an installed base of over 540,000 active licenses, savings from using common approaches to business helping customers to manage operations in over 125,000 processes.
Some integration activities began earlier in plants and facilities worldwide.
Our Wonderware software the year as a result of common research and development transforms data into vital information in order to enable requirements between the businesses and the opportunity customers to synchronise their production operations with to eliminate redundant infrastructure costs.
Throughout the business objectives, obtaining the speed and flexibility to remainder of the current year, additional integration will be attain sustained profitability.
Wonderware software is used carried out: however, we do not intend to make substantial by OEMs, systems integrators and by end customers in changes to the business strategy, products, services and virtually every global industry, including food and beverage, levels of support for our customers.
We see this integration as oil and gas, power, water and wastewater, transportation, a natural evolutionary step, building upon the successes that and mining and metals.
It is also used within other Invensys we have already achieved with our strategy of becoming a division offerings.
We will be reporting Invensys Operations Management as a single division going forward.
Eurotherm Eurotherm provides control and automation solutions to help Process Systems customers meet the demands of statutory regulations and Invensys Process Systems IPS is a global technology, validation requirements for their industries.
Our Eurotherm software and consulting organisation leading significant offering includes consultancy in the initial project planning change in process manufacturing, plant optimisation, phase, solution and system design, project management, business operations and enterprise performance.
We do this installation, on-site services and operator training.
These by helping our customers to take advantage of the real-time services are supported by market-leading products ranging convergence of manufacturing and business operations.
from sensors and measurement indicators, through process Our market-leading solutions include Foxboro field devices and power controllers to graphical paperless data recorders and control systems, Triconex safety systems, SimSci-Esscor and integrated process automation equipment.
simulation and optimisation applications, and Avantis enterprise asset management.
Eurotherm has global expertise in many industrial markets with dedicated specialists in key areas including life sciences, Tying all of these capabilities together is the InFusion system, glass manufacturing, plastics, renewable energy and the the worlds first truly open enterprise control system.
The heat treatment of metals for industries such as avionics InFusion system provides a common engineering, automation and automotive.
and applications environment that connects, collects and leverages all the knowledge and data available from disparate systems and technologies, giving greater visibility to operators at many levels of business.
Using the data and the interpretive tools provided by the InFusion system, customers can predict the benefits and disadvantages of changing elements of complex, interconnected systems.
The InFusion system is an example of our commitment to being a new breed of open integrator for our clients, building systems that work with the available technologies for a specific situation, regardless of who makes them.
Some of our major customers ADIF Brandt EDF Energy GIS Calorex Alcoa BSH Group Electrolux Haier Arelik BSS ENI Home Retail Group Asko BT ExxonMobil Huntsman Corporation Beam Global Spirits & Wine Candy Fisher & Paykel Indesit Bosch Worcester Chevron Gazprom Logica BP ConocoPhillips General Mills Madrid Metro 4 | Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Invensys Rail Invensys Controls Invensys Rail is a multinational leader in delivering state-of-theInvensys Controls is a global provider of control devices art railway control and communication solutions.
We enable for products in residential homes and commercial buildings, the worlds railways to help meet the ever-increasing demand with strong positions in the markets it serves.
Our objective for rail services by providing a range of solutions that safely is to become the number one value provider to our customers increase the capacity of their networks by increasing frequency by delivering differentiating solutions in the following and maximising operational effectiveness.
major markets: Our broad offering ranges from highly complex integrated Appliance control centre solutions that supervise and control complete We design, engineer and manufacture components and railways to sophisticated train-based systems that automate control systems for cooking, refrigeration, laundry and train operation and protection, interlocking systems that dishwashing products sold in both the commercial and ensure safe running across a network and a complete range residential sectors.
Our solutions help our customers to of trackside products.
improve consumer satisfaction with enhanced features, while providing performance that exceeds the energy consumption We are a global operator in the highly regional rail industry, standards of regulatory agencies.
We supply to the North and where different geographies often have their own operational South American, European and Asian appliance markets.
Invensys Rail brands such as Westinghouse UK, Asia, Oceania and India, Dimetronic Water heating, HVAC, commercial refrigeration Iberia and Latin America and Safetran North America and automotive provide market-leading solutions for signalling, control and Invensys Controls develops products used in the water rail safety in mainline and mass transit systems.
Close heating, HVAC, commercial refrigeration and automotive cooperation and coordination ensures that customers markets.
We are a leading designer and manufacturer of throughout the world benefit from the resources and products that control and sense temperature and humidity expertise of Invensys Rail as a whole.
in residential, light commercial and automotive applications, and that improve air quality in homes.
Aftermarket Invensys Controls distributes a vast array of replacement products for OEM equipment, encompassing thermostats, valves, zone controls, timers and electronic components marketed under our leading brands.
In addition, we manufacture a variety of ambient controls for both commercial and residential applications.
Nestl Queensland Rail Sub-Zero Wolf Network Rail R&D Carbon T. Perkins NSG RENFE The Body Shop Ontario Clean Water Agency SAB Miller Thermo King Pernod Samsung Valero Puerto Rico Water & Sewage Saudi Aramco Whirlpool Authority Starbucks Wolseley Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 5
