Invensys Rail Invensys Rail Outside our core markets, we are seeing significant demand in many countries, particularly in Latin America and Asia, both in % % terms of stimulus packages and the need to improve transport change total infrastructure to enable economic development.
Year ended 31 March 2009 2008 at CER change Orders m 968 429 109% 126% Developments Revenue m 636 539 9% 18% During the year we achieved significant success in winning Operating profit m 134 93 32% 44% contracts both in our core and export markets.
In the UK, Operating margin % 21.1% 17.3% we were awarded several further contracts by Network Rail including the enabling signalling works for major Operating cash flow m 128 93 26% 38% reconfiguration of Reading Station.
We have recently been Operating cash conversion % 96% 100% awarded a contract by Crossrail Ltd to work with it to evaluate Employees at year end nos 3,960 3,512 signalling and control solutions for the Crossrail project.
Both mainline and mass transit rail systems will be considered along with other key operational needs for the future railway.
E In Spain, we were awarded 155 million of contracts for the D C signalling of the Madrid-Valencia high-speed line and received A a letter of award for a 44 million contract for the BarcelonaC Figueras high-speed line.
A In export markets, we were awarded a 123 million contract B by Singapores Land Transit Authority for their new Downtown B Line and also were awarded a similar sized contract for the refurbishment of a mass transit line in Latin America.
We won contracts for installing ERTMS signalling for the Ankara-Konya Revenue by sector Revenue by geography high-speed line in Turkey and for suburban lines in Auckland, A Mainline engineering A UK 39% New Zealand.
and contracting 51% B Rest of Europe 34% B Mass transit engineering C North America 16% and contracting 28% D Asia Pacic 10% In September 2008, we acquired Quantum Engineering, Inc. C Products 21% E Africa Middle East 1% from its management for a cash consideration of 20 million.
Based in Jacksonville, Florida, Quantum specialises in Invensys Rail is a multinational leader in delivering stateonboard equipment and positive train control.
This acquisition of-the-art railway control and communication solutions.
will increase our profile within the US railroad marketplace We enable the worlds railways to help meet the everwhile creating new sales opportunities within the operational increasing demand for rail services by providing a range side of its existing US railroad customers.
This technology will of solutions that safely and cost-effectively increase the be marketed globally through our international operations, capacity of their networks by increasing frequency and opening up the technology to significant new markets.
Performance Our broad offering ranges from highly complex integrated Order intake during the year more than doubled compared control centre solutions that supervise and control with the prior year to 968 million 2008: 429 million, up 109% complete railways to sophisticated train-based systems at CER with strong performance in the UK and Spain together that automate train operation and protection, interlocking with the two large export contracts in Singapore and Latin systems that ensure safe running across a network and a America.
Revenue was 9% higher at CER at 636 million 2008: complete range of trackside products.
539 million with particularly strong growth in Spain.
Markets Operating profit rose to 134 million 2008: 93 million, The worlds rail market remained strong during the year with an increase of 32% at CER reflecting the substantial increase spending underpinned by the need to improve mainline rail in volume and a favourable sales mix.
Operating margin was and mass transit infrastructure, recognising the importance higher at 21.1% 2008: 17.3% due to a favourable sales mix and of rail as an environmentally sustainable and economically contract completions.
Operating cash flow was 128 million efficient means of transport for both passengers and freight.
2008: 93 million, and cash conversion was 96%.
In addition, spending shows signs of increasing in some markets such as the US and China, where government stimulus Outlook packages recognise the employment benefits of major capital The very high levels of orders received in the year gives us projects during these recessionary times.
good visibility into the current year and our pipeline of export order prospects remains strong.
Although we may see delays In our core markets, the UK continued at the high levels of in the award of some projects and weakness in the US freight activity seen in recent years and Spain also saw good levels rail market, we expect that this will be more than compensated of spending, particularly on the further development of its for by the number of packages around the world involving high-speed line network.
In the US, the market was satisfactory rail infrastructure that are being put in place to stimulate except that demand for trackside and onboard equipment economic activity.
softened during the year due to reduced amounts of freight traffic caused by the recession.
Australia remained good despite some deferral of expenditure on new lines for mineral freight traffic.
20 | Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009
