Financial Policies Statement of accounting policies Currency risk The Groups Financial Statements have been prepared in Transaction exposure accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Currency transaction exposure arises when the Groups IFRSs in issue that are endorsed by the European Commission businesses face revenues or costs in a currency other than their and effective at 31 March 2009.
The incidence of this risk varies across the Group and is policies under IFRSs are set out in the accounting policies subject to change.
Usually, however, the majority of revenues section in the Group Financial Statements.
and costs will be in the functional currency of the business unit undertaking the transaction.
Where this is not the case and the The Parent Company Financial Statements have been exposure is significant, it is the Groups policy for businesses to prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted hedge their exposure.
Accounting Practice UK GAAP and include details of the Companys accounting policies.
The Group is also subject to exchange risk in making bids, particularly on major contracts.
The assumption of a specific Treasury policy exchange rate within a bid would lead to a change in the The Groups treasury policy is approved by the Board and anticipated margin on the contract should a bid be successful: seeks to ensure that: this risk is hedged if significant.
appropriate financial resources are available for the maintenance and development of the Groups businesses: The Group predominantly uses forward currency contracts the financial risk of currency, interest rate and counterparty to manage transaction exposure.
credit exposure is understood, measured and managed appropriately: and Translation exposure the Treasury Department operates as a cost centre and The majority of the Groups operating capital is employed in that no speculative transactions are undertaken.
overseas locations and is denominated in foreign currencies, particularly US dollars.
As a consequence, changes in Funding, liquidity and treasury management exchange rates affect both net asset values and reported Operating within the strict controls of the Groups treasury results.
This risk is not hedged directly but, to the extent that policy, the Treasury Department manages this financial risk, the Group has debt, any that is held in foreign currencies would ensuring that sufficient funding and liquidity are available to reduce the level of net assets exposed to currency fluctuations.
meet the expected needs of the Group.
In addition to the free The interest expense of any such debt might then also reduce cash flow of the Group, Invensys adopts a prudent approach the level of earnings exposed to exchange rate movements.
to liquidity management using a mixture of long-term debt facilities and short-term cash deposits.
Core funding and Credit risk guarantee issuance is provided by a bank facility which The Group monitors the identity of the counterparties matures in July 2013. with whom it deposits cash and transacts other financial instruments so as to control exposure to any territory or Interest rate risk institution.
As far as it is both feasible and practical to do so, The Groups policy is to set the proportion of fixedand cash is held centrally by Treasury.
Risk is assessed using ratings floating-rate debt, taking into account several factors from major credit rating agencies.
including: the financial leverage of the Group: Further information on the risks arising from financial the profitability of the Group in relation to the business instruments is included in Note 22 to the Group cycle: and Financial Statements.
the absolute levels of interest rates.
To implement this policy the Group uses fixed-rate borrowings, interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and currency swaps to manage its interest rate exposure.
As at 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2008, in line with the Group having a net cash position, Invensys had no significant fixed-rate borrowings.
Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 17
