Our board of directors OOO OOOOOOO Jock GreenArmytage Martha Hesse Chairman Non-Executive Director Age 64, was appointed a non-executive director in June Age 67, was appointed a non-executive director in June 1996 and became Non-Executive Chairman in January 2000.
She was President of Hesse Gas Company until 2004.
He is Chairman of the nominations committee.
the end of 2003 and is the former Chairman of the US He is Chairman of JZ International Limited and Star Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and Assistant Capital Partners Limited and a director of REA Secretary for manage ment and administration of the Holdings PLC and several other companies.
She chairs the com p li ance and ethics committee and is Chair man of Enbridge Energy Partners, L. P. Enbridge Energy Management, O Samir Brikho L. L. C. and Enbridge Energy Company Inc. and a Chief Executive director of Terra Industries Inc. and Mutual Trust Age 51, was appointed Chief Executive in October 2006.
All these entities are based in the He was previously a member of the ABB Executive US and Canada.
She will retire as a director of AMEC Committee, heading the Power Systems division and following the annual general meeting on 13 May 2010.
Chairman of ABB Lummus Global, ABBs international projects and services business.
He is also Chairman of OOOOO UK Energy Excellence, as well as the World Economic Peter Byrom Forums Engineering and Construction Board and a Non-Executive Director director of UK-Japan 21st Century Group.
Age 65, was appointed a non-executive director in February 2005.
He is Chairman of the audit committee.
He is Chairman of Domino Printing Sciences plc and Ian McHoul a non-executive director of Rolls-Royce Group plc.
Chief Financial Officer He was a director of N M Rothschild from 1977 to 1996.
Age 50, was appointed Chief Financial Officer in September 2008.
He was previously Group Finance Director of Scottish and Newcastle plc and is a OOOOO Tim Faithfull non-executive director and Chairman of the audit Non-Executive Director committee of Premier Foods plc.
Age 65, was appointed a non-executive director in February 2005 and became the Senior Independent Director following the annual general meeting on 13 May Neil Bruce 2009.
He is Chairman of the remuneration committee.
Executive Director He is a nonexecutive director of Canadian Pacific Age 49, was appointed an executive director in January Railway and TransAlta Corporation, a director of Shell 2009.
He is Chief Operating Officer of AMECs Natural Pensions Trust Limited and was President and Chief Resources and Power & Process divisions, has over Executive of Shell Canada Limited from 1999 to 2003.
30 years experience in Energy & Process industries, and joined AMEC in 1997.
OOOOOOO Simon Thompson Non-Executive Director Age 50, was appointed a non-executive director in January 2009.
He was previously an executive director of Anglo American plc, Chairman of the Tarmac Group and held positions with S G Warburg and N M Rothschild.
He is currently Non-Executive Director of Newmont Mining Corporation US and Sandvik AB Sweden.
OO OO OO OO Key to principal committee membership: Audit Remuneration Nominations Compliance and ethics 36 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009
