Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in presenting the Dividends paid during the year comprised an interim annual report and accounts for the year ended dividend of 5.3 pence per share, and a final dividend of 31 December 2009.
10.1 pence per share, both in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008.
Principal activities and business review The principal activities of the group can be found on Share capital pages 8 to 25.
The issued share capital of the company as at 31 December 2009, movements during the year and Information fulfilling the requirements of the business the rights attaching to the shares are set out in note 22 review is contained in the business and financial on page 94 and the rights and obligations attaching to review on pages 8 to 35, which includes details of the shares are more fully set out in the articles of AMECs development and performance during the association of the company.
Each share carries the year including business acquisitions and disposals, right to one vote at general meetings of the company its position at the year end and the outlook for the and no right to a fixed income.
There are no restrictions future, and is included in this report by reference.
Between 10 January 2007 and 31 December 2009, Key events AMEC had purchased 7.8 million shares in the market On 4 December 2009, AMEC communicated its Vision to be held in treasury at a total cost of 53.5 million.
2015 and its target to achieve earnings per share of During the year, 0.86 million shares were purchased greater than 100 pence per share in 2015.
Vision 2015 and 0.35 million shares were utilised in satisfying is described elsewhere in this document, including on awards made under the UK and International SAYE pages 8 and 9 and further details are available on share option plans.
As at 31 December 2009, 6.1 million amec.
shares remained in treasury, all of which have been To support the implementation of Vision 2015 and allocated to the groups SAYE scheme awards to date.
achieve greater collaboration and efficiencies, the Given the likelihood of further share schemes in 2010 Natural Resources and Power & Process divisions and in the future, AMEC intends to purchase in the were brought together under the leadership of market sufficient shares to meet the needs of the Neil Bruce, with effect from the same date.
schemes in anticipation of future payouts.
The purchases will be made throughout the year outside A number of new contracts were won in 2009, evidence close periods and any shares purchased will be held of the strength of AMECs customer relationships and as treasury shares.
support of AMECs future growth.
Details can be found on pages 11, 16 and 22.
A resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting to extend the authority of the directors to During the year, the group made five acquisitions make market purchases of up to 10 per cent of the including GRD Limited, an Australian listed company, companys shares within prescribed limits.
and divested two small businesses.
All these events are described further on page 26.
Authority was granted to the directors at the 2009 annual general meeting to allot up to 55,432,854 of ordinary share capital of which up to 8,314,928 Dividends could be allotted for cash other than by way of a rights The directors have proposed a final ordinary dividend issue.
At the forthcoming annual general meeting, in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009 of it is proposed that the article relating to the directors 11.6 pence per share.
This final dividend will be payable powers to allot securities will be amended so that on 1 July 2010 to shareholders on the register at the it refers to the relevant sections of the Companies close of business on 28 May 2010.
In addition, an ordinary resolution will be 38 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials proposed to grant the directors authority pursuant to Directors Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares Details of the directors of the company as at the date of or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any this report, together with membership of the principal security into shares up to a nominal amount of board committees, are set out on page 36.
55,330,800 the Section 551 Amount, such authority Messrs N A Bruce and S R Thompson were appointed to apply in substitution for all previous authorities to the board as Executive Director and Non-Executive pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985.
Mr Bruce A special resolution will also be proposed, to empower has an employment contract with the company with a the directors to allot equity securities wholly for cash as notice period of one year on the part of the company and if Section 561 1 of the Companies Act 2006 did not six months on the part of Mr Bruce.
Mr Thompson does apply to any such allotment: i up to an aggregate not have an employment contract with the company.
nominal amount equal to the Section 551 Amount in connection with a pre-emptive offer: and ii up to Ms E P Airey stood down as a non-executive director an aggregate nominal amount of 8,299,620 the on 13 May 2009 at the end of her third term of office.
Section 561 Amount otherwise than in connection with a pre-emptive offer, with such authority to be Ms M O Hesse will stand down as a non-executive in substitution for all previous powers pursuant to director of the company at the forthcoming annual Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985. general meeting at the end of her third term of office.
The directors have no present intention of issuing any Messrs S Y Brikho and J M Green-Armytage retire in shares other than in respect of the exercise of share accordance with article 77 of the articles of association options.
No issue will be made which will effectively of the company and, being eligible, offer themselves alter the control of the company without the prior for re-election.
Mr Brikho has an employment contract approval of shareholders in general meeting.
with the company with a notice period of one year on the part of the company and six months on the Substantial interests part of Mr Brikho.
Mr Green-Armytage does not Pursuant to the FSA Disclosure and Transparency have an employment contract with the company.
Rules DTR 5, notifications have been received by The beneficial interests in the share capital of the company of shareholdings of 3 per cent or more the company of the directors holding office as of the voting rights of the company as at 4 March at 31 December 2009 were as follows: 2010 and these are as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December Number Per cent 2009 2008 BlackRock, Inc 43,465,008 13.09 J M Green Armytage 15,000 15,000 S Y Brikho 232,647 Barclays PLC 14,410,295 4.34 890,729 M O Hesse 16,414 16,414 ABN-AMRO Bank NV 13,317,635 4.01 P J Byrom Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 13,197,514 3.98 T W Faithfull 10,000 10,000 I P McHoul 73,658 60,388 The shareholding percentages have been adjusted N A Bruce 72,697 N A from those notified, to reflect the current issued share S R Thompson 4,744 N A capital net of treasury shares.
There are no shareholdings which carry special rights relating to control of the company.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 39 Report of the directors continued Except for interests under share option schemes, It is of key importance to AMEC that it engages with the Performance Share Plan and the Transformation employees to ensure they understand the direction in Incentive Plan, details of which are contained in the which the company is going, are committed to AMECs directors remuneration report on pages 47 to 57, values, and are empowered to propose and make no director as at 31 December 2009 had any other changes to improve how AMEC operates.
AMEC interests, beneficial or otherwise, in the share capital employees embody its knowledge, brand and of the company or any of its subsidiaries.
reputation and it is through their activities, day by day, that AMEC delivers on its business objectives and On 4 January 2010, Mr Bruce acquired 546 ordinary commitments to shareholders, customers and the shares pursuant to the dividend reinvestment plan wider community.
An annual survey of employee in lieu of the interim dividend paid on that date.
opinion is conducted and AMEC is committed to sharing and acting on the outcomes see page 6.
There were no other changes in the directors AMEC provides a wide range of mechanisms for interests in the share capital of the company between employees to share knowledge, to be kept informed 31 December 2009 and 4 March 2010. of developments within AMEC and to raise issues and discuss matters of concern, whether face to face or No director was materially interested in any contract using electronic means.
of significance to AMECs businesses.
Respect for cultural diversity and commitment to equal As at the date of this report, individual indemnities opportunities are included among AMECs Guiding have been provided to the directors, under which the Principles which are incorporated into management company has agreed to indemnify the directors to the policies and processes worldwide.
AMEC policy is to extent permitted by law in respect of all liabilities to recruit from the widest labour market, to determine third parties arising out of, or in connection with, the the careers of all employees solely on merit and to execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities make judgements about employees free from the as directors of the company, any of its associated effects of bias and prejudice.
companies or any other company of which the director serves as a director at the request of the company.
As part of AMECs equal opportunities policy, These indemnities are Qualifying Third Party Indemnity procedures are in place that are designed to provide for Provisions as defined in Sections 232-234 of the fair consideration and selection of disabled applicants, Companies Act 2006 and copies are available for to ensure they are properly trained to perform safely inspection at the registered office of the company and effectively, and to provide career opportunities during business hours on any weekday except which allow them to fulfil their potential.
employee becomes disabled in the course of their employment, AMEC will actively seek to retain them Employees wherever possible by making adjustments to their In 2009 AMEC employed on average 21,193 people work content and environment or by retraining them worldwide including agency staff.
AMEC gives high priority to the development of AMEC operates a savings related share option plan employees to ensure that it has the necessary skills that allows employees to participate in AMECs share and behaviours to deliver its strategic business price growth.
This is open to employees in all major objectives and to provide for management succession.
countries of operation who meet a minimum service Processes are in place across the group for the regular qualification.
Offers to participate are currently being and consistent review of employee performance, made on an annual basis.
Common training needs are delivered through the AMEC Academy see page 6 for further information.
40 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials Corporate governance AMEC uses a risk management process which is The board is responsible to shareholders for the incorporated into the AMEC Mandatory Procedures management of AMEC and for the protection of its described below.
The process involves the identification assets.
As such, it is ultimately responsible for of risks at the gross and current level by projects and implementing AMECs systems of internal control and businesses.
The risks are recorded in risk registers to for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are enable the net positions to be pro-actively managed.
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of Quarterly risk review meetings comprising failure to achieve business objectives and consequently representatives from the businesses and functions can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance discuss business and functional risks.
The highest against material mis-statement or loss.
risks in terms of probability and impact are then elevated to the AMEC plc risk register.
The plans for The board, through the committees described on mitigation of such risks are also reviewed.
pages 43 to 45 and at its regular meetings, has a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and The risk management and internal control processes managing significant risks faced by AMEC, including are complemented by an annual control risk selfstrategy, major projects to be undertaken, significant assessment exercise carried out by the principal acquisitions and disposals, as well as entry to and exit businesses.
This covers major risks, particularly safety, from different markets.
Where appropriate, business health and environment, legal, commercial and decisions are reached following a structured and contractual, financial, information technology and documented review of potential opportunities and human resources.
The results are reviewed by the threats, taking steps designed to manage or mitigate board, through both the audit committee and the any residual risk exposure.
Principal business risks executive directors, and as part of the ongoing are set out in the business and financial review on internal audit process.
AMEC Mandatory Procedures and The threats and opportunities associated with major Delegated Authorities tender submissions are reviewed by the risk review AMECs businesses are managed on a decentralised committee.
Following changes in October 2007 to the basis.
While the board has retained reserve powers, delegated authorities referred to below, 2008 and 2009 the day-to-day management has been passed to the have seen a significant increase in the number of business leaders within defined authority limits.
The tenders reviewed by this committee.
management philosophy is to empower the business leaders to take the actions necessary to deliver the As part of Operational Excellence, a set of AMEC companys operational business objectives within Contracting Principles have been introduced in order the defined Mandatory Procedures and Delegated to provide greater control over operational activities.
Authorities, which set out the standards AMEC Under these principles, specified key contractual employees and agency staff are to achieve and risks are required to be referred to the risk review adhere to.
committee, representing a general strengthening of corporate governance in this area.
This framework provides for an effective control structure and following changes to the delegated authorities in October 2007, there continues to be a clear link between the levels of risk associated with tenders and the delegated authority limits.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 41 Report of the directors continued AMEC has interests in a number of joint ventures The company does not combine the role of Chairman and joint arrangements.
Controls within these entities and Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for may not be reviewed as part of AMECs formal the running of the board, with the Chief Executive being corporate governance process because of the joint responsible for running the group and implementing management responsibilities but are reviewed by the board strategy and policy.
This ensures a clear division joint venture boards and as part of AMECs normal of responsibilities at the head of the company, internal audit process.
so that no individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The independent non-executive directors review Consequently, AMEC complied with the Combined the relationship between the Chairman and Chief Code on Corporate Governance throughout 2009.
Executive each year to ensure that the relationship is working effectively.
Printed copies of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance can be obtained free of The non-executive directors are all considered to be charge from the Financial Reporting Council FRC independent by the board.
They are not employed by Publications, by email customer.
co. uk the company in any capacity, nor have they been in or telephone 44 0 20 8247 1264 or online at the past.
Mr Faithfull has acted as the boards senior www.
Further details of independent director since 13 May 2009.
AMECs Mandatory Procedures can be obtained by contacting the Company Secretary at the Companys The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring registered office.
that board procedures are followed and all directors have access to his advice and services.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders The board has a schedule of matters reserved for Mr Green-Armytage, Chairman, wrote to all major its approval covering areas such as company strategy, shareholders in April 2009 reminding them that the appointment of key executives, approval of group he and the senior independent director, Mr Faithfull, accounts, approval of the business plan, budget and were available for meetings or telephone calls with financial policies, review of operating results, risk them if required.
The Chairman attends preliminary management strategy, ensuring the effectiveness results presentations.
The Chairman and Mr Faithfull of governance practices, succession planning and are available to attend, if requested, one-on-one significant capital expenditure.
The board is supplied meetings with major shareholders.
The Chairman had in a timely manner with information which enables a number of such meetings with major shareholders it to discharge its duties.
Mr Faithfull has also met with major shareholders in his capacity as chairman of the An internal review of the effectiveness of the board remuneration committee.
and its committees was carried out during the year by the Chairman by way of a review of questionnaires An in-depth annual perception study of investors completed at his request by individual directors.
views, prepared by an independent third party, is Findings were considered by the board as part of its presented to all board members, who also receive review of both collective and individual board member unexpurgated feedback reports following shareholder performance.
No material changes were identified meetings or events together with all material brokers as being necessary as a result of this exercise.
The research notes on the company.
independent non-executive directors also met privately without the Chairman present and also with either The board or both of the Chairman and Chief Executive being The board comprises the non-executive Chairman, present to consider management performance and three executive directors and four independent succession issues.
A formal process exists for the non-executive directors.
directors to take independent professional advice and receive appropriate training in the course of their duties, at the companys expense, organised by the Company Secretary.
42 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials Board committees The committee considers the appointment, The board has formally delegated specific responsibilities re-appointment, removal, remuneration and terms to various board committees, all of which have written of engagement of the external auditor and makes terms of reference.
It discusses the scope and planning of the external audit and reviews The remit of each committee is set out below.
The the outcome of the external audit and any formal quorum is three directors, save for the audit and communications from the external auditor, including remuneration committees where the quorum is two internal control reports.
Full details of the constitution and remit of the audit, nominations, remuneration and compliance The committee also formally reviews and monitors and ethics committees can be found at amec.
com the external auditors independence and objectivity aboutus culture corporategovernance.
and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory The committees chaired by non-executive directors requirements and makes recommendations to the are as follows: board.
During 2009, a review, co-ordinated on behalf of the committee by the Head of Internal Audit, OO Audit committee Reviews the integrity, including was carried out.
The audit committee also monitors the material financial reporting judgements, of the implementation of the policy on the engagement the group and companys accounts, including the of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
preliminary and interim results, related report This policy follows the guidelines set out by the and accounts and Stock Exchange announcements Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and any other formal announcements in connection and Wales and clearly defines what work can with the companys financial performance, and and cannot be performed by any group companys recommends their approval to the board.
It also sets out the necessary It also reviews the groups internal financial controls approval process for those non-audit services and, in conjunction with the board, the internal that are acceptable.
control and risk management systems.
All non-statutory audit or non-compliance tax The committee has unrestricted access to company services provided by the auditor are reported to documents and meets with the internal and external the audit committee.
During 2009, the fees paid auditors, and any other relevant member of staff, to the companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its without the executive directors being present, as associates, for non-audit work were 0.6 million necessary.
The Head of Internal Audit formally 2008: 0.7 million, which comprised 0.6 million reports to the committee chairman.
relating to taxation and nil for other work 2008: 0.7 million and nil.
In addition, KPMG also It reviews the Head of Internal Audits regular received fees of 0.1 million in 2008 in relation reports and carries out an annual assessment of the to corporate finance transactions.
In 2009, this exercise was carried out on behalf of the committee All additional KPMG fees were approved in by the Head of Internal Audit.
No material changes accordance with AMECs policy covering non-audit were identified as being necessary as a result of services.
As a result of the application of this this exercise.
policy and additional discussions with the external auditor, the directors do not believe that KPMGs independence has been compromised because of their additional work on behalf of the company.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 43 Report of the directors continued OO OO Nominations committee Makes recommendations Compliance and ethics committee Considers, to the board concerning the appointment or approves and reviews AMECs Code of Business termination of a director or the Company Secretary Conduct the Code at least annually and authorises and, in the case of a non-executive director and the its implementation.
The Code covers any member of Chairman, the extension of an existing appointment.
AMECs staff or management, particularly those who have or could have any influence over contractual The committee also regularly reviews board relationships of any kind.
succession planning, in conjunction with reports from the Chief Executive and Group Human Resources The committee considers all matters relating to the Director on senior management succession planning, appointment of AMECs Chief Compliance Officer and so as to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills reviews the Officers regular reports on compliance is maintained both within AMEC and on the board.
and ethics matters to the committee.
It also considers the scope and planning of all compliance OO Remuneration committee Sets, and reviews as activity within AMEC.
necessary, the overall contractual and remuneration framework for the Chairman and for the executive In the event of an actual or suspected breach of directors, Persons Discharging Managerial the Code, a member of the committee would take Responsibility and the Company Secretary, together responsibility for and manage any investigation the designated executives, including pension into the relevant matters.
The committee may use rights and annual bonus incentives.
internal resources and is also authorised to employ external consultants on AMECs behalf to carry out It considers and determines such other matters any such investigation.
relating to the engagement of the Chief Executive and the designated executives, including matters As announced on 26 October 2009, AMEC has paid relating to the enforcement of their service contracts a sum of 4.9 million plus associated costs in and payments on termination, as the Chairman and respect of a Civil Recovery Order following the Chief Executive respectively refer to the committee.
identification by the company of certain irregular payments received between November 2005 and It agrees the terms to be offered to a proposed new early 2007.
External advisers were immediately Chairman or executive director.
appointed and AMEC self-reported its findings to the Serious Fraud Office in March 2008.
As part of It reviews the salaries of the designated executives AMECs commitment to maintain the highest ethical annually and the Chairman biennially, or more standards, an independent consultant has been frequently as is deemed necessary by the committee appointed to review and report on AMECs ethics chairman.
It agrees the performance targets of and compliance programme.
designated executives and the levels of bonus to be paid to them under the annual bonus incentive scheme.
It determines and agrees with the Chief Executive the remuneration policy and structure, including annual bonus, for other functional executives and senior operational executives immediately below board level.
It approves performance targets, participation and level of awards for any executive share-based incentive scheme.
44 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials The following table is a record of the directors attendance at board and principal board committee meetings during the year ended 31 December 2009.
Compliance AMEC plc Audit Remu neration Nomi nations and ethics board committee committee committee committee Number of meetings 1 1 4 4 1 2 J M Green-Armytage 11 4 1 S Y Brikho 10 1 I P McHoul 11 N A Bruce 11 E P Airey up to 13 May 4 1 1 1 1 M O Hesse 7 4 4 2 P J Byrom 8 4 1 2 T W Faithfull 11 4 1 2 S R Thompson 9 4 3 2 OO Charities committee Makes commitments and Creditor payment policy donations in support of charitable, educational and Individual group businesses are responsible for cultural causes.
agreeing terms and conditions under which transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
It is OO Share transaction committee Provides clearance group policy that payments to suppliers are generally or denies permission to relevant employees to deal made in accordance with these terms and conditions, in AMEC plc shares.
provided that the supplier complies with all of its obligations in this regard.
The committees chaired by executive directors are as follows: The company had 42 days purchases outstanding OO as at 31 December 2009 2008: 46 days based on the Corporate transactions committee average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during OO Pensions and retirement benefits committee the year.
OO Risk review committee OO Share allotment committee Going concern The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the group has adequate resources to operate for the foreseeable future and, therefore, it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Further details of this review can be found on pages 65 and 66.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 45 Report of the directors continued Donations Annual general meeting special business Total donations worldwide amounted to 540,000 for Resolutions are being proposed at the annual general the year ended 31 December 2009 2008: 549,000.
Of meeting to authorise the company to make market these, donations to UK charities amounted to 313,000 purchases of shares in the company within prescribed for the year ended 31 December 2009 2008: 370,000. limits, to authorise the directors to allot shares in the company for a further period of one year and to allot a proportion of those shares for cash.
Disclosure of information to auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval A resolution is being proposed to amend the articles of this directors report confirm that, so far as they of association of the company to incorporate changes are each aware, there is no relevant audit information relating to the enactment of the Companies Act 2006. of which the companys auditor is unaware: and each The articles of association may only be amended by director has taken all the steps that he or she ought a shareholders special resolution.
to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish A resolution relating to the calling of general meetings, that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
other than annual general meetings, on 14 days notice will also again be proposed at the meeting.
The above statement is made in accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the board M Blacker Auditors Company Secretary The board will be recommending the appointment 4 March 2010 of Ernst & Young as AMECs auditors to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The recommendation follows a formal audit tender process initiated to ensure the company continues to receive best value for its audit services.
46 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009
