Power & Process 1 Change Underlying million 2009 2008 % % Our vision is to become the innovative Revenue 788.1 1,021.8 23 26 partner delivering full life cycle services EBITA 55.4 58.3 5 9 for clean energy.
2 EBITA margin % 7.0 5.8 120bps Neil Bruce Chief Operating Officer Order book bn 1.17 1.28 9 Natural Resources and Power & Process Average number 3 of employees 7,061 7,922 11 1 Growth measured against 2008 as restated for material acquisitions and movements in material currencies.
2 2008: excluding restructuring costs of 0.6 million.
3 Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
Description of business Business overview Principal activities: Nuclear, Conventional Power, The Power & Process division provides a balanced Transmission & Distribution, Renewables, Bioprocess.
portfolio of consulting, EPC Engineering, Procurement, Total life of asset services provided to customers in the Construction and asset support services across the power and process markets, principally in Europe and life cycle of projects and investments to a broad range the Americas.
34 per cent of 2009 revenues generated of public, private and utility customers principally by capex services with the rest in opex.
located in the UK, Europe and Americas, with strong emphasis on energy and process assets Principal locations: AMEC has operations in mature and infrastructure.
markets and frontier regions, with major offices in Atlanta, GA, Greenville, SC US : Darlington, Knutsford The business portfolio is diverse due to the broad UK : Santiago Chile : Toronto and Vancouver Canada.
range of services provided and the sector coverage.
The business mix has continued to migrate towards Revenue split: 57 per cent UK Europe: 43 per cent projects which provide an attractive balance of risk and Americas.
This shift is reflected in the improvement in the EBITA margin to 7.0 per cent in 2009 2008: 5.8 per Customers include: ARAUCO, AWE, BP Verenium, cent despite challenging market conditions.
Bruce Power, CMPC, EDF Energy, Enbridge, Imperial Oil, Milford Energy, National Grid, NDA Vision 2015 has established a clear strategic focus on Nuclear Decommissioning Authority, Ontario Power clean energy and carbon efficiency, with the intent to Generation, Range Fuels, RWE, SABIC, Scottish Power, grow existing markets and selectively pursue growth Sellafield, Southern Company, Total, Wales and into new markets and geographies.
AMEC will continue its gradual reduction in activities Significant new contracts in 2009 included: EDF in the Industrial sector.
By 2015, it is expected that such Energy contract for West Burton gas-fired power activities will no longer be undertaken.
station: first solar power project with Renewable Ventures: Laja plant modernisation project and Santa Fe plant capacity increase for CMPC: National Grid Offshore contract to provide technical due diligence support in their bid to become an offshore transmission operating licence owner: project management of a prototype biofuels plant for Range Fuels: energy efficiency project for Packaging Corporation America in Valdosta, Georgia, US.
16 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials OO Nuclear Supporting major reactor re-start programmes such AMECs nuclear capability has been developed over as Bruce Power in Ontario, Canada 50 years: AMEC is experienced in supporting the full OO Providing key technical and project management life cycle of nuclear energy, with expertise covering services to support the continued operation, a large range of nuclear technologies.
Customers enhancement and life time extension of existing include major utilities, governments, national reactor fleets regulators and other significant stakeholders.
OO Managing UK decommissioning programmes, Key market segments served by AMEC are: holding a key position within Nuclear Management Partners NMP for the management of the OO New build Sellafield complex on behalf of the NDA.
In its first OO year of operation, NMP has exceeded original Reactor support including life time extension expectations in the reduction of high hazards at OO Nuclear decommissioning and waste management.
the Sellafield complex AMEC provides services across the full asset life cycle, OO Providing project management, engineering and including programme management, major project safety assurance services to nuclear management, engineering, outage management, decommissioning programmes across Europe safety design and assessment, research and OO Providing licensing and regulatory support for the development, radiochemical analysis, radiological, complete asset life cycle from engineering, through environmental and other specialist technical services.
commissioning and operation to decommissioning Its principal offices are in Knutsford UK and Toronto OO Active in defence-related nuclear activities Canada with locations in Eastern Europe and research and naval reactor plant programmes and South Africa.
the UKs strategic deterrent programme.
AMECs nuclear business remains technology independent and its experience ranges across all four Markets generations of nuclear technology.
The nuclear industry is experiencing a worldwide renaissance which is driven by: AMEC also supports developments in fusion technology and is involved in some of the most significant OO Increasing worldwide energy demand decommissioning and waste management projects.
OO Need for reduced greenhouse gas emissions and The business works with the customers in environmentally clean technology to replace an aged relationships based on partnering to support their asset base and help minimise climate change major assets, and has significant experience in OO Security of supply concerns, as it is less subject effectively managing complex stakeholder to economic or political uncertainty relationships across the industry, governments, OO Good performance and safety record of reactor regulators, supply chain and communities.
Principal activities include: Forecasts for global nuclear capacity by 2030 range OO Providing pre-licensing and architect and owner from 473GW gigawatts to 748GW.
This represents an engineer services ensuring support for project increase of 27 per cent and 101 per cent respectively construction management on new build from the 2008 capacity of 372GW.
programmes worldwide AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 17 Power & Process continued The longevity of the nuclear market is a key attribute Conventional thermal generation gas, coal, oil and AMEC is positioning itself to be a major player in its in the period to 2030 will still represent over 50 per current and target regions.
In the UK, the Government cent of the total investments, equating to some has announced its intention to replace the current UK US$12 billion worldwide.
Approximately 20 per cent of fleet of nuclear power stations with a new build this is expected to be in North America, with a further programme of initially four reactors.
Over the next eight per cent from Europe.
One half of the planned 15 years, AMEC will be actively supporting EDF in the investment will be in the BRIC Brazil, Russia, India, UK to build new nuclear power plants, the first of which China countries, closely followed by Europe and North is expected to start construction in 2012 and be America.
Planned thermal capacity additions in the UK operational by 2017.
With its roles at Sellafield and to 2012 are 15GW.
Dounreay, Power & Process is a major player in UK decommissioning, a sector valued at 73 billion Transmission & Distribution T&D UK Nuclear Decommissioning figures.
This sector covers power transmission and distribution for medium, high, and extra high voltage transmission In Ontario, there are plans to refurbish four existing lines and cables, substations and interconnectors.
reactors so extending their life by 30 years.
On the It also includes gas transmission and distribution, same Darlington site, an environmental assessment encompassing AMECs activities in high pressure gas is underway for up to four new build reactors.
Other import terminals, storage and transmission, and low key geographies for AMEC include Central and Eastern pressure gas distribution.
AMEC provides consulting and feasibility studies Conventional Power through to detailed engineering, project management, This sector comprises generation of electricity from programme management, construction, EPCm and conventional sources other than nuclear, and also commissioning services.
air quality control systems AQCS for emissions Major customers include T&D system owners such as control work.
National Grid in the UK and US, EDF, Wales and West The majority of services are performed for regulated Utilities, operating in both regulated and non-regulated utilities and independent power producers, primarily environments.
in Europe and the Americas.
Customers value AMECs Current and recent activities in T&D include: experience with their assets and the ability to provide innovative solutions.
The services provided include OO The Electricity Alliance West for National Grid in the consultancy and feasibility studies, engineering, UK a five year, 500 million programme to upgrade EPCm and construction.
the overhead power lines and underground cables across the Western half of England and all of Wales Markets OO The North East Power Alliance for National Grid in The sector exhibits long-term sustainable demand and the US a five year programme to support the is less subject to major cyclical swings.
It is driven by: delivery of National Grids long-term US OO transmission US$1.7 billion capital investment increasing worldwide energy demand and programme in New York and New England electrification programmes OO ageing, inefficient and life expired assets OO need for emissions control technologies to help minimise climate change OO security of supply and fuel mix.
Source: IEA World Energy Outlook 2009.
18 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials OO The M1 Gas Alliance for National Grid in the UK Renewables and Bioprocess an eight year services contract to upgrade the gas Renewables network along the M1 corridor between Sheffield AMEC recognises the vast potential in renewables, and Leicester coupled with continued uncertainties surrounding OO The South Wales Expansion Project design and market growth timescales, technology selection and delivery of new gas compression station in South industry structure.
AMECs renewables experience is Wales and upgrade of two stations in central focused around power generation using new low England.
carbon, sustainable technologies resources, including wind, biomass, alternative biofuels and marine.
AMEC AMEC has strong expertise in designing and managing is working increasingly in collaboration with power large power grid uncertainties in close partnership utilities, financial institutions, government agencies, with its key customers.
technology developers, OEMs original Equipment Manufacturers and specialist consultants in this field.
Markets AMEC is providing consultancy support to technology The sector is characterised by medium-term, development for Carbon Capture and Storage CCS sustainable growth which will also be less subject and marine energy in the UK, while repositioning in to major cyclical swings.
wind as a provider of engineering, development OO Increasing global power demand creates the support and delivery services.
In wind AMEC completed requirement for increased interconnection environmental assessments for Centricas proposed Race Bank and Docking Shoal offshore wind farms OO Shifts in supply and demand points, with the in the UK.
transition to low carbon generation and renewable energy in remote locations, drive system In Canada, the business holds a strong position in wind configuration changes EPC and construction services.
In the US, AMEC is OO T&D networks in AMEC current and future developing a position in solar having recently secured territories require major asset renewal to replace a contract for EPC services for a new plant at Colorado life-expired assets following many years of State University.
Bioprocess Based on external data sources, AMEC believes that The Bioprocess sector includes AMECs activities in over 80 per cent of projected investment occurs in biofuels, pulp and paper, refining and petrochemicals.
27 countries, principally in those regions subject to It covers established businesses and emerging power congestion combined with high demand growth.
biomass technologies to create energy, including The UK is forecast to grow at over 20 per cent to 2015, biofuels and wood pellet production.
AMEC has the North Eastern United States at over 30 per cent considerable expertise and experience in wood source: National Grid and South Africa at over handling, storage and conveyance, boiler technologies 31 per cent source: Eskom.
and co-firing of biomass in industrial boilers within the conventional power sector which is readily Gas investment will continue to grow in the short term, transferable to biomass.
driven primarily by the issues of security of supply and the need to increase storage capacity in Europe and Biofuels are driven by clean fuels legislation.
is a leader in the development of cellulosic ethanol, and has contributed to high-profile demonstration plants.
Services include economic feasibility studies, detailed engineering, project management and construction management services.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 19 Power & Process continued The pulp and paper sector covers grades of printing New Energy Finance predicts global biomass and writing paper, tissue, boxboard, container board, compound annual growth in capacity to 2030 of 5.5 per and other speciality products.
AMEC is a market leader cent, meaning the installed capacity will reach almost in the Americas as a full-service provider.
More than half of this is expected to be in Europe and the Americas.
In downstream process, AMEC provides services from the UK including: turnarounds and maintenance, The markets for both biodiesel and bioethanol are selective consultancy, engineering, project expected to grow between 2009 and 2018 by a management and construction for petrochemical compound annual rate of five per cent and six per cent assets.
Customers include major oil and gas respectively Source: RNCOS 2008. companies such as SABIC, BP and Shell.
In AMECs opinion, the market outlook for pulp and paper in South America remains reasonably firm, Markets influenced by the pricing cycle of the commodity pulp The renewables sector is driven by the requirement business and mill expansions.
The North American to meet national and international emissions control market is being driven by government incentives to and pollution control legislation, and incentive create green power cogeneration and related mill mechanisms including short-term stimulus packages improvements.
The UK downstream market outlook remains According to International Energy Agency IEA challenging and weak over the short term, with predictions, wind will provide 12 per cent of global projects deferred and cancelled in response to the electricity generating capacity by 2050.
To achieve this, global financial crisis.
47 GW will need to be added on average each year, a 75 per cent increase on 2008 capacity.
The same Industrial report suggests that 21 per cent of the investment will The Industrial sector includes a number of activities be in Europe, 14 per cent in North America.
in sectors such as cement and pharmaceuticals which For solar technologies, the IEA predicts that do not form a part of AMECs vision for 2015.
Revenues photovoltaic could account for 11 per cent of global dropped by 74 per cent in 2009 and further reductions power generation by 2050, which would require a are expected going forward.
six-fold increase in annual industrial production by 2020.
Concentrated solar power is also expected to Strategy grow and could be even more significant than As part of AMECs Vision 2015, the Power & Process photovoltaic.
Marine also has significant potential division established a clear strategy to focus on clean though currently most of the technological innovation energy and carbon efficiency as a sustainable platform is at an early stage of development.
for future growth post economic recovery.
CCS is potentially a very large segment with the The division will increase its range of services in possibility of significant global investment.
However Europe and the Americas through organic growth and it has yet to be deployed in a major way beyond niche acquisitions, and grow internationally in selected demonstration projects.
geographies as a leading supplier of high-value consultancy, engineering, project management and Under the IEA reference scenario, overall renewables construction services for the nuclear, conventional are projected to increase from 18 per cent of the global power, transmission & distribution, renewables and generation mix in 2007 to 20 per cent in 2015 and bioprocess sectors.
20 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials In 2009 Power & Process strengthened its global The average number of employees in Power & Process competitive position through the following declined by 11 per cent reflecting the managing down partnerships: of the cost base in accordance with lower levels of activity during the period.
OO The creation of AMEC Partners Korea, a joint venture with KEPCO, KOGAS and KDB, whereby AMEC will The order book at 31 December was 1.17 billion leverage its strong engineering, safety and project 31 December 2008: 1.28 billion, down on the programme management capability to expand into previous year due to project deferrals by customers new territories and the strategic refocusing exercise.
The order book can be analysed as follows: OO In India AMEC has formed a strategic partnership with leading player Hindustan Construction Co. Ltd. OO Capex 39 per cent: opex 61 per cent 2008: capex 37 per cent: opex 63 per cent The group will maintain a balanced portfolio of services OO focusing on both EBIT growth through higher value UK Europe 50 per cent: Americas 50 per cent 2008: services and volume growth from project delivery UK Europe 54 per cent: Americas 46 per cent.
A technology neutral position will be The Sellafield contract, as an equity accounted joint maintained with the group positioned as expert partner venture, is not included in the Power & Process of choice, aligned with technology providers as required order book.
to access clients, sector and market opportunities.
Markets are expected to remain challenging in 2010.
Further details on Vision 2015 can be found at The Sellafield contract is now well established and amec.
the divisions focus on its core sectors, which are supported by long-term market fundamentals and Financial performance 2009 strong customer relationships, position AMEC well Results continue to reflect managements efforts to for growth in the longer term.
Pricing pressure will refocus the business model and core services to be be mitigated by the ongoing positive effects of higher value-add, lower execution risk.
Incremental margin improvements are anticipated as the older contracts Revenue for the period was down 23 per cent, to move towards completion and the strategic refocusing 788.1 million in 2009 2008: 1,021.8 million.
40 per cent of this decline reflected the completion of four older contracts.
These are contracts that do Major agreements or contracts during 2009 are shown not meet the new criteria of low-risk services with on page 16. high-value add.
Further volume decline also came Further details on these, and other contract awards, from weaknesses in process end markets in the UK may be found at amec.
and Americas, and project delays in the Conventional Power sectors.
EBITA declined 5 per cent, to 55.4 million 2008: 58.3 million, as improvements in operational efficiency, and a 15 million contribution from the major Sellafield joint venture contract were offset by lower levels of activity and a net loss of 10 million on the older contracts.
Control of any remaining liability on these contracts is a key management focus.
Overall EBITA margin improved by 120bps, to 7.0 per cent.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 21
