Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials Our management team Samir Brikho Keith Bradford Chief Executive Group Human Resources Director Samir Brikho was appointed Chief Executive in 2006.
Keith Bradford joined AMEC in April 2009 as Group Since May 2008 he has been Chairman of the UK Human Resources Director.
He is also responsible for Energy Excellence Board, launched by UK Trade & sustainability.
He was previously Senior Vice President Investment, the UK Governments international of HR Global Operations at GlaxoSmithKline.
business development organisation and was appointed UK business ambassador in February 2010.
He was Sue Scholes previously a member of the Group Executive Director of Communications Committee of ABB Ltd. Switzerland and Chairman Sue Scholes is Director of Communications and has of ABB Lummus Global.
responsibility also for investor relations.
She joined AMEC in 2007, having previously been Head of Investor Ian McHoul Relations at Brambles Industries plc.
Chief Financial Officer Ian McHoul joined AMEC and was appointed Chief Franois-Philippe Champagne Financial Officer in September 2008.
A Chartered Strategic Development Director Accountant, he was previously Group Finance Director Franois-Philippe Champagne is Strategic of Scottish and Newcastle plc.
Development Director, with responsibility for mergers and acquisitions activity and strategy.
He is a nonNeil Bruce executive director of TakingItGlobal, a non-profit Chief Operating Officer organisation and was selected by the World Economic Natural Resources and Power & Process Forum as a Young Global Leader 2009.
He joined Neil Bruce has been Chief Operating Officer for the AMEC in 2008.
Natural Resources division since 2006 and the Power & Process division since December 2009.
He was Michael Blacker appointed as an executive director for AMEC plc on General Counsel and Company Secretary 21 January 2009.
Since March 2009 he has been As General Counsel, Michael Blacker is responsible Chairman of the UK Oil & Gas advisory board of for the provision of legal and risk management services UK Trade & Investment.
He is an Honorary Professor across the organisation.
He was also appointed at Aberdeen Business School at the Robert Gordon Company Secretary on 20 August 2009.
He was previously Managing Director of been with AMEC since 1997.
AMEC Oil and Gas, having joined AMEC in 1997.
Roger Jinks President Earth & Environmental Roger Jinks has been President of the Earth & Environmental division since 2000.
He was previously Executive Vice President for Western Canada Western Coast US operations for AGRA Earth and Environmental.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 37
