Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials Natural Resources 1 Change Underlying million 2009 2008 % % The strength of our customer Revenue 1,300.9 1,204.2 8 1 relationships and the value we EBITA 154.3 129.3 19 9 continue to deliver give us confidence EBITA margin % 11.9 10.7 120bps for the long term.
Order book bn 1.71 1.71 in line Neil Bruce Chief Operating Officer Average number 2 Natural Resources and Power & Process of employees 9,577 10,713 11 1 Growth measured against 2008 as restated for material acquisitions and movements in material currencies.
2 Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
Description of business and project management services contract for BP in Principal activities: Oil & Gas services, Oil Sands United Arab Emirates: Sigma3 joint venture contract and Mining & Metals.
Total life of asset services extension for Shell: offshore maintenance services for ranging from engineering design through to Woodside Energy.
65 per cent of 2009 revenues generated by asset development capex services, Business overview with the remainder in asset support opex.
Activities The Natural Resources division, comprising the Oil are concentrated mainly in the upstream sector & Gas services, Oil Sands and Mining & Metals 90 per cent of 2009 revenues, with the balance businesses, provides services to an increasingly broad being in midstream and downstream.
range of customers around the world.
The business has strong, long-term relationships with customers Principal locations: AMEC has operations in mature and is today recognised as a world leader in the markets and frontier regions, with major offices in provision of engineering, project management and Aberdeen, London, Great Yarmouth, Guildford, asset support services, with particular expertise in Darlington UK : Uralsk Kazakhstan : Baku large and complex projects in growth regions and in Azerbaijan : Calgary, Toronto, Saskatoon, Vancouver extending the life of assets in the mid-late stages of Canada : Houston, Texas US : Kuala Lumpur their life cycle.
Malaysia : Kuwait: Perth, Brisbane Australia : Shanghai China : Santiago Chile : Belo Horizonte The business portfolio is well balanced by geography, Brazil : Lima Peru : Singapore: Johannesburg by end market, and in terms of the nature of services South Africa.
AMEC is differentiated in its ability to offer customers services and tools including training and Revenue split: 27 per cent UK Europe: 57 per cent development, and a sustainable approach to business Americas: 16 per cent Rest of World.
Through the Earth & Environmental Customers include: Apache, BG, BP, Chevron, division, AMEC is able to offer specialist environmental services at every stage of the project life cycle.
In the ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil, Fairfield Energy, Imperial Oil, INPEX, KazMunayGas KMG, Kuwait Oil Company, initial stages, AMEC advises clients on how to minimise the environmental impacts of a development.
For Maersk, Petrobras, PotashCorp, Shell, Syncrude, Teck, Vale, Woodside Energy and ZADCO.
operating facilities, AMEC has developed software that monitors existing assets and identifies areas to reduce Significant new contracts in 2009 included: both energy and emissions.
The majority of the divisions ExxonMobil Kizomba Satellites detailed design and engineering and project management staff have skills support: Imperial Oil Kearl oil sands project: INPEX which are transferable between market sectors.
Ichthys FEED: BP Unity operations and maintenance: deepwater engineering studies for Shell Malikai: The business is focused on the provision of services continuation of BP global agreement, with AMEC to a balanced portfolio of customers.
Contract types selected to support BPs deepwater Tubular Bells and are varied, both by region and by nature of service, Kodiak discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico: two year ranging from capex multiplier contracts with rewards contract extension for BG in North Sea: engineering to reimbursable opex contracts with performance AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 11 Natural Resources continued incentives.
The revenue profile of the division spans Oil and gas services contracts are cost reimbursable short-term less than 12 months consultancy services, or cost plus and increasingly performance-based: to long-term five years or more engineering asset no lump-sum fabrication is performed.
EBITA margins range from services-based, capital employed reflects mainly 8.8 per cent on average in 2009 2008: 8.0 per cent current trading assets.
for opex services to 13.3 per cent on average for capex Revenues in 2009 were generated primarily from contracts 2008:12.9 per cent.
activities with IOCs, which accounted for the vast During 2009, Natural Resources improved its majority of revenues, though NOC activity continues competitive position through internal performance to grow fast, with 2009 revenues up by 23 per cent.
improvement and acquisitions meeting specific Demand for AMECs services is linked to the level strategic imperatives in the areas of capability, of spending on new production facilities, and on geographic footprint and access to customers.
operations, maintenance, extending the life and increasing production from existing infrastructure.
Oil and Gas services AMEC offers a wide range of capex and opex services With centres of excellence in Aberdeen and London to an increasingly broad range of customers, which UK, Calgary Canada, Houston, Texas US, and includes International Oil Companies IOCs, National Kuala Lumpur Malaysia, the division is supported by Oil Companies NOCs and independent operators in a growing network of engineering centres around the Europe, Americas, Middle East and Africa, the Caspian, world.
Recent strategic investment and joint ventures South East Asia and China.
It does not operate in early in Qatar, Australia, South Africa, and South America cycle exploration or drilling, but is involved in every part provide improved access to customers in those regions, of the project delivery phase.
whilst the acquisition of PI Group see page 14 strengthened AMECs asset optimisation Services Facilities consultancy services.
OO OO Capex Construction Offshore fixed AMEC has global experience of delivering large and management platforms complex projects, with capabilities in deepwater and OO OO Consultancy Offshore floating hostile conditions including Arctic environments and production units earthquake-prone regions.
It has developed a strong OO Design engineering position in frontier regions including the Caspian, OO Onshore booster OO Front-end South East Asia and West Africa.
Front-end stations, gathering engineering engineering contract wins over the last eighteen centres, tank OO months have positioned AMEC well for future growth.
Hook up and farms, gas-oil commissioning Further details can be found in the Vision 2015 separation plants presentation on amec.
In the opex arena, AMEC OO Installation OO Pipelines is a leading international asset support provider, OO OO Opex Brownfield Offshore platforms servicing more than 200 facilities daily.
It is the market engineering and and infrastructure leader in UK North Sea brownfield services and is project management developing its position as a provider of duty holder OO Onshore oil and services to new entrant operators in the region.
OO Duty holder gas fields OO OO Facilities engineering Asset optimisation OO OO Operations and Decommissioning maintenance support and cessation of production OO Production operations 12 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials Markets Oil Sands The oil and gas services market saw a turbulent 2009, AMEC is the market leader in project management, though with signs of a recovery by the end of the year.
engineering services and the provision of infrastructure to the upstream surface mining oil sands sector.
The International Energy Agency IEA forecast From helping to build the worlds first oil sands plant increased demand for oil of around 24 per cent by 2030, in 1967 to the worlds largest plant in 1978, AMECs with most of the increase expected to be from OPEC operations have matured along with the industry, with members, mainly Middle East and Africa.
In addition, participation in most recent oil sands developments.
continued capital and operating spend is required to maintain production in existing regions.
During 2009, AMEC has been combining the skills of employees across each of its three divisions to work A Douglas Westwood report The World Offshore on Phase 1 of the Kearl oil sands project in Canada, for Oil & Gas Production & Spend Forecast 2009-2013, Imperial Oil Limited.
This project is also a good example published in mid-2009, found the worldwide offshore of workshare, in which multiple offices combine to meet expenditure including both capex and opex in 2009 the needs of AMECs customers.
It is being run from had returned to 2007 levels, but forecast that the AMECs Calgary offices and has seen contributions five year spend from 2009 to 2013 would rise to from Vancouver, Toronto, Aberdeen and Houston.
US$1,350 billion, up from US$950 billion in the previous five years.
Services in 2009 were provided on a reimbursable basis other than for some activities within the Oil Sands There is a continued trend of resources being more Infrastructure business which have fixed price elements.
difficult to extract, and AMECs experience of Arctic, deepwater and complex projects gives the group a Markets good position.
At the same time, environmental The oil sands market saw a turbulent 2009, though pressures have increased and this is another area with signs of a recovery by the end of the year.
where AMEC can demonstrate a strong track record in helping its customers.
The mature oil and gas sector The Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers has ageing infrastructure and increasingly depleting estimated in a January 2010 report that production reserves which AMEC is well positioned to service, both from the oil sands will be approximately 1.8 million in terms of asset support services, performance and barrels per day by 2012, and 2.9 million barrels per day efficiency improvements, and decommissioning and by 2020.
This compares with 1.5 million barrels per day cessation of production.
Major investment being sanctioned includes Suncor on phases 3 and 4 of its Firebag development, Opex activity is set to grow in part because globally the and Imperial Oil proceeding to development of Kearl.
number of complex facilities continues to increase.
These facilities are at different, and ever increasing, Two main extraction techniques are used in the oil stages of maturity and therefore require a growing sands: surface mining, which currently accounts for amount of maintenance input.
some 56 per cent of production, and in-situ, which is expected to increase its share of the market over the The Westwood report indicates that between 2009 and next 10 years.
In-situ methods, used to extract deeper 2013 operations spend will rise to US$549 billion, from reserves, utilise steam injected into reservoirs to US$379 billion invested in the period 2004 to 2008. mobilise the oil.
With leading market positions in mature markets and frontier regions, early life cycle visibility, a balanced portfolio of services and a diversified customer base, AMEC is well positioned to grow.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 13 Natural Resources continued AMEC is aware of the environmental concerns Markets raised by activities in the oil sands.
The full capability The mining sector as a whole has been impacted by the of the Earth & Environmental division see page 23 fall in commodity prices since 2008.
However AMEC for specific services can be used to ensure that has mitigated potential impacts by strategically customers meet, and where possible, exceed local positioning itself to support a diverse range of legislation, providing them with solutions to commodities and service markets.
AMECs long standing and leading position in potash projects is proving beneficial as potash project developments have continued to be relatively strong.
Mining & Metals AMEC is also well placed in other markets such as AMEC offers mining consultancy including ore uranium extraction and should be in a good position resource estimation, mine planning and feasibility to exploit the growing demand for uranium for use in studies, design and project and construction nuclear energy.
In addition, AMEC provides services to management services to global mining customers a number of gold-mining companies and this market producing commodities including potash, gold, has remained strong as gold prices have increased diamonds, base metals, coal, iron ore and uranium.
The business operates from strategic mining locations including Perth and Brisbane Australia : Belo Horizonte Brazil : Saskatoon, Toronto and Vancouver Canada : Strategy Johannesburg South Africa : Santiago Chile and For Natural Resources, Vision 2015 reinforced AMECs Lima Peru.
long-term philosophy of being a customer-focused business.
The strategy is to expand both geographical The business is a recognised leader in environments coverage and capabilities to support AMECs where projects have significant logistical challenges customers.
This will be achieved through both associated with remote location and difficult access.
AMEC occupies a top-tier position in international consulting and a leading position in the North and The acquisition of GRD, and the opportunity it provided South American Engineering, Procurement and to combine the mining expertise and global coverage Construction management EPCm markets, where of AMEC and Minproc, is one good example of this it has provided services for many of the worlds long-term strategy in action.
Other examples of how AMEC strengthened its On 17 November 2009 AMEC acquired GRD Limited, competitive position in 2009 through acquisitions, joint an Australian listed company.
GRDs main business ventures and partnerships in order to better serve its is GRD Minproc, a world class engineering and customers included: project delivery business specialising in the design, OO AMEC Black Cat joint venture with Black Cat procurement and construction of mineral projects, Engineering in Qatar with primary operations in Australia, South Africa and South America.
OO Improved asset optimisation and efficiency through the acquisition of Performance Improvements PI The acquisition has added world class technical Group UK.
capabilities in a number of key commodities, including copper, gold, nickel, uranium and iron, which will Further, on 29 January 2010, AMEC announced the further enhance the offering of AMECs mining acquisition of Currie & Brown Australia Pty Ltd, business.
It also delivers critical mass in Australasia strengthening the provision of independent business as well as enhancing AMECs presence in Africa and consultancy services worldwide.
14 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials AMEC continues to see acquisition opportunities in Recent contract wins reflect Natural Resources Natural Resources end markets and aims to make deliberate strategic positioning in a challenging further selective acquisitions in order to further market.
As customer capital expenditure came under improve its competitive position.
pressure and project sanctions declined, AMEC concentrated on winning the front-end concept and Further details on Vision 2015 can be found on page 8 design phase of major deepwater capex projects.
Not only do these projects fit well with AMECs core competencies, but they also place AMEC in a strong Financial performance position to win the follow-up EPCm work in 2010 The Natural Resources division achieved another year and beyond.
of good results despite the reduction in industry capital The division continues to strengthen its relationship spend in 2009. with existing customers ExxonMobil, Shell, BP, BG, Overall revenue improved 8 per cent to 1,300.9 million PotashCorp, KOC, Syncrude, Fairfield Energy as well as a result of acquisitions and currency movements.
as build new ones, such as with INPEX.
Good organic growth was seen in the Oil Sands Overall, the order book was maintained at its previous business, driven by the impact of the Kearl project, high levels.
It can be analysed as follows: which is progressing well.
In Oil & Gas services, opex activities declined slightly following the completion of OO Capex 55 per cent: opex 45 per cent 2008: capex two UK projects in early 2009.
New capex contracts in 43 per cent: opex 57 per cent the early phases of development in the second half of OO UK Europe 34 per cent: Americas 32 per cent: Rest 2009 are expected to ramp up later in 2010 and beyond.
of World 34 per cent 2008: UK Europe 35 per cent: Improvements in EBITA 154.3 million, up 19 per cent, Americas 29 per cent: Rest of World 36 per cent.
and a record EBITA margin 11.9 per cent, up 120 basis It is expected that markets will remain challenging in points, were driven by: 2010.
Customers are increasingly putting pressure on pricing though this will be mitigated by the ongoing OO A shift in the business mix.
Capex activities increased positive effects of Operational Excellence.
The careful to 65 per cent of total divisional revenues, and opex strategic positioning of Natural Resources in early activities represented 35 per cent 2008: capex stage contracts, and the long-term growth 55 per cent: opex 45 per cent.
Margins in capex and fundamentals of the markets served, continue to opex improved to 13.3 per cent and 8.8 per cent underpin longer-term growth.
respectively 2008: capex 12.9 per cent: opex 8.0 per cent Major agreements or contracts during 2009 are shown OO Favourable impact of currency movements and on page 11. acquisitions Further details on these, and other contract awards, OO The benefits of increased efficiency generated may be found at amec.
The average number of employees in Natural Resources declined 11 per cent, reflecting a greater proportion of higher margin, less labour intensive front-end work, and improved operational efficiency.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 15
