Directors report Directors report The Directors present their report and audited financial statements Shares acquired through the Companys employee share schemes for the 52 weeks to 21 March 2009. rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
Where, under the Companys All Employee Ownership Plan, Principal activities participants are beneficial owners of the shares but the trustee The Companys principal activities are grocery and related retailing.
is the registered owner, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction of the participants.
The Business review J Sainsbury Employee Benefit Trust waives its right to vote and to The Business Review sets out a comprehensive review of the dividends on the shares it holds.
Some of the Companys employee development and performance of the business for the 52 weeks share plans include restrictions on transfer of shares while the ended 21 March 2009 and future developments.
The Business shares are held within the plan.
Review is set out on pages 1 to 23 of this report.
All the information detailed in these pages is incorporated by reference into this report At the AGM held in July 2008, the Company was authorised by and is deemed to form part of this report.
shareholders to purchase its own shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the Articles of Association.
The Company made Dividends no purchases of its own shares during the year and no shares The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or made subject to a 9.6 pence per share 2008: 9.0 pence, making a total dividend for lien or charge.
the year of 13.2 pence per share 2008: 12.0 pence, an increase of 10.0 per cent over the previous year.
Subject to shareholders All of the Companys employee share schemes contain provisions approving this recommendation at the Annual General Meeting relating to a change of control.
On a change of control, options and AGM, the dividend will be paid on 17 July 2009 to shareholders awards granted to employees under the Companys share schemes on the register at the close of business on 22 May 2009. may vest and become exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable performance conditions at that time.
Changes to the Board No changes were made to the Board in 2008 09.
The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a Re-election of Directors takeover bid.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Anna Ford, John McAdam and Darren Shapland will retire by rotation and seek Ordinary shares re-election at the AGM.
Details of the changes to the ordinary issued share capital during the year are shown on page 68.
At the date of this report, 4 Full biographical details of all of the current Directors are set out 1,754,033,158 ordinary shares of 28 7 pence have been issued, on pages 24 and 25. are fully paid up and are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Annual General Meeting Major interests in shares The AGM will be held on Wednesday, 15 July 2009 at The Queen As at 12 May 2009, the Company had been notified by the following Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, investors of their interests in three per cent or more of the London SW1P 3EE at 11.00am.
The Chairmans letter and the Companys shares.
These interests were notified to the Company Notice of Meeting accompany this report, together with notes pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: explaining the business to be transacted at the meeting.
Number of % of shares voting rights At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed to declare a final dividend, to receive the Annual Report and Financial Statements Crdit Agricole Cheuvreux and approve the Remuneration Report, to elect Directors and to International Limited 55,965,129 3.21 re-appoint  LLP as auditors.
In addition, Judith Portrait a trustee of shareholders will be asked to renew both the general authority various settlements, including of the Directors to issue shares and the authority to issue shares charitable trusts 71,332,495 4.09 without applying the statutory pre-emption rights, and to authorise Legal & General Group plc 69,825,844 4.00 the Company to make market purchases of its own shares.
Lord Sainsbury of Turville 102,045,437 5.85 No such purchase has been made during the last financial year.
Qatar Holdings LLC 476,792,132 27.28 Shareholders will also be asked to adopt new Articles of Association Innotech Advisers Limited, an investment company 100 per cent owned by Lord Sainsbury of to reflect changes introduced by the provisions of the 2006 Turville, holds 92,000,000 shares in J Sainsbury plc.
Companies Act and authorise Directors to hold general meetings at 14 days notice.
A resolution to renew the authority to make Directors interests political donations as defined by Part 14 of the 2006 Companies The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the Act will also be proposed.
shares of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 40.
The Companys Register of Directors interests Share capital and control contains full details of Directors interests, shareholdings and The following information is given pursuant to Section 992 of the options over ordinary shares of the Company.
During the year, no Director had any material interest in any Except as described below in relation to the Companys employee contract of significance to the Groups business.
share schemes, there are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or the transfer of Directors indemnities securities in the Company: no person holds securities in the The Directors are entitled to be indemnified by the Company to the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association Company: and the Company is not aware of any agreements in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the between holders of securities that may result in restrictions in the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities.
The Company transfer of securities or voting rights.
Further details on the rights, has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each Director restrictions and obligations attaching to the share capital of the in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity Company, including voting rights, are contained in the Companys as Directors of the Company.
The Company purchased and Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association may only be maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance throughout changed with the agreement of shareholders.
Neither the indemnities nor the insurance provide cover in the event that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 J Sainsbury plc 27 Directors report continued Market value of properties Donations The Directors believe that the aggregate open market value of During the year, cash and in-kind donations to charitable Group properties exceeds the net book value as set out in note 11 organisations and other community projects totalled 5.7 million on page 58 and 59 of the financial statements.
Sainsburys colleagues, customers and suppliers raised 17.4 million 2008: 7.4 million for charities Essential contracts through events supported by the Company, including Comic Sainsburys has contractual and other arrangements with Relief and Fareshare, a charity specialising in food donation.
numerous third parties in support of its business activities.
None of the arrangements is individually considered to be The Company made no political donations in 2009 2008: nil.
essential to the business of Sainsburys.
Post balance sheet events Policy on payment of creditors Events after the balance sheet date are disclosed in note 38 on The policy of the Company and its principal operating companies page 92 of the financial statements.
is to agree terms of payment prior to commencing trade with a supplier and to abide by those terms on the timely submission Financial risk management of satisfactory invoices.
The Company is a holding company and The financial risk management and policies of the Group are therefore has no trade creditors.
Statements on the operating disclosed in note 29 on pages 73 to 77 of the financial statements.
companies payment of suppliers are contained in their financial statements.
Going concern As highlighted in the Financial Review on pages 16 to 21, the Group Corporate responsibility manages its financing by diversifying funding sources, configuring Sainsburys has a strong record in its commitment to corporate core borrowings with long-term maturities and maintaining responsibility, which is an everyday part of how the Company sufficient stand by liquidity.
Full details of the Groups financing does business.
Details of the Companys principal corporate arrangements can be found in note 20 on pages 64 and 65 of the responsibility initiatives and activities are set out on pages 12 to 15. financial statements.
The Companys Corporate Responsibility Report, which will be published in July 2009 www.
co. uk crreport2009, The debt refinancing in March 2006 removed the Groups reliance provides a comprehensive statement on corporate responsibility on unsecured credit markets for medium and long-term finance and and describes the Companys policies and activities in relation to the Groups first significant refinancing exposure is not until 2018. its five corporate responsibility principles: Best for Food and Health, Sourcing with Integrity, Respect for Our Environment, Making a As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well Positive Difference to Our Community and A Great Place to Work.
placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current challenging economic outlook.
The Directors are satisfied that the As part of A Great Place to Work the Company has well developed Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the policies for fair and equal treatment of all colleagues, employment foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going of disadvantaged persons and colleague participation.
During their concern basis in preparing the financial statements which are employment, the Company seeks to work with each individual, shown on pages 43 to 92. enabling them to reach and maximise their potential in the context of their own personal circumstances.
In addition, notes 29 and 30 on pages 73 to 79 of the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes Under the banner of a new programme, You Can, the Company for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: also actively works with a number of organisations which seek details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its to promote inclusion within the workplace.
These include Local exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Employment Partnerships, The Employers Forum on Disability Gold member, the Shaw Trust, Remploy and Mencap.
The Disclosure of information to auditors Company has also focused on the broader skills agenda and has Each of the Directors confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there set ambitious targets for enabling colleagues to achieve nationally is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant The Companys quarterly, interim and annual results are presented audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of to all senior management and are communicated to all colleagues.
Colleagues have always been encouraged to hold shares in the Company and over 45,000 colleagues are shareholders directly Auditors or through the Commitment Shares Plan Trust or the Sainsburys  LLP have expressed their willingness Share Purchase Plan Trust.
to be reappointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, resolutions to reappoint them as auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
By order of the Board Tim Fallowfield Company Secretary 12 May 2009 28 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Directors report
