Directors report for the 52 weeks ended 26 July 2009 The directors present their report and audited accounts Insurance against the liabilities of directors and officers of for the 52 weeks ended 26 July 2009. the company was in place throughout the year, in respect of their duties as directors and officers of the company.
Principal activities, business review and future developments Interest in contracts The principal activities of the company are the development No director has any material interest in any contractual and management of public houses.
Details of progress and agreement, which is or may be significant to the future developments are given on pages 2 to 6. company, subsisting during or at the end of the year, other than an employment contract.
Results and dividends The profit on ordinary activities for the year, Companys shareholders after taxation, was 25,299,000.
Details of the companys shareholders, including those beneficial interests notified to the company as As announced on 20 January 2009, the directors accounting for over 3% of the issued share capital, will not be proposing the payment of a final dividend.
Return of capital Takeover directive disclosures At the annual general meeting of the company, held on The company has an authorised share capital comprising 4 November 2008, the company was given authority 500 million ordinary shares of 2p each.
As at 26 July to make market purchases of up to 20,815,733 of its 2009, total issued share capital comprised 138,974,009 own shares.
During the year to 26 July 2009, no shares fully paid-up shares of 2p each.
The rights to these shares were purchased.
are set out in the companys articles of association.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of these shares or their Land attached voting rights.
In the opinion of the directors, the market value of land and buildings is not significantly different from the book value.
Details of significant shareholdings are set out on page 64.
Principal risks and uncertainties No person holds shares with specific rights regarding A review of the companys principal risks and control of the company.
uncertainties has been included within the finance review on pages 9 and 10.
The company operates an employee share incentive plan.
However, no specific rights with respect to the control of The financial and non-financial key performance the company are attached to these shares.
In addition, indicators KPIs the company operates a deferred bonus scheme, A review of the business, using financial and non-financial whereby, should a takeover occur, all shares held in trust KPIs, has been included within the finance review on would be transferred to the employee immediately.
The company is not aware of any agreements, among Significant contractual or other arrangements holders of securities known to the company, which The only contractual arrangement regarded by the may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities company as essential to its business is with DHL which or voting rights.
provides logistic services at the companys distribution centre in Daventry.
All appointments to the board are recommended by the nominations committee and are made in accordance with Directors the provisions of the articles of association.
The directors listed on page 11 served throughout the financial year, except for Sir Richard Beckett appointed The company has the power to issue and buy back shares 24 April 2009.
John Hutson, Elizabeth McMeikan and as a result of resolutions passed at the annual general John Herring retire by rotation, and Sir Richard Beckett meeting in 2008.
It is the companys intention to repeat was appointed by the directors in the year and offers these powers: the resolutions approving them are found himself for re-election.
Details of the terms under which in the notice of the annual general meeting for 2009. the directors, who were in office during the year, serve and their remuneration, together with their interests in In the event of a change of control, the company is the shares of the company, are given in the directors obliged to notify its main bank lenders.
The lenders shall remuneration report on pages 53 to 59. not be obliged to fund any new borrowing requests: facilities will lapse 10 days after the change of control, ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 47 Directors report if the terms on which they can continue have not been The directors are responsible for the maintenance and agreed on.
Any borrowings, including accrued interest, integrity of the corporate and financial information will become immediately repayable on such lapse.
included on the companys Web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and There are no significant agreements to which the dissemination of financial statements may differ from that company is party which may be subject to change of in other jurisdictions.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve There are no agreements among the companys directors consideration of these matters: accordingly, the auditors or employees which provide for compensation for loss accept no responsibility for any changes which may have of office or employment which occurs because of a occurred to the financial statements since they were takeover bid.
initially presented on the companys Web site.
It is stated clearly on the Web site that information published on the Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of Internet is accessible in many countries and that the annual report, the directors remuneration legislation in the United Kingdom, governing the report and the financial statements preparation and dissemination of financial information, may differ from that in other jurisdictions.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the Statement of disclosure of information to auditors financial statements, in accordance with applicable law In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs 2006, the directors report that, so far as they are aware, as adopted by the EU.
all relevant audit information has been disclosed to the companys auditors.
The directors have taken all of the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial steps which they ought to have taken as directors, in statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the order to establish that the companys auditors are aware directors have elected to prepare the company financial of that information.
statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under company law, the directors must not approve Auditors the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they The companys auditors,  LLP, give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and company and of the profit or loss of the company for the a resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed at period.
In preparing these financial statements, the the annual general meeting.
directors are required to: Going concern select suitable accounting policies and then The directors have made enquiries into the adequacy of apply them consistently.
the companys financial resources, through a review of make judgements and estimates which are reasonable the companys budget and medium-term financial plan, and prudent.
including capital expenditure plans and cash flow state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU forecasts: they have satisfied themselves that the have been followed, subject to any material departures company will continue in operational existence for the disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
For this reason, they continue to prepare the financial statements on the going-concern adopt the going-concern basis in preparing the companys basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the financial statements.
company will continue in business.
Employment policies The directors are responsible for keeping adequate Only through the skill and commitment of the companys accounting records which are sufficient to show and employees will its objectives be met.
All staff are explain the companys transactions and disclose, with encouraged to make a real commitment to the companys reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the success and to progress to more senior roles as they, company, at any time, to enable them to ensure that the themselves, develop.
financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 A heavy emphasis is placed on training programmes for of the IAS Regulations.
They are also responsible for all levels of staff: this highlights the importance placed safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for by the company on providing a high level of service to taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection its customers.
of fraud and other irregularities.
48 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Directors report In selecting, training and promoting staff, the company annual general meeting.
Set out below is an explanation has to take account of the physically demanding nature of the effect and purpose of the resolutions proposed.
The company is committed to equality of opportunity and to the elimination of Resolution 1 Receive and adopt the discrimination in employment.
The company aims to audited accounts create and maintain a working environment, terms and The directors recommend that the company adopt the conditions of employment and personnel and reports of the directors and the auditors and the audited management practices which ensure that no individual accounts of the company for the year ended 26 July 2009. receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of his or her race, religion, nationality, ethnic origin, age, Resolution 2 Approval of the directors disability, gender, sexual orientation or marital status.
remuneration report Employees who become disabled will be retained, where Resolution 2 in the notice of annual general meeting, possible, and retrained, where necessary.
which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, asks shareholders to approve the directors remuneration The company has established a range of policies, covering report, set out on pages 53 to 59. issues such as diversity, employees well-being and equal opportunities, aimed at ensuring that all employees are Resolutions 3 to 5 Re-election of Mr Hutson, treated fairly and consistently.
Ms McMeikan and Mr Herring as directors The companys articles of association require one-third of Internal communications seek to ensure that staff are the directors to retire from office at each annual general well informed about the companys progress, through meeting.
In addition, any director who has, at the annual the use of regular newsletters and briefings at staff general meeting, been in office for more than three years meetings, at which employees views are discussed and since his or her last appointment or re-appointment should taken into account.
also retire and may offer him or herself for re-election.
All staff participate in incentive bonus schemes related to Brief biographical details of each of the directors standing profitability and or service standards.
for re-election may be found on page 11 and the company Web site.
The re-election resolutions, which will be Policy on payment of suppliers proposed as ordinary resolutions, are set out as resolutions The company agrees on terms and conditions with all 3, 4 and 5 in the notice of annual general meeting.
suppliers before business takes place and has a policy of paying agreed invoices in accordance with the terms of Mr Hutson, Ms McMeikan and Mr Herring all have payment.
Trade creditors at the year end represented 55 extensive experience of the company or in business 2008: 44 days purchases.
generally, allowing them, subject to their re-election to the board, to contribute to the companys development.
Political and charitable contributions The board is therefore of the opinion that Mr Hutson, Contributions made by the company during the year, Ms McMeikan and Mr Herring should be re-elected at the to various charities, including CLIC Sargent Caring for annual general meeting.
No political contributions were made.
Further information Resolution 6 Election of Sir Richard Beckett about charitable contributions is disclosed in the as a director corporate social responsibility report on pages 44 to 46.
Sir Richard Beckett was appointed as a new director of the company on 24 April 2009.
Under the companys Business at the annual general meeting articles of association, when the board appoints a new On pages 65 to 67 is a notice convening the annual director, that director must stand for election at the next general meeting of the company for 4 November 2009, annual general meeting.
Sir Richard Beckett will therefore at which shareholders will be asked, as items of special stand for election at this years annual general meeting.
business, to give power to the directors to allot shares, to approve new articles of association, to give power to the Brief biographical details of Sir Richard Beckett may be directors to disapply the pre-emption requirements of found on page 11 and the company Web site.
The section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, to give power to election resolution, which will be proposed as an ordinary the directors to make market purchases of ordinary shares resolution, is set out as resolution 6 in the notice of in the capital of the company, subject to certain annual general meeting.
conditions, and to retain the ability to hold general meetings on 14 days notice.
The notice also sets out Sir Richard Beckett has extensive experience in regulatory details of the ordinary business to be conducted at the and licensing matters, allowing him, subject to his election ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 49 Directors report to the board, to contribute to the companys development.
Resolution 9 Adoption of new articles The board is therefore of the opinion that Sir Richard of association Beckett should be elected as a director at the annual It is proposed to adopt new articles of association the general meeting.
New Articles in order to update the companys current articles of association the Current Articles primarily to Resolution 7 Re-appointment of take account of the implementation of the Companies  LLP as auditors Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Resolution 7, set out in the notice of annual general Shareholders Rights Regulations and to reflect those meeting, which will be proposed as an ordinary provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which come into resolution, proposes that  LLP force on 1 October 2009.
Resolution 9 will be proposed should be reappointed as the companys auditors and as a special resolution.
authorises the directors to determine their remuneration.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are Resolution 8 Authority to allot summarised below.
Other changes, which are of a minor, The general authority previously given to the directors to technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor allot relevant securities will expire at the end of the changes which merely reflect changes made by the annual general meeting, convened for 4 November 2009.
Companies Act 2006 or, the Shareholders Rights Regulations, have not been noted in the summary below.
Accordingly, resolution 8, set out in the notice of annual The amendments will, if approved, take effect from the end general meeting, will be proposed as an ordinary of the annual general meeting.
The New Articles, showing resolution to authorise the directors pursuant to section all of the changes to the Current Articles, are available for 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot ordinary shares inspection, as noted on pages 51 and 52 of this document.
in the capital of the company: Resolution 10 Disapplication of pre-emption rights A up to an aggregate nominal amount of 917,228, The provisions of section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 representing approximately 33.3% of the nominal value which confer on shareholders rights of pre-emption in of the ordinary shares currently in issue: respect of the allotment of equity securities which are, or are to be, paid up in cash, other than by way of B up to a further aggregate nominal amount of allotment to employees under an employees share 917,228, representing approximately 33.3% of the scheme apply to the authorised, but unissued, ordinary nominal value of the ordinary shares currently in issue, shares of the company to the extent that they are not provided that they are offered by way of a rights issue in disapplied, pursuant to sections 570 and 573 of the favour of ordinary shareholders.
The authority unless previously varied, revoked or The current disapplication of these statutory pre-emption renewed will expire on the earlier of 15 months from the rights will expire at the end of the annual general date of passing the resolution and the conclusion of the meeting convened by the notice of annual general next annual general meeting.
Accordingly, resolution 10, as set out in the notice of annual general meeting, will be proposed as a The Association of British Insurers the ABI has revised special resolution to permit directors to allot shares its guidelines on share allotments following a report of without the application of these statutory pre-emption the Rights Issue Review Group.
Based on the new rights: first, in relation to offers of equity securities by guidelines, the limit on the directors authority to allot way of rights issue, open offer or similar arrangements shares under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 save that, in the case of an allotment pursuant to the may be increased from one-third to two-thirds of the authority in paragraph B of resolution 8, such allotment companys issued share capital.
The new guidelines shall be by way of rights issue only : second, in relation to provide that the amount of any authority above one-third the allotment of equity securities for cash, up to a must be applied to fully pre-emptive rights issues only and maximum aggregate nominal amount of 138,974 is valid for one year only.
representing approximately 5% of the nominal value of the ordinary shares of the company currently in issue.
The directors will exercise such authority to allot shares only when satisfied that it is in the interests of the company to The authority unless previously varied, revoked or do so.
They have no present intention, however, of renewed will expire on the earlier of 15 months from the exercising the authority, except in connection with the issue date of passing the resolution and the conclusion of the of shares under the companys share option schemes.
next annual general meeting of the company.
50 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Directors report Resolution 11 Purchase of ordinary shares Explanatory notes of principal changes to the In common with many other listed companies, the companys articles of association company proposes, once again, to seek an authority from shareholders to permit the company to purchase its own 1 The companys objects shares.
Accordingly, resolution 11 will be proposed as a The provisions regulating the operations of the company special resolution to authorise the company to make are currently set out in the companys memorandum and market purchases of up to 20,832,203 shares, just under articles of association.
The companys memorandum 15% of the companys current issued ordinary share contains, among other things, the objects clause which capital, at prices not less than the nominal value of an sets out the scope of the activities which the company ordinary share and not exceeding 105% of the average of is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to give a the middle-market quotations for an ordinary share for wide scope.
the five business days before each purchase exclusive of expenses.
The authority will last until the earlier of 15 The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the months from the date of passing the resolution and the constitutional significance of a companys memorandum.
conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the The Companies Act 2006 provides that a memorandum company.
The directors envisage that purchases would be will record only the names of subscribers and the number made only after considering the effects on earnings per of shares which each subscriber has agreed to take in the share and the benefits for shareholders generally.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the objects clause and all other provisions which are contained in the As at 26 July 2009, there were outstanding options of memorandum of a company already in existence at 286,210 ordinary shares, representing 0.21% of the 1 October 2009 are deemed to be contained in the companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority companys articles of association, but the company may under resolution 11 were to be exercised in full, this remove these provisions, by special resolution.
Further, the Companies Act 2006 states that, unless a Resolution 12 14 days notice for general meetings companys articles provide otherwise, a companys objects Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to Shareholder Rights Regulations increase the notice have an objects clause.
For this reason, the company is period required for general meetings of the company to proposing to remove its objects clause, together with all 21 days, unless shareholders approve a shorter notice other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue of period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
the Companies Act 2006, are treated as forming part of Annual general meetings will continue to be held on at the companys articles of association as of 1 October least 21 clear days notice.
Resolution 9 confirms the removal of these provisions for the company.
As the effect of this Before the coming into force of the Shareholder Rights resolution will be to remove the statement currently in Regulations on 3 August 2009, the company was able to call the companys memorandum of association regarding general meetings other than an annual general meeting on limited liability, the New Articles also contain an express 14 clear days notice, without obtaining such shareholder statement about shareholders limited liability.
In order to preserve this ability, Resolution 12, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks such 2 Articles which duplicate statutory provisions approval.
The approval will be effective until the companys Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are, in similar resolution will be proposed.
the main, to be omitted in the New Articles.
This is in line with the approach, advocated by the government, that Note that the changes to the Companies Act 2006 mean statutory provisions should not be duplicated in a that, in order to be able to call a general meeting on less companys constitution.
than 21 clear days notice, the company must make a means of electronic voting, for that meeting, available to 3 Authorised share capital and unissued shares all shareholders.
The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital: the New Recommendation Articles reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the The directors believe that the resolutions which are to be number of shares which they can, at any time, allot, proposed at the annual general meeting are in the best because allotment authority continues to be required interests of the company and its shareholders as a whole under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of and recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of employee share schemes.
them, as each of the directors intends to do, in respect of his or her own beneficial holding.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 51 Directors report 4 Redeemable shares 9 Voting by proxies on a show of hands Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the issue redeemable shares, it had to include, in its articles, Companies Act 2006, so that it now provides that each the terms and manner of redemption.
The Companies Act proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show 2006 enables directors to determine such matters instead, of hands, unless the proxy is appointed by more than provided that they are so authorised by the articles.
The one member, in which case the proxy has one vote for New Articles contain such an authorisation.
The company and one vote against, if the proxy has been instructed has no plans to issue redeemable shares, but, if it did so, by one or more members to vote for the resolution and the directors would need shareholders authority to issue by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
new shares in the usual way.
The Current Articles have been amended to reflect these changes.
5 Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and subdivide shares and reduce share capital 10 Notice of general meetings Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required The Shareholders Rights Regulations amend the specific enabling provisions in its articles to purchase its Companies Act 2006, to require the company to give 21 own shares, to consolidate or subdivide its shares and to clear days notice of general meetings, unless the reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves, company offers members an electronic voting facility and as well as shareholders authority to undertake the a special resolution, reducing the period of notice to not relevant action.
The Current Articles include these fewer than 14 clear days, has been passed.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a general meetings must be held on 21 clear days notice.
company will require only shareholders authority to do The New Articles amend the provisions of the Current any of these things and it will no longer be necessary for Articles to become consistent with the new requirements.
articles to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly, the relevant enabling provisions have been omitted in the 11 Adjournments for lack of quorum New Articles.
Under the Companies Act 2006, as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings 6 Variation of class rights adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 The Current Articles contain provisions about the variation clear days after the original meeting.
The Current Articles of class rights.
The proceedings and specific quorum have been changed to reflect this requirement.
requirements for a meeting convened to vary class rights are contained in the Companies Act 2006.
The relevant 12 General provisions have been amended, therefore, in the Generally, the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer New Articles.
language into the New Articles.
7 Provision for employees on cessation of business The Companies Act 2006 provides that the powers of the By order of the board directors of a company, to make provision for a person employed or formerly employed by the company or any Keith Down of its subsidiaries, in connection with the cessation or Company Secretary transfer to any person of the whole, or part, of the 11 September 2009 undertaking of the company or that subsidiary, may be exercised by the directors only if they are so authorised by the companys articles or by the company in general meeting.
The New Articles provide that the directors may exercise this power.
8 Suspension of registration of share transfers The Current Articles permit the directors to suspend the registration of share transfers.
Under the Companies Act 2006, share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The power in the Current Articles, to suspend the registration of transfers, is inconsistent with this requirement.
Accordingly, this power has been omitted in the New Articles.
