Directors, officers and advisers Tim Martin Chairman, aged 54 Registered office Wetherspoon House Tim founded the business in 1979, having previously studied law at Nottingham University Central Park and qualified as a barrister.
Reeds Crescent Watford John Hutson Chief Executive Officer, aged 44 WD24 4QL John joined the company in 1991 and was appointed to the board in 1996.
He is a graduate of Exeter University and previously worked with Allied Domecq.
Company number 1709784 Keith Down Finance Director and Company Secretary, aged 44 Registrars Keith joined the company and was appointed to the board in 2008, having previously Computershare Investor Services plc worked for Tesco plc.
He is a graduate of Leicester University and qualified as a PO Box 82 chartered accountant in 1991.
The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Paul Harbottle Chief Operating Officer, aged 41 Bristol Paul joined the company in 2003 and was appointed to the board in 2008.
BS99 7NH He is a graduate of Reading University and previously worked for the National Freight Consortium and Rank Hovis McDougall.
Chartered accountants and statutory auditors Su Cacioppo Personnel and Legal Director, aged 42  LLP Su joined the company in 1991 and was appointed to the board in 2008.
She is a graduate Solicitors of South Bank University and London Guildhall University and previously worked for Macfarlanes Courage Ltd and Allied Leisure.
Su worked in several operational roles in J D Wetherspoon, before being appointed as Bankers personnel director in 1999 and personnel and legal director in 2006.
Bank of Ireland Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi John Herring Senior Non-Executive Director, aged 51 Bayerische Landesbank John was appointed to the board in 1997 and is chairman of the audit and nomination BNP Paribas committees and a member of the remuneration committee.
He is a chartered accountant Crdit Industriel et Commercial and a non-executive director of Workplace Systems plc, EAT Limited and several other Dresdner Bank AG private companies.
Landesbank Baden-Wrttemberg Lloyds TSB Bank plc Elizabeth McMeikan Non-Executive Director, aged 47 Mizuho Corporate Bank Santander Elizabeth was appointed to the board in 2005 and is a member of the audit, remuneration The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and nomination committees.
Elizabeth is a graduate of Cambridge University.
She is a nonexecutive director of Direct Wines Ltd and a Civil Service commissioner.
Elizabeth previously Financial advisers worked for Tesco plc for 12 years, in a wide variety of commercial and operational roles, Investec Securities both in the UK and overseas.
Stockbrokers Debra van Gene Non-Executive Director, aged 54 Investec Securities Debra was appointed to the board in March 2006 and is the remuneration committee chair and a member of the audit and nomination committees.
Debra is a graduate of Oxford University.
She spent 17 years in the advertising industry, ending as deputy managing director of Butterfield Day Devito Hockney.
Since then, she has worked in the executive search industry.
She was a partner at Heidrick and Struggles and now runs her own company, Debra van Gene Associates Ltd, of which she is managing director.
Sir Richard Beckett Non-Executive Director, aged 65 Sir Richard was appointed to the board in 2009 and is a member of the remuneration and nomination committees.
Sir Richard was called to the bar in 1965 and took silk in 1987.
He was one of the pre-eminent practitioners in regulatory and licensing matters.
He has recently become a non-executive director of Mercantile Investment Trust plc.
Management board The management board comprises John Hutson, Keith Down, Su Cacioppo, Paul Harbottle and the following: Name Age Job title Length of service David Capstick 48 IT and Property Director 10 years Kirk Davis 38 Deputy Finance Director 1 year Martin Geoghegan 40 Operations Director 14 years Rebecca Payton 38 Marketing and Catering Director 10 years ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 11
