56 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Bonuses paid based on the 2009 results above and Unapproved Scheme together, the Share Option individual achievement against strategic objectives Schemes reflected the best practice aspects are summarised for Executive Directors in Table 7 recommended by the ABI Guidelines at that time.
Other senior management The Committee confirms that prudent and received bonus payments of between 15% and 30% appropriate arrangements are in place for any of Basic Salary.
acquisition and financing of shares to meet contingent liabilities and to provide shares or meet Annual Bonus Scheme for 2010 obligations.
The Company complies with the current During 2009, the Committee reviewed the overall ABI guidelines in relation to the issue of new shares.
performance of the Bonus Scheme and, following The Committee has discretion as to the application consultation with shareholders, proposes to of the Rules of the Share Option Schemes, implement several changes for 2010.
The maximum particularly in the level of the option grants and the opportunity for the Finance Director will increase setting of the performance conditions.
Grants are from 70% to 85% of salary and, for the Technical and made by reference to the market value the closing Commercial Directors, from 60% to 75% of salary.
mid market price on the day before grant of the The maximum opportunity for the Chief Executive Companys shares under option at the time of grant.
In the event of a change of control, the Committee The Committee also proposes some changes to the retains discretion to determine the treatment of performance measures for the annual bonus, in unvested options.
order to align the scheme more closely with the In granting share options the Committee takes into Groups strategy and key objectives.
The absolute account the ABI Guidelines in terms of individual and share price targets will be replaced by growth in collective limits and other factors such as the share price plus dividends Total Shareholder performance of the Company and the individual in Return or TSR relative to the FTSE 250 and FTSE the previous 12 months, the effect of the vesting of All-Share Oil & Gas Producers indices.
The grants made in previous years e. g. dilution, the cost Committee felt that relative TSR was a more to the Company, the overall remuneration level appropriate measure than absolute share price as it annual salary, bonus award and benefits of the captures management rather than sector-specific individual relative to the market and individuals performance and provides better alignment with performance in the previous year.
Reference is also shareholders through inclusion of the dividend.
made to the value of long-term incentive TSR continues to be a helpful indicator of overall arrangements at comparator companies using performance as it captures exploration success as analysis provided by Mercer.
well as production a key objective for JKX and, being measured relative to peers, is relatively Options granted, under the Share Option Schemes, independent of movements in the oil price.
The to the Executive Directors are currently limited to a relative TSR element will also be down-weighted by maximum of 100% salary in the case of the Chief the introduction of a Health, Safety and Environment Executive Officer and the Finance Director and 80% HSE measure.
for the Technical and Commercial Directors calculated by reference to the face value of the Going forward, the relative weightings of each Companys shares under option at the time of grant.
element of the annual bonus will be fixed for each of In 2009 options were also granted to senior the Executive Directors, in the interests of simplicity managers of between 30% and 70% of salary.
and to encourage executive management to operate as a team.
The relative weightings for 2010 will be Subsisting options vest based on 3-year share price as follows: performance both in absolute terms and relative to external benchmarks.
The Committee considers that Financial objectives: 40% comparison against the FTSE Index in which the 1-year relative TSR: 20% Company is a constituent at the time of the grant and against the FTSE Oil & Gas Producers Index is Strategic objectives: 30% the most appropriate external benchmark.
HSE: 10% For options granted in or after 2006, the number of options that can be exercised is determined by two Long-term incentive arrangements factors: 1 the actual increase in the Companys Share Option Schemes share price: and 2 a comparison of the actual At the time of implementation in 2001, the HM increase in the Companys share price to the higher Revenue & Customs HMRC Approved JKX Oil & of the change in the FTSE 250 and the FTSE Oil & Gas plc Discretionary Share Option Scheme 2001 Gas Producers Index.
The performance conditions Approved Scheme and the Unapproved JKX Oil & are summarised in Table 8 opposite.
Gas Discretionary Share Option Scheme 2001 Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 57 Directors reports Table 8: Summary of Share Option Scheme performance conditions Absolute share price performance Share price factor At exercise price or below 0 Between exercise price and 150% of exercise price Up to 0.5 In excess of 150% and up to 200% of exercise price 0.66 In excess of 200% of exercise price 1 Relative share price performance FTSE 250 Oil & Gas Producers Index factor In the lower quartile of the % growth in the FTSE Index 0.25 In the second quartile of the % growth in the FTSE Index 0.5 In the third quartile of the % growth in the FTSE Index 0.75 In the top quartile of the % growth in the FTSE Index 1 The Companys share price and FTSE Index are an important and effective means of achieving factors are multiplied together and the resultant this objective.
The Committee also noted that the figure is applied to the number of options granted to Companys existing Share Option Schemes are due an individual to determine the number of options to expire in 2011. that vest.
The Committee is therefore seeking approval, at the The structure was designed to introduce a sliding forthcoming Annual General Meeting, for the scale as distinct from a specific individual adoption of the 2010 Performance Share Plan benchmark.
It requires the Companys share price to PSP and the 2010 Discretionary Share Option double and for this increase to be in the top quartile Scheme DSOS together the New Schemes of the growth in the higher of the FTSE 250 and which make up two of the resolutions contained in FTSE Oil & Gas Producers Index for all of the options the Notice of the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
The New Schemes are important to the Companys To encourage the retention of key staff, the Committee ability to continue to motivate and retain its has determined that an option holder will be able to executives and are in the interests of the Companys exercise up to 50% of vested options immediately shareholders.
No further grants will be made following vesting and the remaining vested options pursuant to the terms of the Share Option Schemes only after a period of 12 months from vesting, unless following the approval of the New Schemes by the otherwise determined by the Committee.
Companys shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
New Share Incentive arrangements The proposal to adopt the New Schemes has the full Background support of the Committee and the Board as a whole During the course of 2009, the Committee carried and the Committee intends to make grants pursuant out a thorough review of the Companys to the New Schemes immediately following the 2010 remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors Annual General Meeting.
and senior management in conjunction with its A summary of the principal terms of the New newly appointed advisors, Kepler Associates.
One of Schemes is set out on pages 57 to 63. the key conclusions was that total remuneration levels have fallen behind market levels.
Further, JKX Oil & Gas plc 2010 Discretionary Share Option some of the Companys shareholders have Scheme DSOS commented in the last few months that the The DSOS is made up of two parts.
Part A of the Companys existing Share Option Schemes appear to DSOS has been submitted to HMRC for approval, and be overly complex.
The Committees preference is to will be a direct replacement for the Approved narrow the total remuneration gap to market levels Scheme.
Part B of the DSOS will be used to grant by increasing the long-term element of pay, and to share options above the HMRC-approved level and address the concerns around complexity by revising will be a direct replacement for the Unapproved the structure of the Companys long-term rewards.
The Committee believes that the attraction, Maximum award opportunities in 2010 under the motivation and retention of Executive Directors and DSOS, will be 100% of base salary for the CEO and senior management is central to the Companys FD and 80% of base salary for the Technical and success and that long-term incentive arrangements 58 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Figure 9: Vesting schedule for the DSOS Commercial Directors.
The terms of the DSOS are similar to those for the Share Option Schemes, though the Committee proposes a simplification of 100% the performance conditions whereby options will vest at the end of a 3-year performance period, subject to achievement of 3-year Earnings Per Share EPS growth targets.
The Committee considers EPS to be an appropriate measure, since it is the primary internal benchmark of long-term financial performance and promotes alignment between management and the Companys 25% shareholders.
The performance targets for the initial 2010-2013 0% cycle require 3-year nominal EPS growth of 22.5% Threshold Maximum p. a. for maximum vesting with threshold vesting at 7.5% p. a. and on a straight-line basis in between 3 year EPS growth p. a. these points.
The performance targets will be reviewed on an annual basis at the start of each 3-year performance cycle to ensure their continued Option.
The exercise price of an Option will not be appropriateness.
less than the greater of: Summary of the DSOS a the middle-market quotation of a Share on the dealing day immediately preceding the date of 1.
Constitution grant or averaged over the three dealing days The DSOS is made up of two parts.
Part A of the immediately preceding the date of grant in either DSOS is a UK approved section which has been case, the dealing day s must not be earlier than submitted to HM Revenue & Customs HMRC for the first day after the Company makes an approval under Schedule 4 to the Income Tax announcement of its final or interim results as Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 Schedule 4. ascertained from the Daily Official List of the Options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company London Stock Exchange: and Shares granted under Part A are Approved Options and options to acquire Shares granted b in the case of Options over unissued Shares, the under Part B of the DSOS are Unapproved Options nominal value of a Share.
Eligibility Options are non-transferable and may only be The board of directors of the Company or a duly exercised by the Participants to whom they were authorised committee thereof Directors shall granted or their personal representatives.
select eligible employees of the Company and its participating subsidiaries Participants to be 6.
Individual limits granted options over Shares.
a HMRC The maximum market value of Shares, at the date of grant, which may be granted to, 3.
Grant of Options and or held by, an individual pursuant to Part A Options may only be granted within a period of of the DSOS is 30,000.
42 days after i the date on which Part A of the DSOS b General The maximum market value of all the is approved by HMRC, ii the DSOS is adopted by Shares over which a Participant has been shareholders in general meeting or iii the granted Options in any financial year under the announcement by the Company of its interim or final DSOS shall not exceed an amount equal to one results.
Options may be granted at other times if the times the Participants basic salary at that time, Directors resolve that exceptional circumstances save where the Directors determine that there exist which justify the grant of Options.
Options may are exceptional circumstances which justify a not be granted more than ten years after the grant not exceeding two times the Participants approval of the DSOS by shareholders in general basic salary at that time.
The maximum market value of all the Shares over 4.
Acquisition price which a Participant has been granted Options in any No consideration shall be payable for the grant of an financial year under the DSOS and under the JKX Oil & Gas 2010 Performance Share Plan shall not % of options vesting Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 59 Dir Direct ector ors s r reports eports exceed an amount equal to three times the Participant falls within certain specified Good Participants basic salary at that time.
On death: Should a Participant die before 7.
DSOS limits exercising his Option, the Option may be exercised The DSOS contains the following dilution limits: by his personal representatives within one year in any ten year period, the number of Shares following the date of death.
The number of Shares which may be placed under Option, or issued in respect of which that Option would otherwise under the DSOS or any other discretionary have been exercisable shall be pro-rated for time employees share scheme adopted by the to the date of death unless the Directors, acting Company, may not exceed five per cent of the fairly and reasonably, decide that it would be Companys ordinary share capital in issue inappropriate to do so and subject to immediately prior to that date: and performance, as assessed by the Directors using their discretion, as appropriate, where the in any ten year period, the number of Shares performance period is foreshortened.
which may be placed under Option, or issued under the DSOS or any other employees share On cessation: If a Participant ceases to be an scheme adopted by the Company, may not exceed employee by reason of injury, disability, ten per cent of the Companys ordinary share redundancy, retirement, the company which capital in issue immediately prior to that date.
employs him ceasing to be under the control of the Company, the transfer or sale of the 8.
Performance targets undertaking or part-undertaking in which he is The Directors will specify at the date of grant the employed to a person who is not under the control performance targets which are to apply to the of the Company or any other reason at the exercise of Options.
However, the Directors intend discretion of the Directors acting fairly and that the performance targets which will apply to the reasonably, an Option may be exercised from such first tranche of Options, to be granted in 2010, will be date as the Directors may determine.
If no by reference to the Companys growth in earnings determination is made, the Option will become per share EPS over the performance period.
exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The number of Shares in respect of which The proportion of initial Option grants, if any, that that Option would otherwise have been may ultimately become exercisable will depend upon exercisable shall be pro-rated for time to the date the Companys EPS growth over the performance of cessation unless the Directors, acting fairly and period.
An Option may be exercised in respect of 25% reasonably, decide that it would be inappropriate of the Shares if the Companys EPS has grown by at to do so and subject to performance, as assessed least 7.5% per annum.
An Option may be exercised in by the Directors using their discretion, as respect of all of the Shares if the Companys EPS has appropriate, where the performance period is grown by at least 22.5% per annum.
between 7.5% per annum and 22.5% per annum, an Option may be exercised between 25% and 100% 10.
Change of control and on a straight line basis between these points.
If there is a change of control of the Company by way No Option will become exercisable if the Companys of a general offer, or if having obtained control of the EPS growth over the performance period is less than Company a person makes such a general offer, or if 7.5 % per annum.
the Court sanctions a compromise or arrangement The performance of the Company will be measured or there is a voluntary winding up, an Option may be over three consecutive calendar years commencing exercised within six months thereof or on a winding not earlier than the beginning of the financial year in up or if a person becomes bound or entitled to which the date of grant falls.
There will be no acquire Shares, an Option may be exercised within re-testing of performance targets.
two months and one month of the relevant date respectively.
The number of Shares in respect of 9.
Exercise of Options which that Option would otherwise have been In normal circumstances, Options may only be exercisable shall be pro-rated for time to the date of exercised after three years from the date of grant, the event giving rise to the right to exercise the while the Participant remains an employee, and if Option unless the Directors, acting fairly and the relevant performance targets have been met.
reasonably, decide that it would be inappropriate to Options shall lapse no later than i the tenth do so and subject to performance, as assessed by anniversary of the date of grant: or, if earlier, on ii the Directors using their discretion, as appropriate, the cessation of a Participants employment with the where the performance period is foreshortened.
Company or any participating subsidiary, unless the 60 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 11.
Variation of capital for a listing for any Shares for which a listing has not The number of Shares over which an Option has previously been granted.
Any Shares allotted will been granted and the option price thereof shall be rank equally with all other issued Shares save that adjusted, in such manner as the Directors may they will not be entitled to rights attaching to Shares determine in the case of Approved Options, with the by reference to a record date before the Shares are prior approval of HMRC, following any capitalisation allotted or transferred.
issue, rights issue, subdivision, consolidation, reduction of share capital or any other variation of 14.
Benefits are non-pensionable share capital of the Company.
The number of Shares Benefits under the DSOS are non-pensionable.
over which an Unapproved Option has been granted and the option price thereof shall be adjusted, in JKX Oil & Gas plc 2010 Performance Share Plan such manner as the Directors may determine, in the PSP event of a demerger of a substantial part of the Subject to shareholder approval at the 2010 Annual business of the Company or a subsidiary of the General Meeting, Executive Directors will receive Company or a similar event affecting the value of awards under the PSP in the form of nil cost options.
the Shares subject to an Option to a material extent.
These will be in addition to options granted under the DSOS since the Committee feels that a balance 12.
Alterations of nil cost and market value options provides the The Directors may at any time alter or add to all or most appropriate mix of pay for the most senior any of the provisions of the DSOS in any respect, executives.
provided that, if any alteration or addition is made to Under the PSP, maximum award opportunities in a key feature of the DSOS as defined in Schedule 2010 will be 100% of salary for the CEO and FD and 4 at a time when Part A of the DSOS continues to be 80% of salary for the Technical and Commercial approved by HMRC it shall not have effect until it has Directors.
Awards will vest based on 3-year TSR been approved by HMRC.
However, any change to performance relative to the FTSE 250 and FTSE the advantage of present or future Participants All-Share Oil & Gas Producers indices with half of relating to eligibility, scheme limits, the Option Price, the award being assessed against each index.
the basis of individual entitlement or the provisions for the adjustment of Options in the event of a Each part of the award will be based on performance variation of the Companys share capital must be relative to the relevant index, with 25% vesting for approved in advance by the Companys shareholders performance in line with the index.
Vesting would in general meeting.
increase on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% for index out-performance of up to 10% p. a.
Any alteration or addition which is necessary or Historically this has been broadly equivalent to upper desirable in order to comply with or take account of quartile performance.
In addition, the Committee the provisions of any proposed or existing legislation, must be satisfied that the recorded TSR is a genuine law or other regulatory requirements or to take reflection of the underlying performance of the advantage of any changes in legislation, law or other Company over the performance period.
regulatory requirements, or to obtain or maintain favourable taxation, exchange control or regulatory The Committee considers the use of TSR to be treatment of the Company, any subsidiary or any appropriate since it is dependent on the Companys Participant or to make minor amendments to benefit relative long-term share price performance and the administration of the DSOS or any alteration therefore provides strong alignment with the solely relating to the conditions of exercise do not interests of the Companys shareholders.
The need prior approval of the Companys shareholders.
Company intends to measure TSR performance Any alterations to the disadvantage of Participants using percentage out-performance rather than a subsisting rights will require the consent of 75% of ranking approach since it is less sensitive to the TSR such Participants who attend and vote on the of individual comparators.
It is proposed that the proposed resolutions to amend the terms of the TSR calculation will use a 12-month averaging Options, or with the written consent of such number period due to the volatility of the Companys share of affected Participants as hold Options to acquire price and the long-term nature of the Companys not less than 75% of the Shares to be issued or investments.
Whilst noting market practice is transferred.
typically to use a shorter averaging period, the Committee feel that 12-month averaging would give 13.
Rights attaching to Shares a fairer result forboth management and As soon as practicable after the exercise of an shareholders.
The proposed vesting schedule is as Option, the appropriate number of Shares will be shown in Figure 10. issued or transferred, as appropriate, and the Company will apply to the London Stock Exchange Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 61 Directors reports Figure 10: Vesting schedule for the PSP which justify a grant not exceeding two times the Participants basic salary at that time.
100% The maximum market value of all the Shares over which a Participant has been granted Options in any financial year under the PSP and under the JKX Oil & Gas 2010 Discretionary Share Option Scheme shall not exceed an amount equal to three times the Participants basic salary at that time.
PSP limits The PSP contains the following dilution limits: 25% in any ten year period, the number of Shares which may be placed under Option, or issued 0% under the PSP or any other discretionary Index Index 10% p. a. employees share scheme adopted by the Company, may not exceed five per cent of the JKXs 3 year TSR vs. Index Companys ordinary share capital in issue 50% based on FTSE 250 Index and 50% based immediately prior to that date: and on FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers Index in any ten year period, the number of Shares which may be placed under Option, or issued Summary of the PSP under the PSP or any other employees share scheme adopted by the Company, may not exceed 1.
Eligibility ten per cent of the Companys ordinary share The board of directors of the Company or a duly capital in issue immediately prior to that date.
authorised committee thereof Directors shall select eligible employees of the Company and its 7.
Performance targets participating subsidiaries Participants to be The Directors will specify at the date of grant the granted options Options over the ordinary shares performance targets which are to apply to the in the capital of the Company Shares.
However, the Directors intend that the performance targets which will apply to one 2.
Grant of Options half of the first tranche of Options, to be granted in Options may only be granted within a period of 42 2010, will be by reference to the Companys total days after i the date on which the PSP is adopted by shareholder return TSR when compared against shareholders in general meeting or ii the companies in the FTSE All-Share Oil and Gas announcement by the Company of its interim or final Producers Index with the remaining half by reference results.
Options may be granted at other times if the to the Companys TSR when compared against Directors resolve that exceptional circumstances companies in the FTSE 250 Index.
exist which justify the grant of Options.
Options may not be granted more than ten years after the The proportion of initial Option grants, if any, that approval of the PSP by shareholders in general will ultimately become exercisable will depend upon meeting.
the Companys TSR performance over the performance period.
For each part of an Option that 3.
Acquisition price is subject to the TSR performance condition, 25% of No consideration is required to be paid for the grant that proportion of the Option may be exercised if the or exercise of an Option.
Companys TSR is in line with the comparator group TSR, with full vesting of that part of the Option if the 4.
Non-transferability Companys TSR outperforms the comparator group Options are non-transferable and may only be TSR by at least 10% per annum.
For TSR exercised by the Participants to whom they were performance between these two points, Options may granted or their personal representatives.
be exercised between 25% and 100% on a straightline basis.
In either case, Options may only become 5.
Individual limits exercisable if the Directors are satisfied that the The maximum market value of all the Shares over recorded TSR is a genuine reflection of the which a Participant has been granted Options in any underlying financial performance of the Company financial year under the PSP shall not exceed an over the performance period.
amount equal to one times the Participants basic salary at that time, save where the Directors determine that there are exceptional circumstances % of shares vesting 62 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The performance of the Company will be measured exercisable shall be pro-rated for time unless the over three consecutive calendar years commencing Directors, acting fairly and reasonably, decide that it not earlier than the beginning of the financial year in would be inappropriate to do so, and subject to which the date of grant falls.
There will be no performance, to the date of the event giving rise to re-testing of performance targets.
the right to exercise the Option.
Variation of capital In normal circumstances, Options may only be The number of Shares over which an Option has exercised after three years from the date of grant, been granted shall be adjusted, in such manner as while the Participant remains an employee, and if the Directors may determine, following any the relevant performance targets have been met.
capitalisation issue, rights issue, subdivision, Options shall lapse no later than i the tenth consolidation, reduction of share capital or any other anniversary of the date of grant: or, if earlier, ii the variation of share capital of the Company or in the cessation of a Participants employment with the event of a demerger of a substantial part of the Company or any participating subsidiary, unless the business of the Company or a subsidiary of the Participant falls within specified Good Leaver Company or a similar event affecting the value of circumstances.
On death: Should a Participant die before 11.
Alterations exercising his Option, the Option may be exercised The Directors may at any time alter or add to all or by his personal representatives within one year any of the provisions of the PSP in any respect, but following the date of death.
The number of Shares any change to the advantage of present or future in respect of which that Option would otherwise Participants relating to eligibility, plan limits, the have been exercisable shall be pro-rated for time basis of individual entitlement or the provisions for unless the Directors, acting fairly and reasonably, the adjustment of Options in the event of a variation decide that it would be inappropriate to do so, of the Companys share capital must be approved in and subject to performance, to the date of death.
advance by the Companys shareholders in general On cessation: Should a Participant cease to be an meeting.
employee by reason of injury, disability, Any alteration or addition which is necessary or redundancy, retirement, the company which desirable in order to comply with or take account of employs him ceasing to be under the control of the provisions of any proposed or existing legislation, the Company, the transfer or sale of the law or other regulatory requirements or to take undertaking or part-undertaking in which he is advantage of any changes in legislation, law or other employed to a person who is not under the control regulatory requirements, or to obtain or maintain of the Company or any other reason at the favourable taxation, exchange control or regulatory discretion of the Directors, an Option may be treatment of the Company, any subsidiary or any exercised from such date as the Directors may Participant or to make minor amendments to benefit determine.
If no determination is made, the the administration of the PSP or any alteration solely Option will become exercisable on the third relating to the conditions of exercise do not need anniversary of the date of grant.
The number of prior approval of shareholders.
Any alterations to the Shares in respect of which that Option would disadvantage of Participants subsisting rights will otherwise have been exercisable shall be prorequire the consent of 75% of such Participants who rated for time to the date of cessation unless the attend and vote on the proposed resolutions to Directors, acting fairly and reasonably, decide that amend the terms of the Options, or with the written it would be inappropriate to do so and subject to consent of such number of affected Participants as performance.
hold Options to acquire not less than 75% of the Shares to be issued or transferred.
Change of control If there is a change of control of the Company by way 12.
Rights attaching to Shares of a general offer, or if having obtained control of the As soon as practicable after the exercise of an Company a person makes such a general offer, or if Option, the appropriate number of Shares will be a Court sanctions a compromise or arrangement or issued or transferred to a Participant and the there is a voluntary winding up, an Option may be Company will apply to the London Stock Exchange exercised within six months thereof or on a winding for a listing for any Shares for which a listing has not up or if a person becomes bound or entitled to previously been granted.
Any Shares allotted will acquire Shares, an Option may be exercised within rank equally with all other Shares in issue save that two months and one month of the relevant date they will not be entitled to rights attaching to Shares respectively.
The number of Shares in respect of by reference to a record date before the Shares are which that Option would otherwise have been allotted or transferred.
Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 63 Directors reports Figure 11: JKX 5-year TSR performance vs. FTSE 250 and FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers indices JKX Oil and Gas 400 FTSE 250 350 FTSE All Share Oil & Gas Producers Index 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 Dec 2004 31 Dec 2005 31 Dec 2006 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 13. Dividend equivalents Producers indices, and was prepared by Kepler.
At the discretion of the Directors, the Company may The calculation of the return assumes dividends are make a cash payment on the third anniversary of the reinvested to purchase additional equity.
date of grant or, if earlier, the date of exercise to An investment of 100 in the Company on 31st Participants equivalent to the amount of dividends December 2004 was worth 257.24 at 31st the Participants would have received since grant on December 2009. a net basis in respect of the number of Shares under the Option that the Participants are at that time able Pension arrangements to acquire.
The Company makes a contribution equivalent to 15% of basic salary to the pension scheme of the 14.
Benefits are non-pensionable Directors choice.
All Executive Directors choose to Benefits under the PSP are non-pensionable.
participate in the Companys defined contribution scheme.
Share ownership guideline From 2010, the Committee proposes to introduce Directors contracts executive share ownership guidelines of 1 times It is the Groups policy that service contracts, salary for Executive Directors.
Details of the including the Chief Executives, be unlimited in term directors personal shareholdings are shown on and capable in normal circumstances of page 45. termination on 12 months notice.
In the event of early termination, the Directors contracts provide Historical TSR performance for compensation up to a maximum level of basic Figure 11 above shows the Total Shareholder Return salary for the notice period.
The Directors for a holding in the Companys shares for the period contracts of service that include details of from 31st December 2004 to 31st December 2009 remuneration will be available for inspection at relative to a holding of shares representing each of the Annual General Meeting.
the FTSE 250 and FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Table 12: Summary of Executive Directors service contracts Name Date Notice period Paul Davies 1st January 2007 12 months from Company or Director Bruce Burrows 1st January 2007 12 months from Company or Director Martin Miller 1st July 2007 12 months from Company or Director Peter Dixon 1st July 2007 12 months from Company or Director Return Index Re-based 64 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Table 13: Summary of Non-Executive Directors service contracts Name Date Notice period Lord Fraser 1st January 2002 3 months from Company or Director Viscount Asquith 1st January 2002 3 months from Company or Director Mr Nigel Moore 12th July 2007 3 months from Company or Director Mr Dipesh Shah 1st June 2008 3 months from Company or Director Mr Michel-Marc Delcommune 1st June 2008 3 months from Company or Director Executive Directors are entitled to accept The Non-Executive Directors contracts specify the appointments outside the Company providing that powers and duties of the Non-Executive Directors, the Chairmans permission is sought and granted.
the time commitments anticipated and remuneration arrangements.
The Non-Executive Directors are paid Non-Executive Directors a base fee for carrying out their duties and All Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of responsibilities as Directors, and fees for engagement and their remuneration is determined membership and, where applicable, chairmanship of by the Board within the limits set by the Articles of each of the remuneration and audit committees.
The Association and based on independent surveys of base fee is based on a per annum rate in Sterling fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of similar that is compared to published material concerning companies.
The setting of the Chairmans Non-Executive Director fees in similar size remuneration is the responsibility of the Board and companies.
not the Committee, as recommended by Section In 2009, the total fees paid to each Non-Executive B.
The Board believes this Director in the year are shown on page 65.
The fees is appropriate given the Board size.
include compensation for performing the additional These service contracts are for an indefinite term, roles in respect of the Audit and Remuneration not a finite term as recommended by Section A.
the Combined Code, subject to re-election on an as Non-Executive Directors cannot participate in any of required basis.
The Board continues to believe these the Companys share schemes and are not eligible to terms are appropriate given the Company size, the join the Companys pension scheme.
Non-Executive skill set, and the continuing evaluation of performance and independence.
In the event of early termination, the Non-Executive Directors contracts provide for compensation of three months base fee.
