42 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Directors Rt Hon Lord Fraser of Dr Paul Davies Bruce Burrows Peter Dixon Martin Miller Carmyllie QC Chief Executive Finance Director Commercial Director Technical Director Non-Executive Officer 60 51 55 62 Chairman 64 Dr Paul Davies joined Bruce Burrows was Peter Dixon joined Martin Miller joined Lord Fraser was the Board on 30th appointed Finance the Board on 1st July JKX in 1994 as Chief formerly Lord January 1998.
He has Director on 31st 2007 with 27 years Geologist and has Advocate and been active in the December 1997. of broad experience held a number of Minister of State at oil and gas industry He joined JKX from in the upstream oil senior positions in the the Department of since 1976 and was Ernst & Young where and gas industry in Company, including Trade and Industry the co-founder of he held positions in the UK, Middle East, directing JKXs with responsibility the JP Kenny Group the Wellington New Africa and the former Georgian operations.
for export trade of Companies which Zealand and London Soviet Union.
Most recently, promotion and traded internationally offices.
He holds a he has assumed Peter graduated in overseas investment, in oil and gas BSc Honours degree responsibility for Physics and Geology with particular engineering, oil and from Canterbury JKXs ventures in from Sunderland emphasis on the oil gas exploration and University New Russia and Ukraine.
University and spent and gas industry.
He production, subsea Zealand, a Diploma He is a Chartered 15 years working was then Minister of survey and inspection, in Accounting from Engineer and has over in geophysical and Energy until May 1997. and shipping.
He has Victoria University 30 years of experience management roles He is a Director of extensive experience New Zealand and in the oil and gas within the SSL and ICE Futures and ICE of business in the is a member of the industry, including Schlumberger group Clear.
Lord Fraser former Soviet Union Institute of Chartered senior positions with companies.
is the Chairman of and was a founder of Accountants of New Mobil and BP.
the Nominations JP Kenny Exploration Zealand.
Bruce is also Since joining JKX Committee.
& Production Ltd, the Company Secretary.
in 1995, Peter has forerunner of JKX Oil occupied a number of Bruce is a Non- & Gas plc.
He holds senior positions within Executive Director of an Honours degree the group including European Goldfields, in Civil Engineering Asset Manager a TSX and AIM listed and PhD in structural Ukraine, Group mining company.
mechanics from Commercial Executive University College and General Director London.
Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 43 Viscount Asquith Nigel Moore Dipesh Shah OBE FRSA School, and Chairman went on to serve as Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive of ANHD International Group Chief Strategy Director 57 Director 66 Director 56 Advisory Services Ltd.
Officer between He is a graduate of the 2004 and 2006.
He Universities of London retired from executive Viscount Asquith, Nigel Moore is a NonDipesh Shah joined the considered by the Executive Director Board with over 30 and Warwick and of duties in 2006 but Board to be the senior and Chairman of the years experience of the Harvard Business remains as Senior independent NonAudit Committee of the oil and gas sector.
School management Adviser to MOLs Executive Director, Hochschild Mining He was Chief programme.
Mr Shah Executive Chairman was awarded an OBE and is a Nonjoined the Foreign plc, Vitec Group plc Executive of several Office in 1980 and was and Ascent Resources businesses in BP and in the 2007 New Year Executive Director the Counsellor at the plc.
He is also Nona member of the BP Honours List.
He is of TVK, a MOL Group British Embassy in Executive Chairman of Group Leadership.
Chairman of the petrochemical Kiev from 1992 until TEG Group plc.
He also served as Remuneration company listed Committee and a on the Budapest his resignation in Chief Executive of the He was formally 1997 to pursue private UK Atomic Energy member of the Audit Stock Exchange.
He is also Nonpartner of Ernst He is a member of Viridian Group plc, Executive Director of & Young where he the Remuneration Chairman of HG Slovnaft, a refining Michel-Marc was responsible for company listed on and Nominations Capital Renewable Delcommune the Ernst & Young Committees.
Power Partners LLP, the Bratislava Stock Non-Executive operations in Russia and as a NonExchange.
Director 62 and Eastern Europe Executive Director of Mr Delcommune is a for several years.
Babcock International graduate of chemical Michel-Marc engineering from the Group plc.
Mr Shah is Nigel is chairman of Delcommune spent currently a NonUniversity of Liege over 25 years with the Audit Committee Executive Director at and holds an MBA and a member of PetroFina Group Lloyds of London and from Cornell.
He is a the Remuneration where he held a Thames Water and member of the Audit and Nomination number of prominent Committee and joined Kemble Water Group Committees.
In 1999 Mr of Companies: Board the Remuneration Delcommune joined Advisor to The Crown Committee on 1st MOL Group.
He was Estate: Governor of March 2010.
MOL Groups Chief Merchant Taylors Financial Officer and
