04 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Strategic priorities Technical: Dedicated Operational: Cost-effective Commercial: The regions specialist teams in each sourcing, procurement, where we operate are unique country, including geological, co-ordination and commercial environments geophysical, materials management of operational that demand local knowledge and drilling.
Exploit local expertise We develop competent, locally-managed operating subsidiaries able to draw on extensive industry and country-specific knowledge.
In Ukraine, Our locally-based technical Ours is a capital-intensive We sell oil and gas within we employ over 500 experts provide a high level industry where expertise the marketplaces where people while headcount of the appropriate technical and contacts on the ground our production facilities are at our Russian business skillsets combined with a can make a demonstrable based.
Our people is approaching 100 deep-seated understanding difference to efficiency.
Our understand supply and in line with the projects of local laws, regulations, teams are experienced in demand and their cultures and bureaucracies.
working alongside partner familiarity with the intricate development.
They understand the organisations and local workings of what can be technical challenges and suppliers to reduce delays volatile local pricing have the practical and maximise opportunity.
environments ensure that knowledge to work with the we deliver shareholder grain of local working value.
Rudenkovskoye: Koshekhablskoye: Complete Ukraine LPG: Optimise Accelerate the development the workover programme facilities in Ukraine, utilising of the Rudenkovskoye field at Koshekhablskoye in a dedicated rig to extract in Ukraine, utilising a Russia, which was initiated increased value from gas dedicated rig.
Accelerate production In January 2010, a share placement secured over $60 million for the Company.
This sum has strengthened our balance sheet, enabling We will accelerate the Following the successful Following growth in the us to invest development of the existing initiation of the workover domestic Ukrainian $230 million during Rudenkovskoye 2P proved and testing programme, we automotive LPG market 2010 in order to extract and probable reserves will accelerate and extend we are investing in an LPG maximum value from 21.6 MMboe and seek to the programme to a further facility which will be unlock contingent five wells during 2010. operational early in 2011. the prime assets in resources 75.2 MMboe.
The well initially tested in The anticipated payback our portfolio.
We are actively sourcing a 2009 produced results at period for the equipment dedicated rig which will be twice the expected rate.
required is less than mobilised during the two years.
