Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 39 Corporate responsibility review Employment Community We want to be We do not exist in recognised as a isolation.
Instead, we Company where are an integral part of talented people of all the communities in disciplines, from which we operate.
We managers and are determined to play engineers to on-site our part to the full, operatives, can do their through financial best work.
donations as well as practical support.
People are the lifeblood of JKX they are the basis We value our people and their communities, of our success to date and the foundations for providing financial support and practical assistance our future.
All our operations are managed with local interests in mind, thereby A key employment objective is to be recognised as a increasing public confidence in the integrity of our Company that enables its people to achieve their assets and underlining our commitment to HSEC potential and contribute to our continuing success.
In order to reach this goal, we recruit, train and develop outstanding people, whether they are recent In 2009 we introduced a structured system for graduates or experienced professionals, giving them stakeholder dialogue in key operational locations.
In the tools and the rewards which will enable them to particular, this system has influenced the way in enjoy excellent long-term careers.
which we now manage carbon emissions.
Background does not matter to JKX: talent and Community support is overseen by the General commitment do.
We have established policies in Director in each location.
Engagement is measured place to ensure equality of opportunity and avoid in monetary terms and reported to the Group HSEC discrimination on the grounds of race, gender, manager as well as to local management.
In practical terms, our community support frequently Outside the UK, we provide pay and conditions which involves using the Companys plant and machinery are comfortably above the norm.
Not only does this as well as manpower to provide much-needed mean we have access to the most talented assistance.
For example, our on-site fire service in individuals, but it gives those individuals and their Ukraine took part in five fire-fighting incidents in the families a depth of training and a breadth of local community during 2009. opportunity that is rare in their communities.
We Our policies and reporting processes will be the also give our local workforce the chance to relocate subject of renewed focus during 2010. to other regions to gain further experience.
Charitable donations and volunteering Each operating entity has a limited budget for good causes and we handle charitable donations at a local level.
