18 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Operational review We are a leading independent provider Gas Turbine Services of services and solutions for clients in the power, oil & gas and renewable energy markets.
Worldwide these services include power plant engineering, procurement, construction management, facility operations & maintenance, repair & overhaul of gas, wind and steam turbines, pumps, compressors and other high-speed rotating equipment.
H Ron Lane Inspects a blade from a General Electric Frame 7FA e gas turbine at the Alliant Energy Emery Generating Station in Iowa, USA.
ioWA Energy Supporting Energy Wood Group AR 2009 Front - Final.
indd 18 01 04 2010 14:05 At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com 19 : Mark Papworth, Group Director, Gas Turbine Services 1 Our operational and financial review Power Plant Services Our power activities provide support for turbines that are used for % Change power generation and industrial facilities, and represent around 55% 2009 2008 % Constant of GTS revenue and around 9% of Group revenue.
Demand for our $m $m Change Currency services is driven by the plant utilisation and maintenance budgets of Revenue 825.6 956.6 14% 10% our customers.
This has generally remained robust, although market EBITA 65.7 72.6 10% 2% conditions in some regions led to some price pressure and customers EBITA margin 8.0% 7.6% 0.4%pts 0.7%pts deferring spending.
However, operational efficiencies and a focus People 3,500 4,100 15% on supply chain effectiveness have been successful in mitigating the impact on margins.
There have been significant contract successes in the Americas and in the Middle East, including the award of a five-year $27m contract with Brick Power Holdings for the operations Operational and financial highlights and maintenance of GE 7FA facilities in Maine and Rhode Island with GTS revenue was down 14%, or 10% in constant currency terms.
We are now supporting around 17,000 reduction in constant currency revenue was principally driven by lower MW in power generation capacity under longer term contracts.
Power Solutions revenue, the disposal of non-core businesses and some maintenance deferrals by oil & gas and power customers.
Power Solutions Power Solutions activities, which represent about 10% of GTS revenue EBITA was 10% lower but was only down 2% in constant currency and less than 2% of Group revenue, saw lower volumes in the year terms.
The margin improvement from 7.6% to 8.0% was driven by as projects were delayed, in part due to funding issues.
However, benefits from internal restructuring and cost reduction initiatives, and we continue to see excellent long term prospects, particularly in differentiation leading to increasing work under longer term contracts the Eastern Hemisphere.
During the year, we strengthened our and new product and service capabilities.
We continue to focus on Eastern Hemisphere execution capability through the acquisition of longer term contract opportunities and this is now about 50% of our Shanahan Engineering, a leading provider of power plant installation, revenue.
The reduction in headcount from 4,100 to 3,500 primarily reflects the Gas Turbine Services outlook disposal of non-core businesses and our cost reduction initiatives.
We anticipate that demand for our oil & gas services will remain robust in 2010, due to high production support content and increasing Oil & Gas Services proportion of longer term contracts.
We have a good spread of Our oil & gas activities support the gas turbine and other rotating assets business with NOCs, IOCs and large independents.
used for power generation, gas compression, mechanical drive and transmission, and represent around 35% of GTS revenue and around In the power market, there may continue to be areas of regional 6% of Group revenue.
Including our OEM licensed joint ventures, we short term weakness, as some customers defer maintenance but in have broad technical capabilities and know how, a strong service the longer term the demand for power, and in particular gas turbine culture and a market leading share in the aftermarket for aero-derivative generated power, is expected to increase, leading to strong ongoing turbines.
We are also the leading independent in light industrial gas demand for our services.
We continue to focus on initiatives to expand turbines.
Most of the installed turbines on which we work are linked our business and to deliver longer term margin improvement.
This will to existing production and therefore have relatively lower sensitivity to include increasing our business under longer term contracts, expanding oil and gas prices.
Good progress was made in the year in important our regional and customer portfolio, cost reduction and efficiency markets such as Brazil, Iraq and Peru, where we have recently improvements.
announced the award of an 18-year, $150m major maintenance contract from Peru LNG, SRL.
In Power Solutions, we expect new project awards to begin in 2010 to provide good growth in 2011.
Our rotating equipment reliability and availability activities continue to develop in the North Sea, where, working in conjunction with Overall, we anticipate modest revenue growth and a further modest Production Facilities, we have been able to provide customers with improvement in EBITA margins in 2010. significantly enhanced uptime and production across their assets.
To read about our directors turn to pages 36-37.
Wood Group AR 2009 Front - Final.
