12 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Operational review Engineering & Production Facilities H Farnaz Ghasemi We deliver a wide range of market leading engineering services to An engineer with J P Kennys renewables team, providing technical support in the the upstream, subsea & pipelines, overall management and execution of the downstream & industrial and clean Wave Hub project.
These include conceptual studies, engineering, project and construction management EPCM and control systems upgrades.
Aberdeen Energy Supporting Energy Wood Group AR 2009 Front - Final.
indd 12 01 04 2010 14:05 At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com 13 : Mike Straughen, Group Director, Engineering 1 Our operational and financial review Engineering Upstream activities represent around 40% of Engineering revenue % Change and 11% of Group revenue.
We hold market leading positions in 2009 2008 % Constant deepwater engineering, including lightweight topsides, and engineering $m $m Change Currency for in situ oil sands markets.
The developments on which we work are Revenue 3,241.9 3,244.7 No change 8% typically longer term complex projects, predominantly for International EBITA 266.0 316.1 16% 11% Oil Companies IOCs, National Oil Companies NOCs and large EBITA margin 8.2% 9.7% 1.5%pts 1.8%pts independents.
During 2009, we saw a reduction in engineering volumes People 20,800 20,000 4% on large projects, while remaining active on projects for BP Valhall, Chevron Jack St Malo, ConocoPhillips Ekofisk, EnCana Foster Creek, ExxonMobil Scarborough, Modec Ghana and Shell Perdido.
Operational and financial highlights Subsea & pipeline engineering represents around 35% of Engineering Revenue for the year was flat but up 8% in constant currency terms.
We are the largest subsea & pipeline The good revenue growth in constant currency reflected strong growth engineering consultancy in the world, with leading positions in riser in our Production Facilities activities, offset by reduced activity in our & mooring design, and advanced engineering and software solutions development related Engineering business.
The revenue split in the to the subsea and pipeline sectors.
Activity levels remained strong in period was 57% Production Facilities to 43% Engineering 2008: 52% the period and we were engaged with a range of customers, including to 48%.
BP various projects under our global framework agreement, Chevron Gorgon, Gazprom Total Statoil Shtokman, Inpex Ichthys, Woodside The 10% reduction in Engineering revenue reflected ongoing project Pluto and onshore with Williams and Kinder Morgan.
delays in upstream, downstream and the process & industrial markets offset to some extent by a strong performance in our subsea and Downstream, process and industrial represents around 25% of pipeline activities.
The 10% growth in Production Facilities revenue Engineering and 7% of Group revenue.
During 2009, we have seen resulted from a very strong performance in the North Sea which a significant reduction in volumes as downstream and chemical accounts for about 60% of Production Facilities revenue.
customers reduced their capital spending.
Our automation group The proportion of divisional revenue from outside Europe and remained active for ExxonMobil in Singapore and on various projects North America increased from 20% to 22%.
EBITA margin decreased from 9.7% to 8.2% due to a reduction in the Within Engineering, a key strategic priority is to continue our geographic underlying Engineering margin and the change in mix towards lower expansion focused on growth markets in Asia Pacific, the Middle East margin Production Facilities.
The reduction in Engineering margin was and Africa.
In Asia Pacific, we entered a joint venture with Petronas due to lower pricing, a decrease in manpower utilisation and the loss of in Malaysia to develop integrated floating LNG solutions, using our some scale efficiencies as volumes decreased.
Margins in Production proprietary liquefaction technologies.
Facilities improved slightly due to growth in higher margin activities and an active cost reduction programme.
Divisional headcount at the year end, including contractors, was approximately 20,800 people, an increase of 4% since 2008.
Engineering headcount was 6,400 people, a decrease of 26% reflecting adjustments in line with lower volumes and the sale of the Groups interest in an engineering business in Venezuela.
Production Facilities, with 14,400 people, rose 27%, with the bulk of the increase arising from the acquisition of Baker Energy and several acquisitions in Australia.
To read about our directors turn to pages 36-37.
Wood Group AR 2009 Front - Final.
indd 13 01 04 2010 14:05 14 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Operational review Engineering & Production Facilities continued We provide life of field support to producing assets, through brownfield engineering and modifications, production enhancement, operations management including UK duty holder services, training, maintenance management and abandonment services.
H Graeme Hogg Mechanical Technician on Tern Alpha, with a responsibility for certain safety and production critical equipment on board the platform.
north seA Energy Supporting Energy Wood Group AR 2009 Front - Final.
indd 14 01 04 2010 14:05 At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com 15 : Les Thomas, Group Director, Production Facilities 1 In the Middle East, we agreed to acquire a controlling interest in Engineering & Production Facilities outlook Al-Hejailan Consulting, a Saudi Arabian engineering company, to give In Engineering, we enter 2010 with headcount 26% lower than at the us an engineering and project management services presence in the start of 2009 and, as a result, we expect volumes will be lower than oil, gas, chemical and power industries in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
In upstream, we are beginning to see some signs of higher We have also expanded our presence in Abu Dhabi, where we have activity in oil sands but offshore many of our target projects remain been engaged on one of the worlds leading carbon capture projects at an early stage, with lower volumes of engineering.
In clean energy, we are also developing our offshore subsea and pipeline activities to again see good volumes in 2010. renewables capability in both wind and wave projects in Europe The downstream, process and industrial market is expected to remain and Australia.
soft in 2010 although we are seeing some interesting prospects in Latin America.
Overall, we continue to have a good prospect list and Production Facilities believe activity should begin to recover in the second half of the year.
Our activities in the North Sea, where we are the leading maintenance, We expect the effects of lower volumes and somewhat lower pricing to modifications and operations contractor, represent around 60% of reduce margins further in 2010, but anticipate that margins will begin to Production Facilities revenue and 23% of Group revenue.
Within Engineering, we continue to focus on building ongoing engineering, operations support, production enhancement and our international infrastructure to deliver local engineering solutions asset integrity services under longer term contracts.
With continued and we expect further progress in the next six months on our initiatives customer focus on maintaining production, lowering unit costs and covering Africa, Asia Pacific and the Middle East.
ensuring asset integrity, we extended our North Sea contract with Total, and were awarded two new contracts with Chevron to support We expect Production Facilities revenues to be more stable, with engineering & construction and operations & maintenance on their around 75% of revenue under longer term contracts.
Overall activity UK North Sea assets.
In addition, we had a successful year in our should be around 2009 levels with higher revenue in North America duty holder business providing support to Centrica, Ithaca, Premier following the Baker acquisition, West Africa and Asia Pacific offsetting and TAQA, and, as planned, successfully transferred duty holder reduced volumes in the North Sea.
We have a strong international responsibilities to TAQA on 1 September 2009. prospect list and see good scope for growth over the next few years.
Our international activities, which make up around 40% of Production Facilities and 15% of Group revenue, continued to perform well.
We enhanced our position in the USA, establishing a market leading position in operations and maintenance services in the Gulf of Mexico, including deepwater, with the acquisition of Baker Energy in October 2009.
Outside the USA, we made good progress in some of our newer markets such as Brazil, Colombia, Equatorial Guinea, Trinidad and Brunei, where we recently secured an important contract extension.
In addition, Baker Energys international activities are an excellent strategic fit with our existing operations, extending our position in markets such as Nigeria, Angola and Algeria.
In 2009, we completed several acquisitions in Australia that enhance our capability to deliver engineering and production support services to national and international customers in this important and growing market.
Our capabilities were recognised with the award of a multi-year maintenance services contract for ENI and an upgrade contract from Woodside for the Otway gas plant.
We have also continued to invest in our training business with additional facilities being added in the Caspian, North Africa and the USA.
