16 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Operational review We provide solutions, products and Well Support services to enhance production rates and efficiency from oil & gas reservoirs.
We are among the market leaders in artificial lift using electric submersible pumps ESPs and in surface wellheads and valves.
We also provide electric line and slickline services.
H Ryan Pritchard Senior Spooling Technician for ESP, Canada, conducts a safety audit before carrying out the days work.
AlbertA Energy Supporting Energy Wood Group AR 2009 Front - Final.
indd 16 01 04 2010 14:05 At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com 17 : Jim Renfroe, Group Director, Well Support 1 Our operational and financial review Pressure Control Our Pressure Control business represents around 35% of Well Support % Change and around 6% of Group revenue.
Our business is driven primarily 2009 2008 % Constant by the gas development drilling activity of our customers.
In the USA $m $m Change Currency around 62% of our revenue in 2009 we believe we maintained our Revenue 813.7 1,008.6 19% 18% market leading position in surface wellheads due to continuing focus on EBITA 75.1 105.0 28% 27% customer service and efficient delivery.
We have established a strong EBITA margin 9.2% 10.4% 1.2%pts 1.1%pts position in the major shale regions, where we expect to see continuing People 3,500 4,300 19% growth.
Internationally, where around 38% of revenue is generated, we continue to expand our business under longer term contracts with IOCs and NOCs.
During 2009 we enhanced our manufacturing capability in Mexico where we won a number of contracts with Pemex and IPC.
Operational and financial highlights Well Support revenue was down 19% in 2009, principally due to the Logging Services impact of the weaker US natural gas market total US rig count fell Our Logging Services business represents under 15% of Well Support 55% in the eight months to June on our Pressure Control and Logging and under 2% of Group revenue.
Our production-focused US slickline Services businesses.
ESP revenues were also lower, reflecting reduced services performed relatively well, while our development-focused US volumes in North America and Russia.
We continued to increase the electric wireline activities were significantly impacted by the lower rig proportion of our business outside the USA and this now represents count.
Our business in Argentina, where we hold a market leading 55% of total Well Support revenue.
position, had another good performance.
The EBITA margin decreased from 10.4% to 9.2%, reflecting the Well Support outlook significantly lower volumes and pricing in our US natural gas related Overall, we expect to see modest revenue growth in 2010.
The relatively small margin reduction included a good rig count has significantly improved since June 2009 and this should performance from ESP and the impact of early and effective actions to lead to improved volumes for Pressure Control and Logging Services.
The revenue growth in 2010 will be held back by comparison with the strong first quarter 2009 revenue in the US natural gas market and the Electric Submersible Pumps substantially lower pricing.
Our ESP business represents just over 50% of Well Support and around 9% of Group revenue.
Approximately 29% of our business Internationally, Pressure Control should continue to benefit from our comes from the USA, where we have a market leading position in the competitive manufacturing facilities and, during 2010, we will open sale, operation and service of ESPs.
International activity represents our new facility in Saudi Arabia to provide an in-Kingdom capability for 71% of revenue, and is typically characterised by longer term contracts Saudi Aramco.
In the year, we made good progress in newer markets in South America and delivered a strong performance in Africa.
ESPs oil production and longer term contract focus should help sustain Continued work on a range of initiatives, including cost control and a good activity in existing markets and our growing product range should mix change towards higher margin regions, resulted in higher margins.
Our ongoing focus on cost reduction through our supply chain initiatives should allow ESP to continue its margin improvement trend.
To read about our directors turn to pages 36-37.
Wood Group AR 2009 Front - Final.
