I C Strachan OTHER SENIOR MANAGEMENT Age 66: appointed a non-executive director in January 2002.
Currently a non-executive director of Transocean Inc. Xstrata plc, Rolls Royce Group plc and Caithness Petroleum Limited.
Previously Chairman of Environmental Technologies Instinet Group Inc. Chief Executive of BTR plc and Deputy Chief S M Christley Division Finance Director, Emission Control Technologies Executive of RioTinto plc.
He retired from the board on 31st March 2009.
A M Myers President, Emission Control Technologies, North America A, M, N D W Prest Technology and Business Development Director, Emission Control Technologies M J Roney J F Walker Managing Director, Emission Control Technologies, Europe Age 54: appointed a non-executive director on 1st June 2007.
Currently Chief Executive of Bunzl plc.
Joined Bunzl plc as a non-executive J V Zubrickas Managing Director, Emission Control Technologies, Asia director in 2003.
Prior to becoming Chief Executive of Bunzl he was N Whitley Divisional Director, Process Technologies the Chief Executive Officer of Goodyear Dunlop Tires Europe BV and G L McGregor Divisional Finance Director, Process Technologies had an extensive career with the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co holding P C Framp Business Development Director, Process Technologies a number of senior management positions with responsibilities in Latin A C Hurst Managing Director, Tracerco and Vertec America, Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
A, M, N D J Tomlinson President, Davy Process Technology D C Thompson J C Frost Director, Fuel Cells Age 48: appointed a non-executive director on 1st September 2007.
Currently Chief Executive of Drax Group plc.
Joined the board of Drax Group plc as Chief Executive in 2005.
Prior to joining Drax she was Precious Metal Products head of the European business of the global power generation firm, W F Sandford Division Director InterGen.
First starting her career in banking she has had senior B M OConnell Division Finance Director management roles in the UK, Asia and Africa.
A, M, N M Bedford Director, Precious Metals Marketing C C Howlett General Manager, Noble Metals, Europe P N Hawker BSc, PhD, FRSC Executive Director, Process Technologies and Fine Chemicals & J D Malanga General Manager, Noble Metals, North America Catalysts, age 56: joined Johnson Matthey in 1985 as Research & A J McCullough General Manager, Gold, North America Development Manager and was subsequently Managing Director, R L P J van der Heijden Managing Director, Colour Technologies Autocatalysts Europe and Division Director, Environmental Catalysts and G P Otterman Managing Director, Pgm Refining and Recycling Technologies.
Appointed Executive Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies in August 2003.
He was appointed Executive Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies in July 2004 and assumed additional Fine Chemicals & Catalysts responsibility for Pharmaceutical Materials Division in April 2006.
N P H Garner Director, Finance and Planning, Process Technologies and Fine Chemicals & Catalysts L C Pentz BS ChE, MBA M T Durney President, Catalysts and Chemicals Executive Director, Emission Control Technologies, age 54: joined Johnson Matthey in 1984: appointed Division Director, Process Catalysts J B Fowler President, Pharmaceutical Materials and Services and Technologies in 2001 after having held a series of senior R M Kilburn Managing Director, Macfarlan Smith management positions within Catalysts Division in the US.
Appointed F K Sheffy Director, Business Development, Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Executive Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies in August 2003 B C Singelais President, Global Research Chemicals and Executive Director, Emission Control Technologies in July 2004.
On 1st April 2009 he was appointed Executive Director, Environmental Technologies.
Currently a non-executive director of Victrex plc.
Corporate G J Coates Group Treasurer Committees of the Board S Farrant Group Legal Director and Company Secretary A Audit Committee I D Godwin Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications M Management Development and Remuneration Committee V E Gough Group Reporting Controller N Nomination Committee T Hassan Group Business Development Director B A Murrer Director, Technology Centre The composition of the board presented above reflects the position at S P Robinson Director of Tax 31st March 2009.
I F Stephenson Director, Group Systems, Environment, Health and Safety and Human Resources On 1st April 2009 Sir Thomas Harris joined the board.
His biographical M V Twigg Chief Scientist details are as follows: Sir Thomas Harris KBE CMG Age 64: appointed a non-executive director on 1st April 2009.
Currently Vice Chairman of Standard Chartered Capital Markets Ltd, a non-executive director of Biocompatibles International plc and SC First Bank Korea, a director of IFSL and a Trustee of Asia House.
Until 2004, he was Director General of Trade & Investment USA responsible for British business and technology promotion throughout the United States.
He served previously as British Ambassador to the Republic of Korea in Seoul, Deputy High Commissioner in Lagos, Nigeria and Commercial Counsellor in the British Embassy in Washington DC.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 39 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
