BUSINESS REVIEW Reducing Spoilage of Fresh Produce Research & Development In the UK alone it is estimated that fruit and vegetables account Research and development is an integral part of Johnson for over 30% by weight of total avoidable household food Mattheys high technology businesses.
Better control of spoilage of fresh fruit and vegetables strategies is to differentiate ourselves by using our world class will potentially make a major contribution to reducing waste in technology and we invest significantly in research and this sector.
A known cause of premature ripening, disease and development to develop new products and manufacturing softening in fresh produce is the presence of low levels of processes.
In 2008 09 Johnson Matthey spent 87.6 million ethylene gas.
Ethylene is produced naturally by fruit and gross on R&D.
vegetables and controlling the concentration of this gas in the Our group technology centre located at Sonning Common atmosphere in which fresh produce is stored can help to in the UK is focused on longer term research and has a reduce spoilage.
In a collaborative programme between Anglo worldwide reputation for excellence in catalysis and precious Platinum and Johnson Matthey, a novel supported palladium metals technology.
In addition we have important research material with a significant ethylene adsorption capacity at room centres at Royston, Billingham and Stockton-on-Tees in the UK temperature has been developed.
The scientific design of this located close to some of our major businesses.
Worldwide we new ethylene removal product is based on our detailed have technical centres in many countries including the US, Japan, knowledge of ethylene activation over palladium and adsorption Sweden and the Netherlands.
of the activated species on advanced support materials.
Following successful laboratory testing, the new product is being marketed within one of our business units and is undergoing trials in the Johnson Matthey Technology Centre fresh produce supply chain.
The Johnson Matthey Technology Centre JMTC is the groups central resource for longer term research and employs over Cleaner use of Coal 180 world class scientists.
It supports the research and development of new products and technology across all of The use of coal will increase globally for chemical manufacture, Johnson Mattheys businesses and has expertise in catalysis, fuels and power generation.
However coal is an inherently dirty precious metals, materials science and many other fields in fuel, containing mercury and many other harmful components.
Johnson Matthey, in collaboration with the US Department of JMTC has state of the art facilities and resources for the Energys National Energy Technology Laboratory NETL, has development and testing of catalysts as well as one of the most developed novel palladium based sorbent technology for advanced industrial analytical science groups in the world, removing mercury from high temperature syngas derived from equipped with the latest tools for materials characterisation.
Compared to existing low Collaboration is important and JMTC works closely with temperature mercury capture by activated carbon, high the groups global network of business specific technology temperature capture retains the high thermal efficiency of centres and development groups.
It also participates in external advanced combustion turbine power generation processes such collaborative R&D programmes worldwide.
as IGCC integrated gasification combined cycle.
This is a key Many projects at JMTC are sponsored by the operating element of the strategy to increase the use of abundant coal divisions to meet their longer term objectives.
In parallel, our resources in countries such as the USA and is a likely route to core science projects address the fundamental science that lies capture and storage.
In 2008, NETL and Johnson Matthey CO 2 at the heart of many of our businesses.
Knowledge gained in received a prestigious R&D Top 100 Award for this novel the core science programmes is used to accelerate and mercury removal technology.
improve product development across the group, reducing time to market and improving our ability to design products to meet Fuel Cell Catalysts customers needs.
Platinum is the catalytically active metal of choice in many fuel An increasing number of projects address sustainability cell applications.
However, given its high cost, a key goal is to issues such as energy efficiency, waste reduction, resource optimise the number of platinum atoms available as catalytically utilisation and low carbon technology to support our active sites, particularly when designing catalysts for large scale Sustainability 2017 aspirations.
These projects are focused on commercial fuel cell applications.
In a new approach to catalyst improving the sustainability performance of our own operations design, we are able to place platinum atoms on the surface of and on developing the next generation of sustainable products nanoparticles of a less expensive metal, creating a core shell and technologies for our customers.
In these core shell platinum nanocatalysts all the Four examples of projects supporting our Sustainability platinum atoms are available for catalytic reactions at the 2017 programme goals are outlined below.
Furthermore, through careful choice of the less expensive metal it is actually possible to enhance further the Next Generation Emission Control Catalysts activity of the platinum atoms to give higher efficiency than Since the acquisition of Argillon we have been working on using platinum alone.
This new core shell technology has the exploring and optimising synergies between our coated and potential to enable the more resource efficient manufacture extruded catalyst technologies.
Through combining our expertise of higher performance fuel cell catalysts.
in extruded catalysts and catalyst coating we are now developing new emission control catalysts which incorporate the dual functionality of a particulate filter and an ammonia slip catalyst into one single unit.
Examples of this more resource efficient and cost effective technology are already in use in the market.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 25 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW
