Our non-executive directors play a vital role in the Both David and Pelham have made enormous contributions governance of your company.
Johnson Matthey is extremely to the success of Johnson Matthey and on behalf of you all, fortunate to benefit from the knowledge and many years of shareholders and colleagues alike, I would like to thank them experience of its strong team of independent directors.
On both for their hard work and dedication over many years of 31st March 2009, Ian Strachan retired from the board after just service and to wish Pelham a very happy retirement and David over seven years service as a non-executive director of Johnson well in all of his future endeavours.
Since joining the board in January 2002, Ian has made At the time that we announced Pelham Hawkers an invaluable contribution to the strategic development of the retirement we also announced the appointment of Bill Sandford company.
We are very fortunate to have had the benefit of his as an executive director of the company.
Bill has been with vast experience of UK and international business and we will Johnson Matthey for 32 years and is currently Division Director, miss his strong contribution to the work of the board.
He will join the board with effect from behalf of all of us at Johnson Matthey, I would like to thank Ian the end of the companys Annual General Meeting on 21st July for the important contribution that he has made to the success 2009.
We also announced that Larry Pentz had been appointed of the company and to wish him all the very best for the future.
The groups Sir Thomas Harris joined the board as a non-executive Emission Control Technologies, Process Technologies and Fuel director of the company with effect from 1st April 2009.
Sir Cells businesses now all report to Larry.
Thomas is currently Vice Chairman of Standard Chartered Finally, in February we announced the appointment later Capital Markets Ltd, a non-executive director of Biocompatibles this year of Robert MacLeod as an executive director and International plc and SC First Bank Korea, a director of IFSL Group Finance Director designate.
Robert MacLeod, who is and a Trustee of Asia House.
Further biographical details of currently Group Finance Director of WS Atkins plc, will join the Sir Thomas Harris are presented in the Board of Directors board with effect from 22nd June 2009.
He will take over the information on page 39 of this Annual Report.
role of Group Finance Director from John Sheldrick when he At the end of February the company announced that David retires later this year.
Morgan, Executive Director, Group Corporate Development, The dedication, professionalism and enthusiasm of our had decided to stand down from the board at this years Annual employees at every level of the company never fails to impress General Meeting and will be leaving the company.
On your behalf, I would like to thank all of our employees beginning of April it was announced that Dr Pelham Hawker, around the world for their contribution to the success of the Executive Director, Process Technologies and Fine Chemicals company during a very challenging year.
& Catalysts, had decided to retire.
He will also stand down from In conclusion, Johnson Matthey remains in good shape and the board at the Annual General Meeting and leave the company.
continues to make progress towards delivering superior David Morgan has been with Johnson Matthey for over shareholder value.
Despite the current downturn in many of 20 years, joining the company as a Division Finance Director the worlds economies, the global drivers for our business in 1988.
He has been a member of the board for almost remain very much in place.
As our executive director with responsibility for corporate development and legal and secretarial affairs, David played a leading role in the divestments and acquisitions that refocused the group on its core skills in catalysis, precious metals, fine chemicals and process technology.
Pelham Hawker has been with the company for 24 years, joining as Research & Development Manager in 1985.
He has Sir John Banham Chairman been a board member for almost six years.
Throughout his long and distinguished career with Johnson Matthey, Pelham has been closely involved in all of our catalysts businesses and has played a leading role in their development.
He was appointed to the board as Executive Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies in 2003 and in 2004 was appointed Executive Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies.
He assumed additional responsibility for Pharmaceutical Materials Division in 2006 and has run our Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Division since it was created in 2007.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 3 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW
