BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 Sir John Banham 2 N A P Carson 3 J N Sheldrick 4 A M Thomson 5 R J W Walvis 6 D W Morgan 7 I C Strachan 8 M J Roney 9 D C Thompson 10 P N Hawker 11 L C Pentz 9 10 11 Sir John Banham DL, MA, HonLLD A M Thomson MA, CA Chairman, age 68: joined Johnson Matthey as Chairman Designate Age 62: appointed a non-executive director in September 2002. in January 2006: appointed Chairman on 1st April 2006.
Currently Currently Chairman of Bodycote International Plc and a nonthe Senior Independent Director of Invesco Inc. and Cyclacel executive director of Alstom S. A. France.
Until his retirement in Pharmaceuticals Inc.
He was previously a director at McKinsey & 2006 he was Finance Director of Smiths Group plc.
Mr Thomson Company, the first Controller of the Audit Commission and is a is also Senior Vice President of the Institute of Chartered former Director General of the Confederation of British Industry.
A, M, N Previously a director of National Power and National Westminster Bank, and Chairman of Spacelabs Healthcare Inc. Tarmac plc, R J W Walvis Kingfisher plc, Geest plc, Whitbread PLC and Cyclacel Plc.
M, N Age 62: appointed a non-executive director in September 2002.
Currently a non-executive director of Associated British Ports N A P Carson BSc Holdings Ltd and Balfour Beatty plc and Chairman of the Chief Executive, age 52: joined Johnson Matthey in 1980: appointed Supervisory Board of Allianz Nederland Group NV.
He was Division Director, Catalytic Systems in 1997 after having held senior previously a non-executive director of British Energy Group plc management positions in the Precious Metals Division as well as and Chairman, Global Corporate Centre, Shell International Catalytic Systems in both the UK and the US.
Prior to that he held a series of senior management board as Managing Director, Catalysts & Chemicals in August 1999 positions within the Royal Dutch Shell Group.
A, M, N and additionally assumed board level responsibility for Precious Metals Division in August 2002.
Appointed Chief Executive in July D W Morgan MA, ACA 2004.
Currently a member of the Advisory Board for the Executive Director, Group Corporate Development, age 51: joined Cambridge Programme for Sustainability Leadership.
Johnson Matthey in 1988 as a Division Finance Director.
Appointed an executive director in August 1999.
Responsible for the groups J N Sheldrick MA, MSc, FCMA, FCT corporate development activities and legal and secretarial affairs.
Group Finance Director, age 59: joined Johnson Matthey as In addition, assumed board level responsibility for the companys Executive Director, Finance in September 1990 and assumed central research activities in August 2002.
Currently a member of current job title in September 1995.
Previously Group Treasurer of the International Advisory Board of Conduit Ventures Limited.
The BOC Group plc and a non-executive director of API Group Plc.
Currently a non-executive director of GKN plc.
