CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Social Responsibility EHS performance is monitored using monthly statistics and detailed site audit reports.
EHS performance is reviewed on a regular basis Measures to ensure responsible business conduct and the by the Chief Executives Committee and an annual review is identification and assessment of risks associated with social, ethical undertaken by the board.
and environmental matters are managed in conjunction with all other business risks and reviewed at regular meetings of the board, the Risks from employment and people issues are identified and assessed Audit Committee and the Chief Executives Committee.
by the Chief Executives Committee and reported to the board.
A review of the groups policies and targets for corporate social Employment contracts, handbooks and policies specify acceptable responsibility CSR is set out in the Sustainability section of the business practices and the groups position on ethical issues.
The Business Review on pages 29 to 37.
A full version of the Group Control Manual and security manuals provide further Sustainability Report is available on the companys website.
operational guidelines to reinforce these.
The identification and monitoring of environment, health and safety The Audit Committee reviews risks associated with corporate social EHS, social and governance risks are the responsibility of the responsibility on an annual basis and monitors performance through CSR Compliance Committee, which is a sub-committee of the the annual control self-assessment process conducted by the Chief Executives Committee.
It comprises the division directors, the internal audit function.
Director of EHS, the Company Secretary and senior representatives of Group Legal, Internal Audit and Group EHS.
The Committee has specific responsibility for setting and overseeing compliance with the standards for group CSR performance through the development, dissemination, adoption and implementation of appropriate group policies and other operational measures.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION any transfers except where the company has exercised its right Dividends to suspend their voting rights, withhold a dividend or prohibit their The interim dividend of 11.1 pence per share 2008 10.6 pence was transfer following the failure by the member or any other person paid in February 2009.
The directors recommend a final dividend of appearing to be interested in the shares to provide the company 26.0 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31st March 2009 with information requested under section 793 of the Companies Act 2008 26.0 pence, making a total for the year of 37.1 pence per 2006.
The directors may, in certain circumstances, also refuse to share 2008 36.6 pence, payable on 4th August 2009 to shareholders register the transfer of a share in certificated form which is not fully on the register at the close of business on 12th June 2009. paid up, where the instrument of transfer does not comply with the A Dividend Reinvestment Plan is in place which allows shareholders requirements of the Articles of Association, or if entitled to do so to purchase additional shares in the company with their dividend under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Further information and a mandate can be obtained from the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the companys registrars, Equiniti, whose details are set out on page 112. company and there are no restrictions on voting rights except that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect of a share unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid.
There are no known Share Capital agreements between holders of securities that may result in As at 31st March 2009, the companys authorised share capital was restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights and no 291,550,000 divided into 291,550,000 ordinary shares of 1.00 known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a each.
The issued share capital of the company at 31st March 2009 person other than the holder of the shares.
was 214,675,736 ordinary shares of 1.00 each, excluding 5,997,877 shares held as treasury shares.
Shares acquired by employees through the Johnson Matthey employee share schemes rank equally with the other shares in issue There were no share allotments during the year.
and have no special rights.
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting, shareholders renewed the companys authority to make market purchases of up to 21,467,573 Annual General Meeting ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued share capital of the The notice of the 2009 Annual General Meeting of the company to company excluding treasury shares as at 30th May 2008. be held on Tuesday 21st July 2009 at 11.00 am at The Institution of The company did not make any purchases of its own shares during Engineering and Technology The Lecture Theatre, 2 Savoy Place, the year.
Authority to purchase up to 21,467,573 shares remained London, WC2R 0BL is contained in the circular accompanying this in place at 31st March 2009.
At the forthcoming Annual General Annual Report, together with an explanation of the resolutions to be Meeting the board will again seek shareholders approval to renew considered at the meeting.
the annual authority for the company to make purchases of its own shares through the market.
Employee Share Schemes At 31st March 2009 4,456 current and former employees, Rights and Obligations Attaching to Shares representing approximately 52.2% of employees worldwide, were The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when shareholders in Johnson Matthey through the groups employee declared, to receive the companys report and accounts, to attend share schemes, which held 3,774,061 shares 1.76% of issued and speak at general meetings of the company, to appoint proxies share capital, excluding treasury shares.
A total of 661 current and and to exercise voting rights.
former executives held options over 4,476,662 shares through the companys executive share option schemes.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of ordinary shares and no requirements to obtain prior approval to 42 - Johnson Matthey OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Directors Powers of the Directors The names and biographical details of the directors of the company The powers of the directors are determined by the companys are shown on pages 38 and 39.
Memorandum and Articles of Association, the Companies Act 1985 and Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by the company On 31st March 2009, Mr I C Strachan retired as a non-executive in general meeting.
The directors have been authorised by the director of the company.
On 1st April 2009, Sir Thomas Harris was Articles of Association to issue and allot ordinary shares and to appointed a non-executive director of the company.
On 22nd June make market purchases of shares.
These powers are referred to 2009, Mr R J MacLeod will be appointed an executive director and shareholders at the Annual General Meeting for renewal.
Any shares Group Finance Director designate.
It is intended that Mr MacLeod purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
will take over the role of Group Finance Director from Mr J N Sheldrick when he retires at age 60 on 7th September 2009.
Directors Interests As announced on 26th February 2009, Mr D W Morgan, Executive Details of directors remuneration, service contracts and interests in Director, Group Corporate Development, has decided to stand the shares of the company are set out in the Remuneration Report down from the board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on on pages 47 to 53.
As announced on 1st April 2009, Dr P N Hawker, Executive Director, Process Technologies and Fine Chemicals & Other than service contracts, no director had any interest in any Catalysts, has decided to retire and will also stand down from the material contract with any group company at any time during the year.
board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Also as announced During the year procedures were put in place to ensure compliance on 1st April 2009, Mr W F Sandford, Division Director, Precious with the directors conflict of interest duties set out in the Companies Metal Products, has been appointed an executive director and will Act 2006.
All directors were asked to submit details to the Company join the board with effect from the end of the forthcoming Annual Secretary of any current situations appointments or otherwise General Meeting.
Mr L C Pentz, previously Executive Director, which may give rise to a conflict, or potential conflict, of interest.
Emission Control Technologies, was appointed Executive Director, Notifications were received from all directors.
These were reviewed Environmental Technologies with effect from 1st April 2009. by the board and the board identified those which required further In accordance with the provisions for retirement by rotation in the consideration and, if appropriate, approval.
Following consideration, companys Articles of Association, Sir John Banham, Mr N A P Carson the board approved the conflict or potential conflict matters, subject and Mr Pentz will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General to the condition that the directors concerned abstain from Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Also in participating in any discussion or decision affected by the conflict accordance with the provisions of the companys Articles of Association, matter.
In each case, authorisation was given by directors who were Sir Thomas Harris and Mr MacLeod will retire at the forthcoming Annual genuinely independent of the conflict matter.
A record of all General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.
authorisations is maintained by the Company Secretary and will be reviewed by the board on an annual basis.
Details of the constitution of the board and its committees are set out on pages 40 and 41.
In addition, the board approved a procedure in respect of the ongoing authorisation of directors conflicts of interests and directors duty to declare interests in proposed and existing transactions and Appointment and Replacement of Directors arrangements.
The Articles of Association provide that the number of directors is not subject to any maximum but must not be less than six, unless The above conflicts procedures have operated effectively since their otherwise determined by the company by ordinary resolution.
Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the directors.
A director appointed Major Shareholders by the directors must retire at the next following Annual General As at 31st May 2009, the following information had been disclosed Meeting and is not taken into account in determining the directors to the company under the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure who are to retire by rotation at the meeting.
and Transparency Rules in respect of holdings exceeding the 3% At every Annual General Meeting at least one third of directors must notification threshold: retire by rotation.
The directors to retire by rotation must include any Nature of Total % of total 1 director who has not been subject to election or re-election at the holding voting rights voting rights time of the two preceding Annual General Meetings, and if so Prudential plc Direct 17,835,901 8.31 required to constitute one third of directors those directors who have Vanguard Precious Metals been longest in office since their last appointment or re-appointment.
& Mining Fund Direct 10,850,000 5.05 A director may be removed by a special resolution of the company.
Indirect 10,677,567 4.97 In addition, a director must automatically cease to be a director if Lloyds TSB Group plc Indirect 10,490,545 4.89 i he ceases to be a director by virtue of any provision of the Aviva plc Direct 6,192,018 2.88 Companies Act 1985 or Companies Act 2006 or he becomes Indirect 2,867,283 1.34 prohibited by law from being a director, or ii he becomes bankrupt or Legal & General Group Plc Direct 8,879,144 4.13 makes any arrangement or composition with his creditors generally, 1 Total voting rights attaching to the issued ordinary share capital of the or iii he is suffering from a mental disorder, or iv he resigns from company excluding treasury shares at the date of disclosure.
his office by notice in writing to the company, or in the case of an executive director, his appointment is terminated or expires and the directors resolve that his office be vacated, or v he is absent for Change of Control more than six consecutive months without permission of the The company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of directors from meetings of the directors and the directors resolve commercial agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter that his office be vacated or vi he is requested in writing, or by or terminate the arrangements on a change of control of the electronic form, by all the other directors to resign.
Other than the matters referred to below, these are not deemed by the company to be significant in terms of their potential effect on the group as a whole.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 43 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Change of Control continued Charitable Donations The group has a number of loan notes and borrowing facilities During the year the group donated 495,000 2008 415,000 which may require prepayment of principal and payment of accrued to charitable organisations worldwide, of which 366,000 interest and breakage costs if there is change in control of the 2008 264,000 was in the UK.
The group has also entered into a series of financial Further details of contributions made by the group worldwide are instruments to hedge its currency, interest rate and metal price given on pages 35 and 36 and in the Sustainability Report which exposures which provide for termination or alteration if a change can be found on the companys website at www.
of control of the company materially weakens the creditworthiness of the group.
Political Donations and Expenditure The company is party to a marketing agreement with a subsidiary It is the policy of the group not to make political donations.
During of Anglo Platinum Limited, originally entered into in 1992, under the year to 31st March 2009, no donations were made to EU which the company was appointed as sales and marketing agent political organisations 2008 nil, no EU political expenditure was for refined platinum group metals worldwide excluding the US and incurred 2008 nil and no contributions to political parties outside the company agreed to provide certain marketing services.
The the EU were made within the meaning of Part XA of the Companies agreement contains provisions under which the counterparty may Act 1985 or Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006 2008 nil.
have the right to terminate the agreement on a change of control of the company.
Directors Indemnities The rules of the companys employee share schemes set out the The company has granted indemnities in favour of all directors under consequences of a change of control of the company on Deed Polls.
These provisions were in force during the year ended participants rights under the schemes.
Generally such rights will 31st March 2009 and remain in force as at the date of this report.
vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to the Copies of the Deed Polls and the companys Articles of Association satisfaction of relevant performance conditions.
are available for inspection during normal business hours at the The executive directors service contracts each contain a provision companys registered office and will be available for inspection at the to the effect that if the contract is terminated by the company within forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
one year after a change of control of the company, the company will pay to the director as liquidated damages an amount equivalent to Corporate Governance and Remuneration one years gross basic salary and other contractual benefits less the The boards statement on corporate governance matters is given on period of any notice given by the company to the director.
pages 40 to 42 and its report on directors remuneration is set out Other than the marketing agreement with a subsidiary of Anglo on pages 47 to 53.
Platinum Limited referred to above, the group does not have any contractual or other arrangements with any persons which the Auditors and Disclosure of Information to Auditors directors consider are essential to the business of the company.
In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Disabled Persons Meeting for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Details of the companys policy relating to the employment and company and to authorise the directors to determine their training of disabled persons can be found on pages 32 and 33. remuneration.
So far as each person serving as a director of the company at the Use of Financial Instruments date this Annual Report was approved by the board is aware, there Information on the companys financial risk management and is no relevant information needed by the companys auditors in policies and its exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and connection with preparing its report set out on page 55 audit cash flow risk can be found on pages 90 to 94. information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
Each director hereby confirms that he or she has taken all the steps that Employee Involvement he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Information on the action taken by the company during the year that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
relating to employee involvement can be found on pages 29 to 37.
The Report of the Directors was approved by the Board of Directors on 3rd June 2009 and is signed on its behalf by: Policy on Payment of Commercial Debts The groups policy in relation to the payment of all suppliers set out in its Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group operations is that payment should be made within the credit terms agreed with the supplier, subject to the supplier having performed its obligations under the relevant contract.
At 31st March 2009, the companys aggregate level of creditor days amounted to 6 days.
Simon Farrant Creditor days are calculated by dividing the aggregate of the Company Secretary amounts which were outstanding as trade payables at the end of the year by the aggregate of the amounts the company was invoiced by suppliers during the year and multiplying by 365 to express the ratio as a number of days.
