BUSINESS REVIEW The boards strategies to achieve these financial objectives are: Group Activities Focus the business on the groups core skills in catalysis, Johnson Matthey is a global speciality chemicals company.
We precious metals, fine chemicals and process technology.
serve our customer base from operations in over 30 countries Position the group in growth markets where our core skills and employ around 8,500 people worldwide.
The group is are applicable.
Catalysis is a key technology in many organised into three global divisions: Environmental Technologies: developing markets for the 21st century, particularly those Precious Metal Products and Fine Chemicals & Catalysts.
concerned with protecting the environment such as in Environmental Technologies is a global supplier of catalysts emission control, cleaner fuel, more efficient use of and related technologies for applications which benefit the hydrocarbons and the hydrogen economy.
Environmental environment such as pollution control, cleaner fuel, more Technologies Division, which combines our skills in catalysts efficient use of hydrocarbons and the hydrogen economy.
and process technology, is well positioned to serve these The division comprises three businesses: emerging markets.
Catalysis is also important in the manufacture of fine chemicals where Johnson Matthey has Emission Control Technologies is a global leader in catalytic a number of strong niche market positions.
Johnson systems for emissions control from vehicles and industrial Mattheys expertise and international strength in precious processes.
metals, particularly platinum group metals, was the starting Process Technologies serves the worlds chemical, oil, gas point for many of our businesses.
The market for platinum and refining industries.
It manufactures catalysts, provides has grown steadily for many decades and demand is specialist services and designs and licenses chemical expected to grow significantly over the next ten years.
Differentiate ourselves by using our world class technology.
Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells develops and manufactures We will continue to invest significantly in research and catalysts and catalysed components for a wide range of development to develop new products and manufacturing clean energy fuel cell systems.
Technology is the key driver for most of our businesses and Johnson Matthey has a strong science base Precious Metal Products activities comprise the marketing, with technical centres located in all our major markets.
distribution, refining and recycling of platinum group metals, fabrication of products using precious metals and related Maintain strong relationships with our major customers, materials, and refining of gold and silver.
suppliers, government bodies and other stakeholders by investing resources on joint projects to ensure the group Fine Chemicals & Catalysts is a global supplier of fine chemicals, is well positioned for future market development.
catalysts and other speciality chemical products and services to a wide range of chemical and pharmaceutical industry customers Continue to invest in Johnson Mattheys employees to and research institutes.
ensure they are well trained, motivated and encouraged to meet the challenges of the future.
Ensure the business is run in a sustainable way by using resources efficiently, minimising waste in our manufacturing Strategy and Objectives processes and designing new products that help our customers to be more sustainable and competitive.
Johnson Mattheys strategic intent is to achieve consistent growth in earnings by concentrating on the development of high added value products and services in areas where our expertise provides a competitive edge, particularly in catalysis, precious metals, fine chemicals and process technology.
The groups financial objectives are: To continue to achieve consistent and above average growth in underlying earnings per share.
To grow dividends in line with underlying earnings while maintaining dividend cover at about two and a half times to ensure sufficient funds are retained to support organic growth.
Dividend cover may vary from the long term target to enable the group to maintain dividends at a consistent level.
To deliver a return on investment above the groups cost of capital.
We estimate Johnson Mattheys post tax cost of capital is currently about 8.2% 11.5% pre-tax.
In addition we have a long run pre-tax target rate for the group of 20%.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 7 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW
