60 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Governance DIRECTORS REPORT: BOARD OF DIRECTORS VLADIMIR KIM 49 OLEG NOVACHUK 39 DAVID MUNRO 54 Chairman Chief Executive Development Director Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Joined the Group in 1995 Joined the Group in 2001 Joined the Group in 2005 and became Chairman in 2005. and was appointed Chief Executive in 2007, as a non-executive Director and now Committee membership: having been Finance Director since 2005.
Development Director, having previously Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Skills and experience: been Strategy Director.
Skills and experience: He was formerly vice president of financial Committee membership: He was appointed managing director and projects for Kazakhmys Corporation LLC Member of the Group Health, Safety chief executive officer of Zhezkazgantsvetmet and the financial adviser to the president of and Environment Committee.
JSC in 1995 and was elected chairman of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC, and chairman of Skills and experience: the board of directors of that company in the board of directors of Kazprombank JSC.
He is a non-executive director of Lonmin plc December 2000. and was formerly chief executive of RMC Group plc, chief development officer of BHP Billiton plc and an executive director of Billiton plc responsible for its global aluminium and base metals businesses.
SIMON HEALE 56 DAULET YERGOZHIN 30 PETER HICKSON 64 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: 2007 2008 March 2009 Committee membership: Skills and experience: Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee Head of the Tax Committee of the Ministry Member of the Audit and Group Health, and a member of the Nomination of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan since Safety and Environment Committees.
October 2008, having held a number of other Skills and experience: Skills and experience: governmental positions since early 2006.
Chairman of Communisis plc and senior Interim chairman of Panmure Gordon & Co plc He was formerly a non-executive director independent director of London & Continental and a non-executive director of The Morgan of ENRC PLC.
Prior to his governmental Railways Limited.
He was previously chairman Crucible Company plc, Marex Group Limited appointments, he was deputy director of the of Anglian Water Group Limited, group finance and PZ Cussons plc.
He was formerly chief North-Caspian project department of JSC director of Powergen plc and a non-executive executive of The London Metal Exchange, NC KazMunaiGas before moving to a deputy director of Telent plc, Scottish Power plc and chief operating officer of Jardine Fleming Ltd director general role in JSC Offshore Oil RAC plc.
He is also a trustee of the ORBIS and deputy managing director of Cathay Company KazMunayTeniz, a subsidiary Charitable Trust.
He also previously worked for KazTransOil JSC.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com61 VLADIMIR NI 77 LORD RENWICK OF CLIFTON, KCMG 72 PHILIP AIKEN 61 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointment: Appointment: and Senior Independent Director 2005 2005 Appointment: Skills and experience: Committee membership: 2006 Committee membership: Chairman of the board of directors of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Group Health, Safety and Kazakhmys Corporation LLC since 2006, and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Environment Committee and a member of the having previously been vice chairman.
He is Skills and experience: Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
also a director of HOZU Corporation LLC.
Chairman of Fluor Limited, deputy chairman Skills and experience: of Fleming Family & Partners Limited and Chairman of Robert Walters plc, and a a non-executive director of Compagnie non-executive director of National Grid Financire Richemont AG.
He was formerly PLC and Miclyn Express Offshore Limited.
British Ambassador to the United States and He was formerly president, UK of BHP Billiton to South Africa, and a non-executive director plc, having previously been group president of GEM Diamonds Limited, SABMiller plc, of BHP Billitons energy business, president, BHP Billiton plc, British Airways plc and BHP Billiton Petroleum, an executive director Liberty International plc.
He is vice chairman, of BTR plc and held a number of senior Investment Banking of J. P. Morgan Europe positions in BOC Group plc.
and vice chairman of J. P. Morgan Cazenove.
OTHER SENIOR MANAGEMENT: MATTHEW HIRD 37 Chief Financial officer Appointment: 2007 Skills and experience: Joined the Group in 2005 as Group Financial Controller and Company Secretary.
He was formerly a senior manager with Deloitte & Touches global mining team, and group reporting manager and company secretary of Vedanta Resources plc.
CLINTON DINES 52 EDUARD OGAY 40 Non-executive Director Chief Executive officer, Appointment: Kazakhmys Corporation LLC October 2009 Appointment: Committee membership: 2006 Member of the Audit Committee.
Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Joined the Group in 2001 as director Has been involved in business in China since of marketing and international 1980, including senior positions with the relations.
Appointed director of corporate Jardine Matheson Group, Santa Fe Transport development in 2005 prior to becoming Group and Asia Securities Venture Capital.
In chief executive officer of Kazakhmys 1988 he joined BHP as their senior executive Corporation LLC in 2006. in China and, following the merger of BHP and Billiton in 2001, he became president, BHP Billiton China, a position from which he retired in 2009 prior to his appointment with Kazakhmys.
