80 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Governance OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Principal activities Share capital Kazakhmys PLC is the holding company of the Kazakhmys Group.
Further to the final phase of implementation of the Companies Act The principal activities of the Group are the production of copper 2006, the requirement for companies to have an authorised share and other metals as by-products, including zinc, silver and gold, capital has been abolished.
The Company reected this change in and power generation.
legislation in its Articles of Association which were approved by shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
Therefore, as at 31 December 2009, A list of main subsidiary undertakings, and their principal activity, the Company did not have an authorised share capital and its issued is given in note 44 on page 149. share capital was 535,240,338 ordinary shares of 20 pence, each credited as fully paid.
Further details of the Companys issued Directors share capital are shown in note 25 on page 131.
The Directors of the Company who served during the year were as indicated on pages 60 and 61.
Details of Directors interests in shares The Companys shares are listed on the London and Kazakhstan can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 79. stock exchanges.
Clinton Dines was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Director Major shareholdings on 1 October 2009.
Newly appointed Directors are required to retire As at 29 March 2010, the Company had been notied under Rule at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services and to seek election by shareholders.
Therefore, Clinton Dines will be Authority of the following interests of 3% or more in its ordinary share capital: seeking election by shareholders at the 2010 AGM.
Number of Percentage of In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, ordinary shares total ordinary share Philip Aiken, Simon Heale and David Munro will retire as Directors of 20 pence capital held as at Name of holder each held 29 March 2010 at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves for Cuprum re-election.
As explained in the service agreement paragraph on page Holding B. V. 135,944,325 25.4 78, David Munro has a service agreement terminable by the Company State Privatisation or the Director on six months notice.
Neither Philip Aiken nor Committee of the Simon Heale has a service agreement.
Ministry of Finance During the year no Director had any interest in any shares or of the Republic of debentures of the Companys subsidiaries, or any material interests Kazakhstan 80,286,050 15.0 in any contract with the Company or a subsidiary being a contract Tobermory of signicance in relation to the Companys business.
Holding Europe B. V. 50,735,450 9.5 Directors indemnity and insurance Harper Finance Kazakhmys maintains liability insurance for its Directors and ofcers.
Limited 29,706,901 5.5 The Company has also granted indemnities to each of the Directors, Matthew Hird Chief Financial officer and the Company Secretary Perry to the extent permitted by law.
These indemnities are uncapped in Partners S. A.
21,503,813 4.0 amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may 1 Vladimir Kim holds a 100% interest in Cuprum Holding B. V. Tobermory incur to third parties in the course of acting as a Director or officer Holding Europe B. V. and Perry Partners S. A. or company secretary as the case may be of the Company or any of 2 Oleg Novachuk holds a 100% interest in Harper Finance Limited.
Neither the indemnity nor insurance cover provides cover in the event that a Director or officer or company Relationship agreement secretary as the case may be is proved to have acted fraudulently To regulate the ongoing relationship between the Company and or dishonestly.
Vladimir Kim, a relationship agreement was entered into in September 2005.
The principal purpose of the relationship agreement is to ensure The indemnity is categorised as a qualifying third-party indemnity that the Group is capable of carrying on its business for the benefit for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and will continue in force of the shareholders of the Company as a whole.
for the benefit of Directors or officer or company secretary as the case may be on an ongoing basis.
Political and charitable donations The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the United Dividend Kingdom nor did it make any donations to EU political organisations The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of 9.0 US or incur any EU political expenditure during the year.
The Group made cents per ordinary share 2008: nil.
If approved, the dividend will be charitable donations of $5.8 million during the year 2008: $5.3 million.
paid on 18 May 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of Further details of payments for charitable and community purposes business on 23 April 2010.
The Board decided not to pay an interim made during the year are given on pages 56 and 57. dividend in 2009.
Shareholders may elect to receive their dividend in Suppliers UK pounds sterling by completing a currency election form available It is the Companys policy that payments to suppliers are made from the Companys registrar.
in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between the Annual General Meeting Company and its suppliers, provided that all relevant trading terms The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.15pm and conditions have been complied with.
on Friday 14 May 2010 at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, The average creditor payment period for the year ended 31 December London WC2A 3ED.
Details of the meeting venue and the resolutions 2009 for the Company was 3.8 days 2008: 6.0 days.
to be proposed together with explanatory notes, are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting which accompanies this Annual Report Market value of land and buildings and Accounts.
Land acquired prior to 1 January 2002, is carried in the balance sheet A summary of the business carried out at the AGM will be published at deemed cost resulting from a revaluation, which was undertaken as at on the Companys website www.
1 January 2002 as part of the Groups transition to reporting under IFRS.
Land and buildings acquired since 1 January 2002 are recorded at cost.
It is not practical to estimate the market value of land, buildings and mineral reserves and resources at each balance sheet date.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 81 Policy on derivatives and financial instruments may be changed with the agreement of shareholders.
A shareholder whose name appears on the register can choose whether his shares The Groups objectives and policies on financial risk management, are evidenced by share certicates or held in electronic form in CREST and information on the Groups exposures to foreign currency, credit, commodity, price, liquidity and interest rate risks can be found in note the electronic settlement system in the UK.
Voting rights significant agreements change of control Members may attend any general meeting of the Company.
On a The following significant agreements contain certain termination show of hands every member or his representative who is present in and other rights for the counterparties upon a change of control person or by proxy has one vote on each resolution and on a poll every of the Company.
member or his representative who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote on each resolution for each share of which he is The terms of a $2.1 billion pre-export finance debt facility the Facility the holder.
dated 29 February 2008 between the Company and the financial institutions named in the Facility provide that if any person excluding At any general meeting a resolution put to a vote of the meeting shall Vladimir Kim or Oleg Novachuk or group of people acting in concert be decided on a show of hands, unless before or on the declaration secures control of the Company: i a lender under the Facility shall not of the result of the show of hands a poll is duly demanded.
Subject be obliged to fund a loan: and ii if a body of lenders representing to the provisions of Companies Acts, a poll may be demanded by the more than two-thirds of the amount of the Facility so require, the chairman of the meeting or by at least five members present in person parties shall enter into negotiations for a period of not more than or by proxy and entitled to vote at the meeting or a member or 30 days with a view to agreeing alternative terms for continuing the members present in person or by proxy representing not less than one Facility.
If no alternative basis has been agreed during such period then tenth of the total voting rights of all the members having the right to the lenders may cancel the commitments of the lenders to lend the vote at the meeting or a member or members present in person or by Facility and declare all outstanding amounts due and payable.
proxy holding shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting, being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less Going concern than one tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to that right.
As a result of changes introduced by the Companies Act impact the future growth and operating performance are set out in the 2006 to allow multiple proxies appointed by a single member to vote Business Review on pages 2 to 57.
The financial position of the Group, on a show of hands, resulting in the potential for a vote on a show of its cash ows, financial risk management policies and available debt hands to be unrepresentative of the wishes of the meeting of the facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 36 to 47.
Company, all substantive resolutions at general meetings will normally In addition, note 33 commencing on page 136 sets out the Groups be put to a poll vote.
Any form of proxy sent by the Company to objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital structure, shareholders in relation to any general meeting must be received liquidity position and financial risks arising from exposures to whether in written form or electronic form, not less than 48 hours commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange.
before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned With the recovery in the commodity prices throughout 2009 and meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes into 2010 and the disposal of 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1, the Group to vote.
has a strong cash position with available funds of $903 million at Dividend rights 31 December 2009 and reduced debt levels of $1,650 million.
The Shareholders may by ordinary resolution declare dividends but the Directors have considered the Groups financial position, the available amount of the dividend may not exceed the amount recommended credit facilities, and the outlook for the Groups products, along with by the Board.
The Board can declare and pay interim dividends.
accessibility to customers in the key markets of China and Europe, The Board may declare and pay such interim dividends including and believe there is sufficient cover to meet the Groups anticipated any dividend payable at a xed rate of the amounts and on the dates cash ow requirements.
and for the periods it decides provided the distributable profits of the After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation Company justify such payment.
If at any time the share capital of the that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational Company is divided into different classes, the Board may pay such existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue interim dividends on shares which rank after shares conferring to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing preferential rights with regard to dividends as well as on shares the consolidated financial statements.
conferring preferential rights, unless at the time of payment any preferential dividend is in arrears.
Articles of Association The following description summarises certain provisions of the If a dividend has not been claimed for 12 years after the date such Companys Articles of Association and applicable English law dividend became due for payment, it may be invested or otherwise concerning companies the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006. made use of by the Board for the benefit of the Company.
This summary is qualied in its entirety by reference to the Transfer of shares Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Acts.
The Board may refuse to register a transfer of a certicated share which The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by is not fully paid or renunciation of a renounceable letter of allotment, a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Where provided that refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the class rights are varied, such amendments must be approved by the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Board members of each class of shares respectively.
may also refuse to register a transfer unless i it is in respect of only one class of shares, ii it is in favour of a single transferee or not more At the 2010 AGM a special resolution will be put to shareholders than four joint transferees, iii the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly proposing to adopt new Articles of Association primarily in order to reect the final phase of implementation of the Companies Act 2006 stamped if so required and delivered for registration to the ofce or such other place as the Board may determine accompanied by the as well as the implementation of the Companies Shareholder Rights certicate for the shares to which it relates and such other evidence Regulations 2009.
If adopted, the changes will be reected in the summary of the Articles of Association which will appear in the 2010 as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the transferor Annual Report and Accounts.
or person renouncing to make the transfer.
Rights attaching to shares Transfers of uncerticated shares must be carried out using CREST and the Board can refuse a transfer of an uncerticated share in accordance The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company are dened in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
82 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Governance OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED The Board may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent to 30 days a year, by closing the register to shareholders.
The Board company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any uncerticated law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in shares without gaining consent from CREST.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and applicable law and have elected Winding up to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
In the event the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with the sanction of a special resolution of the Company and any other sanction The Group and parent company financial statements are required required by law, divide among the members in specie all or any part of by law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union to present fairly the assets of the Company and he can value any assets and determine the financial position of the Group and the parent company and the how the division shall be carried out as between the members or performance for that period: the Companies Act 2006 provides in different classes of members.
The liquidator may also vest the whole relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant or any part of the assets in trustees on such trusts for the benefit of part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view the members, but no member shall be compelled to accept any are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
assets on which there is a liability.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial Variation of rights statements, the Directors are required to: If at any time the share capital of the Company is divided into shares select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: of different classes, the rights attached to any share or class of shares in the Company may be varied or abrogated in such manner if any make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: as may be provided by such rights or, in the absence of any such state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, provision, either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the than three quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class parent company financial statements: and or upon the adoption of a resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of shares of that class.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it The rights or privileges attached to any class of shares shall be deemed is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company not to be varied or abrogated by the creation or issue of any new will continue in business.
shares ranking equally with or subsequent to those already issued or by The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above the reduction of the capital paid up on such shares or by the purchase requirements in preparing the financial statements.
or redemption by the Company of its own shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts and the Companys Articles The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company and the of Association.
Group keep proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and of the Group and Powers of the Directors that enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with The Directors are responsible for the management of the business of the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company subject such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of to applicable legislation and regulation and Articles of Association.
the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities, and Further to a resolution passed at the 2009 AGM, the maximum number have adopted a control framework for application across the Group.
Responsibility statement Notication of the acquisition or disposal of major shareholdings Each Director confirms to the best of his knowledge that: Rule 5 of the Disclosures and Transparency Rules requires disclosure the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in to the issuer by a holders of shares with voting rights attached, b accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards: those entitled to exercise voting rights, and c those holding financial instruments which result in a right to acquire shares with voting rights the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view already in issue, when their interests reach, exceed or fall below 3%, of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the and every percentage point above 3%.
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Audit information As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and Directors has approved this report and confirmed that so far as he performance of the business and the position of the Company and is aware, there is no relevant audit information being information the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, needed by the auditors in connection with preparing their audit together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties report, of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and he has that they face.
taken all steps that he ought to have reasonably taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish The Directors Report comprising pages 2 to 82, and including that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts referred to in these pages, has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Auditors Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the auditors, Robert Welch the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the existing Company Secretary auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, be re-appointed.
Ernst & Young LLP have 29 March 2010 indicated their willingness to continue in ofce and ordinary resolutions Registered Ofce re-appointing them as auditors and authorising the Directors to set 6th Floor, Cardinal Place their remuneration will be proposed at the 2010 AGM.
100 Victoria Street Responsibilities of the Directors for the preparation of the London financial statements SW1E 5JL The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Registered in England and Wales No.
5180783 Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
