OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 11 A CONSISTENT STRATEGY OUR VISION To develop ourselves as the leading natural resources company in Central Asia, combining international best practice with the exceptional mineral opportunities available in the region.
OUR OBJECTIVE To deliver value for shareholders and maintain a strong social commitment to our employees, the environment and the communities around us.
OUR STRATEGY Take advantage of natural resource Optimise existing assets Deliver growth projects opportunities in Central Asia We are developing management tools to We will aim to replace existing reserves Actively seek out and acquire attractive, improve the performance of our existing and deliver growth in output by investing undeveloped natural resource assets in the assets and create opportunities to raise in projects that add additional value to Central Asian region.
This will be achieved efficiency in our operations.
This will include extensions through exploration and by acquiring from procurement of equipment, to our existing mines and mid-sized known assets.
improved maintenance and better mine developments, along with new planning.
We believe we can reduce concentrators and concentrator upgrades.
costs, increase yields and raise productivity.
We also intend to deliver our major growth projects, Aktogay and Bozshakol.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Group has six key performance indicators, which are used to measure the success of the Group.
The KPIs focus on financial returns, but in order to relate to the Groups strategy, they include measurements of production, cost and capital efficiency.
The Board reviews the KPIs to ensure that they are balanced, informative and relevant to the business.
p18 RISK FACTORS The activities of the Group and the delivery of its strategy will always include an element of risk.
The Group has a formal framework for assessing and reviewing risks to ensure that they are realistically evaluated and monitored.
p32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Underpinning our strategy is a commitment to operating responsibly, taking account of our employees, the environment and the communities around us.
