32 Keller Group plc Directors report The Directors present their report, together with the audited Directors accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The rules governing the election and re-election of directors may be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 41. Business review and principal activities The powers of directors of the Company are as set out in the The Groups principal activity is specialist ground engineering.
In accordance with Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, the The names and biographical details of the Directors who hold Directors are required to produce a business review in this report.
office at the date of this report are given on pages 30 and 31.
All The information which fulfils this requirement can be found in the served throughout the year.
In addition, Dr Michael West served sections set out below and is incorporated by reference into this on the Board as Chairman until he retired on 31 July 2009. report.
A review of: The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company the Groups progress and future prospects, including are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 38.
Directors discussion of the Groups markets and competitive conflicts of interest are discussed in the Corporate Governance environment and the main trends and factors likely to affect the Report on page 41. future development, performance and position of the Groups business is given on pages 6 to 24 and The Companys articles of association indemnify the Directors out environmental matters, employee, social and community of the assets of the Company in the event that they suffer any loss issues may be found on pages 25 to 29. or liability in the execution of their duties as Directors, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Principal risks and uncertainties and key performance indicators Retirement and re-election The key business risks and uncertainties affecting the Group Mr James Hind and Dr Wolfgang Sondermann will retire by relate to market cycles, acquisitions, technical risk and people.
rotation at the Annual General Meeting and will offer themselves These are explained more fully in the Operating Review, where for re-election.
Dr Kevin Bond, who has now served for nine the key performance indicators, measuring success in managing years on the Board, will also retire by rotation, but will not stand these risks, are also shown.
The Group is geographically diverse and is managed as a series Share capital and substantial shareholdings of local businesses, which, in the Boards opinion, gives it a The structure of the Companys share capital, including the rights relatively low risk profile.
There are no contractual arrangements and obligations attaching to shares, is given in note 25 to the which, individually, are critical to the business of the Group.
Results and dividends Details of shares allotted by the Company during the year appear The results for the year, showing a profit before taxation of in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
At 2 March 2010, the Company had been notified in accordance The Board has declared a second interim dividend of 14.5p per with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial share in lieu of a final dividend 2008 final dividend: 13.8p per Services Authority of the following interests in its issued ordinary share to be paid on 1 April 2010, to members on the register at share capital: the close of business on 12 March 2010.
A first interim dividend Number of Total of 7.25p per share was paid on 2 November 2009 making a total Company shares held voting rights dividend for the year of 21.75p 2008: 20.7p which will amount 1 BlackRock Inc 8,485,029 13.2% to 14.3m 2008: 13.3m.
3,691,985 5.6% Legal & General Investment Management 3,293,866 5.1% J P Morgan Chase & Co. 3,094,999 4.8% ODDO Asset Management 1,946,736 3.0% 1 Including Financial Instruments with similar economic effect to Qualifying Financial Instruments Keller Group plc 33 Research and development Political and charitable contributions The Group continues to have in-house design, development and No contributions were made to any political party during the year.
manufacturing facilities, where staff work closely with site engineers Donations made by the Group in the UK for charitable purposes to develop new and more effective methods of solving problems were 70,300 2008: 2,000 with charitable donations of of ground conditions and behaviour.
Most of the specialised 145,818 2008: 108,000 made by the Group as a whole.
ground improvement equipment we use is designed and built by us and, where applicable, the development costs are included Annual General Meeting in the cost of the equipment.
The full wording of the resolutions to be tabled at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting is set out in the Notice of Annual General Corporate governance Meeting on page 78.
This is the subject of a separate report on pages 40 to 43 which details the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 34 to 39.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, Social responsibility there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys The Groups approach to employee involvement, equal Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps opportunities, health and safety and the environment is set out that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware in the Social Responsibility Report on pages 25 to 29. of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Management of financial risks The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are Auditors discussed in the Financial Review on pages 23 and 24.
In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors Going concern to the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual The Group is in a very sound financial position, having continued General Meeting.
its consistent track record of converting profits into cash.
It has significant committed facilities and is operating well within all the On behalf of the Board associated financial covenants.
Accordingly, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate Jackie Holman resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Secretary future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 2 March 2010 preparing the annual financial statements.
Further information regarding the financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 22 to 24.
In addition, note 24 to the financial statements describes the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Payments to suppliers The Groups policy, in relation to all of its suppliers, is to settle terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction and to abide by those terms, providing that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group does not follow any code or statement on payment practice.
At 31 December 2009 the Group had 58 days 2008: 63 days purchases outstanding.
