Kier CoNstruCtioN west Burton power station Kier Construction was awarded a contract valued at 100m to provide civil engineering works for a 1,200MW combined cycle gas turbine CCGT power station at West Burton in nottinghamshire on behalf of eDF energy.
ChieF exeCutives review CoNstruCtioN 08 09 SuPPorT SerViCeS PArTnerSHiP HoMeS DeVeloPMenTS CoNstruCtioN Frameworks 52 in total including public We enter the new financial year with and private sector clients strong order books and a healthy order books are strong with good visibility to 2011 Cash generation continues pipeline of probable awards which, energy and power sectors provide significant together, secure around 93% of our opportunity in power station investment group purchase into Kent BsF secures targeted revenues for 2010 and around 300m of education projects overseas opportunities half of our target for 2011. www.
co. uk construction regional network our 32 offices across the uK give the businesses strong integration into local communities, client base and supply chain.
revenue operating profit operating margin % 39.1m 1,584.5m 36.6m 1,492.2m 1,411.2m 21.9m 2.6 1,218.1m 18.0m 2.3 1.6 1.5 09 09 08 08 07 07 06 06 Pinnacle MK, Kier Marriott & Kier Build Westminster Kingsway College, Foundation Park, Kier Moss Whitmore High School, Harrow This project in Milton Keynes is for Kier london As part of a 6.5m phased redevelopment, Kier Southern developers Hampton Brook.
The Westminster Kingsway College is a Kier Moss transformed units 7 and 8 of Site engineer Jas Dhaliwal working for 250,000sq ft scheme, undertaken on two-stage 35m design & build contract Foundation Park, Maidenhead.
The contract Kier Southern on behalf of Kier Harrow a design & build basis, is being built for the provision of a new campus building included a comprehensive refurbishment Projects which is carrying out a 40m to meet the Building research on one of the current college sites.
and extension to the existing buildings, now design & build project at Whitmore High establishments BreeAM excellent occupied by client FreP Maidenhead ltd, School in Harrow.
The project is now well rating in energy efficiency.
and achieved a BreeAM Very Good rating.
under way and completion is due in 2010.
Kier GrouP PlC AnnuAl rePorT AnD ACCounTS 2009 CoNstruCtioN ConTinueD The Construction division comprises Kier regional and Kier Construction.
Kier regional encompasses our network of 11 regional contracting businesses, mainly focused on building projects operating across the whole of the uK.
Kier Construction represents the Groups infrastructure and overseas operations which include civil engineering in the power, waste and nuclear sectors, infrastructure, rail and mining.
overall revenue remained fairly flat at 1,492.2m Health projects represented 9% of our awards in the Construction cash balances at 30 June 2009 2008: 1,584.5m, whilst operating profit grew from year.
The seven-year ProCure 21 P21 framework 36.6m to a record 39.1m, at a margin of 2.6% is in its sixth year and is producing a steady flow 2008: 2.3%.
Cash generation has been good with of work.
in the last 12 months Kier Health has won 400m cash balances at 30 June 2009 in line with those a further 20 projects at a combined value of 2008: 410m last year at around 400m after deducting tax and 65m taking our total awards on the framework to intra-group dividends.
Contract award levels were nearly 400m.
Construction contract awards marginally lower than those for last year giving a new construction, extensions and refurbishment secured order book of 1,190m 2008: 1,357m work at prisons for the Ministry of Justice Custodial Public comprising only the value of projects with a signed Properties Framework has again provided a good sector 56% contract but with a higher level of probable awards level of activity representing around 3% of total comprising contracts on which we are preferred awards in the year.
At the end of the year we Private sector 44% bidder or in one-to-one negotiations : 1,055m were selected for the 180m Featherstone 2008: 49% Public, 51% Private compared with 757m last year.
Prison contract near Wolverhampton to provide Fifty-six per cent of our awards were for public three 480-place house blocks and additional associated facilities.
sector projects, with education, by far, our biggest source of work accounting for some 600m 45% in the private sector we have been awarded a of our total awards for the year, much of it generated number of projects under the new BAA framework through framework agreements and partnerships and are active at edinburgh, Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted airports.
other private sector contracts with government, local authorities and universities.
The Contractors Framework for Academies has include projects under frameworks for Tesco awarded us six projects so far with a combined and Sainsburys including two ground-breaking value of 139m as well as a further six projects Sainsburys eco stores in Dartmouth and Gloucester Quays.
other important framework clients for whom on which we are preferred bidder valued at an additional 272m.
we work include SeGro, Goodman, British land, We are active in the BSF market and our role on Hermes, Morrisons and Vodafone.
the Kent County Council BSF has started to deliver The energy sector accounted for 14% of our awards in the year including the 100m contract at with 108m already awarded and a further 300m anticipated to come on-stream in due course.
West Burton, nottingham where we are providing Frameworks for local authorities are also delivcivil engineering works for a 1,200MW Combined ering a high volume of work, particularly in schools.
Cycle Gas Turbine CCGT power station for eDF energy.
As the leading provider of power station We were selected as one of three contractors to form the east Midlands Property Alliance eMPA infrastructure for CCGT power stations, having intermediate Projects Partnering Framework valued completed 13 such stations in a similar number at 275m over four years, as well as being selected of years, we are well placed to take advantage of the necessary future growth in this sector.
We as preferred bidder on a 400m Construction Framework in the south-west over a similar period, are preferred bidder with VT on a waste treatment neither of which is currently included in our secure plant at Wakefield and are exploring a number of or probable awards.
opportunities in the nuclear sector, building on our ChieF exeCutives review CoNstruCtioN 10 11 SuPPorT SerViCeS PArTnerSHiP HoMeS DeVeloPMenTS 1 2 3 4 2 edinburgh Airport, Kier Scotland 3 GKn Aerospace, Kier Western Site agent Ashley Back.
Kier Westerns Kier Airports has completed its first project at edinburgh Airport as part of the BAA 14m project for client GKn Aerospace involves the development of a new wing framework.
This is a 10m contract to provide a new car hire centre.
The assembly plant for the A350 XWB passenger airliner.
Consolidated Car rental Centre CCrC, 1 Great north Museum, Kier northern built by Kier Scotland, is one of the first 4 open Academy, norwich, Kier eastern left to right: Neil Hosie, senior quantity surveyor and Mark BAA framework projects awarded to When completed the open Academy Meakin, assistant quantity surveyor.
Mindful of the Great north Kier since its recognition as a in norwich will be the largest building Museums Grade ii listed status, Kier northern used building framework partner.
of its type in the uK and will have materials in keeping with its 19th century roots, including lime the lowest embodied energy of any and horsehair in the plaster and pure lead tiling on the roof.
The building features cross-laminated timber panel construction.
Approximately 2,325 tonnes of C02 will be stored in the timber frame.
it has been calculated that the entire building will remain carbon negative for almost 20 years.
27 years of experience at Sellafield and Aldermaston.
our work is in government-funded infrastructure and We have recently secured a position on the AWe drainage projects and, whilst payment terms have Civil Framework to deliver projects at Aldermaston lengthened, cash receipts have continued to flow.
and Burghfield over a five-year period.
At our open We have now turned our attention to other areas cast coal mine at Greenburn, east Ayrshire, we have in the Middle east including Saudi Arabia, where now extracted 3.3m tonnes of coal since we began we are setting up an eight-year phosphate mining production in 2004 and are exploring further opporcontract in joint venture with a local partner.
Further tunities on adjacent sites which could increase our opportunities are being pursued in Saudi Arabia and reserves significantly taking coal production to Abu Dhabi.
beyond 2016. in romania we have successfully completed a in the water sector, as part of a joint venture, we large retail centre on time and to budget, together were awarded a 250m contract extension to our with the first phase of an apartment scheme.
framework with united utilities to 2015. in rail, as However our operations have been hampered by well as the five-year structures maintenance contract the economic downturn and the lack of financing for on which we are working for network rail in the east projects and we have decided to withdraw from the Anglia region, we were awarded the Kings Cross roof region after ten successful years.
We have also been in the Caribbean we were successful in securing successful in gaining entry onto the civil engineering a 40m new hospital in Portmore on the outskirts of and demolition enabling frameworks for Crossrail.
Kingston, Jamaica for the Cardiovascular Hospitals overseas our markets have been mixed.
our of America as part of the first phase of what could be operations in Dubai have continued to slow as a major development with opportunities for further funding became tighter.
Fortunately the majority of work on the scheme.
Kier GrouP PlC AnnuAl rePorT AnD ACCounTS 2009 CoNstruCtioN ConTinueD 1 ChieF exeCutives review CoNstruCtioN 12 13 SuPPorT SerViCeS PArTnerSHiP HoMeS DeVeloPMenTS 2 3 1 Great northern Hotel, Kier South east 3 Al Jalamid, Saudi Arabia, Kier Construction Plant and equipment ready to commence work on the eightAsh Dookhony, management trainee, adds additional datum lines to ensure that the ground floor slab is cast at the correct level during year contract for Maaden of Saudi Arabia to establish and operate an open pit phosphate mine potentially the worlds major structural alterations at the Great northern Hotel, Kings Cross.
Kier is working in joint venture with 2 network rail in east Anglia, Kier Construction its partners, Al-Qahtani Saudi Arabia and Comedat Jordan Chris Wright, site supervisor far right with personnel from the on this contract.
earthworks contractor at Manningtree, essex.
The Manningtree railway works are part of Kier Constructions five-year framework agreement in partnership with network rail to manage and implement maintenance and repair of bridges, culverts, embankments, drains and other structures throughout the east Anglian region of the network.
Construction markets and outlook With these winning themes we are well positioned Construction order books secured and probable We enter the new financial year with strong order to continue to attract new business.
Moreover, our books and a healthy pipeline of probable awards framework agreements in both the public and private which, together, secure around 93% of our targeted sectors continue to provide us with a good long-term 2.2bn revenues for 2010 and around half of our target for and steady stream of work.
Whilst there may be uncertainties around P21 healthcare framework we have been successful the level of future construction markets we are in winning 22 schemes of the 34 on which we were percentage of targeted better placed than many of our competitors to short-listed last year and on the Academies framerevenue secured win further construction work and to increase our work we have been awarded the contract or preferred Secured market share whilst maintaining a healthy margin.
bidder status on 12 out of 17 of the schemes for Probable The main factors that differentiate Kier from our which we bid.
We are currently bidding for the To be obtained competitors are: follow-on for both of these frameworks: Academies 2 which has a national value of 4bn and is schedour wide geographic regional network of 32 uled to start in november 2009: and P21 which 93% offices across the uK giving the businesses is anticipated to have a national value of 700m strong integration into local communities, our per annum for six years.
We have now started work client base and our supply chain: as one of three contractors identified by Argent for our strong central co-ordination of national their 2.4bn Central Framework contract at Kings clients: Cross which includes around 8m sq ft of mixed-use development over a 10 to 15-year period.
a good track record of performance delivery: in the energy sector our status and exemplary a strong Group balance sheet: track record continues to attract work.
We are bidding 50% for the planned Kingsnorth coal-fired power station, an ability to manage smaller contracts: which will include carbon-capture technology, and a strong safety record, which is of increasing for planned nuclear power stations across the uK, importance to clients: and starting with eDFs proposed nuclear power station at Hinckley.
a culture of client service that creates repeat overseas we are looking at opportunities in business for the Group.
Saudi Arabia, Abu Dhabi and Hong Kong.
2011 2010 Kier group plC aNNual repor t aND aCCouNt s 2009 phillip Downham project manager Kier Build iNtegrateD exCelleNCe proJeCt Kings Cross projects, Kier Build, Kier south east, Kier Construction Kier Build is currently working on the first phase of the T1 building energy Centre shown here part of property developer Argents Kings Cross Central development.
Kier is one of a consortium of three contractors chosen by Argent to deliver the 2.4bn overall scheme.
Also part of the scheme is the Great northern Hotel redevelopment being undertaken by Kier South east.
Alongside both projects, Kier Construction is just beginning the 27m Kings Cross roof refurbishment project for network rail.
Here, representatives of the three Kier businesses discuss their respective projects at Kings Cross.
ChieF exeCutives review 14 15 Neil Cook senior surveyor Kier south east amy Kwok sub agent Kier Construction
