FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT 44 45 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their annual report and audited financial Substantial voting rights statements for the year ended 30 June 2009.
At 14 September 2009 the Company had been notified of the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Principal activities and business review The Groups principal activities are construction, support services, Standard Life Investments Limited 13.6% private and affordable residential development, commercial property Legal & General Plc and its subsidiaries 4.9% development and infrastructure project investment.
Barclays Global Investors 3.2% A review of the Groups business and progress is given within the Norges Bank 3.0% operating and financial review on pages 4 to 41.
Employees Results and dividends The companies in the Group are equal opportunity employers.
The The Group profit for the year after taxation and exceptional items was Group provides relevant information on matters of concern to employees 16.9m 2008: 48.2m.
through newsletters and formal and informal meetings with local An interim dividend of 18p per share 2008: 18p amounting management.
The Group encourages and assists, whenever practicable, to 6.6m 2008: 6.5m was paid on 1 May 2009.
The directors the recruitment, training, and career development of disabled people propose a final dividend of 37p per share 2008: 37p per share and the retention of those who become disabled during the course amounting to 13.6m 2008: 13.5m payable on 27 November 2009 of their employment and who can be employed in a safe working to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business environment.
The Group operates a sharesave scheme for all eligible on 25 September 2009. employees and makes available a dealing service to enable employees to buy and sell its shares with a minimum of formality and on attractive Share capital commission terms.
The Group also operates an AESOP scheme for all Details of shares allotted by the Company during the year appear in employees which comprises a share matching element.
note 22 of the consolidated financial statements.
Combined Code Directors A statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 47 to 49.
The business of the Company is managed by the board of directors, subject to the provisions of its memorandum and articles of association Going concern basis and applicable law and regulation.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-term The directors of the Company as at 16 September 2009 are shown contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across its business on pages 42 and 43.
Mr N P Winser was appointed on 1 March 2009: activities.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well all of the other directors were directors throughout the year.
Mr R W placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current Side retired from the Board on 8 November 2008. uncertain economic outlook.
At the forthcoming annual general meeting resolutions will be After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation proposed for the re-election of Miss D E Mattar, Mr M P Sheffield that the Company and the Group has adequate resources to continue and Mr P M White.
Mr N P Winser will be proposed for election for in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they the first time.
At that date, the unexpired term of the contract of continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
employment with the Company of each of the executive directors will be 12 months.
The articles of association of the Company provide that directors Donations may be elected and removed from office by ordinary resolution.
The Group donations to charity in the United Kingdom were 64,000 2008: 72,000.
In addition the Group has considerable involvement in the board may also appoint directors, subject to their holding office only until the next general meeting, whereupon they shall be eligible for community as set out in the corporate responsibility report on pages election by ordinary resolution.
No political donations were made 2008: nil.
Details of directors interests are disclosed in the directors remuneration report on pages 50 to 53.
The articles of association of the Company provide for the indemnification of its directors out of the assets of the Company in the event that they suffer any loss or liability in the execution of their duties as directors and the Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with its directors entitling them to be indemnified to the extent permitted by statute.
The Company has insurance in favour of its directors and officers in respect of certain losses or liabilities to which they may be exposed due to their office.
KIER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Policy on payment of creditors The Group agrees payments with its suppliers and subcontractors on an individual contract basis rather than following a standard code.
The policy is to abide by these agreed terms whenever it is satisfied that the suppliers or subcontractors have provided the goods or services in accordance with the contract terms and conditions.
The aggregate amount owed to trade creditors by the Company at the end of the year was nil 2008: nil.
Subsidiary trading companies within the Group, acting in accordance with the above policy, exhibit creditor days averaging 34 2008: 28 in respect of suppliers of invoiced goods and services and 16 2008: 18 in respect of certified amounts due to subcontractors.
These figures exclude amounts not currently due for payment but included within trade creditors.
Financial instruments Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group along with its exposure to material financial risks are set out in notes 1 and 26 of the consolidated financial statements.
Auditors In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006 a resolution for the reappointment of the auditors, KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
M D Barton Secretary 16 September 2009 Tempsford Hall Sandy Bedfordshire SG19 2BD
