Kier DevelopmeNts one reading Central Kier scaffolder Gary Blatchford.
The reading Central development, a strategic partnership between Kier Property and invista real estate Management, includes this 219,000sq ft ten-floor headquarters building, seven floors of which will be occupied by Yell, the international directories business.
The building is being constructed by Kier Build and Kier Moss, with Kier Plant providing equipment and services.
ChieF exeCutives review ConSTruCTion 28 29 SuPPorT SerViCeS PArTnerSHiP HoMeS DevelopmeNts DevelopmeNts solum regeneration, a Kier property Network rail Jv Through our low-risk strategy of station-related sites in london and the south-east of england 1 east Maidstone largely non-speculative development, 2 Guildford 3 epsom Kier Property is not exposed to large 4 Twickenham 5 Walthamstow holdings of unoccupied buildings and 6 enfield 7 Wembley our portfolio is diverse.
Through active asset management we continue to enhance value, especially given our expertise in the planning process.
co. uk developments Completion of uK supreme Court, on time and within budget now being sold for over 30m established solum regeneration, our joint venture with Network rail to develop station sites in the south-east of england selection as preferred bidder on pFi police investigation Centres 60m of construction and 3m of equity our share secured outsourcing contract for sheffield City Council to manage 6 the councils non-residential property portfolio 5 7 4 3 1 2 revenue 64.7m 2008: 84.5m one reading Central united Kingdom Supreme Court Sheffield Town Hall Kent BSF Kier Property Kier Property Kier Asset Partnership Services KAPS Kier Project investment Kier Property and invista real estate have This project was completed on time and KAPS achieved its first success in in September 2009 Kier invested in created a joint venture to develop this to budget in March 2009.
The new uK winning a seven-year, 60m contract to Kents first BSF partnership to provide major HQ office campus in the heart of Supreme Court was ready for occupation manage Sheffield City Councils 34 secondary schools.
by the MoJ in July 2009 and for the corporate property portfolio, which official opening by HM The Queen in started on 1 July 2009. october 2009.
Kier GrouP PlC AnnuAl rePorT AnD ACCounTS 2009 DevelopmeNts ConTinueD our Developments division comprises Kier Property, which includes commercial, office, industrial, retail and mixed-use development both directly and through joint ventures: Kier Project investment, our PFi investment business: and Kier Asset Partnership Services KAPS, which has been established for local authority property management and development contracts.
revenue for the year to 30 June 2009 of 64.7m limited but which we continue to develop.
Kier 2008: 84.5m was 23.4% below last year, reflecting regional, the contractor, is due to complete the the low level of development sales within our Property building early next year and seven of the ten floors business.
The division recorded an operating loss have already been pre-let to Yell with an encouraging of 1.9m before exceptional items 2008: profit of level of interest in the remaining vacant space.
11.7m principally due to incurring bidding costs Solum regeneration, our joint venture with in both the PFi business and in connection with network rail, has had a good first year.
This the successful tender for the Sheffield outsourcing innovative partnership gives us the opportunity contract within KAPS.
An analysis of the results is to develop seven station-related sites in london set out below: and the south-east at east Maidstone, Guildford, epsom, Twickenham, Walthamstow, enfield and year to 30 June Wembley.
We have made much progress on all of 2009 2008 these opportunities with epsom likely to be the first revenue operating revenue operating site to see development activity.
A number of new profit profit development opportunities are now being added m m m m Property 49.3 0.8 69.6 12.0 by network rail to the existing portfolio.
These include sites for the development of budget hotels, Project investment 15.4 1.2 14.9 0.3 shops and affordable housing which will generate KAPS 1.5 0.6 significant future value.
64.7 1.9 84.5 11.7 The commercial property market continues to be difficult and, whilst exit yields are now beginning to Within our Property business we completed harden, rents are beginning to fall.
Consequently we the refurbishment works for the new uK Supreme have examined the carrying values of our developCourt in March 2009, with Kier Wallis, our specialist ments and work in progress and have made provirefurbishment business, as contractor.
The building sions against the values amounting to 7.3m.
was handed over to the Ministry of Justice on time Kier Project investment KPi, our PFi business, and on budget in advance of its official opening in had a number of successes.
We have now exchanged contracts for the construction on the norwich Schools project, disposal of the uK Supreme Court for over 30m which now means all 12 of our current investwhich provides us with an exit yield of around 5% on ments are operational.
in november 2008 we the post-tax disposal proceeds.
were announced as preferred bidder on the norfolk in April construction by Kier regional began and Suffolk Police investigation Centres scheme on the new headquarters for ordnance Survey in with a capital value of 60m.
Kier regional is the Southampton.
once this is completed ordnance contractor on this scheme and, together with KPi, Surveys existing 25-acre site will be released to is working with the two police authorities and is Kier Property for a mixed-use scheme.
well advanced in taking the six sites through the excellent construction progress is being made planning process.
Financial close is expected on at our 219,000sq ft reading Central office scheme this project in november 2009 bringing with it a which we sold to Clerical Medical investment Group 3m PFi investment.
ChieF exeCutives review ConSTruCTion 30 31 SuPPorT SerViCeS PArTnerSHiP HoMeS DevelopmeNts ordnance Survey, Kier Property left to right: Kier Property associate director Adam Vine, Kier Southern engineer Ben Beanland and Kier Moss assistant quantity surveyor Kenny Taylor.
under development by Kier Property with construction by Kier Southern and Kier in September 2009, Kier purchased Telereal Trilliums manage the citys approximately 6,700 operational Moss, the new ordnance Survey head investment in Kents first BSF local education and investment property interests and our remit is office, sited alongside the M271, will be a flagship corporate building at the gateway Partnership leP which was established in 2008 to develop and deliver long-term asset management to Southampton, the city that has been to provide 34 secondary schools in Kent to be delivstrategies on behalf of the council.
the agencys home for over 160 years.
ered through three phases of construction.
Kier was already in place as the principal construction supply Developments markets and outlook chain partner of the leP and is active on the first The forthcoming year will continue to challenge phase of schools which are in construction.
liquidity remains a key issue although now working on the second phase of schools for start there are some signs that banks are cautiously on site during 2010 and we expect to commence re-entering the market and it would appear that working on the proposals for the third phase once prices have begun to stabilise.
the second is in construction.
The purchase secures Through our low-risk strategy of largely non-specuan additional 300m of construction work for Kier lative development, Kier Property is not exposed and significant additional PFi investment opportunity.
to large holdings of unoccupied buildings and our The consideration for the purchase was 4.2m, of portfolio is diverse.
Through active asset management which 2.0m is conditional upon the funding being we continue to enhance value, especially given our approved for the second phase of schools.
The expertise in the planning process.
contract also provides Kier Support Services with a We believe that long-term partnerships, such as 25-year facilities management contract.
those established with network rail and Sheffield Committed investment our portfolio of PFi projects now totals 14 City Council, offer us the certainty of a secure including the Police investigation Centres and the income stream which extends over many years.
first phase of the Kent PFi project.
our committed This provides us with a stable platform from which equity investment in these schemes stands at we can take advantage of the current market condi- 28.0m in a portfolio of 14 PFi projects 28.0m 2008: 18.4m of which 18.4m has tions to secure assets at depressed values.
The directors valuation of will also continue to grow our business through 2008: 18.4m the committed investment of 28m at a discount appropriate strategic alliances and opportunities to rate of 8% is 50.7m.
partner development schemes moving forward.
KAPS was established to provide total property As more pressure is placed on local authorasset management services to local authorities and ities to make the most of their assets, the KAPS other public bodies.
its objectives are to leverage model is well placed to capture this fast-growing maximum value from property holdings for clients market.
For Kier, the KAPS expertise completes the capability of the Group to provide clients with whilst providing improvements in day-to-day real estate management.
KAPS achieved its first success a total property solution from inception to longin winning a seven-year, 60m contract to manage term management.
Sheffield City Councils corporate property portfolio, which started on 1 July 2009.
The contract is to Kier GrouP PlC AnnuAl rePorT AnD ACCounTS 2009 ChieF exeCutives review ConTinueD Port of liverpool Wind Farm, Kier north West The Port of liverpool Wind Farm is a 14m project which saw the installation of four n90 wind turbines.
each wind turbine is 80m tall with 45m long blades, installed on the edge health and safety markets and prospects of the river Mersey.
This project Good health and safety performance demands our Construction businesses, with their wide commenced in February 2008 with a 53-week programme finishing on time, positive safety leadership at all levels.
Throughout geographic coverage, array of frameworks, strong within budget and with an exceptional Kier we have embarked on a Behavioural Safety pipeline of projects and appetite for smaller value health & safety record.
leadership programme that focuses on positive contracts, are well positioned to endure the uncerbehaviours and identifies unsafe acts or conditions tainties of the construction marketplace whilst that need to be addressed.
The staff buy-in has been maintaining a healthy margin.
our Support Services tremendous and the results are beginning to show business has a strong order book, a good pipeline in a greatly reduced Accident incident rate Air.
of prospective bidding opportunities and a growing We believe this focus on individual and collective reputation for good quality service delivery which behaviour will continue to raise health and safety will provide the division with long-term growth.
The standards throughout Kier and the supply chain.
marketplace for Partnership Homes is showing our Air in June 2008 was 588 per 100,000 and encouraging signs of improvement, particularly in in June 2009 it was 404 per 100,000, comparing private development, which will allow us to utilise very favourably with the HSe target rate of 906.
This our well spread, consented land bank.
There continuous improvement is inextricably linked to are a number of long-term opportunities in our our project teams positive attitude and our behavDevelopments business which will provide considerioural programme.
able value for the future.
The current economic climate will continue to people pose challenges to our business over the next 12 on behalf of the Board i would like to thank all of months.
i believe, with our spread of operations our people for their hard work and loyalty over the and product diversification coupled with the quality last 12 months.
2009 has been a challenging year and commercial capability of our staff, we are well for many parts of the Group and inevitably the focus equipped to manage the risks inherent in this throughout the business has been on cost reducstage of the economic cycle and, indeed, to take tion and headcount, with the consequential effect advantage of opportunities that will, inevitably, of increasing workloads for many individuals.
The arise in this environment.
Board appreciates everyones efforts in continuing to pull together to support the Group and i am confiJohn Dodds dent that, with our wealth of talented, committed Chief executive people, we will continue to steer our way through these uncertain times.
