FiNaNCial review BusiNess risKs 40 41 BusiNess risKs Core to our continued success is our ability to the housing market: our ability to sell houses identify and effectively manage the risks to our depends on the demand for housing which, in turn, business.
Accordingly the Group has well-defined, is linked to consumer sentiment.
We manage the rigorous policies and processes designed to identify, exposure by ensuring that we closely control levels mitigate and control risk.
risks are specific to each of work in progress to match the level of demand.
of our businesses and are controlled through the Prices and incentives are reviewed regularly and Groups risk management processes.
The primary adjusted as appropriate.
risks that have the potential to adversely impact on property development risk: Similar to housing our business over the next 12 months are considered land acquisition, acquiring the right property at to be as follows: the right price is fundamental to the profitability macro-economic climate risk: The order books of the Property division.
The division controls its for our Construction and Support Services development risk by commencing construction divisions are dependent upon the level of spend generally when it has either pre-sold or pre-let in the public sector and the availability of credit for the development.
Board approvals are required private sector expenditure.
The Group has created depending upon the value and nature of the a structure to manage and mitigate this risk with development.
the following key components: investment risk: The Group is selective in the PFi a wide geographic regional network of offices projects for which it bids, primarily concentrating across the uK providing strong integration in on the sectors where we have established local communities, our client base and our construction expertise.
supply chain people: People are the key to this business and a strong level of framework agreements and good people are a scarce resource.
it is important partnerships with government, local authorities that we attract the best, look after them and and private sector retain them.
Health & safety is a key feature an ability to react to evolving opportunities in and we have rigorous health and safety policies the marketplace and to maintain a focus on aimed at minimising health and safety incidents cost reduction and efficiency.
that may affect any staff, subcontractors and Contract and build risk: We carry out several members of the public coming into contact with hundred contracts annually and the risks to which our business activities.
the Group is exposed are dependent upon the pension scheme deficit: The pension scheme nature of the work, the duration of the contract liabilities and assets are subject to market and the legal form of the contract.
The Groups movements and, although a long-term issue, appetite for very long-term, large, competitively regulations require us to respond to these tendered construction contracts is limited, long-term issues over the short term.
Steps driven by the desire to manage risk.
Tenders for have been taken to eradicate our calculated contracts are subject to approval by the Board, deficit over a timeframe agreed with the scheme chief executive and finance director or divisional trustees.
directors depending on the value and nature of the contract.
Contracts in progress are controlled and Counterparty risk: The Group depends for managed through the Groups operating structure its success on the stability of its customers, and procedures including rigorous and suppliers, funders, bondsmen and insurers.
regular review of forecast revenue and costs Considerable efforts are made to assess the to complete.
financial strength of counterparties before entering into contract and to structure payments land acquisition risk: The cost and quality so as to mitigate our financial exposure to them of land is fundamental to the profitability of a for the duration of our relationship.
Where the housing development business.
Site evaluation Group is particularly dependent on the continued is a key process and site appraisals are carried financial strength of the providers of key financial out in detail including external advice where services to the Group, we take steps to spread appropriate.
land acquisitions are subject to this exposure across a range of counterparties approval by the Board, chief executive and finance so as to diversify the risk.
director or divisional directors depending on the value and nature of the contract.
Developments in progress are controlled and managed through the Groups operating structure and procedures including rigorous and regular review of forecast revenue and costs to complete.
