King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts Group buying programmes 17 2008 09 Doubling Group sourcing Several key initiatives were put in place during Working with our strategic suppliers With a direct sourcing network that covers the year to help deliver this plan.
In 2008 we signed a number of international South East Asia, India, Latin America and contracts with 18 key strategic suppliers Eastern Europe, the King sher Sourcing Consolidating shipments who together represent a signi cant proportion Organisation KSO offers the Groups retail This project was set up to improve the of Group purchases.
These strategic supplier businesses access to innovative, quality ef ciency of product delivery from factories to partnerships help to improve buying terms products and competitive pricing.
In early 2008 a new process and enable us to secure exclusive products started where, instead of each manufacturer across all Group businesses.
The international Last year KSO shipped products with a total shipping products to us individually, King shers contracts team also supports our newer, value of US$696 million at factory prices, orders from multiple manufacturers are fast-growing businesses in their negotiations compared with US$821 million the year consolidated at the port and shipped together with international suppliers.
before, with the decrease mostly due to in mixed containers.
This is now happening at lower seasonal buys and stock reduction three key ports, Shanghai, Ningbo and In January 2009, the commercial teams programmes in our stores.
Between them, these ports handle of Castorama France, Brico Dpt, Screw x now represents 10% of total Group purchases.
70% of King shers direct sourced shipments.
and B&Q UK visited KSO of ces in Hong Kong Strong performances were recorded in to share strategies and agree development hardware, hand tools and garden power tools.
This new approach to handling imports plans for key direct import suppliers.
Around The total number of product lines developed ensures that container space is much 45 KSO suppliers attended the event and by KSO rose from 17,000 to 18,000 in the year.
By extending this trial, key categories such as hardware, hand tools, we anticipate that King sher will be able to electrical, lighting and showroom were As part of the Delivering Value strategy, reduce its overall freight costs, cut ongoing identi ed as strong potential candidates for King sher is committed to increasing the inventory requirements and, by shipping cross-OpCo synergies.
proportion of purchases made through its fewer containers, lower its carbon footprint.
direct sourcing network, to 18% of the cost Targeting savings in goods not for resale of goods sold in 2011 12.
This will be achieved Own-brand development Detailed analysis completed in 2008 revealed by further strengthening the sourcing network, Work continued on King shers portfolio that King shers major operating companies as well as developing greater synergies with of own brands, which includes the Colours spend 1.1 billion each year on goods not for suppliers, in order to leverage the Groups range of decorative products and MacAllister resale GNFR the term used for the products purchasing scale.
The newly revamped range and services needed to run their businesses of King shers own-brand Performance rather than those sold to customers.
Some Power tools went on sale in September 2008.
15 projects are currently under way, each Around 70% of products are common one aimed at exploiting our global purchasing between the businesses that stock this scale to extract further value from indirect new range B&Q UK, Castorama France purchases.
Areas covered include mechanical and Kotas, while packaging has been lifting equipment, trolleys and waste consolidated to just two multilingual variations, management services.
giving scope for Performance Power to be rolled out to other countries.
Ethical sourcing King sher continued to work with suppliers to improve labour and environmental conditions in the supply chain through factory assessments, training and partnership 02 03 projects.
Our overseas sourcing of ces audit all new factories against the King sher Code of Conduct for Factory Working Conditions.
Factories are also audited on a regular basis.
A total of 411 factory assessments were carried out in 2008 09.
Factory manager programmes, such as the one held in India in March 2008, also provide further guidance and support.
02 Showrooms 03 Consolidating shipments The King sher Sourcing Organisation showroom Rationalising the ful lment of containers shipped from in Hong Kong displays an array of recent products Asia helps to reduce freight costs.
selected by King sher operating companies.
