King sher plc Annual Report 06 A conversation with and Accounts 2008 09 the executive team Kingfi shers executive team discusses the progress so far with the Delivering Value strategy as well as the plans for the future.
Ian Cheshire Group CEO Youre on record as saying when you became CEO last year that you aim to deliver a step-change in shareholder value.
My first year as CEO has certainly been very busy and Im pleased to say were well on track.
I believe King sher is a very strong business with international market-leading positions and a strong balance sheet.
But we cant just sit back and assume these strengths are enough to deliver more shareholder value.
I said at the start of the year that we need to focus on three priorities Management, Capital and Returns if we are going to make more from what we already have.
I have replaced the previous decentralised management structure and created a new Retail Board of key executives with collective responsibility and incentives for Group delivery.
To ensure we have the right mix of retail experience, industry knowledge and fresh thinking I recruited several new senior managers, including Euan Sutherland to head the UK, Peter Hogsted to head International and Kevin OByrne our new Group Finance Director.
Capital investment has been rationed, a capex diet if you will, and much tighter approval controls introduced.
The whole organisation is now much more focused on cash than previously and after several years of rising net debt we have been able to stabilise it and, following the sale of our low-returning Italian business, signi cantly reduce it.
Much greater emphasis is now placed on generating higher cash returns from our businesses and the new Retail Board has agreed seven major steps to achieve this.
Left to Kevin OByrne Euan Sutherland Philippe Tible right Group Finance Director Chief Executive, B&Q Chief Executive, France Joined in October 2008 and King sher UK Appointed to the role from DSG International, Joined in June 2008 from in March 2008 after the electrical retailing AS Watson UK, owner five years as CEO group where he had been of Superdrug and Savers, of Castorama France.
Group Finance Director where he was Chief Previously held senior since 2004.
Has 15 years roles at DIY retailer Age: 44 experience at companies Leroy Merlin and furniture such as Boots, Mars, retailer Conforama.
Coca-Cola, Matalan Age: 57 and DSG.
Age: 40 KF6878 Front v06e 170409. indd KF6878 Front v06e 170409. indd 06 06 18 4 09 18 4 09 09:57:41 09:57:41 King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts 07 2008 09 When you started this programme were How is France performing?
you expecting a global credit crunch?
We are less impacted by the credit crunch than The early signs were there in late 2007 but other markets as French consumers are much it was more extreme than anyone expected.
less indebted, but having said that the market The important thing is to focus on providing is slower now than it has been for some time.
good products and services at excellent value We were able to continue growing sales, to your customers whilst squeezing as much market share and pro t and have generated cost as possible out of the business.
That way signi cant cash for King sher.
you will maximise your short-term performance and emerge a much leaner and stronger Castorama has gone from strength to strength business when markets improve.
as we continue to improve ranges and modernise stores and Brico Dpt has done some good Our overall performance in 2008 09 was work making itself more ef cient, though its solid.
We grew share in our major markets sales have been impacted by a slower housing and optimised our pro ts and cash through market.
We are working hard to optimise our vigorous margin and cost control.
We grew buying of product and goods not for resale sales and underlying pro ts and signi cantly to capitalise on our strengths in France.
reduced our net debt at a time when some of our competitors were going bust.
Admittedly, Euan Sutherland CEO, King sher UK the performance in China, where the housing Theres been a lot of activity at B&Q, market is going through a severe and prolonged what have been your top three priorities?
downturn, was worse than originally anticipated When I joined earlier in the year I was but we now have a clear plan of action impressed by the quality of the UK businesses underway to return this business to pro tability.
and the enthusiasm and dedication of the employees.
Visiting the stores, it was clear How will you be prioritising your time to me that the strategy of becoming the in the year ahead?
first and only store customers use for home With the new team in place and capital improvement was right and that the store disciplines now well-entrenched I will be modernisation and product development plan very busy making sure we deliver the 2009 10 was working.
But I was also struck by the milestones of our seven-point plan which variability in the way we operated our stores are set out in this annual report whilst closely and the opportunities to improve ef ciency.
overseeing our trading through these tough times.
Im very keen to see a signi cant My top priority was to raise the bar on our improvement in the underlying performance in-store operating standards and make of B&Q China and so I will be visiting regularly them consistent right across the store estate.
We now have a comprehensive best practice operating manual in place and every store is Philippe Tible CEO, King sher France regularly judged against it.
For those stores Youve been at King sher for six years, achieving and maintaining the new standard, has much changed under Ian?
the store manager is rewarded with King sher King sher is very different now.
Customer feedback has been very first time we now have a single leadership positive and the store teams have done a structure for France, a role I am delighted fantastic job making all the changes needed.
Castorama and Brico Dpt are complementary in that they target different Another key priority has been driving cost sectors of the market and for the first ef ciencies and last year our costs actually time we can now coordinate and optimise fell year-on-year despite new space and Ian Cheshire Peter Hogsted our activities in France.
I also nd the underlying cost in ation.
Group Chief Executive Chief Executive, new collective responsibility for King shers Appointed Group Chief International performance a very positive move.
For Finally, we need to keep the renewal Executive in January Joined in September example, I am pleased to have been involved programme on track and to that end we 2008 after 10 years at 2008 after 13 years with the turnaround plan for China and revamped over 30 stores, refreshed 20% King sher.
He was Chief contributed some of my experiences of our ranges and 4,500 store staff were B&Q UK and King shers Executive of IKEA international operations.
UK and Chairman of the Castorama turnaround in France.
trained in basic home improvement projects.
Age: 49 of its operations in Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Ireland and Hungary.
Age: 40 KF6878 Front v06e 170409. indd KF6878 Front v06e 170409. indd 07 07 21 4 09 21 4 09 15:27:43 15:27:43 King sher plc Annual Report 08 A conversation with and Accounts 2008 09 the executive team Youre also responsible for UK Trade, You have a big problem in China, are you Kevin OByrne Group Finance Director whats the opportunity?
Youre another one of the newcomers.
The UK trade market is large but served by What is clear is that China is going to be a very How have you found King sher?
a fragmented base of local, small outlets.
attractive growth market over the medium and I am very pleased to have joined the team When I joined we had three brands operating longer term and it makes a lot of sense to be at King sher.
I have been impressed with in this market B&Q, Screw x and Trade there.
We have built a good leading position the urgency with which people across the Depot and between them we had under but with hindsight our expansion was too fast Group are taking on the challenges outlined 5% of the market.
My view was that we since 2004 and operational issues crept in.
in our Delivering Value plans.
With the were under-playing our strengths at B&Q The market was booming, so the mistakes strong positions and leading brands we and Screw x, whilst Trade Depot was going werent obvious in the numbers but now that have in our key markets, I believe we will to take a lot of time and resources to grow the market has turned down so sharply the be able to deliver improved returns for into a pro table business.
We decided issues have surfaced.
our shareholders over the next three years to stop Trade Depot and invest instead in despite the tough market backdrop.
driving more trade professionals to B&Q Before I joined, Ian had recognised that we and expand the highly successful Screw x needed to strengthen the local management I am enjoying working with the Retail Board.
We launched a Trade Discount Card team and that has been done.
I have been The mix of nationalities, personalities and in B&Q with great success, signing up overseeing the creation of a comprehensive backgrounds is a strength.
We continued to open plan of action to turn around the business and to hold challenging discussions, but once Screw x outlets too and launched Plumb x, I am con dent we now have clarity on how weve reached agreement everyone gets a specialist catalogue for quali ed plumbers to return the business to pro tability.
Am I the behind the decision.
Well, Im sure Ian will hold me very rmly for 2009 so watch this space.
to account but the reality is its all about the The present economic climate must be one local team.
Its going to be very tough but of the worst youve seen, what does this Peter Hogsted CEO, King sher we have a talented and eager team in China mean for King sher?
International who now have the clarity of vision on how to The economic backdrop is very tough and Is King sher very different to IKEA where x the business.
I suspect it will remain so for another 18 to 24 you worked for 13 years?
We need to act decisively, manage Yes and no!
In terms of the big picture the What changes are planned for China our cash and look after our customers.
two companies are very similar, both operate in and how much will it all cost?
As we manage our cash and costs and offer the home improvement and make-over market, A comprehensive China repositioning is now our customers reasons to shop with us we both are mass market value retailers and under way, store numbers will be rationalised can grow even stronger during this downturn.
both aim to build an international presence by from 63 to 41 and all remaining stores will Weaker players in our markets will be under leveraging international scale.
Also, both have be revamped, of which 17 will be downsized.
great pressure, leaving us opportunities to been very successful internationally and very The product and service offer will be updated grow market share.
few retailers can say that!
to better address the home decorative, soft furnishings and accessories market and How will King sher deliver its promise Where we differ is in the detail.
King sher to complement the well-developed, but of lower working capital?
has previously taken a very decentralised more cyclical, new apartment design and This is very important as we work to deliver approach to international expansion and, t out offer.
A net exceptional accounting increased returns.
The organisation is whilst this has ensured good local knowledge, charge of 107 million has been booked, responding urgently to challenge around the opportunities to share experience and primarily re ecting asset impairments.
The key focus will be buying scale havent been optimised, in Around 30 million of cash will be invested on stock management where the challenge my view.
Ian Cheshire asked me to oversee in revamping the remaining 41 stores.
is to reduce stock levels while maintaining our international growth and to inject some or improving stock availability for customers.
of the IKEA thinking into the process.
Which market do you get the most Its a two or three year journey but all the Over the coming years you will see more excited about?
businesses have clear plans for delivery common operating standards and more Thats a tough one as I can see opportunity and we got off to a great start last year by common products across our international in many places.
I guess today I am most reducing working capital by 180 million portfolio, maximising our Group synergies.
excited about Russia as I can see that ahead of our target.
We are slowly, but successfully building a good business in Russia.
Its similar to Poland in that there is huge demand for existing home renovation after years of under-investment and the industry is served mostly by un-organised mom & pop outlets with variable quality and pricing.
I think a western-style retail offer will work well in Russia.
KF6878 Front v06e 170409. indd KF6878 Front v06e 170409. indd 08 08 21 4 09 21 4 09 14:42:31 14:42:31 King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts 09 2008 09 Key Performance Key France Indicators UK Other International I believe we have a strong management Group programmes team with collective responsibility for delivering value through the Key Performance Indicators featured below.
Ian Cheshire Group Chief Executive King sher plc Delivering Value Driving up B&Q UKs pro t Expanding our total Growing group sourcing See p2, p7 & p20 for more details See p2 & p17 for more details French business See p2, p7 & p20 for more details Sales 3.9bn 2008 09 3.8bn 2007 08 Operating margins profits Direct sourcing as a % of cost of Group sales 2.8% 2008 09 283m 2008 09 10% 2008 09 3.3% 2007 08 278m 2007 08 9% 2007 08 Exploiting our UK Rolling out in Eastern Europe Reducing working capital See p2 & p21 for more details See p1, p2, & p23 for more details trade opportunity See p2, p8 & p21 for more details Sales 1.4bn 2008 09 Total trade sales 747m 2008 09 1.1bn 2007 08 -180m 2008 09 Engaging our people Turning around B&Q China Minimising the impact See p16 for more details See p2, p7 & p8 for more details on the environment See p18 for more details Eco-product sales % contribution to total retail sales 7% 2008 09 Gallup Q12 staff engagement survey profit loss Climate change CO emissions tonnes million retail sales 2 3.95 2008 09 52m 2008 09 54 2008 09 3.75 out of 5, 4.24 top-performing 2007 08 17m 2007 08 57 2007 08 restated at constant currency.
