Directors report A review of the Groups activities and future developments, which Share capital fulfils the requirements of the business review, including the financial On 8 October 2009 a 1 for 2 rights issue was announced which performance during the year, key performance indicators and a resulted in the issue of 300,658,239 new shares for a total cash description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group consideration of approximately 286 million.
is given on pages 6 to 17 and pages 20 to 35 and forms part At 17 February 2010, the Company had been notified of the following of this report.
The description of the Groups corporate governance holdings of voting rights attaching to the Companys shares in arrangements on pages 38 to 42 also forms part of this report.
accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: BlackRock, A description of the Groups financial risk management objectives and Inc. 5.44%, Deutsche Bank AG 3.74%, Eminence Capital, LLC policies and its exposure to price, credit liquidity and cash flow risk is 7.01%, Ignis Investment Services Limited 3.10%, Legal & General contained in note 25 on pages 87 to 89 and forms part of this report.
Group PLC 9.22% and Massachusetts Financial Services Company Other matters material to the appreciation of the Groups position are 5.04%.
contained in the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Chief The Trustee of the Ladbrokes Share Ownership Trust, which is used Executives review on pages 18 and 19. in connection with certain of the Companys employee share ownership Results plans, waives dividends on shares in the trust not allocated to The results for the year are shown in the consolidated income plan members.
Further details in respect of the share capital are shown on pages Dividends 93 and 94, note 28 which forms part of this report.
As stated in the Chairmans letter dated 8 October 2009 contained in Branch registration the rights issue prospectus, the directors are not recommending the The Company is registered as a foreign company in Australia.
During the year an interim dividend Corporate responsibility of 3.50 pence per ordinary share was paid.
A report on Corporate Responsibility CR is on the Companys website Annual General Meeting www.
com and highlights, which the following should be This years Annual General Meeting will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II considered in conjunction with, are given on pages 32 to 35.
Conference Centre on 14 May 2010 at 11.00am.
The processes described in the section Internal control on page 40 Directors applied to CR, as did the practices described on page 38 for ensuring The directors during the year were those listed on pages 36 and 37 the Board is supplied with appropriate and timely information and for other than Sir Ian Robinson and Mr A S Ross who retired as directors assisting the directors to update their knowledge.
On 12 January 2010, the Company announced that business presentations regularly made to the Board at which CR was Mr C Bell is to step down as a director at a date in 2010 to be considered as appropriate, the Board conducts an annual CR review confirmed.
On 18 February 2010 the Company announced that and Board members regularly receive CR updates.
CR performance Mr Bell, Mr N M H Jones and Mr H E Staunton would not be standing is included in divisional accountability systems and remuneration for re-appointment at this years Annual General Meeting.
The remuneration committee in determining executive Biographical details of all the directors are on pages 36 and 37. remuneration takes into account CR matters as described in the Details of directors service contracts, their share interests and other Directors Remuneration Report on page 45. details of their remuneration by the Company are contained in the The risks and opportunities relating to CR in 2009 primarily revolved Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 56.
Pursuant to around the reputation of the Group and the quality of its brands.
section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys articles of Of particular importance was the promotion of responsible gambling association, the Board authorised situations of potential conflict arising and the protection of children and the vulnerable.
CR also impacted out of Mr J F Jarvis being a non-executive director of Sandown Park i the performance of the Groups employees on whom the Group relies and a member of The Jockey Club, Mr N M H Jones being a for the provision of high quality services to customers and ii the health non-executive director of Newbury Racecourse plc and a member of and safety of these employees and the customers they serve.
The Jockey Club and Mrs S Bailey being a director of Trinity Mirror plc.
Performance indicators continued to be developed in accordance with Auditor and disclosure of information to the auditor Group-wide CR.
No breaches of CR policies and procedures material Each of the directors in office as of the date of approval of this report to the Group were identified by the Board in 2009. confirms that so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit The identification and management of CR issues, the CR reporting information being information needed by the auditor in connection with framework and accuracy of any associated data has been reviewed by preparing its report of which the auditor is unaware and that he she the Companys CR adviser, Acona Group AS.
has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
43 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37932 pp038-056.
indd 43 26 02 2010 16:07 Governance directors report continued Employee policies Charitable donations The Board values two-way communication between senior During 2009, in addition to donations made to overseas charities, management and employees on all matters affecting the welfare Group companies donated 827,600 to UK charitable organisations.
As well as regular management roadshows and Supplier payment policy visits to operating units, conferences and meetings, communication The Company agrees payment terms for its business transactions is via the intranet and other multimedia formats.
when goods and services are ordered.
It ensures that suppliers are Throughout the Group via the Staff Council, opinion surveys and aware of the terms of payment and the relevant terms are included in feedback programmes, employees are encouraged to be involved in contracts where appropriate.
Subject to satisfactory performance by the running of the business.
The Companys Annual Report is made the supplier, arrangements are adhered to when making payments.
available to staff and, together with regular staff magazines, provides At the year end, the Company had no trade creditors.
employees with a greater awareness of the Groups performance as Going concern well as the financial and economic factors that affect it.
In assessing the going concern basis, the directors considered: the In addition, those employees who are eligible are also encouraged Groups business activities and the financial position of the Group as described in pages 4 to 35: and the Groups financial risk management to become involved in the Groups performance through participation in share schemes.
objectives and policies as included in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 87 to 89.
During 2009, the Company offered free shares for a value of up to 250 to employees as they completed one years service with The directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to the Group.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Throughout the Group, the principles of equal opportunities are its financial statements.
recognised in the formulation and development of employment policies.
By order of the Board It is the Companys policy to give full and fair consideration to applications from people with disabilities, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
If an employee becomes disabled, the Companys objective is the continued provision of suitable employment, either in the same or an alternative position, with appropriate adjustments M J Noble being made if necessary.
Employees with disabilities share equally in Secretary the opportunities for training, career development and promotion.
18 February 2010 Directors indemnities and insurance The Company continues to maintain Directors and Officers liability insurance.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association, the Company has entered into a deed of indemnity to the extent permitted by law with each of the directors.
44 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37932 pp038-056.
