Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2009 Laird PLC is a holding company.
The principal activities of its subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries during the year were the design, manufacture and supply of products and services to the electronics industry.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review and Finance Directors report should be read in conjunction with this report.
An analysis of revenue, profit, assets and liabilities by segment is shown in note 3 on pages 58 to 59. Business review A review of the development and performance of the Group during the year, and its position at the year end, is given in the Chairmans statement on page 3, the Chief Executives review on pages 4 to 7, the Finance Directors report on pages 22 to 25, the Operating Review on pages 9 to 21, and note 14 to the financial statements.
Information on environmental matters is contained in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 36 to 39.
These pages, and the Key Performance Indicators KPIs contained therein, are incorporated into this report by reference.
Definitions of the KPIs are given on page 104.
Results and dividend The Group loss for the year after taxation was 3.5 million 2008, 14.3 million profit.
Underlying profit before tax was 26.5 million 2008, 60.6 million and is analysed in note 14 on page 65.
The recommended final dividend is 2.53p per ordinary share to be paid on 4 June 2010 to ordinary shareholders registered as members of the Company at the close of business on 7 May 2010, making a total dividend for the year of 6.0p per ordinary share.
Risks and uncertainties The management and control of risks within the Group is embedded within basic operating procedures.
These procedures comprise a range of measures including Group Operating Rules, monthly reporting, internal and external audits, the risk management framework comprising a strategic level Risk Management Group chaired by the Chief Executive, with operational risk management under the Laird Technologies Risk Management Committee, and self-assessment and continuous monitoring by Group and operating management.
The Group operates globally in varied markets and the principal risks and uncertainties that are or may be faced by the Group are set out below.
In addition, information on the Laird risk management framework is given on page 35.
Overall growth and demand for Lairds products The overall demand for products is influenced by the level of customers commercial activity, which in turn is affected by the general economic climate, market conditions and consumer confidence generally.
This demand can be volatile and is dependent on a number of factors including the macroeconomic climate, the rate of change in the regulatory environment and in industry consolidation, the adoption of new technologies, the supply and availability of credit and customer spending patterns.
During an economic downturn, customers may cancel, reduce or postpone anticipated orders.
A downturn may also cause customers and competitors to apply pressure to prices and this pressure can lead to lasting changes in terms of trade pricing policies, delivery capabilities and market expectations.
Lairds markets are highly competitive and it must be able to respond to technological change The Group operates in market sectors which are characterised by a high level of competition between suppliers, changing industry dynamics such as vertical integration, and which are driven by rapid technological change.
A key success factor to operating within these markets is the ability to introduce new products in a timely manner.
The Group must continue to respond promptly and effectively to technological change and customers and competitors innovations and changing market dynamics in order to be successful.
This requires it to put together multi-national, multi-functional teams which are essential to the development of new products in high growth markets.
The ability of the Group to meet the demands of the market and to compete effectively is, to a large extent, dependent on the skills, experience and performance of its employees and their relationships with customers.
Political, economic and regulatory factors Having a global reach with significant regional concentrations involves certain risks for the Group, including volatility in gross domestic product, economic and political instability, nationalisation of private assets, the imposition of withholding tax and exchange controls and challenges in protecting Lairds intellectual property rights.
The Group is also exposed to the effects of possible terrorist action and natural catastrophe.
Changes in regulatory and trading compliance requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, price or exchange controls, composition or changes in taxation or other governmental policies could limit its operations and make the repatriation of profits difficult.
In addition, the uncertainty of the legal environment in some regions could limit the Groups ability to enforce its rights.
Dependence on a small number of large global customers The Group is dependent on a small number of key customers.
The loss of a major contract or key customer or a material reduction in orders from any customer or customers, whether through competitive action, contractual dispute, the consolidation of customers businesses or any change in strategy or ordering requirements from customers could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition and prospects.
It may also have wider profit and cash flow implications if the Group has sited its manufacturing plants in close proximity to theirs.
Supply chain risks The Groups ability to deliver according to market demands depends in large part on obtaining timely and adequate supplies of components and raw materials on competitive terms and in line with product quality and safety standards.
Failure in the supply chain could interrupt its product supply, limit sales and increase costs.
Suppliers may from time to time extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors.
Despite the Groups efforts to select its suppliers and manage its supplier relationships with scrutiny, a component supplier may fail to meet the Groups supplier requirements, such as, most notably, the Groups and its customers product quality, safety and other corresponding standards.
Any of these events could delay the successful delivery of products and solutions, which meet the Groups and its customers quality, safety and other corresponding requirements, or otherwise adversely affect its sales and the Groups financial performance.
Also the Groups reputation and brand value may be adversely affected due to real or alleged failures in its products and solutions.
28 Laird PLC Exposure to increases in the price of commodities and raw materials The raw materials used in the business include commodities such as copper and beryllium copper, steel, aluminium, silver and zinc.
These commodities experience price volatility which can impact on profits, caused by changes in supply and demand, commodity market fluctuations and governmental attitudes.
If the Group is unable to implement measures to mitigate increased costs relating to increases in commodity and raw material prices, or to increase the price of its products to customers, its operating profits might be materially adversely affected.
Operational and product risks In common with all manufacturing industries, the Group faces a range of operational risks including potential business interruption from loss of a major facility or IT system, industrial unrest and the consequences of health and safety environmental incidents.
Damage to its premises, plant and equipment resulting for example, from fire, flood or storm may occur and notwithstanding the fact that some of these risks are insured, may disrupt the Groups activities and prevent it from properly performing its contractual obligations and maintaining its sales, and may result in increased operating costs.
Product risks, potentially resulting in reputation damage, or contractual penalties, may arise from failure of operational controls in its own, or supplier facilities.
Risks relating to Intellectual Property Rights The Groups products and solutions include technologies in which it holds the intellectual property rights.
Third parties may infringe the Groups intellectual property or commence actions seeking to establish the invalidity of the intellectual property rights of these technologies, either of which could have a material adverse effect on its results.
The Group utilises a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, non-disclosure and other contractual arrangements in addition to relying on patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect its intellectual property rights.
However, these measures may not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation.
Additionally, recognising that its products incorporate a wide variety of technologies, claims could be asserted against the Group that it has infringed the intellectual property owned by others.
Such claims might require the Group to incur legal costs, to enter into settlement or licence agreements, or to face legal restrictions on selling certain products.
Environmental and Health and Safety The Group is subject to certain environmental and health and safety laws and regulations that affect its operations, facilities and products in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The Group is committed to operating in compliance with all environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to its products, operations and business activities.
However, there is a risk that it may have to incur unforeseen expenditures to cover environmental and health liabilities, to maintain compliance with current or future environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or to undertake any necessary remediation.
It is difficult to estimate reasonably the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities, with any certainty, due to a number of factors, especially the lengthy time intervals often involved in resolving them.
Additionally, the Group could be liable for remediation of contaminated sites, including some sites no longer owned by it.
The Group makes provision for the expected cost of remediation based on independent professional advice.
However, there is a risk that remediation could prove more costly than expected or that new contamination could be discovered.
Financial risks In addition to any potential exposure to risks related to the general supply of credit and related insurances and to the failure of a key banking business partner that we share with all businesses in the current economic climate, the Group is subject to various financial and fiscal risks by virtue of its global operations and customer base.
Further information on Taxation, Currency Exposures, Credit Risk and Interest Rate Risk are given in notes 11 and 28 to the financial statements.
Information on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is given in note 35 to the financial statements.
Loss of key management or personnel The Group is highly reliant on the continued services of its senior management, including executive directors, and other key personnel.
These individuals possess revenue and marketing, engineering, manufacturing, technical, financial and administrative skills that are critical to the continued successful operation of the Groups businesses.
Additionally, the ability of the Group to meet the demands of the market and to compete effectively is, to a large extent, dependent on the skills, experience and performance of its employees.
Failure to retain such individuals, or to attract and retain strong management and technical staff in the future, could have an adverse effect upon the business and the results of its operations.
The group is reliant on the ready availability of manufacturing personnel and operators.
Significant contracts The Group has arrangements with its major customers and suppliers whereby regional or global terms of supply are agreed.
However, these arrangements do not amount to contractual obligations to purchase and supply as these are covered by individual purchase orders.
Share capital The Company has only one class of share and the rights attaching to each share are identical.
Details of the rights and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association which are available on its website.
The Company may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held.
Details of the voting procedure are set out in the notice of meeting.
In the year to 31 December 2009 the issued share capital was increased by the issue of 88,767,402 ordinary shares following the Rights Issue announced on 28 October 2009.
At 31 December 2009 the issued share capital of the Company was 266,302,206 ordinary shares of 28.125p each.
Details of the share capital and options outstanding as at 31 December 2009 are shown in note 29 on page 76.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 27 April 2010, the shareholders will be requested to renew the directors power to allot shares in the Company: the disapplication of pre-emption rights and authorise the Company to make purchases of up to 10% of its ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 9 March 2010 no shares have been purchased pursuant to this authority.
Shareholders will be requested to renew these authorities at the Annual General Meeting and details are set out in the notice of meeting.
Laird PLC 29 Directors report continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 Directors Re-election of directors The directors as shown on pages 26 and 27 were all directors throughout the year to 31 December 2009.
The Companys Articles of Association which require shareholder approval for any amendments, set out the powers of the directors and the regulations for their appointment and removal.
At the 2009 Annual General Meeting the directors obtained Shareholders approval to allot shares, in accordance with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, up to two thirds of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company provided that if the amount issued exceeded one third of the issued ordinary share capital then, pursuant to the guidance, the directors would all stand for re-election at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
The 1 for 2 Rights Issue announced on 28 October 2009 did exceed one third of the issued ordinary share capital and accordingly all of the directors will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr N J Keen who has served longer than nine years on the Board fulfilled the criteria for independence as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance at the time of his appointment and the Board is satisfied that Mr Keen remains free from any relationship with the executive management of the Company which could materially interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement.
During his Chairmanship, Mr Keen has overseen the restructuring of Laird PLC, in particular the successful disposal of Laird Security Systems Division in April 2007 which resulted in Laird becoming a focused electronics and technology company.
He has also overseen the strengthening and development of the Board.
The Board believes that Mr Keen makes a valuable contribution and wishes him to continue as Chairman because of his wide experience of business, particularly in the high technology area and his long-standing financial experience.
None of the non-executive directors offering themselves for re-election has a service contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Biographical details and reasons for reappointment for the non-executive directors are given in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Directors interests No director had, in the year to 31 December 2009, a material interest in any third party contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Directors shareholdings at 31 December 2009 are shown below.
These interests were unchanged at 9 March 2010.
Details of share options are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 46.
09 N J Keen 326,890 117,927 P J Hill 300,630 200,420 J C Silver 375,000 250,000 M L Rapp 101,273 67,516 Sir Christopher Hum 4,500 3,000 Professor M J Kelly 2,250 1,500 A J Reading 22,499 15,000 A M Robb 37,500 25,000 Dr W R Spivey 158,233 105,489 Directors Conflicts of Interest With effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest, where appropriate.
This is subject to only directors who have no interest in the matter taking the decision and having acted in good faith for what they consider to be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The shareholders approved the requisite amendment to the Companys Articles of Association at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
A register of conflicts or potential conflicts of interest has been prepared and it is available at every Board Meeting.
Directors Indemnities As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company has indemnified the directors in respect of proceedings brought by third parties and such indemnification was in place throughout the year.
In 2005 two of Lairds final salary pension schemes were merged and in 2008 a further three schemes were merged.
The trustees of the schemes, including Mr Keen who is Chairman of the trustees of the surviving scheme, received an indemnity from the Company against any claim or other liability arising out of or in connection with the pension schemes and their agreement to the merger.
Employment policy The Group is organised on a decentralised basis with managers of subsidiary companies responsible for developing employment policies appropriate to the size, organisation and location of their businesses.
Various methods are used throughout the Group as appropriate in each location for tracking morale, motivation, retention rates and training, which are reported regularly to local management teams.
The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities in terms of recruitment, training and career development for all employees, including those with disabilities.
A copy of the Groups Employment and Human Rights policy statement is available on the Companys website.
30 Laird PLC Employee participation The Board recognises that the success of the business relies on the skill and dedication of its employees and therefore encourages two-way communication.
Operating subsidiaries encourage consultation at local level and performance and development reviews reinforce the link between business goals, an employees contribution and his her remuneration.
Laird communicates regularly with its employees, including information on key events within the Group, charity and community involvement and employee achievements.
Subsidiaries are encouraged to make all employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of their companies.
Change of control arrangements Four employees of the Company have long-standing agreements which provide compensation, in addition to the contractual notice period, of up to a maximum of two years base salary for loss of employment which occurs as a result of a takeover offer or scheme.
This additional compensation reduces pro rata to zero over the two years following the date of change of control.
No director benefits from these arrangements.
On a change of control, the Companys 5 year bilateral revolving credit facilities may be cancelled by the lenders by not less than 30 days notice to the Company.
Corporate social responsibility In recognition that the Groups businesses and its activities involve a wide community of stakeholders including investors, employees, customers, suppliers and local communities, the Board reviews the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters which may affect the Group.
A Corporate social responsibility report providing further detail can be found on pages 36 to 39.
Health and safety at work Laird is committed to providing a safe working environment for its employees and continuous improvement is sought by the setting of objectives and targets based on relevant national and international health and safety standards and monitoring performance against these.
In addition Laird maintains a proactive communications strategy amongst all employees to promote and develop good health and safety practices.
Further information is shown in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 36 to 39.
Research and development In recognition of the importance of investing in research and development programmes to foster product innovation and manufacturing improvements in the Group, expenditure in 2009 on research and development amounted to 42.8 million 2008, 39.0 million, of which 11.1 million has been capitalised 2008, 7.3 million.
Laird continues to develop its technology capabilities, with research and development expenditure during the year running at 8.1% of sales 2008, 6.1%.
Basis of preparation of the accounts As set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 47, the accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
A statement on going concern relating to a business requires judgement at a point in time about future events which by their nature are inherently uncertain.
The directors have considered the ability of the Group to maintain committed loan finance, meet existing debt covenants and the impact of foreign currency exposures, as discussed in the Finance Directors report on pages 22 to 25.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Financial assets and liabilities An analysis of Group debt is given in note 22 to the financial statements.
An analysis of financial instruments at carrying value and fair value is given in note 28 to the financial statements.
Financial instruments and related disclosures together with a discussion of financial risk management objectives and exposures to credit and liquidity risk are in accordance with IFRS 7.
Supplier payment policy The Group requires its subsidiaries to negotiate clear and satisfactory arrangements for the payment of suppliers, as part of the overall terms and conditions of the supply, and to make payment accordingly.
At the year end the Group had only one UK operating subsidiary and it had 52 days of purchases outstanding.
Auditor It is recommended that Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed as auditor.
Shareholders At 31 December 2009 there were 3,685 shareholders.
Substantial equity interests The Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs issued by the Financial Services Authority require notifications relating to control over exercising voting rights attached to shares.
Categories of notifiable interests include direct interests holdings of shares with voting rights attached, indirect interests those with access to voting rights and financial instruments which give the holder the formal entitlement to acquire shares with voting rights attached.
Notification must be made of each category, and also the aggregate of combined holdings, which exceed or fall below the notifiable threshold.
The requirements of the DTRs specify that notifications of holdings of over 3% only have to be made when a full percentage point increase or decrease occurs.
The Company has only one class of shares, and does not hold treasury shares, so the total number of voting rights under the DTRs is equivalent to the number of shares in issue.
Laird PLC 31 Directors report continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 As at 8 March 2010 the Company had received the notifications of control of 3% or more over the Companys total voting rights and capital in issue as set out below.
Number of Percentage Shares of voting rights Aviva Plc and its subsidiaries 44,887,305 16.86 Prudential Corporation Group of Companies 13,608,945 5.11 Lloyds Banking Group PLC 13,564,836 5.09 Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Ltd 13,248,406 4.97 Ameriprise Financial Inc and its Group 13,230,231 4.97 Ignis Investment Services Limited 11,662,077 4.38 Standard Life Investments Ltd 8,855,604 3.33 Schroders plc and its subsidiaries 8,809,820 3.31 Charitable donations In the year to 31 December 2009, the Company gave 9,200 to UK charities 2008, 4,880.
Disclosure of information to the Auditor As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each director has taken such steps as he should have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
By Order of the Board A M Downie Secretary 9 March 2010 Registered of ce 100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ Registered in England No.
