Board of Directors Nigel Keen Peter Hill, CBE Chairman.
BSc, MBA, Chartered executive director in 1993 and Chairman Engineer.
Appointed Managing Director in in 2000.
Chairman of the Nominations 2001 and Chief Executive in 2002.
Previously Committee and a member of the held senior management positions with Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of Invensys plc and BTR plc.
Non-executive Axis-Shield plc, Oxford Instruments plc, director of Meggitt plc from 2004 until Deltex Medical Group plc and 31 March 2010 and a non-executive Board BIOQUELL PLC.
Member of United Kingdom Trade & Investment from 2005 until 31 March 2009.
Appointed as a non-executive director of Cookson Group plc on 1 February 2010.
Andrew Robb Anthony Reading, MBE Non-executive director.
Chairman of the on 1 September 2004.
Senior independent Audit Committee and a member of the non-executive director.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Previously Remuneration Committee and a member Finance Director of Pilkington plc and of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
P&O Steam Navigation Co. Non-executive Previously an executive director of Chairman of Tata Steel Europe Limited Tomkins plc and Chairman and Chief and non-executive director of Tata Executive of Tomkins Corp. USA and Steel Limited, Kesa Electricals plc, a non-executive director of George JaguarLandRover Limited and Wimpey plc.
Non-executive director of PayPoint plc.
Taylor Wimpey Plc, Spectris plc and e2v technologies plc.
26 Laird PLC Jonathan Silver Martin Rapp Finance Director.
Joined Laird in Managing Director.
Joined 1986 and appointed to the Board as Laird in 1996 as General Manager of Finance Director in 1994.
Previously Group Lairds EMI shielding business, becoming Treasurer and Corporate Development President of APM, Inc in 1997.
Non-executive director of Chief Executive of Laird Technologies, Inc INVESCO Income Growth Trust plc.
Previously held management positions with Monsanto.
Non-executive director of Kionix, Inc until November 2009.
Professor Michael Kelly, FRS FREng Dr William Spivey Sir Christopher Hum, KCMG Non-executive director.
A member of member of the Remuneration Committee.
member of the Remuneration and Audit the Remuneration and Nominations Currently Prince Philip Professor of Committees.
Formerly President and CEO Committees.
Master of Gonville and Technology at the University of Cambridge.
of Luminent, Inc. having previously held Caius College, Cambridge.
HM Diplomatic Formerly Chief Scienti c Advisor to the senior management positions with AT&T Service, retired.
Formerly HM Ambassador Department for Communities and Local Corporation and Lucent Technologies.
to the Peoples Republic of China, having Government.
Previously Cambridge Non-executive director and Independent previously served as HM Ambassador, Executive Director for the CambridgeLead Director of both Novellus Systems Warsaw, as Assistant Under Secretary MIT Institute and Head of the School of and ADC Telecommunications, and of State for North Asia and the Paci c, Electronics, Computing and Mathematics non-executive director of the Raytheon and earlier as Head of the Hong Kong at the University of Surrey.
Company and Cascade Microtech Inc. Department of the Foreign and US citizen.
