Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report Business review and future on the affairs of the Company and the developments Group together with the financial A full review of the Groups activities statements and Auditors Report, for the during the year, recent events and future year ended 31 December 2009.
Lamprell developments is contained in the plc is the holding company of the Group Chairmans statement on pages 4 to 5, and all its issued, and authorised, the Chief Executive Officers statement on ordinary shares were admitted to listing pages 6 to 9, the Operating review on on the main market of the London Stock pages 18 to 21, and the Financial review Exchange on 6 November 2008. on pages 24 to 27.
Principal activities Corporate governance and corporate The principal activity of the Group is the social responsibility provision of specialised refurbishment The Corporate governance report on and construction services to the oil and pages 38 to 45 and the Corporate social gas industry.
The Group operates through responsibility report on pages 28 to 31 a number of subsidiaries which are set provide full details on the efforts made by out in Note 1 to the financial statements.
the Company in these areas.
The principal activity of the Company is to Directors remuneration report act as a holding company for the Group.
Details of Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2009 can be Results and dividends found in the Directors remuneration The financial statements of the Group for report on pages 46 to 55. the year ended 31 December 2009 are as set out on pages 57 to 63.
The Group net Directors profit for the year amounted to USD 28.4 The Companys Articles of Association million 2008: USD 85.5 million.
provide for a Board of Directors consisting of not fewer than two but not The Directors recommend a final dividend more than 12 Directors, who manage the of 3.80 cents per ordinary share with a business and affairs of the Company.
The Sterling equivalent of 2.55 pence per Directors may appoint additional or ordinary share which, if approved, will be replacement Directors, who shall serve paid on 16 June 2010 to eligible until the next AGM of the Company at shareholders on the register at 14 May which point they will be required to stand 2010.
The Company did not pay an for election by the members.
At each interim dividend during the year.
AGM one-third or the number nearest to one third of the Directors are required to There was a transfer of USD 22.4 million retire by rotation and they may stand for 2008: USD 53.5 million to retained re-election.
A Director may be removed earnings for the year ended 31 December from office at a general meeting by the 2009 representing the profit for the year, passing of an Ordinary Resolution.
less dividends paid, adjustments for share-based payments and the purchase of treasury shares.
For details refer to the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 60.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 34 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Directors who served in office during the financial year were as follows: Jonathan Silver Peter Whitbread Nigel McCue Scott Doak Colin Goodall Richard Raynaut Brian Fredrick Appointed on 14 September 2008 with a start date of 1 January 2009 Peter Whitbread retires by rotation at the time of the AGM in June and has decided to retire from the Company at that time and not offer himself for reappointment.
The Board would like to take this opportunity to thank Peter Whitbread for the tremendous contribution that he has made to the Company over the years.
Directors interests The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 54.
Capital structure and significant shareholders Details of the authorised and issued share capital together with details of movements in share capital during the year are included in note 24 to the financial statements.
The Company has one class of share in issue, ordinary shares of 5 pence each, all of which are fully paid.
Each ordinary share in issue carries equal rights including one vote per share on a poll at general meetings of the Company, subject to the terms of the Companys Articles of Association and applicable laws.
Votes may be exercised by shareholders attending or otherwise duly represented at general meetings.
Deadlines for the exercise of voting rights by proxy on a poll at a general meeting are detailed in the notice of meeting and proxy cards issued in connection with the relevant meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares.
Details of employee share schemes are disclosed on page 50 of the Directors remuneration report and in note 8 to the financial statements.
During the year the following awards of ordinary shares of 5 pence were granted: 2009 2008 || 2009 2008 2009 2008 Lamprell plc Free Share Award Plan 763,052 318,258 917,148 870,717 Lamprell plc Retention Share Plan 600,000 600,000 Lamprell plc Executive Share Option Plan 550,000 635,784 105,369 The awards under the Lamprell plc Free Share Plan and the Lamprell plc Retention Share Plan are granted at nil price.
Pursuant to the Companys share schemes, the EBT as at the year-end, held a total of 1,336,259 2008: 669,257 ordinary shares of 5 pence, representing 0.67% 2008:0.33% of the issued share capital.
The voting rights attaching to these shares cannot be exercised directly by the employees, but can be exercised by the Trustees.
However, in Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 35 Directors Report continued line with good practice, the Trustees do not exercise these voting rights.
In the event of another company taking control of the Company, the employee share schemes operated by the Company have set change of control provisions.
In short, awards may, in certain circumstances and in approved proportions, be allowed to vest early or be allowed to be exchanged for awards of equivalent value in the acquiring company.
The Company was given authority at the 2009 AGM to make market purchases of up to 20 million ordinary shares of 5 pence.
This authority will expire at the 2010 AGM, where approval from shareholders will be sought to renew the authority.
Approval from shareholders is also proposed to be sought to authorise the Directors to allot the Companys unissued shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 3 million, representing approximately 30% of the Companys current issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares and to issue equity securities of the Company for cash to persons other than existing shareholders, other than in connection with existing exemptions contained in the Companys Articles of Association or in connection with a rights, scrip dividend, or other similar issue, up to an aggregate nominal value of 500,000 representing approximately 5% of the current issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Similar authorities were given by the shareholders at the AGM in 2009 and the authorities now sought, if granted, will expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the AGM of the Company next year and the date which is 15 months after the granting of the authorities.
As at 26 March 2010, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report, the significant interests in the voting rights of the Companys issued ordinary shares as per notification received by the Company at or above the 3% notification threshold were as follows: Voting rights % of attaching to total issued of total voting ordinary shares rights Nature of holding Lamprell Holdings Limited 66,333,944 33.12 Direct Standard Life Investments Ltd 17,932,984 8.95 Direct Indirect Royce & Associates LLC 10,054,900 5.02 Direct Ignis Investment Services Ltd 8,592,941 4.29 Indirect Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a resolution of the shareholders.
A resolution to adopt new Articles of Association is being proposed at the 2010 AGM and full details can be found in the accompanying Notice of AGM.
AGM The Companys fourth AGM as a listed public company will be held at the Suite 102, City Tower 2, Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, United Arab Emirates on Monday, the 7th of June 2010 at 12.00 noon UAE time.
The notice of meeting and an explanatory circular to shareholders setting out the AGM business accompanies this Annual Report.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 36 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Principal risks and uncertainties adopt the going concern basis in accessible in many countries with The Board has established a process for preparing the financial statements.
different legal requirements relating to the identifying, evaluating and managing the preparation and dissemination of financial significant risks the Group faces.
detailed analysis of the risks and responsibilities uncertainties can be found on pages 22 The Directors confirm that suitable Subsequent events to 23. accounting policies have been used and Subsequent events are as set out in note applied consistently.
They also confirm 34 to the Financial Statements.
Payment policy that reasonable and prudent judgements The Groups policy in respect of its and estimates have been made in vendors is to agree and establish terms of preparing the financial statements for the payment when contracting for the goods year ended 31 December 2009 and that By order of the Board or services and to abide by those applicable accounting standards have payment terms.
The Company is the been followed.
Ravindra Dabir holding Company of the Group and has Company Secretary no trade creditors.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 26 March 2010 proper accounting records which disclose Charitable and political donations with reasonable accuracy at any time the During the year the Group made no financial position of the Company and the political 2008: nil or charitable donations Group and to enable them to ensure that 2008: nil.
the financial statements comply with the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931 to Auditors 2004.
They are also responsible for As far as each Director is aware, there is safeguarding the assets of the Company no relevant audit information of which the and the Group and hence for taking Companys auditors are unaware.
In reasonable steps for the prevention and addition, each Director has taken all the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Ravindra Dabir, Company Secretary steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of The financial statements have been any relevant audit information and to prepared on the going concern basis establish that the Companys Auditors are since the Directors have reasonable aware of that information.
expectation that, firstly, the Companys and the Groups activities are sustainable The auditors for the year ended 31 and, secondly, that adequate resources December 2009 were are available to continue in operational .
They have existence for the foreseeable future.
expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to The Directors are responsible for the reappoint them will be proposed at the maintenance and integrity of the forthcoming AGM.
Your attention is drawn to the fact that legislation in the Isle Going concern of Man governing the preparation and After making appropriate enquiries, the dissemination of financial statements may Directors consider that the Company and differ from other jurisdictions and the Group have adequate resources to uncertainty regarding the legal remain in operation for the foreseeable requirements is compounded as future.
For this reason they continue to information published on the internet is Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 37
