Our strategy is centred on sustainable, Our Strategy profitable growth.
In delivering this strategy our main aim is to secure value enhancement for our shareholders and other stakeholders.
We use financial and non-financial KPIs to measure our success in the delivery of our strategy and the management of our business.
Maintaining a leading position in the EPC market Maintaining a focus on repeat business and continued expansion of services Investment in a new facility in Hamriyah Free Zone Continuing to expand its client base Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 16 Business overview Objectives: Performance: Focus on maintaining relations with all During 2009 we successfully completed and delivered three market participants EPC projects.
These deliveries demonstrate our commitment Expansion of facilities and service offering to delivery on time and on budget and support our ongoing Transfer of skills to new regions objective of securing additional EPC projects.
In February 2010 Investment in capital equipment to improve we were awarded contracts by Fred Olsen Windcarrier AS to service levels build two Gusto MSC NG-9000 design self elevating and self propelled offshore wind turbine installation vessels.
Objectives: Performance: Differentiated service offering Lamprell values its relationship with all its clients, many of Focus on quality, timeliness of delivery and price which have worked with Lamprell on a repeat basis for a competitiveness number of years.
This repeat business is founded on a client Expansion of offering to include major EPC projects focused approach to business and to ensuring that all work is Focus on achieving leading HSE standards executed under the highest safety standards and to high quality Focus on quality assurance and quality control standards.
In 2009 this strategy resulted in contract awards Expansion of engineering services to include from a number of repeat customers in various segments, detailed design including jackup drilling rig upgrade and refurbishment and the construction of process modules.
Objectives: Performance: Production focused design The development of the fist phase of our Hamriyah facility Emphasis on operating efficiency progressed greatly in 2009.
The dredging and quaywall works Yard layout and quayside design focused on rig were completed and the on-site development of our first office related operations building and production workshops is on schedule.
In addition Increased capacity to accommodate multiple several open fabrication pads were completed.
In early 2010 new build projects we approved the budget for phase two of the development.
Improved staff welfare facilities Focus on semi-automated processes Objectives: Performance: Maintain customer focus Our international marketing effort continued throughout 2009 Broad service offering and resulted in Lamprell securing new clients in new sectors.
International marketing in multiple sectors The most prominent of awards flowing from these efforts were Transfer of skills to alternative energy markets secured early in 2010 from Fred Olsen Windcarrier AS and a Strategic marketing across sectors leading oil and gas operator in India who awarded Lamprell, under a consortium agreement, a contract to design and construct two offshore wellhead platforms for an offshore gas development in India.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 17
