Directors Biographies 1 Jonathan Silver 57 1 5 Chairman Jonathan Silver joined the Board on 24 August 2007 and was appointed as the Chairman of the Company on 27 March 2009.
Jonathan trained with a leading City of London law firm and qualified as a solicitor in 1978, working first in London and later in the United Arab Emirates.
In 1981, he started his own practice in the United Arab Emirates and merged that practice with Clyde & Co in 1989.
Since 2 6 then he has headed up Clyde & Cos operations in the region, creating the largest international law firm operating in the Middle East.
Jonathan chairs Clyde & Cos regional management board and represents the region on the firms global management board.
Throughout his career in the legal profession, Jonathan has worked in the areas of international banking and finance, mergers & acquisitions, private equity, project and construction work involving him in most 3 7 sectors of commercial activity including international trade, energy, construction, shipping, commodities and insurance.
He has advised the boards of public and private companies from around the world extensively on their obligations, responsibilities and governance arrangements.
Jonathan has, for more than 20 years, been associated with the Lamprell Group, providing legal advice on numerous matters including on the 4 Companys listing on AIM and more recently, the Official List.
Jonathan is currently a Director of Tri-Emirates Property Corporation.
2 Nigel Robert McCue 58 Chief Executive Officer Nigel McCue was appointed to the role of Chief Executive Officer in May 2009.
He joined the Board of Lamprell on 7 July 2006 as a Non-Executive Director prior to being appointed to the Executive position Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 of Chief Operating Officer in May 2008.
4 Peter Whitbread 65 6 Richard Germain Daniel Raynaut 54 Nigel has over 30 years of experience in Director of International Development Non-Executive Director the petroleum industry.
He was a Director Peter Whitbread joined Lamprell in 1992.
Richard Raynaut was appointed to the and the Chief Executive Officer of Jura Peter is a Chartered Quantity Surveyor Board on 7 July 2006.
He Chairs the Audit Energy Corporation, a company listed on with over 35 years of experience in the oil Committee of the Company and is a the Toronto Stock Exchange, and is now and gas services sector, with extensive member of the Nomination and its Chairman and a member of the experience in managing marine Remuneration Committees.
Prior to this, construction companies and in the direct been involved in the oil and gas industry he was a Director and the Chief Financial project management of a wide range of since 1977 when he was appointed as an Officer of Lundin Petroleum AB.
Nigel has major marine projects, heavy marine accountant at IHC Caland.
Between 1977 also held various positions with Chevron equipment and vessels.
He was the Chief and 2004, he held a variety of positions at Overseas Inc. and Gulf Oil Corporation.
Executive Officer of the Group until May IHC Caland renamed SBM Offshore, Nigel is the Senior Independent Non- 2009 and was also the Chairman of the including Chief Accountant, Treasurer and Executive Director, within the definition of Group until 5 February 2008.
From 2000 to 2004, the FRC Combined Code, of Dragon Oil appointed as the Director of International he was appointed the Chief Financial plc, where he is the Chairman of its Audit Development in May 2009.
During his Officer of the offshore division and was an Committee and a member of the career he has held a number of other Executive board member of Single Buoy Remuneration and Nomination senior management positions and Moorings Inc. From January 2005 Committees.
He is also a Director of directorships with marine construction onwards he has been involved in Sri Nemmoco Petroleum Limited, a private companies in the Middle East region.
Lanka, with the charity Monaco Aide exploration and production company, et Presence.
Frontier Acquisition Company Limited, 5 Colin Goodall 65 Frontier Holdings Limited, Pyramid Senior Independent Non-Executive 7 Brian Fredrick 58 Energy International Inc. and Mavignon Director Non-Executive Director Shipping Limited.
Colin Goodall was appointed to the Board Brian Fredrick was appointed to the Board on 14 September 2008.
He Chairs the 3 Scott Doak 48 Nomination Committee of the Company Remuneration Committee of the Company Chief Financial Officer and is a member of the Audit and and is a member of the Audit and Scott Doak joined Lamprell in March Remuneration Committees.
He is also the Nomination Committees.
Scott is responsible for the finance Chairman of Dana Petroleum plc: of his career in the financial services and administration activities of Lamprell.
Parkmead Group plc and Sindicatum industry in Asia and the Middle East and Prior to joining Lamprell, he worked for Carbon Capital Ltd. Colin qualified as a worked in the United Arab Emirates in the Reuters Limited, based in Dubai, in the chartered accountant and is a member of 1980s and 1990s.
He has also worked for position of Head of Finance for Middle the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
He HSBC in Hong Kong, where he was HSBC East & Africa, where he was a member of spent most of his career in the upstream Asia-Pacific Head of International between the Senior Management Group involved oil & gas industry with BP plc, where he 2003 and 2007 and in Brunei, and in strategic planning and market joined the finance team in 1975, later Vietnam.
He was the Chief Executive development.
Previously he has held becoming the first Chief of Staff within the Officer of HSBCs operations in Mauritius, senior financial roles with Telerate Limited, BP Group.
From 1995 to 1999 he served the Philippines and Indonesia for over 10 Dubai, Price Waterhouse, Dubai and as Chief Financial Officer for BP Europe years.
He has served on the boards of a Whinney Murray & Company Saudi and then as BPs senior representative in number of companies including A. Soriano affiliate to Ernst & Young.
His career has involved Corporation and Concrete Aggregates Inc, member of the Institute of Chartered assignments in Africa, the Middle East, both quoted on the Philippine Stock Accountants of Scotland and has a Europe, Russia and the Americas.
Exchange, Techcombank, one of the Bachelor of Accountancy from the largest private sector banks in Vietnam University of Glasgow.
and was Chairman of HSBC Bank Mauritius Ltd. Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 33
