We ended 2009 with 4,515 permanent Operating staff in the Company.
Review continued condition-driven refurbishment, refurbishment and rig repainting.
The including structural steel and piping work was successfully completed in replacement and painting.
The jackup rig upgrade and refurbishment Offsite and other services projects carried out in 2009 included: In addition to major refurbishment projects we also undertook a wide range Noble Roy Rhodes of minor projects including the supply of The rig, which was working for Dubai engineering services, procurement Petroleum, arrived at our Sharjah facility activities and various smaller rig in March 2009 for an extensive upgrade refurbishment projects carried out on and refurbishment program.
The work board rigs whilst they remain in operation.
scopes on this project included a These projects do not account for a large cantilever extension, the extension of the proportion of revenue but they provide a rig legs from 344 feet to 410 feet and the critical service to our customers and extension of the rigs living quarters to reflect Lamprells flexible approach to accommodate 120 personnel.
In addition servicing our clients needs.
some of the rigs drilling equipment was replaced and condition driven work New build construction for the including hull steel replacement and offshore oil and gas sector piping renewals were carried out.
Our Jebel Ali facility has been working on a variety of major projects during 2009 Ensco 53 for clients including SBM, Saipem and The Ensco 53 arrived at Lamprells Master Marine ASA.
These projects all Sharjah facility in October 2008 after require the utilisation of our state-of-the-art completing a continuous four year drilling facility as well as high levels of project program in India.
Following the management control to ensure that safety completion of a detailed condition survey and quality standards are maintained whilst an extensive scope of work was keeping a strong focus on timely delivery.
This included the replacement of approximately five hundred tonnes of The Jebel Ali facility undertakes a range hull steel, an accommodation upgrade of different new build construction and extensive hull painting.
The works projects which in 2009 included: were completed in April 2009 and the rig returned to India to undertake a contract FPSO process modules with British Gas.
Saipem Livorno In May 2008 Lamprell was awarded Transocean Key Manhattan a contract by Saipem to construct two In addition to the rigs refurbished at our units for the Livorno Floating Storage UAE facilities, Lamprell was awarded a Regasification Unit.
The project contract by Transocean to refurbish the fabrication phase started in March 2009 Key Manhattan at the Nauta Lamjana d. d. and through the year Lamprell has been shipyard in Croatia.
The rig arrived at the working on the main regasification shipyard in September 2009 with a major module which weighs over 2,100 tonnes upgrade and refurbishment work scope, and the smaller nitrogen module which including condition driven works such as weighs 350 tonnes.
The modules are hull steel replacement and piping scheduled to be completed and delivered renewals, as well as accommodation in April 2010.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 20 Business review In accordance with our strategy to grow the business organically, we maintained our capital investment program throughout 2009.
Master Marine Spud Cans previously hired during high demand the requisite skills and professional In February 2009 the Norwegian company periods and thereby keeping our experience to add value to the Company Master Marine ASA awarded Lamprell a redundancy rate to a minimum.
This and the service which we offer to our contract to build four add-on footings Spud demonstrates the importance placed by the clients.
This is particularly so in the areas of Cans for their service jackup Service Jack Company on retaining its core workforce.
The combined fabrication weight of the We are now in the process of recruitment where we clearly differentiate ourselves four spud cans is 2,600 tonnes and the following recent project awards.
completed structures were delivered in March 2010.
Lamprell continues to provide purpose-built Operating facilities accommodation and transportation for the In accordance with our strategy to grow Oilfield Engineering Services labour force and this enhances our ability to the business organically, we maintained Lamprells Oilfield Engineering operation, attract and retain our workforce, and our capital investment program located within our main Jebel Ali facility, dramatically improves the quality and work throughout 2009.
The aim of this executed contracts throughout 2009 for a life balance expectations of the employees.
investment is to increase our capacity, variety of clients including LTDS, Nabors raise our existing levels of productivity Drilling, KCA Deutag and Ensign.
Projects We aim to provide a safe and supportive and improve the working environment for executed during 2009 included the work environment to our employees, who both yard and administrative personnel.
completion of four fast moving land rigs for are from diverse cultural backgrounds, The main area of investment in 2009 has LTDS, the upgrade and refurbishment of and to do so in an environment that been the continued development of our 2 land rigs, as well as the inspection and provides a competitive compensation 250,000m facility in the Hamriyah free overhaul of mechanical and rotary programme that is affordable to the zone.
The marine work including dredging equipment.
In addition to these projects, Company.
We believe this continues to be and quay wall construction was we also executed a number of minor offsite our market differentiator and will completed in 2009 as were the projects to assist our clients by providing strengthen our position as an employer construction of a number of concrete our services on location at drilling sites.
of choice into 2010 and beyond.
In addition the initial 240 man office block and CNC fabrication Human resources The HR department continues to work workshops are also nearing completion.
It Attracting, developing and retaining talented closely with senior business leaders on is anticipated that the facility will be staff is of paramount importance to the strategy execution, in particular designing substantially complete by the end of success of Lamprell as a business.
At HR systems and processes that address 2010.
In addition, we continued to Lamprell we consider our employees to be strategic business issues, organisational develop our facility in Sattahip, Thailand our greatest asset and the continuous and people capability-building, longer term during 2009.
This development included 2 development and multi-skilling of our staff resource and talent management planning.
completing the outfitting of the 3,000 m remains a focus for our success.
The Human workshop and investment in additional Resources HR Department has General recruitment fabrication equipment.
developed policies and best practices for Recruitment has commenced due to recent effective employee management enabling awarded projects.
We ended 2009 with managers to capitalise on the strengths of 4,515 permanent staff in the Company the employees and their ability to contribute which equates to a 17.1% decrease in Chris Hand to the accomplishment of work.
It is headcount as a result of cost control Chief Operating Officer recognised that successful employee measures undertaken in 2009.
Our search management helps employee motivation, for new and talented staff is a continual development, and retention.
process as a result of the competitive market in which the Company operates.
As As a result of the general slowdown in a result of the growth Lamprell has economic activity during 2009 we shifted experienced in recent years and also recent our focus carefully to capacity utilisation.
contract awards, we aim to recruit staff with We managed excess capacity by releasing local labour supply and contractors Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 21
