Logica Annual report and accounts 2009 Technology can make the world better.
Well have global leaders in the key sectors What you should expect to see But only if we collaborate and innovate with and practices where our clients will benefit As the plan develops over time, youll see us: our clients and key stakeholders.
At Logica, most clearly from cross-border collaboration.
develop and appoint skilled people in our were looking to create effective, sustainable client and country teams, and in Business business ecosystems.
Our client research Client-focused people Consulting shows a clear need for a European provider Our plan to help our people become more deepen our sales presence in Europe, with the global scale to deliver world-class client-focused covers three areas: led by our client and country teams resources.
But with scope for local flexibility our refreshed brand with a clear focus on our top 57 and local understanding.
investing in our skills and people accounts and key sectors development refocus our technology partnerships and Our client research making sure we have the right incentives practices around our European domain to enable brilliant performance.
expertise so we can tailor our sectorshows a clear need for specific solutions and adaptation for a European provider Client value our clients Delivering value to our clients begins with develop differentiated solutions and with global scale understanding their sector, so we can models from our investments in sector deliver thought leadership.
We have clear thought leadership, technology practices They want people who listen.
Who bring priorities for: and cross-sector client issues.
innovative ideas to the table.
Who look after them for the long term.
And they see that investment in each of our sectors domain and technical expertise deliver real the development of technology practices value when it comes to solving the complex in key client value areas Enterprise Home | Online Annual report | Logica Home | Online Annual report | Logicas global website | Contact us | Legal | Useful links | HTML v s global website | Contact us | Legal | Useful links | HTML version ersion challenges they face.
Content Management, Service Oriented DELIVERING FOR SHAREHOLDERS market clients Architecture, and Business Intelligence value Four-point plan the development of our ecosystem of sustainable DELIVERING FOR CLIENTS Our revised plan is centred around our partners including Microsoft, SAP integrating clients.
It has four parts: and Oracle.
reinvesting DELIVERING FOR OUR PEOPLE client engagement Our marketing activity will focus on three growth forward-looking client-focused people key themes that we believe are crucial client value to our clients: sustainability, cloud, delivering value for money.
Well carry on investing in these areas, Delivering value for money Our plan continues to be focused on using the money we save by cutting costs, This covers our ongoing mission to reduce delivering sustainable value for clients, working more efficiently and boosting the cost at which we can deliver to clients shareholders and our people.
This will grow our market share to invest in more value-added offers for them.
com in a consolidating market and grow our Reducing the average cost of delivery to margins, as our markets return to growth deliver value in a competitive world will be over the medium term.
a function of our costs coming down with: Client engagement the right people with the right skills in Our work on client engagement includes the right place the repositioning of our brand, our optimised utilisation levels collaborative innovation programme and global standardised tooling for blended our ongoing investment in stronger account delivery, service management and management.
This will help us understand improved productivity our clients and be more flexible.
better buying with a common From the beginning of 2010, well run our procurement process.
Business Consulting as a global P&L the Well also reduce our own overheads, same as Outsourcing Services.
This will help carrying on the HR and Finance us to deliver the kind of thought leadership transformation we have already started.
and consulting our clients need to transform the way their business works and performs.
17 Business Review Our updated plan Measure us Our goal?
To have clients, shareholders and people that stick with us.
This will only happen if we deliver sustainable value.
But we dont expect you to take our word for what happens: well give you the means to judge for yourself.
Delivering beyond 2009 In 2009 our attrition was 7% compared Margin improvement will result as we look We want to delight our clients, shareholders to 13% in 2008.
But the real test will come to deliver more value and improve our and people.
By as the market recovers.
We hope well then competitiveness by: giving our people the chance to bring more see our ability to keep our most talented investing in sales and marketing to domain expertise and innovation to the people: people with the skills and improve value for clients market.
By making sure we contribute as knowledge that our clients value.
reducing our average cost to deliver to a Company to shaping a sustainable future.
protect gross margin and deliver value And by improving productivity, to make sure Our planet further reducing overheads our revenues and margins are sustainable.
Our vision is to have 39,000 Logica people mitigating risk through our bidding tool living and working sustainably, empowering and strong contract management.
Our clients our clients and the broader business We know which clients we need to focus on.
ecosystem, to create sustainable offerings By cutting our input costs, improving Our top clients have been with us for over for their consumers and business customers productivity and boosting efficiency, our eight years and many have been clients for to create a better future.
We have made margins should put us among the best of much longer.
good progress in our Corporate our European peers.
Our medium-term goal: We need to focus more clearly on what Responsibility agenda and have more to double digit margins.
matters to them, so we continue to be one do as we have outlined in our Corporate of their few long-term suppliers.
That means Responsibility report see pages 72 to 75.
As the market grows, we should deliver investing in domain expertise, technology higher margins.
And that means we can give and innovation.
We expect the accounts Our shareholders more back to our shareholders.
we focus on to grow faster.
Growing Outsourcing Services and Well know were winning when they Business Consulting should mean growth rank Logica among their top three suppliers.
above the market for our entire Group.
Our Home | Online Annual report | Logica Home | Online Annual report | Logicas global website | Contact us | Legal | Useful links | HTML v s global website | Contact us | Legal | Useful links | HTML version ersion percentage of revenue from outsourcing Our people should keep going up.
DELIVERING FOR SHAREHOLDERS market clients Our people are how our clients judge our Increasing the proportion of our work value service and our brand.
And we think that done offshore will be a result of three things: sustainable DELIVERING FOR CLIENTS the better we look after our people, the our clients desire to use offshore resources: integrating reinvesting better theyll look after our clients.
So our our ability to industrialise global delivery: DELIVERING FOR OUR PEOPLE goal is to become one of the top 10 and improvements in our internal efficiency.
growth forward-looking employers as judged by the Great Place to Work Institute in all our major markets.
Sustainable results To hear more on how we are positioned to deliver sustainable results, go to: http: delivering.
