Logica Annual report and accounts 2009 This is only a summary of the business to Political donations and contributions Annual General Meeting be conducted at the AGM, the full details of The Companys policy is not to make any The Companys AGM will be held on the resolutions can be found in the Notice donations or contributions to political 5 May 2010 at 10.30 am at Kings of Meeting, a copy of which is available on parties or organisations and no such Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9AG.
the Companys website at www.
com payments were made during the year.
A summary of the resolutions to or can be obtained from the Company be proposed at the 2010 AGM is set Secretary.
Future developments out below: Further information on future developments Charity can be found in the Chief Executive Officers Ordinary Resolutions Our employees continue to be generous review on page 3 and in the Business in their support for charitable causes.
Review on pages 4, 18 and the Financial to receive the Directors and The Company supports give as you earn review on pages 19 to 31.
Auditors reports and the Audited schemes to facilitate financial donations Accounts for the year ended by employees via the payroll.
The Company By order of the Board 31 December 2009 also encourages employees to support to approve the final dividend of charities and participate in local charitable 2.3p for each ordinary share for the events and, where possible, donates surplus year ended 31 December 2009 computers to local good causes.
When to approve the Directors making charitable donations, our aim is to Alice Rivers Remuneration Report for the year develop partnerships with national charities Company Secretary ended 31 December 2009 and non-governmental organisations in 5 March 2010 to reappoint the countries in which we operate.
Total  LLP as UK charitable donations in 2009 were Registered office auditors of the Company and 92,000 2008: 97,100.
Given Logicas Logica plc to set their fees role in the knowledge economy, our 250 Brook Drive to elect Jan Babiak as a Noncommunity and charity programmes Reading RG2 6UA Executive Director support the development of people, United Kingdom to re-elect David Tyler as a Nonespecially children.
Our 2009 donations Executive Director were made to a childrens charity.
We also Registered in England to re-elect Andy Green as an support projects that actively involve our No.
1631639 Executive Director employees and, where possible, make use to renew the authority given to the of their technical knowledge and expertise.
We also encourage our employees to raise money for causes that support the objective Special Resolutions of our community policy.
The following approvals must be sought as Special Resolutions.
Such Further information about the Groups resolutions will be passed if 75% or activities in the community and charitable more of the votes cast are in favour: donations can be found in the Corporate to renew the authority given to the Responsibility report on pages 73 to 75 P73 Directors to allot securities for cash other than on a pro-rata basis to shareholders to renew the Companys authority to purchase its own shares this will allow the Company to repurchase the Companys ordinary shares up to a maximum of 10% of the issued share capital to approve new Articles of Association of the Company to approve the calling of a General Meeting other than an AGM on not less than 14 clear days notice.
45 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report The Board endorses and supports the best practice guidelines contained in the Financial Reporting Councils 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code which can be found at www.
uk through its commitment to the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Board believes that the Group has The Board held six scheduled meetings in Board composition fully complied with the Combined Code 2009 and was available to hold additional At the date of this report the Board is throughout 2009 apart from in the limited meetings when circumstances required.
comprised of the Non-Executive Chairman, circumstances described below, where During the year, additional Board three Executive Directors and six Nonan explanation has been provided.
The Committee meetings were held to deal with Executive Directors.
As part of the Groups Company is listed on both the London and a variety of matters including the Groups ongoing succession planning programme a Amsterdam stock exchanges and as such, interim management statements, its annual number of changes were made to the Board has complied with the listing requirements accounts, the Groups financing facilities during 2009, details of which can be found of the UK Listing Authority and those of the and the operation of the Groups share on page 43.
Authority for the Financial Markets AFM plans.
The number of scheduled meetings, The Board has a Nominations Committee in the Netherlands.
together with the Boards ability to hold to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge additional Committee meetings at short and experience of individual Board The Board notice, is judged to be sufficient to members and to make recommendations The Board utilises a framework of prudent discharge the Boards duties effectively.
for appointments to the Board.
Following and effective controls in order to determine In order to reflect the geographical recommendations made by the Committee, and manage the Groups goals, together spread of the Group, and to provide the Sergio Giacoletto was appointed to the with the necessary strategies and policies Board with a higher level of visibility of its Board on 24 February 2009, Frdric Rose to achieve these goals.
The Companys operations, at least two of these meetings was appointed to the Board on 30 April values and the standards set by the Board are normally held outside the UK.
In 2009, 2009 and Jan Babiak was appointed to the are upheld throughout the Group with the in addition to the UK, meetings were also Board on 1 January 2010.
In accordance assistance of the executive management, held in Sweden and Germany.
In 2010, with the Companys Articles of Association, central finance, commercial, legal and the Board is planning to hold meetings in the appointments of both Sergio Giacoletto administrative departments and the Groups the Netherlands and Portugal as well as and Frdric Rose as Directors were internal audit function.
approved by shareholders at the Companys Board has considered reports from the Proposed actions are recorded in the 2009 AGM.
Jan Babiak will be proposed for Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Board minutes or, where appropriate, in election as a Director at the Companys Financial and Operations Officer, together relevant Committee minutes, together with forthcoming AGM.
with reports from heads of business and any concerns that members of the Board In addition, the Nominations Committee specialist functions.
may have regarding the running of the has proposed Andy Green and David Tyler In order to ensure that the Board retains Company.
for re-election at the 2010 AGM.
overall control of all significant strategic, Directors submitting themselves for financial, operational and compliance issues, The Terms of Reference for the Board re-election at the AGM have been subject the matters reserved for approval by the are available on the Companys website to a rigorous, formal performance Board include: the Groups strategic plans: www.
com governance or can be evaluation and were found to have its annual operational plans and budgets: obtained from the Company Secretary.
performed effectively during the year.
its annual and interim results and published Copies of the Directors terms and financial statements: major capital expenditure conditions of appointment are available commitments: treasury policies: material on request from the Company Secretary.
increases to finance facilities: and the terms of reference of all Board Committees.
The names and biographical details of the Directors, including those seeking election and re-election at the 2010 AGM, can be P37 found on pages 37 to 41 46 Logica Annual report and accounts 2009 Governance structure at 5 March 2010 Board of Directors Executive Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee see pages 36 to 39 Roger Payne Chairman Nol Harwerth Chairman David Tyler Chairman Jan Babiak Frdric Rose Sergio Giacoletto Sergio Giacoletto David Tyler Andy Green Wolfhart Hauser Nol Harwerth Roger Payne Non-Executive Directors independence Conflicts of interests Communication with shareholders The Board recognises the valuable Under the Companies Act 2006, a Director The Board gives a high priority to contribution independent Directors can has a statutory duty to avoid a situation communication with shareholders and make.
During 2009 the Board considered where he or she has, or can have, a direct takes the opportunities afforded by the the independence of the Non-Executive or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly AGM and meetings with institutional Directors and concluded that each of the may conflict, with the Companys interests.
investors to ensure a mutual understanding Non-Executive Directors was independent In accordance with the Act, the Companys of the Companys objectives and in character and judgement.
However, Articles have been amended with performance.
In 2009, the Companys Grard Philippot, who retired from the Board shareholder approval to allow the Directors Chairman, the Chairman of the at the conclusion of the Companys 2009 to authorise conflicts or potential conflicts Remuneration Committee and the Senior AGM, was not considered independent of interests in appropriate circumstances.
Independent Director held meetings with under the Combined Code, due to his The Board has established a procedure to a number of existing and prospective previous executive position in Unilog S. A. ensure that these powers of authorisation shareholders in order to understand their Since his retirement, the Board has been operate effectively.
In addition, the Chief and remains fully compliant with this aspect Under this procedure, the Directors Executive Officer, Chief Financial and of the Code.
The Company believes that all have notified the Company in writing of any Operations Officer and the Head of Investor of the Non-Executive Directors bring potential conflicts of which they are aware.
Relations held meetings with shareholders relevant experience to the Board and make These notifications have been recorded by regarding the Groups normal course of valuable contributions to achieving its the Company Secretary and have been business.
In total, during the year, members objectives.
They do not act with self-interest submitted to the Board for review and of the Board and Investor Relations met and their primary aims are to maximise authorisation, as appropriate.
In addition, with around 300 shareholders or their shareholder wealth and develop the any changes to existing interests are representatives at these meetings and Company in line with its strategic goals.
recorded by the Company and reviewed conferences.
The Company believes that none of the at the next Board meeting.
A copy of the All shareholders are welcomed to the Non-Executive Directors hold significant procedure is provided to all new Directors AGM where developments in the business commitments outside the Company which and an explanation forms part of the are explained and shareholders have the interfere with their ability to execute their Companys induction programme for opportunity to ask questions of any of responsibilities effectively.
The Board confirms that the procedure referred to above has operated effectively during the year and up to the date of this Report.
47 Governance Corporate governance report The Companys website www.
com Induction and training Board performance 2009 provides access for all shareholders to Upon appointment, all Directors undergo The Board is subject to an annual information about the Company, including a comprehensive induction programme, performance review which covers the results presentations and press releases.
tailored to their individual requirements.
effectiveness of the Board, its Committees Financial reporting is presented in such a way The induction programme includes and individual members and takes into as to provide a balanced and understandable training on Directors duties and account factors such as composition, assessment of the Companys position responsibilities, Board procedures and expertise, information flows, roles, and prospects.
various governance-related issues, including responsibilities and procedures.
A full The Board is made aware of shareholders conflicts of interests and procedures for review has been conducted in line with views through direct feedback from dealing in Logica plc shares.
Each Director completed a face-to-face meetings and presentations they meet with the heads of all the major comprehensive questionnaire, following with institutional shareholders.
If shareholders business units and receive appropriate which one-to-one interviews were or investors do not wish to follow the usual ongoing training and updates to improve conducted by the Chairman with each methods of communication through the their knowledge and skills.
The information from the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief training requirements are subject to questionnaires and interviews was compiled Financial and Operations Officer, the regular review.
into a report which was presented to the Boards Senior Independent Director is As part of the induction programme Board by the Chairman at its meeting in available to meet with shareholders or Directors also make a number of site February 2010. investors.
Directors are regularly updated visits.
Members of individual Committees As part of this process, any Director on shareholder and market matters through receive specific training in connection who has served on the Board for a period internal briefings and the provision of with their duties, which includes attendance in excess of six years is subject to a external analysts reports.
The Companys at seminars and briefings by external particularly rigorous review.
Investor Relations department is dedicated advisers where applicable.
Board members The performance of the Chairman was to facilitating communication with investors, are also invited to attend an annual assessed by the Non-Executive Directors.
The process for this was led by the Senior Independent Director with all Directors Further information about Investor Relations Board support providing feedback on the Chairmans and the Companys principal shareholders The Company Secretary, through the performance.
The results were discussed can be found on the Companys website: Company Secretariat function, is responsible with the Chairman by the Senior www.
com investors for providing administrative and logistical Independent Director.
Advice and support During 2009, Andy Green, Chief Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on governance, compliance and regulatory Executive Officer, held one-to-one meetings There is a clear division of responsibility matters is also provided.
All Directors have with each of the Executive Directors to between the running of the Board by the access to the advice and services of the discuss their performance and to set Chairman, and the Chief Executive Officers Company Secretary and a procedure is in targets for the year ahead.
Each Executive responsibility for running the business.
The place to enable Directors to seek independent Director received a set of strategic and Chairman is responsible for ensuring the professional advice at the Companys functional objectives for the coming year.
effectiveness of the Board and is Chairman expense.
No such advice was sought There are regular meetings between the of the Nominations Committee.
He also by any Director during the year.
Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors liaises with the Chief Executive Officer on to discuss the performance of the Company strategic issues.
The Chief Executive Officer and any matters of relevance or concern.
is responsible for the overall management of Where appropriate, action is taken to the Company and for leading the Executive address any concerns of the Directors.
Directors and the Executive Committee.
Details of the Executive Committee can be found on pages 36 to 39 P36 48
