Logica Annual report and accounts 2009 Highlights of 2009 Looking ahead Some of the most important projects We are investing in sector thought within this sector in the last 12 months leadership in these areas Highlights of 2009 Looking ahead Justice, Police and Public Safety: Two major UK contracts: Citizen-centric services: We are designing citizen-centric a seven-year, 76 million contract to design, build and operate services and improving operational efficiency through business a new Police National Database and a three-year, 113 million process outsourcing for government organisations extension to 2015 for electronic case management for the Crown Prosecution Services in the UK Public safety and security: We are helping government organisations ensure the security of data and IT systems Defence: Outsourcing of IT operations for the Swedish Defence Material Administration Shared services: We are working with alliance partners to help our clients in central and local government adopt innovative Local Government BPO: Development and launch of a new shared services pension administration system for Swedish municipalities Government-led sustainability: We are working with Central Government: Hosting of IT infrastructure for the governments to implement monitoring and energy Dutch ministry of Home Affairs management systems Highlights of 2009 Looking ahead Transport and Logistics: We continued to build on our Intelligent transport systems: Eco-mobility road pricing, leadership position with wins for: smart card ticketing services, traffic management and SaaS smart logistics solutions will help clients respond more rapidly application and infrastructure management for Swedish to the European Action Plans on Intelligent Transport Systems airport operator, Luftfartsverket and Freight Logistics and will improve competitiveness performance evaluation and auditing of a new Slovakian national road pricing system Infrastructure asset management: Solutions to manage delivery and further extension of the track access billing infrastructure more efficiently will deliver cost reductions in system for Network Rail in the UK freight handling, logistics and the airline industry Manufacturing: In Manufacturing IT we are delivering on an integrated SAP and Manufacturing Execution System MES for Business Intelligence BI : Solutions focused on customer Unimills and a global support arrangement for Sony Ericssons loyalty, revenue management optimisation, and operations Product Lifecycle Management PLM excellence monitoring 9 Business Review Our market in 2009 Our deep industry knowledge Revenue Top five clients Energy and NOR Electricit fide France 62m Utilities -9% Energias fide Portugal GdF Suez Electrabel Integral Energy INT FR 273m Shell 137m 7% 13% 650m 3% UK 104m -4% BEN 74m -6% 18% of total Group revenue Revenue Top five clients Financial INT ABN Amro NOR 76m Services 110m -13% BNP Paribas -13% Crdit Agricole BEN ING 145m Socit Gnrale -31% 553m -20% FR 200m UK -5% 22m 15% -58% of total Group revenue Revenue Top five clients Telecoms INT BT 50m and Media NOR France Telecom 11% 90m KPN 22% TeliaSonera Vodafone BEN 48m 314m -9% 11% FR 60m UK -13% 66m 57% 8% of total Group revenue 10 Logica Annual report and accounts 2009 Highlights of 2009 Looking ahead Utilities Utilities Markets and trading: Transformation of the hosting and SmartWorld: Supporting the business areas such as intelligent operation of the business processes which run the wholesale grids and demand-side management that are enabled by the electricity balancing and settlement arrangements for the UK implementation of electricity and gas meters in partnership with Elexon Customer care and billing: Including advanced consumer SmartWorld: services that are made possible by the implementation of smart metering in a competitive energy market appointed by three energy distributors In Australia to deliver key projects in the roll out of the countrys first smart meters Energy sustainability: Covering the requirements related to the development of a prototype for electric vehicle charging use of renewable energy and reduction of emissions and waste points with Dutch network operator Enexis Oil and Gas Upstream and Downstream : Oil and Gas Upstream and Downstream : real time data management related to production, including selected by Total for multi-year maintenance of the Groups e-field and exploration information system bringing value in retail with fuel card solutions and in renewed strategic relationship with Shell by extending the manufacturing with real-time data management Key Application Service provider contract Highlights of 2009 Looking ahead Transaction banking and payments: Demonstration of our Transaction banking and payments: Providing alternative ability to address big-picture transaction banking and payments business models for transaction banking and corporate payment issues through to the delivery of optimal solutions: Insurance: Technology-enabled transformation programmes Logica is now one of BNPPs top four partners for Business as well as platform convergence and underwriting portals Consulting and IT services Regulation: End-to-end solutions for regulatory compliance and reporting Insurance: Ten-year extension of applications development and support to Polaris UK to facilitate speed to market of new insurance software products Wealth management: Working with the Public Sector team on a new pension administration system for Swedish municipalities Highlights of 2009 Looking ahead Outsourcing and managed services: Increased efficiency End-to-end BSS business support system and OSS and service excellence under new contracts with clients: operations support system transformation: Standardising operational processes using BPO or SaaS and optimising a five-year contract with TeliaSonera for managed workplace differentiating processes using application management.
services for 34,000 users We are integrating BSS with collaborative and social customer a four-year, 28 million contract with SFR to transform and relationship management CRM manage customer-facing sales, subscription and service activation for French mobile subscribers Machine-to-machine enabled solutions: Using mobile framework agreements with several network vendors for communications technology to remotely control and manage Consulting, SI and AM services including work for their distributed field assets, eg.
smart meters end customers Business Intelligence: Implementation of a new global enterprise data warehousing and business intelligence solution for Tele2, based on IBM technologies in 12 countries 11 Business Review Our market in 2009 Where we are We integrate our leading European presence Finland Employees: 3,100 Offices: 18 Norway Sweden Employees: 600 Employees: 5,200 Offices: 7 Offices: 40 UK Employees: 5,400 Offices: 21 Denmark Employees: 700 Other Europe: 100 employees Offices: 5 Bulgaria Luxembourg Montenegro Romania Netherlands Russia Employees: 5,100 Germany Serbia Offices: 12 Employees: 1,900 Switzerland Ukraine Offices: 14 International locations: Australia Brazil Belgium Canada Employees: 400 Egypt Offices: 1 Hong Kong CEE India Czech Republic, Indonesia Hungary, Poland, Malaysia Morocco Slovakia, Estonia Philippines Employees: 200 Saudi Arabia France Offices: 8 Singapore Employees: 8,900 Taiwan Offices: 23 United Arab Emirates USA Portugal Employees: 900 Figures are rounded to Offices: 7 the nearest 100 Many of our clients have operations around the globe.
We have a leading position in Europe and significant international operations to support our clients in the United States, Brazil, the Middle East, Asia and Australia.
Our global presence allows us to deliver uniform, high-quality services wherever our clients do business.
International competencies are shared across the Group.
We have in depth knowledge in five market segments, and in functional areas common to all industries, such as HR and payroll.
We offer our clients a full-spectrum service including business consulting, outsourcing, systems integration and professional services.
12 Logica Annual report and accounts 2009 blended with a strong international delivery capability CEE delivery Employees: 300 Countries served: Germany, India Switzerland, Netherlands, Belgium, France, Employees: 3,550 Morocco, UK, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Countries served: Australia, Hungary, Ukraine, Russia, Croatia, Serbia, Belgium, Denmark, Dubai, Montenegro, Romania, Bulgaria Finland, France, Germany, Key skills: Applications Development, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, Applications Management, Product Morocco, Netherlands, Engineering, Testing Services, ERP Services Norway, Philippines, Portugal, Sweden, UK, USA Key skills: Applications Philippines Development and Employees: 500 Enhancement, Product Countries served: Engineering, ERP Services, UK, Netherlands, Testing Services, Sweden, Belgium, USA Infrastructure Management, Key skills: BPO, ERP BPO, Transition Management, Services, Applications Quality Assurance, Marketing Development and Business Development Morocco and Egypt Employees: 650 Countries served: France, Morocco, Belgium Key skills: Applications Development, Applications Management, Testing Services, ERP Services, BPO Malaysia Employees: 100 Countries served: Malaysia, Singapore, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Taiwan, Philippines Key skills: Applications Development, Applications Management, ERP Services, Testing Services, Offshore Services Our Outsourcing Services division incorporates Logica employees delivering services from our onshore, nearshore and offshore centres across the globe.
Our integrated approach to outsourced service delivery provides maximum flexibility in meeting the differing needs of our clients, allowing us to meet each ones prescribed criteria for quality, performance, security and risk.
We combine people, processes and technology to deliver integrated, uniform services that mirror each clients requirements.
Consistent management of Outsourcing Services across our geographies helps drive growth and industrialisation.
13 Business Review Delivering on our strategy Challenging us to deliver To us, delivering means creating sustainable value for our shareholders, clients and people.
Even in difficult market conditions.
The more value we create for clients, the more were able to invest in our long-term growth.
Our revenue declined at a slower rate than many of our peers.
And we were able to protect margins delivering an adjusted operating margin broadly maintained on last year at 7.4%.
Programme for Key metrics Progress in 2009 Growth progress reduce overall cost base costs reduced by 75 million Competitive by 130 million in 2010 over 2007 in 2009 compared to original target set 30 million reinvested compared costs in 2008 of 80 million to original target set in 2008 of reinvest 50 million by 2010.
30-40 million on track to meet 2010 targets.
increasing client satisfaction continuing improvement in Focus for stronger client relationships client satisfaction see page 15 growth above the market outsourcing growth of 9%, Growth market share leading to above-market revenue more major contract wins.
performance thirteen deals greater than 20 million, with average deal size of 45 million compared to 30 million in 2008. change in total number in our at end of 2009, we have increased Accelerate nearshore and offshore centres our number by 48% since April with a goal of 8,000 employees 2008 to 5,100 blended by the end of 2009. our overall target remained out of reach due to the slowdown in delivery demand in the market.
clients see us as a single company continued progress on having one One Logica we realise the benefits of working Finance and HR function operating as one across Logica a stronger brand creating bid for more opportunities due to a bigger pipeline continued investment in sales and shared tools and processes.
marketing shared tools introduced including a new bidding process.
14 L Lo ogic gica a A An nn nu ua al l r re ep po or rt t a an nd d a ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 09 9 Competitive costs We also bid on more opportunities.
Three One Logica As the market declined, we shifted our focus out of four of our large deals won were with We now work under one brand and to speeding up cost reductions.
At the same our focus accounts.
So its easier time, we continued to invest selectively worth more than 20 million, contributing to for our clients to see the real value they get to make sure we are in a stronger position a book to bill of 114%.
And the contracts from the integration of our past acquisitions.
at the end of the recession than at the weve won since 2008 have helped us None of this would be possible without beginning.
strengthen our relationships with clients the investments we made in 2008 and In 2008, we said our overhead cost like TeliaSonera see pages 8 to 11, 2009.
They help us to pull together base was too high.
We spent too much where were helping them transform their resources from all over the world when on the back office, rather than on sales entire business.
Standardised and marketing to fuel revenue growth.
We also built a stronger order backlog.
processes, systems and tools help us Ever since, weve focused on sustainable With strong orders recorded in 2009 improve operational effectiveness.
reductions in our cost base.
Our our book to bill was 124%, weve already So does having a common Finance and overhead costs are now well below 2007, contracted a significant portion of our HR organisation across Logica.
Common mainly due to savings weve made in our 2010 outsourcing revenue.
service delivery management will back office and property costs.
strengthen our ability to manage services Having saved 75 million in 2009, Accelerate blended delivery on a global basis from any delivery centre, we reinvested around 30 million in Offshore.
In the giving us greater flexibility.
the other Programme for Growth areas past three years, the concept of blended And having the Logica University and a Focus for Growth, Accelerate Blended delivery has become more important new Partner group with common incentives Delivery and One Logica.
to the way our clients think about cost is making it easier for our people to pull in Actions we took in 2009 will lead to efficiency and their technology strategy.
the same direction, learn from each other 130 million of annualised cost savings Forty-five per cent Thats the and speak the same language.
from 2010 against our 2007 base and percentage of bids that involve blended should allow us to continue to invest.
delivery and thats up from 30% in 2008.
The result So we are bidding more of a blend.
But A top priority in 2009 was protecting Focus for Growth a more difficult economic environment, adjusted operating margin.
A difficult Revenue declined 3% on a pro forma basis the squeeze on discretionary projects, market meant we had to rethink our original in 2009.
But many of our peers saw and the availability of onshore labour plan to increase it.
Our strategy of has led our clients to ask us to do more To broadly maintain our margin, we had sustainable revenue growth is based on onshore in 2009. to do slightly more restructuring than wed offering a longer-term service to clients Overall, our offshore and nearshore hoped, in some of our weaker areas.
So our not just supplying skills on short-term employees continue to represent around margin after Programme for Growth costs projects.
The fact that our revenue fell 13% of the total.
But we made good was also unchanged.
But it had to be done more slowly than our peers was largely progress in some countries.
Around 10% to make sure we have a competitive cost thanks to the investments we made in of our revenue-earning resources in Sweden base in 2010. our Outsourcing business.
and Norway were from offshore centres Our medium-term goal to achieve double We also invested in stronger account at the end of 2009, with most of our other digit margins still stands see page 18. management, outsourcing sales and geographies also above 5%.
In the UK, its Were also focusing on cash generation.
We converted 130% of our adjusted This made us more competitive and And the people in our offshore centres operating profit into cash in 2009. helped build stronger relationships with are undertaking more complex work and We expect to return around 53 million to clients, as can be seen from the results of are more fully utilised than they were last shareholders in the form of dividends for the our client satisfaction survey up 5% since year so we have a smaller bench.
2009 financial year, with our proposed 10% we started the Programme for Growth.
We still believe that our clients will want a increase in the full year dividend.
higher offshore blend for infrastructure and Access to capital needs to be rewarded P20 For definition of pro forma, see page 20 application management.
So our onshore with returns over the long term.
When we recruiting has become very focused, as we introduced the Programme for Growth in continue to grow our skills in our offshore 2008, we expected our return on capital and nearshore centres like India, the to exceed our cost of capital by 2009.
Like our margin performance, this proved a little harder than anticipated in a difficult economic environment but our return on capital was in line with our cost of capital and we expect to improve on that going forward.
15 15 e l p o e P C l i e Business Review Our updated plan T he futures not what IT used to be When we set out our Programme for Growth in 2008, our plan had a third year.
But the economic environment in 2009 forced us to deliver earlier in some areas.
Today, our underlying beliefs havent changed.
But were enhancing the plan to focus even more on our clients.
Thats where we see our future: being at the crossroads where our clients technology, customers and people meet.
Addressing real business needs, in a European context.
Client engagement Delivering Sustainable Client-focused Sustainable value for Value Value people Creation Creation money Client value 16 n t s s r e d l o h e r a h S
