Logica Annual report and accounts 2009 Chairmans statement Like most companies, Logica faced real challenges in 2009 because of the economic environment.
However, the Company delivered adjusted profit before tax of 249 million against 230 million in 2008.
Our net debt decreased by around a third to 291 million.
Our adjusted operating margin of 7.4% was only just below the margin of 7.5% we achieved in 2008.
I would like to record the Boards sincere thanks to all of Logicas Jan will become Chairman of the Audit Committee on the employees for performing as well as they did in difficult conditions.
retirement of Roger Payne at the conclusion of our AGM on 5 May.
They have worked extremely hard and effectively for the business Roger has made a very important contribution to Logicas discipline in the last year.
around risk management in his six years with us.
The Board thanks Aside from achieving a good financial result in 2009, we invested him very much for his considerable commitment to the business during the year in our Programme for Growth.
The goal is to over an extremely busy period in the Companys history.
improve the mediumand long-term profitability of the business by In June, we will also bid farewell to Crister Stjernfelt.
Crister has investing in distinct areas of expertise where we believe demand played a pivotal role in building One Logica, firstly by being the prime for our services will grow, by focusing on excellent delivery for our driver behind bringing the Nordic business into the Group and then clients, by bringing the business together to create international by constructively participating in the integration.
We will miss greatly consistency the One Logica initiative, and by cutting costs.
his insights at the Board, and we wish him well for the future.
Andy Green and the Executive team have created real strategic In 2009, the shares were up 65%.
Our goal remains to have our clarity for the Company, helping to build increased confidence in return on capital exceed our cost of capital.
We are committed Logica from all stakeholders.
I believe that further significant to enhancing returns to shareholders and seek to underline that progress can be made this year, aided by the Executive Committee commitment with a 10% increase in the proposed full year changes which took place in January 2010.
For more details on the dividend for 2009.
Investors in Logica are looking for consistent returns, for Strong governance remains a guiding principle at Logica.
sustainable growth and for well managed risk.
We aim to achieve We have changed the balance of the Board over the last year and this through an innovative approach that will differentiate Logica now believe its size and composition are very well suited to serving and through a strong management team.
We also aim to have strong the interests of shareholders and advising the business.
Sergio governance and to communicate clearly, providing transparency to Giacoletto was appointed as Senior Independent Director in 2009 investors and other stakeholders.
Our goal is to continue to deliver.
and has actively engaged in dialogue with some of our larger shareholders.
Jan Babiak joined the Board on 1 January 2010 following a 25-year career at Ernst and Young.
In addition to her auditing background and her expertise in IT where she led the partnerships technology practice, Jan also brings a real understanding of the sustainability agenda.
This is an area where Logica has further underlined its commitments this year, both as a shaper of solutions for our clients and in deploying them ourselves, for example, in auditing and managing our own carbon David Tyler footprint.
For more details, see our Corporate Responsibility report Chairman on page 72.
See page 20 for an explanation of the basis of pro forma and adjusted information.
35 Governance Executive Committee Leading our people Logica Executive Committee from Our Executive Committee is the most senior 1 January 2010 committee in Logica, overseeing all operational Regional leadership matters and recommending strategy to the Board.
N & C Europe UK International The success of our strategy depends on our 1 2 3 Sweden Benelux France Executive Committee providing direction and 5 11 12 inspiration to everyone at Logica.
We are all Service lines and global operations committed to creating value for our clients through Global Business Outsourcing the successful integration of people, business and Operations Consulting Services 4 7 8 technology into effective, sustainable ecosystems.
Most of the team have over a decades experience Functional and executive leadership Chief People Officer Chief Client Officer in business and technology working across the 10 13 breadth of our core market sectors, in addition to Chief Chief Financial Executive extensive management experience.
We have the Executive and Operations Committee Officer Officer advisor right Executive Committee to achieve our strategic 6 9 14 objectives and to inspire our people to succeed.
1 Joo Baptista Previous management experience: CEO, Northern and Central Europe Chairman and CEO of PT Investimentos Internacionais Portugal Telecoms Key strengths: International business international operation : VP, Global leadership: Management in multi-cultural Telecoms, Booz Allen Hamilton: Global environments: Strategic analysis and Leader for Technology, Information, insight: Management of subsidiaries and Communications and Entertainment joint ventures: Operational leadership TICE at Marsh & McLennan: Managing Joined Logica: 2008 as Chief Executive, Director, Mercer Management Consulting International Current external commitments and Experience in IT services: More than relevant qualifications: Member 20 years in telecommunications, of Audit Committee, Victoria and technology and IT services sectors Albert Museum 2 Craig Boundy Experience in IT services: More than CEO, UK 10 years as an IT services customer Previous management experience: Key strengths: Operational leadership: COO Europe, US and Asia, Cable & Business transformation and change Wireless: COO, Energis: Sales Director, management: Management of client Energis: Various management roles, experience: International management BT plc experience Joined Logica: 2008 as Chief Executive, Global Operations: Accelerate Blended Delivery and One Logica Leader Programme for Growth 36
