Logica Annual report and accounts 2009 shares are allotted or transferred to that Companys issued ordinary share capital drawn down against the facility in the awardee.
The Trustee of each of the as at 6 March 2009. event of a change of control.
There are Companys employee benefit trusts is Shareholders will be asked to renew this no agreements between the Company obliged to act in the best interests of the authority by Ordinary Resolution at the and its Directors or employees providing share plans beneficiaries.
In addition, the usual for compensation for loss of office or Meetings, the Trustee may exercise Special Resolution to disapply pre-emption employment that occurs because of discretion and vote in respect of shares rights will also be proposed, subject to a takeover bid.
held in the Trust although they may not shareholder approval of the authority to always choose to do so.
Where shares are allot shares referred to above.
Directors beneficially held by an employee within a In accordance with the Articles of Association share plan they may direct the Trustee to Creditor payment policy and practice the appointment of new Directors must be vote on their behalf.
The Company and its subsidiaries seek ratified by the shareholders at the Companys the best possible terms from suppliers AGM following their appointment.
In addition, Further information about employee share appropriate to their businesses and, in one-third of the Directors of the Company plans is set out in note 37 on pages 111 to placing orders, give consideration to quality, not including any newly appointed P111 116 and note IX on page 129 delivery, price and the terms of payment Directors must retire by rotation and seek which will be agreed with suppliers when re-election by the shareholders at each Restrictions on voting rights the details of each transaction are agreed.
Each Director should seek re-election All shareholders entitled to attend and vote The Company and its subsidiaries will by shareholders at least every three years.
may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, continue to honour their contractual and speak and vote in their place at General other legal obligations and to pay creditors Further details of the election and reMeetings.
A member may appoint more on the dates agreed in contract and election of the Directors can be found in the than one proxy provided that each proxy is purchase orders.
At 31 December 2009, Corporate Governance report on page 46 appointed to exercise the rights attached the number of days of annual purchases and in the notes to the AGM Notice which to a different share or shares held by represented by year-end trade creditors may be viewed on the Companys website the shareholder.
A proxy need not be a for the Group amounted to 60 days 2008: at www.
com P46 shareholder of the Company.
Proxy forms 65 days and for the Company amounted must be received by the Companys to nil days 2008: nil days.
The following changes to the Board were Registrars at least 48 hours before the time made during 2009: appointed for holding the meeting as set Research and development out in any Notices concerning a General During the year the Group invested 23.7 24 Feb 2009 Sergio Giacoletto appointed Meeting or in any form or proxy sent by or million 2008: 17.9 million in research and as a Non-Executive Director on behalf of the Company in relation to the development on products, of which 13.3 Meeting.
The appointment of a proxy does million 2008: 10.9 million was capitalised.
30 Apr 2009 Frdric Rose appointed as not preclude a shareholder from attending a Non-Executive Director: and voting in person at a General Meeting.
Financial instruments Wim Dik and Grard Philippot Further details may be found in the Notice The exposure of the Group to financial risks retired as Non-Executive of Meeting and the proxy card sent to including the use of financial instruments Directors shareholders in advance of the AGM, and policies for hedging and the exposure copies of which are also available on the to price, credit, cash flow and liquidity risk The following change to the Board, Companys website at www.
com can be found in Note 26 to the Financial announced prior to the year end, has Statements.
taken place in 2010: Issue of new share capital In order to allot equity securities the Change of control 1 Jan 2010 Jan Babiak appointed as Directors require express authorisation from In some sectors in which the Group operates a Non-Executive Director shareholders.
The authority can be granted it is not unusual for customer contracts to for a period of five years.
However, the include a clause that allows the customer The biographical details of the current Company follows best practice and seeks to terminate the contract in the event of a Directors are set out on pages 37 to 41 shareholder approval annually to allot the change of control of the Company.
The only and are also available on the Companys Companys equity securities.
other significant agreements to which the website at www.
com P37 At the 2009 AGM the Directors were Company is a party that take effect, alter granted the authority to allot the Companys or terminate upon a change of control The governance structure of the Board is unissued shares up to an aggregate nominal following a takeover bid, are the Groups illustrated on page 47 and the activities of amount of 52,745,864.
This amount principal debt facilities where the lenders the governance committees of the Board represented approximately one-third of the can require the repayment of amounts are outlined on pages 51 to 52 P51 43 Governance Report of the Directors Directors and Officers insurance We also wish to ensure that we operate as Events after the Balance Sheet date The Company maintains insurance cover an ethical and socially responsible business.
No important events affecting the Company for all Directors and Officers of Group As our people are at the heart of our own have occurred since the year end.
companies against liabilities which may be and our clients success, we want to protect incurred by them while acting as Directors their best interests, support their learning Directors remuneration report and Officers.
As at the date of this report, and development and uphold the highest The Directors Remuneration Report is indemnities are in force under which the standards of corporate governance.
Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted by law Our commitment to sustainability Directors interests and the Companys Articles of Association, This years Corporate Responsibility report Directors Interests in the shares of the against all costs, charges, losses and is based on the Global Reporting Initiative Company as at 31 December 2009 are liabilities that they may incur in the GRI, one of the worlds most prevalent shown on page 64 in the Directors execution of their duties, powers, authorities standards for sustainability reporting.
and discretions as Directors of the This positive step represents a commitment Company, or any other company of which, to building a sustainable business and Auditors at the request of the Company, they are contributes to the sustainability of our  LLP have been Directors or Officers.
Copies of these wider ecosystem.
the Companys auditors for many years.
indemnities are kept at the Companys The Audit Committee considers that the registered office and are open for inspection Employee involvement relationship with the auditors is working well by any member of the Company.
These The Company is committed to ensuring and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
indemnities do not cover the Directors or that employees share in the success of  LLP was last Officers for fraudulent activity.
Employees are encouraged required to tender for the audit work in 2002 to participate in share option and share and a review of the firms fees was completed Substantial shareholdings purchase plans.
The external auditors are required to At 3 March 2010 the Company had been The Group continued its policy of rotate the audit partners responsible for notified that the following had an interest in informing and involving employees in the Group and key subsidiaries audits in 3% or more of the Companys share capital.
matters which concern them through accordance with best practice guidelines.
The percentages below have been calculated the use of regular meetings between The current lead audit partner will rotate on the shares in issue figure at that date.
management and employees, corporate this year and a new lead audit partner has news magazines, knowledge management been appointed and approved by the Audit Name No.
of shares % tools, the Groups intranet, and the issue Committee.
There are no contractual Schroders plc 207,120,659 12.9 of bulletins and briefings.
To encourage obligations restricting the Companys Aviva Plc feedback and suggestions from employees, choice of external auditor.
and subsidiaries 82,925,830 5.2 an annual staff survey is undertaken.
The After due and careful consideration, FIL Ltd Fidelity 80,357,718 5.0 results of the survey are provided to the the Directors have recommended the Axa SA and Group 72,043,934 4.5 Board, HR and all employees.
reappointment of  Legal & General In addition, Andy Green, Chief Executive LLP as the Companys auditors.
Group Plc 62,456,565 3.9 Officer, communicates directly to employees  LLP has UBS Investment Bank 58,458,345 3.7 through a regularly updated personal blog, expressed its willingness to continue in accessible worldwide on the Groups office and therefore a resolution for their Employment policies and intranet.
He uses this to set out his views reappointment will be proposed at the equal opportunities on the principal internal and external issues forthcoming AGM.
Logicas employment practices are based affecting the Group and encourages on the best practice of each of the countries comments and discussion on his postings Auditors right to information in which it does business.
The Group is through an open Tell Andy response Each person who is a Director of the committed to providing equal opportunities facility, which is widely utilised.
Company at the date of approval of this to all employees irrespective of their gender, Report confirms that: sexual orientation, marital status, age, Further details on our employment policies a so far as each Director is aware, there is religion, race or whether they are differently and employee involvement are included in no relevant audit information of which abled.
We give full and fair consideration the Corporate Responsibility report on the Companys auditors are unaware: P73 to differently abled people with respect to pages 73 to 75 b each Director has taken all the steps applications for employment, continued that he or she ought to have taken as employment, training, career development Branches a Director to make himself or herself and promotion, having regard to each The Group continues to operate a number aware of any relevant audit information individuals particular aptitudes and abilities.
and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
