Ian Farmer 47 Chief Executive Officer 6.
Mark Munroe 40 EVP, Mining Biography included in Board of Directors section on Mark joined Lonmin in March 2008 in the Mining page 53. business and subsequently became VP Capital Projects & Engineering, before being appointed EVP Mining in June 2009.
Alan Ferguson 51 Chief Financial Officer DRDGold, where he held a number of senior Biography included in Board of Directors section on management positions during his six years there, page 53. including General Manager of DRDGold and CEO of DRDCapital.
Prior to that, he worked for Anglo Gold for 12 years.
Mahomed Seedat 53 Chief Operating Officer Mahomed joined Lonmin in September 2007.
He was previously with BHP Billiton where he was most recently 7.
Theuns fide Bruyn 40 EVP, Process Division President of their Energy Customer Sector Group and a Theuns joined Lonmin in November 2006, having member of BHP Billitons Executive Committee.
Prior to worked for BHP Billiton for nearly 20 years, where that, he held several positions there, including President he was most recently Business Development and Chief Operating Officer of Ingwe Coal, and Manager for their Strategy and Business President and Chief Operating Officer Aluminium Development function.
Prior to that, he held a Southern Africa as well as a number of roles in their number of other roles at BHP Billiton, including Aluminium Customer Sector Group.
Before joining BHP General Manager of the Tubatse Ferro-chrome Billiton, Mahomed worked for Anglo Coal.
facility as well as other positions in the ferro-chrome and aluminium sectors.
Albert Jamieson 51 Chief Commercial Officer Albert joined Lonmin in 1989 after 8 years at Impala 8.
Barnard Mokwena 45 EVP, Human Capital Platinum, where he was responsible for their & External Affairs concentrator operations.
At Lonmin, he has held a Barnard joined Lonmin in October 2005, having number of senior management and executive positions previously worked in senior management positions in the mine production and commercial areas of the in a range of sectors for a number of companies business.
The commercial portfolio currently consists of including Sentech and the South African Rail business development, strategy, marketing and sales, Commuter Corporation.
Chris Sheppard 50 EVP, Technical Services Chris joined Lonmin in October 2007, initially as EVP Mining, and subsequently appointed EVP Technical Services in June 2009.
He was previously Head of Mining Technical Services with Anglo Platinum Limited, having worked for that company since March 2001, where he held a number of positions, including General Manager Rustenburg Mines from 2004 until 2007.
Prior to joining Anglo Platinum Chris worked for Anglo Gold.
