52 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc 1.
Alan Ferguson 51 Chief Financial Appointed Chairman in March 2009, Officer Officer having joined the Company as an Appointed a director in 2001 and as Appointed as Chief Financial Officer independent Non-executive Director Chief Executive Officer in September and a director in June 2007.
Roger is also Chairman of the 2008, following seven years as Chief joining Lonmin, he was Group Finance Nomination Committee.
A chartered accountant, Director of The BOC Group until late managing director of Minorco, he is he joined the Company in 1986 and 2006, following the Linde Groups currently a Non-executive Director of transferred to a Group Company in acquisition of BOC.
Before joining BOC Harry Winston Diamond Corporation.
In 1995 he was in 2005, he worked for Inchcape Plc for Roger holds both South African and appointed Finance Director of Lonmin 22 years in a variety of roles including British nationality.
Platinum in South Africa, which position Group Finance Director from 1999 until he relinquished upon his transfer to his departure.
Alan is a Chartered London in 2001.
Ian has both South Accountant and is a British national.
Jonathan Leslie 58 Appointed an independent NonA chartered accountant and banker Appointed an independent Nonexecutive Director on 4 June 2009. with an MBA from Harvard, he was executive Director in August 2007.
He is a member of the Remuneration, appointed an independent NonDavid is currently Executive Director, Nomination and Safety & Sustainability executive Director in 2001.
He is a Development of Kazakhmys Plc, having Committees.
Jonathan spent 26 years member of the Nomination and previously been Strategy Director.
He with Rio Tinto, including 9 years Remuneration Committees.
Formerly joined the board of Kazakhmys in 2005 service on the board.
His roles at Rio Chairman and Chief Executive Officer as a non-executive Director.
Before Tinto included Mining Director and of The Bank of Nova Scotia, he is joining Kazakhmys, David was Chief Chief Executive of two of Rios Product currently a Non-executive Director Executive Officer of RMC Group Plc, Groups, respectively Copper, and of Barrick Gold, Onex Corporation, Chief Development Officer of BHP Diamonds and Gold.
He left Rio Tinto Rogers Communications Inc and Billiton Plc and an executive director in 2003 to become Chief Executive Ingersoll-Rand Company.
Peter is of Billiton Plc responsible for its of Sappi Ltd, a SA-based producer of a Canadian national.
global aluminium and base metals coated fine papers.
Executive Chairman of AIM-listed Nikanor Plc until the merger with Katanga Mining Limited in 2008.
Jonathan has an MA in Jurisprudence from Oxford University and is a qualified barrister.
Michael Hartnall 67 Senior Appointed an independent NonAppointed an independent NonIndependent Director executive Director in August 2007 executive Director in April 2005 and Appointed an independent Nonand is Chairman of the Remuneration a member of the Audit and Risk, executive Director in May 2003.
He Committee and a member of the Safety & Sustainability and Nomination is the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Nomination Committee.
Formerly Chief Executive Committee and is a member of Executive of Old Mutual Plc, a post Officer of Shell International Renewables the Remuneration and Nomination which he assumed in November 2001 and Chief Executive of Shells global Committees.
A chartered accountant after acting as Chief Executive of the gas and power business.
Karen is and former finance director of Rexam Old Mutual Groups life assurance currently a Non-executive Director of Plc, he is also a Non-executive Director business since January 2000.
Before British American Tobacco Plc and of BAE Systems Plc.
Michael is a joining Old Mutual, Jim was Chief Ensus Holdings Limited, a Member British national.
Executive UK of Prudential Plc.
In 2009 of the Supervisory Boards of E. on AG Jim was appointed to the Board of the and Koninklijke Ahold N. V. and a Financial Reporting Council and is member of the board of Pyry Oyj.
Chairman of the UK Board for Actuarial Karen is a Dutch national.
He is also a director of Liberty Group Ltd, Liberty Holdings Ltd, Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada and Sun Life Financial Inc. Jim is a British national.
