Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Directors Report Governance This report combines the Directors Report required to be produced by law and the corporate governance statement required by the Disclosure & Transparency Rules.
It also includes sections reporting on the role and work of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Nomination Committee, respectively required by the Disclosure & Transparency Rules and the Combined Code.
The Directors Remuneration Report is contained in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 72 to 89.
Governance of the Company The Company is led and controlled by the Board of Directors.
The Board is fully committed to the highest standards of corporate governance which it believes create the foundation of business integrity needed to deliver robust and sustainable business results.
As an English-incorporated company with a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange, Lonmin is subject to The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
For the year under review, we were subject to the version of the Combined Code published in June 2008 and the revised version of the Turnbull Guidance published in October 2005, both of which are available from the FRC website, www.
During the year to 30 September 2009 and to the date of this report, the Company has in all respects complied with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code.
Substantially the whole of the Companys business is based in South Africa, and we will also be subject to the provisions of the King Report on Governance for South Africa 2009, more commonly known as King III.
Consideration of the principles espoused in King III will be a key task for the new financial year.
How does the Board of Directors operate?
2.1 Appointments to the Board The Companys Articles of Association specify that there shall be between four and fifteen directors at all times, and confer power to fill a casual vacancy on the directors.
To ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, a Nomination Committee has been created.
Its work is more fully described in section 7 of this report.
Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
In the case of candidates for non-executive directorships, care is taken to ascertain whether they have sufficient time available to meet their Board and, where relevant, Committee responsibilities.
As part of this process, candidates disclose all other time commitments and, on appointment, undertake to inform the Board of any changes.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are available for public inspection and a sample letter of appointment is provided on the Companys website.
2.2 The Board of Directors The Board currently has nine members, comprising a non-executive Chairman, six non-executive Directors, each of whom the Board judges to be independent, and two executive Directors.
The names of the current directors and short biographical details are set out on page 53.
All served throughout the year, save for Jonathan Leslie who was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director on 4 June 2009.
In addition, Brad Mills served as a Director until 9 October 2008 and Sir John Craven as a non-executive Director and Chairman of the Board until 29 January 2009.
Dr Sivi Gounden resigned as a non-executive Director on 16 October 2009.
2.3 Board balance and independence The Board believes that it has sufficient members to contain a balance of experience and skills and to manage succession issues, but without being so large as to be unwieldy.
The quality of the individual Directors and the Boards composition is a key contributor to the Boards effectiveness, with no one individual or group of individuals being able to dominate the decision-taking.
The Board keeps the membership of its Committees under review, to ensure gradual refreshing of skills and experience.
It is satisfied that all Directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that it is not placing undue reliance on key individuals.
All of the Non-executive Directors are regarded as independent by the Board, as was the Chairman on his appointment.
The experience and international diversity of the non-executive Directors in office at the date of this report can be summarised as follows: Industry sector Number Country of residence Number Banking and Financial Services 2 Canada 1 Manufacturing 1 South Africa 1 Natural Resources 4 United Kingdom 5 Total 7 Total 7 2.4 Leadership of the Board At the Companys Annual General Meeting on 29 January 2009, Sir John Craven announced that he would not be seeking re-election as a non-executive Director and Chairman of the Board, his retirement being effective at the end of the meeting.
Roger Phillimore, then Deputy Chairman, was appointed acting Chairman until a permanent successor was identified.
During the search process, Mr Phillimores other commitments changed, allowing him to become a candidate.
Although a number of other high quality individuals were identified, the Board concluded that Mr Phillimore was the most appropriate individual to take the Board forward.
The Board was satisfied that he continued to demonstrate complete independence in character, judgement and action at the time of his appointment, notwithstanding the length of his tenure on the Board.
The Company announced Mr Phillimores appointment as Chairman on 23 March 2009. www.
continued 2.5 How do we assess and refresh the Board?
There are three key mechanisms by which we attempt to ensure that the Directors continue to provide suitable leadership and direction to the Company: 1.
1 Performance evaluation The Company has previously implemented a Board performance evaluation process which is designed to identify whether the Board possesses the relevant skills, knowledge and experience to fulfil its mandate, so enabling it to manage succession issues.
The review in May 2008 had identified two areas where improvements could be made.
These were addressed during the year as follows: Issue Resolution Improve the degree of interaction between Board Site visits, lunches and dinners during the two Board visits to South members and key executives and senior managers Africa were designed to provide informal opportunities to meet a wide range of managers.
Working meetings with the Executive Committee were held during the September 2009 Board visit, and members of the Executive Committee attended part of the Board meeting Create additional opportunities for informal A number of dinners were held during the year at which the discussion of key business issues between Directors could debate business issues informally Board members.
The Board recognises that externally facilitated evaluations can provide a useful and impartial feedback mechanism.
However, since both the Chairman and the Chief Executive have only been in post for a matter of months, the Board decided that it would not be appropriate to have such a review at this time.
Instead, Mr Phillimore held individual discussions with each of the Directors to assess their views on a wide range of issues, including the effectiveness of the Board Committees, using set questions to structure the debate.
Feedback from each of those discussions was provided to the Board.
The most material conclusion was that executive management should be based in South Africa, close to the mining operations with the aim of enhancing dayto-day management and communications, as well as enabling the Company to engage more effectively with its South African stakeholders.
It was also decided to add a third day to each of the bi-annual Board visits to South Africa in order to afford more time with local senior managers.
The Board is considering the appointment of an external facilitator during the course of 2010.
In September 2009, under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director and without the Chairman being present, the Board also assessed the effectiveness of the Chairman.
The unanimous conclusion was that the Chairman was effective in the role, in large part because of his length of tenure and intimate knowledge of the business.
2 Succession planning The Board aims to review formally succession plans for all key management roles including executive directorships, on an annual basis.
The purpose of this is twofold to mitigate the risk of key roles not having one or more identified successors and to review potential development opportunities and career plans for talented individuals.
3 Re-election of Directors All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders after first appointment and thereafter by rotation at least once every three years.
Where a non-executive Director save for the Chairman has served more than three three-year terms, they are obliged to do so on an annual basis.
Sufficient biographical and other information including, in the case of a non-executive Director seeking re-election, a statement as to his or her continued effectiveness and commitment is provided to enable shareholders to make an informed decision.
At the 2010 AGM, six directors will retire under these arrangements, all of whom are seeking re-election: Director Reason for retirement Contractual arrangements Executive directors Ian Farmer Retirement by rotation Service agreement see page 89 Alan Ferguson Retirement by rotation Service agreement see page 89 Non-executive directors Jonathan Leslie Retirement following first appointment Letter of appointment only David Munro Retirement by rotation Letter of appointment only Roger Phillimore Retirement by rotation Letter of appointment only Jim Sutcliffe Retirement by rotation Letter of appointment only The Nomination Committee has carried out formal performance evaluations of each of the non-executive Directors seeking re-election and has concluded that each is effective and demonstrates commitment to his respective role.
Further information on those seeking re-election is contained in the Directors biographies on page 53 and in the Annual General Meeting circular accompanying this document.
56 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Directors Report Governance 2.
continued 2.6 What is the role of the Board?
The Board provides the entrepreneurial leadership, direction and control of the Company: is the custodian of the Companys strategic aims, vision and values: and assesses whether the necessary financial and human resources are, and will continue to be, in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives.
All Directors are free to express their views and may ask that these be recorded in the minutes where appropriate.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, the most material of which fall into the key areas listed below: Strategy and management: Financial reporting and control: Social, environmental and ethical matters: Contracts and financial commitments: External communications: Corporate governance: Remuneration: and Board composition and membership.
Subject to legislation, the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company including the power to authorise the issue and buy back of the Companys shares subject to the authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in general meeting.
Whilst all Directors have equal responsibility in law for managing the Companys affairs, it is the role of executive management to run the business within the parameters laid down by the Board and to produce clear, accurate and timely reports to enable the Board to monitor and assess managements performance.
The executives make full use of the expertise and experience that the non-executive Directors bring from their business careers.
The Chairman routinely holds discussions with non-executive Directors without the executive Directors being present.
The non-executive Directors have access to the management team through working sessions with the Executive Committee and with the operational management team reporting to the Executive Committee.
2.7 What are the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer?
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly separated and set out in writing.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda, and for facilitating the effective contribution of all Directors, ensuring that there is a constructive relationship between the executive and non-executive Directors.
The Chairman also has primary accountability for providing strategic guidance to the executive team and monitoring the performance of the business, and for ensuring that there is effective communication with all shareholders.
The role of the Chief Executive Officer is to provide leadership to the executive team in running the business, to develop proposals for the Board to consider in all areas reserved for its judgement and to oversee the efficient and effective implementation of Board-approved actions.
Executive management, led by the Chief Executive Officer, are responsible for developing strategy for consideration by the Board, the implementation of that strategy once approved and furnishing the Board with all information reasonably required to monitor the efficient and effective conduct of the business.
2.8 What is the role of the non-executive Directors?
The non-executive Directors are expected to contribute individually and collectively to: The selection, appointment, pay and, where appropriate, removal of the executives leading the business and the succession planning necessary to support this: The consideration and approval of strategy: The setting of targets and the subsequent monitoring of performance: Assessment of the management of risk and the strength of the internal control environment: and Effective governance in terms of 1 compliance with applicable Codes, 2 ensuring stakeholders needs are adequately considered and addressed and 3 in overseeing the internal management arrangements of the Company to ensure shareholders interests are protected.
continued 2.9 How often does the Board meet, and who attends?
The Board met formally on eleven occasions during the year, including two three-day trips to South Africa.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of meetings Number of Director held during time in office meetings attended Sir John Craven 42 Ian Farmer 11 11 Alan Ferguson 11 11 Peter Godsoe 11 9 Sivi Gounden 11 10 Michael Hartnall 11 11 Jonathan Leslie 33 David Munro 11 8 Roger Phillimore 11 11 Karen fide Segundo 11 10 Jim Sutcliffe 11 10 A further four ad hoc meetings of a committee of the Board were held to issue formal approvals or deal with other matters.
In addition to these meetings, the Non-executive Directors make themselves available to management whenever required and there are numerous regular contacts outside the Board meeting schedule.
2.10 What Committees support the Board in its work?
The Board has established four formal Committees and provides sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
Membership of these Committees during the year to 30 September 2009 and to the date of this report except where stated otherwise is shown below.
Safety and Remuneration Audit and Risk Nomination Sustainability Non-executive directors Peter Godsoe Member Member 1,2 2 Sivi Gounden Member Chairman Michael Hartnall Member Chairman Member 3 4 3 Jonathan Leslie Member Member Member 5 6 Roger Phillimore Member Member Chairman 1 Karen fide Segundo Member Member Member 7 1 David Munro Member Member Member 8 1 Jim Sutcliffe Chairman Member Member Executive director Ian Farmer Member 1 From 6 March 2009 2 To 16 October 2009 3 From 2 July 2009 4 From 4 June 2009 5 Chairman to 6 March 2009, Member to 31 March 2009 6 To 28 January 2009 7 To 6 March 2009 8 Member from 28 January 2009, Chairman from 6 March 2009 58 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Directors Report Governance 2.
continued 2.10 What Committees support the Board in its work?
continued The roles of each of the Board Committees can be found later in this report, or in the separate Remuneration Committee Report.
The interaction between the Board, its Committees and the management of the Company can be summarised as follows: Board of Directors Safety and Chief Executive Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Sustainability Officer Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Operations Price and Risk Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors, Executive Committee Executive Directors, Chief Operating Officer, members, operational Chief Commercial Officer, Chief Commercial Officer & functional VPs and VP Treasury & Risk, VP and three Executive certain executives and Finance UK, VP Finance SA, Vice Presidents senior managers Executive Manager, Marketing Board Committees Management Committees 2.11How does the Board manage any conflicts of interest?
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or can have, a direct or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict of interest with the company.
Shareholders approved amendments to the Companys Articles of Association at the Annual General Meeting in January 2009 which implemented certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006, including a general power enabling the Board to authorise such conflicts the Act provides that there is no breach if the relevant matter has been authorised in advance.
A review of the Directors interests and other appointments was carried out in March 2009 and procedures for managing conflicts were agreed.
Should a Director become aware that he or she has an interest in an existing or proposed transaction, he or she is required to notify the Board in writing or at the next Board meeting.
Directors are not counted in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual or potential conflicts.
Authorisations that are granted are recorded by the Company Secretary in a register of conflict authorisations.
Directors have a continuing duty to update the Board on any changes to these conflicts and in any event the Board will carry out reviews annually.
No Director had a material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Companys business at any time during the year.
The interests of the Directors who held office at the end of the year, and to the date of this report in the Companys shares are shown in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 72 to 89.
No Director held any beneficial interest in the share capital of any other Group company at any time during the year or at the year end.
2.12 How do we support the Board?
The Board is supplied with regular and timely information in a form and of a quality that enables it to discharge its duties.
All Directors are encouraged to make further enquiries as they feel appropriate of the executive Directors or management.
The Chairman advocates that all Directors continually update their skills and knowledge, and develop the familiarity with the Companys operations needed to fulfil their role.
The Company provides the necessary resources for developing and updating all Directors knowledge and capabilities, both on appointment and subsequently as necessary.
This includes a full, formal and tailored induction programme, briefings on the legal, regulatory, financial and competitive environments in which the Company operates and, when appropriate, the opportunity to meet a range of major shareholders and external advisors.
Copies of sell-side analysts notes on the Company are circulated to all Directors and senior executives, as are summaries of analysts opinions collected anonymously by the Companys financial PR advisors and summaries of shareholders views collated by the Companys joint brokers.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for information flows to the Board, facilitating induction and assisting with professional development as required, ensuring compliance with Board procedure and applicable laws and regulation and advising the Board on corporate governance matters.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a Board decision.
There is a procedure in place for Directors to take independent professional advice, if they judge this to be necessary, at the Companys expense.
Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources, plus the power to co-opt such additional support as they may require from time to time, to undertake their duties.
continued 2.13 What remuneration do the Directors receive?
While the Board is ultimately responsible for all Directors remuneration, the Remuneration Committee, which consists solely of independent non-executive Directors, is responsible for: determining the remuneration and conditions of employment of the executive Directors and certain senior executives collectively known as the RemCo Purview Group : monitoring the remuneration and conditions of employment of certain senior managers below the RemCo Purview Group: and Making recommendations to the Board on the fees offered to the non-executive Directors, after taking professional advice.
A report on Directors remuneration, including a more detailed description of the role and activities of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 72 to 89.
The terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
2.14 What protection do we offer to Directors?
In law, Directors are responsible for most facets of the Companys dealings.
As a consequence, they carry significant personal liability under criminal and civil law and under the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency Rules, and face a range of penalties including, potentially, private or public censure, fines and or imprisonment.
The Company believes that it is appropriate to protect the individuals prepared to serve on its Board from the consequences of innocent error or omission, and that it is in the Companys best interests to do so, as it enables us to attract individuals of suitable calibre and character to act as Directors.
The Company maintains, at its expense, a directors and officers liability insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain circumstances for the benefit of Directors and other Group personnel.
The insurance policy does not provide cover where the Director or officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the extent permitted by law, Deeds of Indemnity have been issued to protect all past, present and future Directors and officers of the Company from all costs and expenses incurred in the defence of any civil or criminal proceedings in which judgement is given in their favour or the proceedings are otherwise disposed of without a finding of fault or the successful application to court for relief from liability.
Under the terms of the indemnities, the Company is permitted to advance funds to meet a Directors defence costs which, should the Director not be exonerated, would be repayable to the Company.
The indemnities are expressed to operate only to the extent that the directors and officers liability insurance policy fails to respond to a claim.
Relations with shareholders 3.1 Who owns the Company?
Lonmin Plc has a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and our UK share register has circa 16,500 registered shareholders.
We also have a secondary listing on the JSE Securities Exchange, South Africa and our South African branch register has approximately 2,000 beneficial shareholders, including those who hold their shares in dematerialised form in STRATE.
We also have a sponsored Level I American Depositary Receipts programme, with around 750 participants.
Like most listed companies, ownership of the Companys shares is concentrated in a small number of institutional and other corporate shareholders.
The Company had been notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following interests in 3% or more of the Companys total voting rights up to 13 November 2009: Percentage of the Companys Number of total shares shares and and voting Nature of 1 voting rights rights Holding 2 Ameriprise Financial Inc and group companies 7,677,367 4.91 Indirect Legal & General Group Plc 7,706,524 3.99 Direct Prudential plc and group companies 26,174,708 13.55 Direct 2 Vanguard Precious Metals and Mining Fund 5,916,435 3.78 Direct Xstrata Plc 47,592,625 24.67 Direct 1 Percentages as at date of notification.
2 Disclosed data was provided prior to the Rights Issue.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company held by these shareholders are identical in all respects to the rights attaching to all the ordinary shares of the Company.
60 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Directors Report Governance 3.
Relations with shareholders continued 3.2 How do we communicate with our institutional shareholders?
The Combined Code encourages dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The executive Directors have regular discussions with institutional shareholders where they believe this to be in the Companys best interests, but no information is shared which is not available to shareholders generally.
Detailed feedback from these visits is shared with the Board and a summary of the views expressed is presented to the next Board meeting.
In addition, the Chairman routinely offers key shareholders the opportunity of meetings with either himself or the Senior Independent Director to discuss governance, strategy or any other matters shareholders wish to raise.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, having been appointed during the year, and our HR Director met with several institutional shareholders and representative bodies during the year to discuss the Companys policy on remuneration and how this is implemented in practice.
The Senior Independent Director, Michael Hartnall, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
3.3 How do we communicate with our private shareholders?
The Combined Code urges boards to use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors and to encourage their participation.
The Board has followed these principles for many years.
The Notice of Meeting is sent to all shareholders at least one month in advance.
At the meeting, a business presentation is made by the Chief Executive Officer and all Directors are available to answer questions both during the meeting and informally afterwards.
We give shareholders the opportunity to vote on every substantially different issue by proposing separate resolutions and use electronic poll voting on all resolutions, with the results of those votes being announced to the markets and displayed on our website.
This enables the votes of all shareholders to be taken into account, whether they are able to attend the meeting or not, as well as providing a more discreet and democratic method of voting at the meeting.
The Company has taken advantage of the ability in law to move to a default route of electronic communications with shareholders, both to save cost and to avoid the use of paper, ink and other resources that would be entailed in printing and distributing large numbers of documents.
However, individual shareholders can opt to receive paper documents should they so wish.
In recognition of the needs of private shareholders, the Companys website contains a range of investor relations materials, including up-to-date information on the Groups activities, copies of all presentation materials given to institutional investors and copies to read or download of all our public reporting documents.
3.4 What is the purpose of the Annual General Meeting?
The Annual General Meeting is an important event in the corporate year, and is the point at which the Directors place their report on the previous years events and results before the shareholders, and seek certain approvals and authorisations.
As seen above, these include the re-election of each board member on a regular basis.
Poll voting allows the views of all shareholders to be taken into account, and votes are routinely cast by those owning more than 70% of the Companys shares.
The 2010 AGM will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday, 28 January 2010 at The Assembly Hall, Church House Conference Centre, Deans Yard, Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ.
A separate circular containing the Notice of Meeting, together with an explanation of the items of special business, is enclosed with this Annual Report and is available on the Companys website.
Among the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM will be ones seeking shareholders authority for the Directors to be empowered to allot equity securities, a limited dis-application of the statutory pre-emption rights and an authority for the Company to make market purchases of its own shares.
A special resolution will also be proposed seeking shareholders consent to the adoption of new Articles of Association.
Further details of all of these matters are set out in the AGM circular.
3.5 Are we paying a Dividend to shareholders?
As noted in the Chairmans Statement on page 5, the Board does not recommend the payment of a final dividend given the conservative stance adopted in the light of the continuing pressure on our profitability and cash flows.
The total dividend for the year ended 30 September 2009 is therefore nil total dividend 2008 interim only 59 US cents.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures 4.1 What is Lonmins business?
The principal activities of the Group during the year continued to be mining, refining and marketing of Platinum Group Metals.
Analyses of revenue, operating profit, principal activities and geographical origins appear in note 2 to the accounts and a list of the principal subsidiary undertakings, indicating their main activities, appears in note 34.
Detailed information on the Groups activities can be found in the Chief Executives Review and the Operational Review on pages 6 to 15.
Lonmin Plc operates in South Africa as a branch which is registered in that country as an overseas company, in addition to the business conducted by its subsidiary undertakings.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures continued 4.2 Business Review The Companies Act 2006, Section 417 requires that the Directors present a Business Review in this report to inform shareholders of the Company and help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company.
The information that fulfils this requirement can be found in the sections set below and is incorporated by reference into this report: The Chairmans Letter on pages 4 and 5: The Chief Executives Review including discussion of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business on pages 6 to 8: The Operational Review on pages 9 to 15: The Financial Review on pages 18 to 25: The discussion of Internal Controls and Risk Management on pages 26 to 29: The Key Performance Indicators on pages 30 and 31 together with the Operational Statistics on pages 138 and 139: and The Sustainable Development Review on pages 32 to 51.
This Business Review has been prepared to provide the Companys shareholders with a fair review of the business of the Company and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing it.
It may not be relied upon by anyone, including the Companys shareholders, for any other purpose.
This Business Review and other sections of this report contain forward-looking statements.
By their nature, forwardlooking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and future assumptions because they relate to events and or depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward looking statements.
No assurance can be given that the forward looking statements in this Business Review will be realised.
Statements about the Directors expectations, beliefs, hopes, plans, intentions and strategies are inherently subject to change and they are based on expectations and assumptions as to future events, circumstances and other factors which are in some cases outside the Companys control.
The information contained in this Business Review has been prepared on the basis of the knowledge and information available to Directors at the date of its preparation and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise this Business Review during the financial year ahead.
It is believed that the expectations set out in these forward looking statements are reasonable, but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results or trends to differ materially.
The forward looking statements should be read in particular in the context of the specific risk factors for the Company identified in this Business Review.
The Companys shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.
Shareholders should note that this Business Review has not been audited or otherwise independently verified.
4.3 Principal events of the year The principal events of the year are covered in detail in the Chief Executives Review and in the remainder of the Business Review.
However, from a statutory perspective the key events were as follows: On 1 October 2008 being the first day of the period under review Xstrata plc announced that, in light of uncertainty in the financial markets and due to certain terms of their finance arrangements, it would not proceed with an unsolicited, proposed pre-conditional offer for the entire issued share capital of the Company at a price of 33 per share first mooted on 6 August 2008.
Xstrata subsequently acquired an additional 22,232,940 shares in the Company which, together with those shares already held, totalled 38,939,421 shares and represented 24.9% of the then issued share capital of the Company: On 11 May 2009, the Company announced a 2 for 9 underwritten Rights Issue of 35,072,129 New Shares at 900 pence per New Share and, in the case of shareholders registered on the South African branch register, at ZAR 113.04 per New Share.
On 3 June 2009, being the latest date of receipt of valid acceptances, the Company had received acceptances in respect of 33,801,585 New Shares, representing approximately 96.38% of the total number of New Shares offered to shareholders.
Citigroup and JPMorgan Cazenove, being the Companys underwriters, were able to procure subscribers for the remaining 1,270,544 New Shares at an average price of 1433.01 pence per New Share.
The net proceeds of the Rights Issue raised approximately US$458 million and as a result significantly strengthened the Companys overall financial position.
There were no material changes from 30 September 2009 to the date of this report.
4.4 Employees The Group employs around 22,000 people in South Africa.
Information on the Groups policies on employee recruitment and engagement can be found in the Sustainable Development Review on pages 32 to 51.
4.5 Research and development Group companies continue to be actively involved in research and development projects in the areas of mineral extraction and refining.
4.6 Policy on the payment of creditors The Company complies with, and has registered its support of, the Better Payment Practice Code, available from the Better Payment Practice Group website, www.
The Company has a consistent policy and practice of paying its bills in accordance with contracts by settling the terms of payment with its suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, either by accepting suppliers standard terms of payment or by proposing alternative terms but, in either case, then abiding by the agreed payment terms.
Trade creditors of the Company at 30 September 2009 represented 11 days 2008 5 days of its annual purchases.
62 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Directors Report Governance 4.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures continued 4.7 Charitable and political donations No political donations were made during the year.
Lonmin has an established policy of not making donations to any political party, representative or candidate in any part of the world.
Charitable donations made by the Group during the year in the United Kingdom amounted to 34,659 $50,868 2008 33,083 $65,470.
During the year, the Group funded a number of long-term social welfare and community development projects.
The Groups funding for these projects for the year amounted to R4 million $0.5 million 2008 R5.2 million $0.7 million.
These amounts are in addition to amounts expensed by the Group as the normal costs of the operation of its corporate social responsibility programme.
A fuller explanation of this expenditure will be contained in the Web-based Sustainable Development Report for the year ended 30 September 2009 which can be downloaded from the Companys website.
4.8 Share capital and reserves The authorised and issued share capital of the Company at 30 September 2009 is set out in note 26 to the accounts.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares and the provisions relating to the transfer of the ordinary shares are governed by law and the Companys Articles of Association.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive all shareholder documents, to receive notice of any general meeting, to attend, speak and exercise voting rights, either in person or by proxy and are entitled to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them except where the Company has exercised its rights to suspend voting rights or to prohibit transfer.
The share capital comprises 50,000 sterling deferred shares in addition to the ordinary shares.
These shares were created in 2002 and issued to a nominee company by the capitalisation of reserves, in order to comply with the requirement that a public limited company must have a minimum share capital of 50,000 in sterling.
These shares do not rank pari passu with the ordinary shares of the Company.
The holders of such shares are not entitled to receive notice of any general meeting or to attend, speak or vote at any general meeting, nor are they entitled to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
The trustee of the Lonmin Employee Share Trust does not seek to exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares held in trust.
The total share capital and reserves attributable to the Group amounted to $2,417 million at 30 September 2009.
This compares with $2,147 million at 30 September 2008.
4.9 Use of authorities granted at the 2009 Annual General Meeting At the AGM held on 29 January 2009, shareholders approved an authority for the Company to make market purchases of its own shares, up to a maximum of 15,700,000 shares being approximately 10% of the issued share capital at prices not less than the nominal value of each share being $1 and not exceeding 105% of the average mid-market price for the preceding five business days.
The Company made no purchases of its own shares during the year and no shares were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or made subject to a lien or charge.
During the year, the Company allotted 36,671,027 ordinary shares of $1 each, for cash, following the 2 for 9 Rights Issue, to satisfy the exercise of the final tranche of an option granted to the International Finance Corporation, to satisfy the exercise of options or the vesting of awards granted under the Companys share schemes and to provide the Companys employee benefit trust with sufficient shares to meet its obligations in connection with employees share schemes.
4.10 Amendment of the Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
As noted above, a special resolution proposing the adoption of new Articles of Association to accommodate the final provisions within the Companies Act 2006 will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Further details are set out in the circular accompanying the Annual Report and Accounts.
4.11 Essential contractual arrangements Certain Group companies are party to contracts and other arrangements which the Board judges are essential to the business of the Company.
For any mining company, its mineral rights and mining licences are of crucial importance and therefore the New Order Mining Licence granted by the South African governments Department of Minerals and Energy to certain Group companies in respect of the Marikana operations falls into this category, as do the old order mining rights in respect of the Limpopo operations and the various prospecting rights held by Group companies.
The remaining essential contractual arrangements can be summarised as follows: Contracts for the purchase of inputs while most of the supplies needed to operate the Groups mines and refining facilities are secured through competitive tendering in the open market, the Group is heavily dependent on Eskom for the supply of electricity, and Rand Water in respect of the supply of water.
The Company does not believe that it has any debt facilities which could not be replaced in the open market.
Contracts relating to labour and services the principal arrangements essential to our business are collective agreements with trade unions representing the majority of the Groups employees, most notably with the National Union of Mineworkers in South Africa Contracts for the sale of goods certain Group companies are party to separate contracts with BASF and Mitsubishi, under which substantially the whole of the Groups production of finished metal for the period under review was sold.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures continued 4.12 Significant Agreements change of control A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as debt facilities and employee share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant except for the Companys banking facilities in the amount of $875 million spread across three separate facilities with the counterparties generally being syndicates of different banks.
These facilities contain provisions which, in the event new terms to continue the facility are not agreed within 25 days of a change of control, the lender is entitled to give notice cancelling the facility and declaring all outstanding loans together with accrued interest to become payable within 15 days of such notice.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that certain provisions in some of the Companys share plans may be triggered.
These are briefly described below and further information on these plans and on the Directors service agreements can be found in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 72 to 89.
Awards made under the Stay & Prosper Plan crystallise immediately following a change of control, although they vest and become payable on their normal maturity date three years from the date of grant and subject generally to continued employment of the participant.
Directors of the Company are not permitted to hold awards under this Plan.
Awards under the remainder of the share plans will vest to the extent specified by the Remuneration Committee, who will generally take into account the extent to which the performance targets have been met and such other factors as they believe to be appropriate in line with the rules of the relevant plans.
Accountability and Audit 5.1 What are the Directors responsibilities in this area?
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRSs and applicable law and they have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with the UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select and maintain suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities and to establish and maintain principles, policies and procedures relating to financial risk management.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors Responsibility Statement can be found on page 91.
64 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Directors Report Governance 5.
Accountability and audit continued 5.2 How have the Directors discharged their responsibilities in this area?
The Lonmin Group financial statements are presented in accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The Group adopted the US Dollar as its reporting currency in 1998.
Details of the Groups financial risk management are described in the Financial Review on pages 18 to 25 and in the Statement on Internal Controls and Risk Management on pages 26 to 29 of this report.
The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future and that it is, therefore, appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound financial position and that it has access to sufficient borrowing facilities and can reasonably expect those facilities to be available to meet the Groups foreseeable cash requirements.
Please refer to the going concern disclosure in the Financial Review on pages 18 to 25 of this report.
5.3 Relationships with the external auditors The external auditors are appointed by shareholders to provide an opinion on the financial statements and certain other disclosures prepared by the Directors.
KPMG Audit plc acted as the external auditors to the Lonmin Group throughout the year.
The lead audit partner is based in London and supported by a second audit partner based in Johannesburg.
As required under section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, so far as each current Director is aware, there is no information relevant to the audit of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any such information and to ensure that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Audit and Risk Committee 6.1 What is the role of the Audit and Risk Committee?
The Audit and Risk Committee is a formal Committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
Its terms of reference were reviewed by the Board in January 2007 and are compliant with the provisions of the Combined Code.
A copy of the terms of reference is available on the Companys website and sets out the primary purposes of the Audit and Risk Committee, which are: To monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements and announcements relating to its financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements: To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems: To monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and review its material findings: and To oversee the relationship with the external auditors, including agreeing their remuneration and terms of engagement, monitoring their independence, objectivity and effectiveness and ensuring that policy surrounding their engagement to provide non-audit services is appropriately applied.
The Committee is authorised to investigate any matters within its terms of reference, access all Group documents and information, seek information from any Director or employee of the Group and co-opt any resources including external professional assistance it sees fit in order to fulfil its duties.
However, the Committee has no executive function and its primary objective is to review and challenge rather than assume responsibility for any matters within its remit.
Minutes of all meetings of the Committee save those recording private discussions with either the internal or external auditors are circulated to all Directors and supplemented by a written or verbal update from the Committee Chairman at the next Board meeting, identifying any matters in respect of which action or improvement is required and making recommendations where appropriate.
The Committee presents a summary of its activities to shareholders and other interested parties by means of this report and the Committee Chairman attends all general meetings of the Companys shareholders to answer any questions on the Committees activities.
6.2 Who are the members of the Audit and Risk Committee?
All independent Directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Board, are eligible to become members of the Committee, which comprised the following members, any two of whom form a quorum, during the year and to the date of this report.
All members of the Committee must be financially literate.
Michael Hartnall: an independent Director and a chartered accountant, Mr Hartnall was formerly the finance director of Rexam plc, a multinational manufacturer of consumer packaging.
He was also a member of the Hampel Committee which produced the first version of the Combined Code in 1998.
The Board has judged that he has the significant, recent and relevant financial experience necessary to chair the Committee.
Karen fide Segundo: an independent Director and a member of the Audit and Risk Committee since 2005.
Jim Sutcliffe: an independent Director who joined the Committee in 2007.
Mr Sutcliffe is also a director of the Financial Reporting Council.
The Audit and Risk Committee continued 6.2 Who are the members of the Audit and Risk Committee?
continued Biographical details of each Director are set out on page 53 of this document.
Each member receives an annual fee of 10,000 for serving as a member of the Committee, or 17,500 in the case of the Chairman.
These fees are included in the table of Directors remuneration on page 77.
All members of the Committee are provided with appropriate induction into the role of the Committee and the operation of its terms of reference on appointment.
Access to training is provided on an ongoing basis to ensure that members are able to discharge their duties.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the VP Finance UK, the VP Treasury and Risk, the Head of Internal Audit and the Assistant Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee, none of whom do so as of right.
The internal and external auditors attend all Committee meetings and a private meeting is routinely held with them to afford the opportunity of discussions without the presence of management.
6.3 How often did the Committee meet, and who attended?
The Committee met six times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of meetings Number of Director held during time in office meetings attended Michael Hartnall 66 Karen fide Segundo 66 Jim Sutcliffe 66 6.4 Activities of the Audit and Risk Committee The Committee reports its material findings and decisions to the next Board meeting, and copies of the minutes are circulated to all Directors.
The principal business of these meetings was: November: review of the annual reporting documents including the accounts and consideration of whether to recommend the same to the Board: assessment of any material exercises of judgement by management: consideration of the going concern statement: consideration of the letter of representation from management to the external auditors relating to the accounts: receipt of a report from the external auditors following their review of the full year accounts: review of the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors and formulation of a recommendation to the Board as to whether or not their reappointment should be proposed to shareholders: review of non audit services provided by the external auditors during the year and approval of the fees for the year: private meeting with the external auditors: review of the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems during the year prepared by management, including a review of outstanding external and internal audit actions: review of a report on the internal controls environment prepared by the external auditors: review feedback from management confirmation letters completed by senior management: review of matters reported to the external whistleblowing hotline.
March in South Africa : review of matters arising from the prior year audit: review external auditors plan for the half year review and full year audit and approve the fees and engagement letter for the same: review internal audit report including an overview of performance against the internal audit plan for the year: private meeting with the internal auditors: review of risk management report including results of the bottom-up and top-down risk reviews: review management assessment of the internal control framework.
May: review of the interim report including the accounts and consideration of whether to recommend the same to the Board: assessment of any material exercises of judgement by management: consideration of the letter of representation from management to the external auditors relating to the interim accounts: receipt of a report from the external auditors following their review of the interim accounts: private meeting with the external auditors: review of risk management report: review of outstanding internal and external audit points: review of non audit services provided by the external auditors year to date: receive an update on the insurance renewal.
66 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Directors Report Governance 6.
The Audit and Risk Committee continued 6.4 Activities of the Audit and Risk Committee continued September in South Africa : review internal audit report including an update on outstanding internal and external audit points: approval of the scope and focus of the internal audit programme and internal audit budget for the forthcoming financial year: further review and final confirmation of the external auditors plan for the year end audit: review of a report on the internal controls environment prepared by the external auditors: review of risk management report including key risks facing the Group following top down and bottom up risk reviews and assessment of internal control framework: feedback on issues identified during the prior years Management Confirmation Letter: review and approve the renewal terms and scope of cover of the Groups insurance programme: review of matters reported to the external whistleblowing hotline: review of investigations report: consider the effectiveness of the internal auditors: consider the effectiveness of the Committee and the Committees Chairman.
The other two scheduled meetings are held solely to approve the quarterly and half year production reports, which incorporate the Companys interim management statements.
In addition to the routine business described above, the Committee also undertook the following activities during the year and in the period to the date of this report: review of treasury procedures and approval of a treasury operational manual, after evaluation of assessment of these by the external auditors: review of a report on compliance with legal and regulatory issues: review of cash flow and working capital forecasts.
The Committee assessed its effectiveness at a meeting in September 2009.
To do so, a questionnaire was circulated to members of the Committee, the internal and external auditors and members of the management team who assist the Audit and Risk Committee in their work, which then formed the basis of a discussion.
The questionnaire focused on the effectiveness of the Committee, the flow of information, relationships with management and advisors, appropriateness of the terms of reference and the composition of the Committee.
All of these views were summarised into a formal report to the Board by the Chairman.
The Committee separately discussed the effectiveness of the Chairman of the Committee in his absence which also formed part of the report to the Board.
Whilst no material issues were identified during this process, the Committee believed that it may be appropriate to consider appointing an additional member with mining experience.
A preference was also expressed for continuing engagement with management, to improve their detailed understanding of certain highly technical aspects of the business.
On balance, the Committee concluded that it was effective.
6.6 How does the Company address internal audit?
The recently-appointed Head of Internal Audit recruited a team of four in-house auditors during the year, all of whom are based in South Africa.
In addition, PwC have been appointed to provide specialist internal audit services.
The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, with a joint reporting line to the VP, Treasury and Risk.
A total of 34 assignments were undertaken during the year across a broad cross-section of activities identified by both management and the Committee.
Internal audit reports are reviewed with operational management and then delivered to the executive management team, including the Chief Financial Officer.
Material findings and recommendations are summarised to the Committee, who receive regular updates on progress in addressing the matters raised by internal audits.
The Head of Internal Audit is also responsible for the Companys whistle-blowing programme and heads up the investigations unit comprising 11 investigators.
A review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function was carried out during the year by way of a questionnaire circulated to the senior management team.
Having considered the results of this survey and a number of other factors, including the communication and impartiality of the internal audit function, the Committee concluded that the internal audit function was in all respects effective.
6.7 How does the Committee manage the external auditors?
The external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, may not be engaged on any material non-audit work without the prior approval of the Audit and Risk Committee who are responsible for the annual work plan and fee budget for the auditors.
As policy, the Committee would not allow the external auditors to perform any work that they may subsequently need to audit or which might otherwise either create a conflict of interests or affect the auditors objectivity and independence.
The Committee also monitors the balance between audit and non-audit related spend to ensure that auditor independence can be shown to be maintained.
The Chief Financial Officer is permitted to engage the external auditors on matters that do not create such conflicts or otherwise compromise the audit firm subject to an annual fee ceiling of $100,000.
Non-audit fees incurred during the year amounted to $1.0 million 2008 $1.5 million and relate primarily to the Rights Issue.
The Committee is satisfied that the overall level of non-audit fees is not material relative to the income of the audit offices and firm as a whole, and that the nature of the services provided are appropriate and in line with the Companys policies in this area.
The Audit and Risk Committee appraised the independence and objectivity of KPMG and also reviewed their effectiveness as external auditors before reaching the recommendation to the Board that their re-election should be proposed to shareholders.
In arriving at its decision, consideration was also given to the expertise, resources and the professional standing of KPMG within the market.
Nomination Committee Report 7.1 What is the role of the Nomination Committee?
The Nomination Committee is a formal Committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
Its remit is set out in terms of reference that were formally adopted by the Board in November 2006.
These are available from the Company and are displayed on its website.
The primary purposes of the Committee are: To ensure that a regular, rigorous and objective evaluation of the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board is undertaken: In consultation with the Chairman, to recommend any proposed changes to the composition of the Board and to instigate and manage the recruitment process: To ensure the Companys adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements in relation to the above: and To oversee compliance with the Combined Code and other applicable corporate governance regulation.
7.2 Who are the members of the Nomination Committee?
During the time the Board was considering the appointment of a successor to Sir John Craven, two policy decisions were taken.
Firstly, the Board felt strongly that it was important for all non-executive Directors to have equal input into appointment decisions as they ultimately affected the performance and dynamics of the Board as a whole.
As a result, all non-executive Directors were invited to become and duly became members of the Committee.
Secondly it was expected that the Chairman of the Board should always chair the Committee, save when matters pertaining to himself or his successor were under consideration.
The quorum for a meeting of the Committee remains two members.
The members of the Committee are considered to be wholly independent.
Each member receives an annual fee of 7,500 and the Chairman 12,500.
These fees are included in the table of Directors remuneration on page 77 and a detailed breakdown is provided on the same page.
Biographical details of each Director are set out on page 53 of this document.
The Committee is supported by the services of the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee and it has full access to the Chief Executive Officer.
It is also empowered to appoint search consultants, legal, tax and other professional advisors as it sees fit to assist with its work and to co-opt such resources as it requires in fulfilling its duties.
7.3 How often did the Committee meet, and who attended?
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of meetings Number of Director held during time in office meetings attended 1 Sir John Craven 30 Karen fide Segundo 32 Peter Godsoe 66 Sivi Gounden 33 Michael Hartnall 66 2 Jonathan Leslie 10 David Munro 32 2 Roger Phillimore 65 Jim Sutcliffe 33 1 The prime focus of these meetings was to discuss matters relating to the succession to the Chairmanship.
In line with best practice, Sir John recused himself from these meetings.
2 Each chose to recuse himself from one meeting, the sole purpose of which was to consider matters relating to his own appointments.
7.4 Activities of the Nomination Committee The Committee reports its material findings and decisions to the next Board meeting and copies of the minutes are circulated to all Directors.
During the year, the Committee undertook the following: reviewed the Committees report within the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts and recommended approval of this to the Board: approved extensions to the terms of office for Karen fide Segundo and Sivi Gounden following their re-election by shareholders, to expire when they next submit themselves for re-election in January 2011: commenced and oversaw a formal process to search for a successor to Sir John Craven as Chairman of the Board: reviewed Roger Phillimores committee appointments in the light of best practice, and accepted his offer to step down as a member of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees: recommended to the Board that Jim Sutcliffe be appointed as a member and subsequently chairman of the Remuneration Committee and recommended to the Board that Jonathan Leslie be appointed as a director and to membership of the Nomination, Remuneration and Safety and Sustainability Committees.
Normally, the Committee would assess the effectiveness of those who were seeking re-election at the AGM.
However, as the three directors retiring at the 2009 AGM were at that time also the sole members of the Committee, the Board was asked to undertake this task.
Each of Sir John Craven, Michael Hartnall and Roger Phillimore was found to be fully effective, to demonstrate commitment to their roles and to have retained independent judgement in all respects.
68 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Directors Report Governance 7.
Nomination Committee Report continued 7.5 Policy on appointments to the Board All recommendations for Board appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
A job specification is drawn up which includes, in the case of non-executive appointments, an estimate of the time commitment required.
Generally, the Committee will engage executive search consultants to assist in ensuring a comprehensive listing of potential candidates for the Committees consideration.
In November 2009 the Committee assessed its effectiveness and, in his absence, that of the Chairman of the Committee.
The views expressed were summarised to the Board and there were no matters arising which the Committee or the Board felt necessitated change.
Safety and Sustainability Committee Report 8.1 What is the role of the Safety and Sustainability Committee?
The Safety and Sustainability Committee is a formal committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
Its terms of reference were most recently reviewed by the Board in March 2008 and are available on the Companys website.
The primary purposes of the Committee are: To have oversight of and provide advice to the Board and, as necessary to the Audit and Risk Committee, on safety and sustainability including health, environment and community matters, and particularly as pertaining to the risk and management of these issues within the Group: To have oversight of and provide advice to the Board on the Groups compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements associated with safety and sustainability: To assess the effectiveness of managements attitudes and approach towards, and activities in, managing safety and sustainability related risk: To assess periodically the effectiveness of the Groups policies, standards and systems for identifying and managing safety and sustainability related risk: To review significant safety and environmental incidents and consider causative factors, consequences and actions including the impact on employees and third parties and reputational risk: To review the Groups performance indicators in connection with safety and sustainability matters: To review the Groups public disclosures on safety and sustainability matters and approve these as necessary: and To report to the Board on developments, trends and or forthcoming significant legislation on safety and sustainability matters which may be relevant to the Groups operations, its assets or employees.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any matter within its terms of reference, to seek any relevant information that it requires from any Director or employee of the Group and to co-opt any resources it may require to undertake its duties.
The Committee is also authorised to obtain independent legal or other professional advice if it considers this necessary.
In line with the other Committees of the Board, the Safety and Sustainability Committee does not have any executive power and the Directors and operational managers retain their full responsibility and accountability for the management of safety and sustainability matters in the Group.
Minutes of all meetings of the Committee are circulated to all Directors and supplemented by a verbal update from the Committees chairman at the next Board meeting, identifying any material matters which arose from the Committees work.
The Committee presents a summary of its activities to shareholders and other interested parties by means of this section of the Directors Report.
More detailed information concerning the Groups sustainability related activities are set out on pages 32 to 51, are available on the Companys website and in the Web-based Sustainable Development Report.
8.2 Who are the members of the Safety and Sustainability Committee?
The terms of reference for this Committee require a minimum of two independent Non-executive Directors, one of whom shall be the Chairman of the Committee, and one executive Director.
The Board may, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, appoint or remove members of the Committee, subject to there being at least three members at all times.
At the request of the Committees Chairman, certain senior executives attend all meetings of the Committee.
The Committee comprised the following members during the year and to the date of this report, except where stated otherwise: Sivi Gounden: an independent Director who has been a member of the Committee and its Chairman since November 2006.
Dr Gounden, a South African national resident in that country, has significant experience of the mining industry globally, and in South Africa in particular.
Dr Gounden resigned as a Director on 16 October 2007.
Karen fide Segundo: an independent Director who has been a member of the Committee since January 2007.
Formerly Chief Executive Officer of Shell International Renewables and Chief Executive of Shells global gas and power business.
David Munro: an independent Director who joined the Board in August 2007 and was appointed to the Safety and Sustainability Committee on 21 September 2007.
Mr Munro is a mining engineer with significant experience of the mining sector, both internationally and in South Africa.
Safety and Sustainability Committee Report continued 8.2 Who are the members of the Safety and Sustainability Committee?
continued Jonathan Leslie: an independent Director who joined the Board in June 2009 and was appointed to the Safety and Sustainability Committee on 2 July 2009.
Mr Leslie has significant experience of the mining industry, having spent twenty six years with Rio Tinto in a variety of operational management roles.
Ian Farmer: an executive Director and Chief Executive of the Company who has been a member of the Committee since September 2008.
Biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on page 53.
Each of the Non-executive Directors on this Committee receives an annual fee of 7,500 for serving as a member or, in the case of the Chairman, 12,500.
These fees are included in the table of Directors remuneration on page 77 of this document.
Members are also offered opportunities to visit the operations and community projects with which the Company is involved.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chief Operating Officer, the Executive Manager, Technical Services previously by the VP Exploration and Business Development and the Assistant Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee, none of whom do so as of right.
8.3 How often did the Committee meet and who attended?
The Committee met five times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of meetings Number of Director senior executives held during time in office meetings attended 1 Sivi Gounden 54 2 Jonathan Leslie 11 David Munro 55 Karen fide Segundo 55 Ian Farmer 54 Chief Operating Officer 55 3 VP Exploration and Business Development 11 4 Executive Manager, Technical Services 22 1 To 16 October 2009 2 From 2 July 2009 3 To 31 January 2009 4 From 1 July 2009 8.4 Activities of the Safety and Sustainability Committee The Committee reports its material findings and decisions to the next Board meeting and copies of the minutes are circulated to all Directors.
Although the Committee met five times during the year, one of these meetings was specifically to review the ICAM findings from a fatal incident.
The business at the scheduled meetings was: November: review of safety statistics and trend analysis: review of environmental statistics and trend analysis: review key environmental risks: review feedback from external auditors on the Sustainable Development Reports: review and approve the summary and full Sustainable Development Reports and recommend the same to the Board: review and approve Safety and Sustainability Committee report contained within the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts and recommend the same to the Board.
March South Africa : review of safety statistics and trend analysis: review of environmental statistics and trend analysis: review of health indicators and update on community health issues: July: review of safety statistics and trend analysis: review of environmental statistics and trend analysis.
September in South Africa : review of safety statistics and trend analysis: review of environmental statistics and trend analysis: review performance against Social and Labour Plan targets: review expenditure and progress on community projects.
70 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Directors Report Governance 8.
Safety and Sustainability Committee Report continued 8.4 Activities of the Safety and Sustainability Committee continued In addition to the routine business described above, the Committee also undertook the following activities during the year and in the period to the date of this report: Reviews of ICAM reports on all serious incidents, including fatalities being a detailed analysis of factors contributing to these incidents and the corrective and preventative measures that were taken to prevent recurrence presented by the executive responsible for the relevant parts of the Groups business: Review of a report on changes to the environmental and regulatory regime and impact on the Company: Review results of the Presidential Safety Audit: Review update on the Mine Health and Safety Bill: Community visits to local school to see first hand the refurbishment and school nutrition programme and meet members of the community who receive home based care visits provided by the Company: and Review feedback from a survey commissioned by the International Platinum Association to develop best practice guidelines.
The Committee assessed its effectiveness in November 2009 and concluded that it was in all respects effective.
Executive Committee The members of the Executive Committee are the Executive Directors and those key senior executives whose biographical details are set out on page 54.
The Chief Executive is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee meets once every month and holds weekly phone calls and its responsibilities include the following key areas: review the operational and financial performance of the Group and the achievement of business plans: prioritise initiatives and allocate resource: identify and drive efficiencies across the Group: approve capital expenditure proposals within the authority levels delegated by the Board and otherwise refer to Board: develop the Groups policies and practices in respect of all health, safety and environmental issues in compliance with local legal requirements, regulation and best practice: identify risks and monitor progress of action plans to mitigate those risks: review the adequacy of the internal control framework: and develop and implement Group wide evaluation, training, reward and remuneration practices.
Operations Committee The members of the Operations Committee are members of the Executive Committee and a wider group of operational and functional executives and senior managers across the Group.
The Chief Operating Officer is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee meets once every month and its primary responsibilities are to: assess operational and financial performance across a number of areas including mining, processing, technical services, human capital, safety, environment and health: monitor progress of various initiatives: and provide a forum to debate business issues between various parts of the business value chain.
Price and Risk Committee The Price and Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and the members are the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Commercial Officer, VP Treasury & Risk, VP Finance UK, VP Finance SA and the Executive Manager, Marketing.
The primary purpose of this Committee is to review and agree proposals in relation to the forward sale of by-products, for example nickel and copper.
The Committee meets as and when required.
For and on behalf of the Board Rob Bellhouse Company Secretary 13 November 2009 www.
