M&S p14 25. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:33 Page 25 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report 25 Our heritage 125 years of M&S Over the last 125 years... we have built Your M&S into a brand that is the envy of businesses worldwide.
Our five founding principles Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust are central to everything we do, and ensure our offer remains as relevant as ever for each new generation of customers.
Celebrating 125 years 125 YEARS OF QUALITY Throughout 2009 10 we will celebrate our 125th anniversary in different Above: In the lab In 1934 we were the first British retailer to set up a Scientific Research Laboratory ways with our customers and employees.
We are resurrecting old product to pre-test garments and develop innovative new favourites such as Eccles Cakes, as well as giving a modern twist to classic fabrics.
Our Food Technology department followed in 1946.
Both departments continue today as we fashion, with our Dresses of the Decades.
We are especially proud of our test and develop everything from shrinkage and partnership with the University of Leeds that will showcase our extensive colour-stay in clothing to texture and taste in food.
archive collection to the public for the first time.
Quality We earned our reputation for quality by establishing strict criteria that we continue to follow today.
In 1926 we adopted the revolutionary policy of 125 YEARS OF SERVICE buying directly from our manufacturers, which enabled us to get involved in Below: Self service The revolutionary self-service the production process and more closely influence price, quality, and design.
food hall was trialled in the Wood Green store in 1948 allowing customers to browse and shop Value the aisles for the first time, rather than being Dont Ask the Price its a Penny was our first value slogan, propped up served from behind counters.
on Michael Marks Penny Bazaar stall in the Kirkgate Market in Leeds.
We have continued to offer value for every purse good, at the opening price point, through to better and best at the more luxurious end of our ranges.
Service Our broad customer demographic gives us a unique position in the UK.
We have never been complacent about this and strive to offer great customer service, so we can meet the nations every need.
In 1935 we introduced the first M&S Caf, and we are now the UKs fourth largest coffee shop chain.
Fitting rooms were first installed as a trial in our Plymouth store in 1977 and we branched out to the Internet in 1999.
Innovation From crease-free linen and machine washable silk, to selling the UKs first Iceberg lettuce in 1980 where M&S leads, others follow.
In 1968 we began selling avocado pears.
The name caused confusion though, with customers serving them as a dessert with custard.
We quickly dropped the pear and issued instruction on how to prepare the avocados as part of a salad.
Today we continue to innovate, with new ranges such as Cook Asian 1234.
125 YEARS OF INNOVATION Trust Above: International recipes In 1974 we delivered sweet and sour pork and chicken korma At M&S we have always nurtured the belief that business conducted ethically to the British family table when we became one of and responsibly can deliver benefits.
For example in 1975 Marcus Sieff, then the first retailers to sell Chinese and Indian recipes.
Chairman, wrote to The Times detailing how we had reduced energy consumption by 500,000.
Over the years customers have come to rely on us to do the right thing, a responsibility we do not take lightly.
Plan A builds on this heritage and goes back to the belief that being responsible can also be profitable.
