qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:53 Page 72 72 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Other disclosures Business review Share capital The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in the The Companys authorised and issued ordinary share capital as at Directors report a fair review of the business of the Group during 28 March 2009 comprised a single class of ordinary shares.
Details the financial year ended 28 March 2009 including an analysis of of movements in the issued share capital can be found in note 25 the position of the Group at the end of the financial year, and a to the financial statements on page 107.
Each share carries the right description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
During the period, known as a Business review.
The purpose of the Business review 2,217,763 ordinary shares in the Company were issued as follows: is to enable shareholders to assess how the directors have 142,559 shares under the terms of the 2002 Executive Share performed their duty under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006.
Option Scheme at prices between 270p and 353p: and The information that fulfils the Business review requirements can be found in the following sections of this report.
2,075,204 shares under the terms of the United Kingdom Employees Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme at prices Chairmans overview on pages 1 to 11 between 156p and 559p.
Governance overview on pages 12 to 13 Restrictions on transfer of securities Managing through the recession on pages 14 to 16 There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities in Performance & KPIs on pages 18 to 19 the Company, which is governed by the Articles and prevailing legislation, nor is the Company aware of any agreements between Brand & Marketplace on pages 20 to 23 holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer Operating & Financial review on pages 26 to 49 of securities or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 56 to 57 Variation of rights Financial Risk Management on pages 102 to 106 Subject to applicable statutes the Companies Act 1985 and 2006 in this section the Companies Acts, rights attached to any class Social, environmental and ethical matters on pages 42 to 47 and of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of within the How We Do Business Report available on our website at least three quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that at marksandspencer.
com annualreport09 class, or by a special resolution passed at a separate general Pages 1 to 76 inclusive together with the sections of the Annual meeting of the shareholders.
Report incorporated by reference comprise a Directors report Rights and obligations attaching to shares that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, any resolution of the directors in connection with that report shall be subject to passed by the Company under the Companies Acts and other the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
shareholders rights, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, An index to other Directors report disclosures is given on page 76. or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific Principal activities provision as the Board as defined in the Articles may decide.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and other shareholders Marks and Spencer Group plc is the holding company of the rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
Marks & Spencer Group of companies the Group.
We are Your M&S, having grown up from the Penny Bazaar stall to Powers in relation to the Company issuing or buying back become the UKs leading retailer of clothing, food and home its own shares products.
As well as having more than 21 million UK customers, we are also an expanding international force, now in 40 territories.
The Company was authorised by shareholders, at the July 2007 A team of 78,000 people and 2,000 suppliers form the bedrock of AGM, to purchase in the market up to 170 million shares, our business, ensuring our brand will continue to be synonymous representing 10% of its issued share capital, as permitted under with Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust.
The Company engages in share buy backs to create value for its shareholders, when cash flow permits and Profit and dividends there is not an immediate alternative investment use for the funds.
The profit for the financial year, after taxation, amounts to The Company announced on 6 November 2007 that it would 508.0m last year 821.7m.
The directors have declared dividends begin a share buy back programme to purchase up to 10% of the as follows: Companys issued share capital.
The Company continued to buy back shares until 19 June 2008, buying back a total of 136,643,168 Ordinary shares m of the ordinary shares in issue, with a nominal value of 25p each.
Paid interim dividend of 8.3p per share Of this total amount, 10,901,267 shares were bought back and last year 8.3p per share 130.5 cancelled in the 2008 09 financial year representing 0.64% of the Proposed final dividend of 9.5p per share Companys issued capital at 10 July 2007, the date of the 2007 last year 14.2p per share 145.9 AGM.
No shares have been bought back under the authority granted Total ordinary dividend, 17.8p per share at the 2008 AGM.
An up-to-date summary of all share buy back last year 22.5p per share 276.4 transactions is available on our website.
This standard authority is renewable annually: the directors will seek to renew this authority The final ordinary dividend will be paid on 10 July 2009 to at the 2009 AGM.
It is the Companys present intention to cancel shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members any shares it buys back, rather than hold them in treasury.
at the close of business on 29 May 2009.
qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:53 Page 73 73 The directors were granted authority at the 2008 AGM to allot the $500m US Notes issued by the Company to various relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 132,142,878. institutions on 6 December 2007 under section 144a of the That authority will apply until the conclusion of this years AGM.
US Securities Act contain an option such that, upon a change At this years AGM shareholders will be asked to grant an of control event, combined with a credit ratings downgrade to authority to allot relevant securities i up to a nominal amount below sub-investment level, any holder of such a US Note may of 131,511,272, and ii comprising equity securities up to a require the Company to prepay the principal amount of that nominal amount of 263,022,544 after deducting from such US Note: limit any relevant securities allotted under i, in connection with the $300m US Notes issued by the Company to various an offer of a rights issue, the section 80 Amount, such section institutions on 6 December 2007 under section 144a of the 80 Amount to apply until the conclusion of the AGM to be held US Securities Act contain an option such that, upon a change of in 2010 or, if earlier, on 27 September 2010. control event, combined with a credit ratings downgrade to below A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the directors sub-investment level, any holder of such a US Note may require powers to make non pre-emptive issues for cash in connection with the Company to prepay the principal amount of that US Note: rights issues and otherwise the section 89 Amount up to a nominal amount of 19,726,691. the 1.2bn Credit Agreement dated 13 August 2004 and the A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the directors 400m Credit Facility Agreement dated 3 February 2008 between authority to repurchase the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
the Company and various banks both contain a provision such The authority will be limited to a maximum of 158 million ordinary that, upon a change of control event, unless new terms are agreed shares and sets the minimum and maximum prices which will be paid.
within 60 days, the facilities under these agreements will be cancelled with all outstanding amounts becoming immediately Interests in voting rights payable with interest: Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial the agreement between HSBC and the Company relating to Services Authoritys FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs M&S Money dated 9 November 2004 as amended and restated is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the on 1 March 2005 contains a clause such that, upon a change Companys website.
As at 5 May 2009, the Company had been of control of the Company, any new owner would be obliged notified under DTR5 of the following significant holdings of voting to give undertakings to HSBC in respect of the continuation rights in its shares.
of the agreement, negotiate revised terms or terminate the Ordinary % of agreement: and shares capital Nature of holding Brandes Investment the agreement between Marks and Spencer plc and Marks and Partners, L. P. 111,595,173 6.57% Indirect interest Spencer Pension Trust Limited as trustee of The Marks and Spencer Pension Scheme the Pension Fund dated 25 March Capital Research 2009 relating to Marks and Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership & Management 80,002,869 5.07% Indirect interest the Partnership contains a clause such that, upon a change of Legal & General Direct and control of the Company, Marks and Spencer plc shall elect either Group plc 80,527,284 5.00% indirect interest to cause the Partnership to surrender its discretion over the The Wellcome Trust 47,464,282 3.01% Direct interest payment of annual distributions to the Pension Fund or to increase the rate at which compensatory interest accrues on any annual Significant agreements change of control payments that Marks and Spencer plc has elected to defer.
There are a number of agreements to which the Company is party The Company does not have agreements with any director or that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of employee that would provide compensation for loss of office the Company following a takeover bid.
Details of the significant or employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions agreements of this kind are as follows: of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options the 400m Medium Term Notes MTNs issued by the Company and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to various institutions on 28 March 2007 under the Groups to vest on a takeover.
3bn Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme contain an option such that, upon a change of control event, combined with a credit ratings downgrade to below sub-investment level, any holder of an MTN may require the Company to prepay the principal amount of that MTN: the 250m puttable and callable reset notes issued by the Company to various institutions on 11 December 2007 under the Groups 3bn EMTN programme contain an option such that, upon a change of control event, combined with a credit ratings downgrade to below sub-investment level, any holder of an MTN may require the Company to prepay the principal amount of that MTN: M&S p72 76 OthDisc.
qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:53 Page 74 74 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Other disclosures continued Board of directors Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were in force during the year ended The membership of the Board and biographical details of the 28 March 2009 and remain in force, in relation to certain losses and directors are given on pages 12 and 13 and are incorporated liabilities which the directors or Group Secretary may incur to third into this report by reference.
Details of directors beneficial and parties in the course of acting as directors or Group Secretary or non-beneficial interests in the shares of the Company are shown employees of the Company or of any associated company.
Options granted under the Save As You Earn SAYE Share Option and Executive Share Option Schemes are shown Employee involvement on pages 70 and 71.
Further information regarding employee share We have maintained our commitment to employee involvement option schemes is given in note 12 to the financial statements.
Jan du Plessis was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Employees are kept well informed of the performance and director on 1 November 2008 and will stand for election at the objectives of the Group through personal briefings, regular meetings, AGM in 2009.
On 8 July 2009 the Group Secretary, Graham Oakley, email and Chairman broadcasts at key points in the year to all head will retire and will be succeeded by Amanda Mellor, current office employees and store management.
In addition many of our Head of Investor Relations.
Lord Burns and Steven Esom retired store colleagues can join the briefings by telephone to hear directly from the Board on 1 June 2008 and 1 July 2008 respectively.
These types of communication are supplemented The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by by our employee publications including, Your M&S magazine, the Companys Articles of Association, the Combined Code, and DVD presentations.
More than 3,500 employees were elected the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles may be onto Business Involvement Groups BIGs across every store amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Subject to and head office location to represent their colleagues in two-way the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by communication and consultation with the Company.
They have special resolution, the Companys business will be managed continued to play a key role in a wide variety of business changes, by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
in what has been a very challenging year.
The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends not The fourteenth meeting of the European Works Council EWC exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the established in 1995 will take place in July 2009.
This Council provides Companies Acts, the Board may pay interim dividends, and also any an additional forum for informing, consulting and involving employee fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, representatives from the countries in the European Community.
in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
The EWC will include observers attending from our subsidiary Appointment and retirement of directors companies established in the Czech Republic and Greece.
Directors and senior management regularly visit stores and The directors may from time to time appoint one or more directors.
discuss with employees matters of current interest and concern The Board may appoint any person to be a director so long as the to them and the business through listening groups, meetings with total number of directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the BIG members and informal discussion.
Any such director shall hold office only until the next AGM Share schemes are a long-established part of our total reward and shall then be eligible for election.
package, encouraging and supporting employee share ownership.
At each AGM at least one third of the current directors must retire In particular, over 26,000 employees currently participate in as directors by rotation.
All those directors who have been in office at Sharesave, the Companys all employee Save As you Earn Scheme.
the time of the two previous AGMs and who did not retire at either of Full details of all schemes are given on pages 95 to 97. them must retire as directors by rotation.
In addition, a director may We maintain contact with retired staff through communications at any AGM retire from office and stand for re-election.
In accordance from the Company and the Pension Trust.
Member-nominated with the Combined Code, any director who has served more than trustees have been elected to the Pension Trust Board, including three three-year terms other than as a director holding an executive employees and pensioners.
We continue to produce a regular position is subject to annual re-election.
The Board has determined Pensions Update newsletter for members of our final salary pension that Sir Stuart Rose will seek re-election each year during his tenure scheme and the M&S Retirement Plan.
Equal opportunities Directors conflicts of interest The Group is committed to an active Equal Opportunities Policy Conflicts of interest provisions came into effect on 1 October 2008. from recruitment and selection, through training and development, A survey of Board members interests and other appointments was appraisal and promotion to retirement.
carried out and procedures for managing conflicts were agreed.
It is our policy to promote an environment free from discrimination, Should a director become aware that he she, or their connected harassment and victimisation, where everyone will receive equal parties, has an interest in an existing or proposed transaction with treatment regardless of age, gender, gender reassignment, colour, Marks & Spencer, he she should notify the Board in writing or at the ethnic or national origin, disability, hours of work, nationality, religion next Board meeting.
Internal controls are in place to ensure that any or belief, marital or civil partner status, disfigurement, political related party transactions involving directors, or their connected opinions or sexual orientation.
All decisions relating to employment parties, are conducted on an arms length basis.
Directors have practices will be objective, free from bias and based solely upon a continuing duty to update any changes to these conflicts.
work criteria and individual merit.
The Company is responsive to the Directors indemnities needs of its employees, customers and the community at large and we are an organisation which uses everyones talents and abilities The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance and where diversity is valued.
which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its directors and the Group Secretary to the extent permitted by law.
qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:53 Page 75 75 Employees with disabilities Charitable donations It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full and fair During the year, the Group made charitable donations to support consideration for all vacancies.
During the year, we continued to the community of 12.7m last year 15m.
These principally demonstrate our commitment to interviewing those people with consisted of cash donations of 5.4m last year 5.4m which disabilities who fulfil the minimum criteria for employment, and included Breakthrough Breast Cancer, Groundwork, WWF, Shelter, endeavouring to retain employees in the workforce if they become our Marks & Start programme and local community donations.
We will actively retrain and adjust also donated 1.3m last year 1.9m of employee time, principally their environment where possible to allow them to maximise their on Marks & Start and school work experience programmes, and potential.
We continue to work with external organisations to provide stock donations of 5.7m last year 7.5m to a variety of charities workplace opportunities through our innovative Marks & Start including Newlife Foundation for Disabled Children and Shelter.
scheme and by working closely with JobCentrePlus.
Political donations Essential contracts or arrangements It is our policy not to make donations to any political party.
The Company is required to disclose any contractual or other Accordingly neither the Company nor its subsidiaries made any arrangements which it considers are essential to its business.
donation to any registered party or other EU political organisation, We have a wide range of suppliers for the production and or incurred any EU political expenditure during the year, as defined in distribution of products to our customers.
Whilst the loss of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 PPERA or disruption to certain of these arrangements could temporarily The PPERA gives wide definitions of what constitutes political affect the operations of the Group, none are considered to be donations and expenditure.
Accordingly, as a precautionary essential, with the exception of certain warehouse operators measure, to protect the Company, should the Company and the provider of the Companys e-commerce platform.
inadvertently breach the legislation, by making a payment which could be classified as a political donation, approval was granted Creditor payment policy at the 2006 AGM for the Company and its five principal employing For all trade creditors, it is the Groups policy to: companies to make donations to political organisations and to incur political expenditure up to a maximum of 100,000 per year.
agree the terms of payment at the start of business with that This authority will expire at the 2010 AGM.
supplier: Post balance sheet event ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: and On 31 March 2009, Marks and Spencer Reliance India Pvt Limited, pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations.
a 51% subsidiary of the Group, completed the acquisition of 100% The main trading company, Marks and Spencer plc, has a policy of the issued share capital of Supreme Tradelinks Private Limited, concerning the payment of trade creditors as follows: which up until this date was the Groups franchisee in India, for cash consideration of 6.5m.
general merchandise payments are received between 19 and 26 days after the stock was delivered: Going concern food payments are received between 18 and 25 days after the In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial stock was delivered: and statements, the directors have considered the business activities as set out on pages 1 to 49 as well as the Groups principal risks distribution suppliers are paid monthly, for costs incurred in that and uncertainties as set out on pages 56 and 57.
Based on the month, based on estimates, and payments are adjusted quarterly Groups cash flow forecasts and projections, the Board is satisfied to reflect any variations to estimate.
that the Group will be able to operate within the level of its facilities Trade creditor days for Marks and Spencer plc for the year ended for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Group continues to 28 March 2009 were 20.5 days, or 13.7 working days last year adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
15.3 days, or 10.2 working days, based on the ratio of Company Auditors trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine Market value of properties their remuneration will be proposed at the 2009 AGM.
The last formal valuation of the Groups properties was carried out Annual General Meeting in September 2006.
Taking into account movements in the Groups property portfolio since that date, the directors are of the opinion The AGM of Marks and Spencer Group plc will be held at the Royal that the market value of the Groups fixed assets and leasehold Festival Hall, Southbank Centre, London on 8 July 2009.
The Notice properties, at 28 March 2009 exceeded their net book value of AGM is given, together with explanatory notes, in the booklet including prepayments in respect of leasehold land by which accompanies this report.
qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:53 Page 76 76 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Other disclosures continued Directors responsibilities Index to principal Directors report disclosures The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors report is set out on pages 1-76.
Reference to the Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance information that fulfils the Business review can be found on page 72. with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Other disclosures required in the Directors report can be found on directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
the following pages: Under that law the directors have prepared the Group and Company Information Page Number s financial statements in accordance with International Financial Appointment and retirement of directors 74 Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial Board of directors 74 statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the Charitable donations 75 state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit of Creditor payment policy 75 the Company and Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are Directors conflicts of interest 74 required to: Directors indemnities 74 Directors responsibilities 76 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Disclosure of information to auditor 76 Employee involvement 74 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Employees with disabilities 75 state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted Equal opportunities 74 by the EU: and Essential contracts or arrangements 75 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, Going concern 75 unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue Interests in voting rights 73 in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions Market value of properties 75 or qualifications as necessary.
Political donations 75 The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Post balance sheet events 75 that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Powers in relation to the Company issuing or position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to buying back its own shares 72 ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration report comply with the Companies Acts and, as regards the Group financial Principal activities 72 statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible Profit and dividends 72 for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and Restrictions on transfer of securities 72 hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection Rights and obligations attaching to shares 72 of fraud and other irregularities.
Share capital 72 The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the Significant agreements change of control 73 preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Variation of rights 72 from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group and Company financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and By order of the Board profit of the Group and the Company: and Graham Oakley, Group Secretary the Business review contained in this report includes a fair London review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the Company, together with 18 May 2009 a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Disclosure of information to auditor Each director confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that each director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to ensure that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
