M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:48 Page 40 40 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report How are we strengthening our UK property portfolio?
4 Total space 14.9m sq ft Property and store environment: We remain committed to our plan to invest in our store portfolio through modernising 5.6% and expanding existing stores, while also extending the brand into new markets.
We had an active year in 2008 09 but as Total stores with other areas of the core UK business, we have reduced our capital expenditure.
In the short-term, we are focused on 668 delivering additional space and modernising key stores while New stores ensuring our future pipeline remains strong.
75 Our property and store plan is to: footfall, or in markets too small to sustain them.
We took these decisions in order to Expand and modernise our city centre stores: continue to manage costs tightly and focus Continue to extend our existing out-of-town our investments on sites that better suit our stores while opening new stores where customers requirements.
appropriate: Expanding and modernising our Continue to improve our presence city centre stores in retail parks: Modern stores run more efficiently, but they also ensure customers enjoy their shopping Invest in our High Street stores: and experience.
They are designed to be bright Build on the success of Simply Food.
and contemporary, with easy to shop food halls, efficient systems and a range of hospitality options.
We have achieved a great deal over the last As one of the anchor stores at Westfield in 12 months, opening 75 new stores including 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION London, we went to great lengths to design two new flagship stores in Colliers Wood and Above: At home with M&S At 35,000 sq ft, our a high specification store, fitting for one of Westfield.
We also remodelled a further 24 new home store in Cardiff Capital includes a 6,000 Europes biggest retail developments this stores bringing 80% of the portfolio into the sq ft food hall so customers can buy the fridge, decade.
The store is designed to offer M&S and the groceries to fill it.
We will open three new modernised format.
We continue to build on customers an unrivalled shopping experience home stores in Tunbridge Wells, Aberdeen and the significant investment we made in our Cheltenham.
with a boutique style layout of our clothing property portfolio over the last three years brands, improved navigation, and a full to ensure our stores are in the best shape complement of hospitality options including a possible for the future.
As ever, attention was We have revised down capital expenditure also given to green features such as solar in property for 2009 10.
Although we will panel lighting and energy saving systems for continue to operate across the five areas of refrigeration and heating, in line with Plan A. the plan, we will be giving stronger emphasis We are now able to take much of this to extending larger stores and opening new specification and incorporate it in our stores in retail parks.
modernisations across the country, for In 2008 09 we closed 26 stores, 24 of instance in Liverpool and Leeds which will which were Simply Food stores that were be remodelled in the coming year.
either too small to act as a sufficient pull for M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:48 Page 41 41 125 YEARS OF TRUST 125 YEARS OF QUALITY Below: Green design We have taken best practice Below: Westfield style Unveiled by Twiggy from our eco stores and are applying this to all our and Erin OConnor, our Westfield store includes new developments.
Features include energy appetising new features such as a cheese shop efficient escalators and daylight sensors in our and Mediterranean deli.
window displays, which are being introduced in 80% of our new builds and remodels.
Extending our out-of-town stores We reached the 100-store milestone FOCUS ON: PROPERTY We have extended a number of out-of-town with our BP service station franchise this stores allowing us to offer a greater selection year and opened the successful M40 TOTAL UK PORTFOLIO OF 668 46 of products to our customers.
Culverhouse Beaconsfield services in March.
PREMIERE 10 0 Cross in Cardiff, Brooklands and Tamworth Hospitality MAJOR 43 3 were all extended in the year.
In everything we do, we strive to offer RETAIL PARK 29 2 Better presence in retail parks something special the M&S point of We have been monitoring a growing trend difference.
Our cafes and restaurants are no HIGH STREET 209 -4 for customers to travel to retail parks where exception, and during the year we broadened OUTLETS 39 6 they can park and shop at a leisurely pace.
our offer so that our customers can choose SIMPLY FOOD wholly-owned 156 -11 In response we increased our presence from a coffee or a snack to a sit down meal.
on retail parks in 2008 09 with three key This not only provides an enjoyable store SIMPLY FOOD franchises 182 50 openings in Malvern, Aintree and Cardiff experience for our customers, but Capital.
Since the year-end, we have encourages them to spend longer in our opened in Swindon Orbital and Longwell stores.
For many it also tempts them to try Green in Bath.
new things that they can then pick up in our food hall.
Investing in our High Street stores At the same time we are increasing other We continually review our High Street stores in-store food options by introducing deli to ensure they are the right size and in the counters, as well as improving our cheese right location.
This builds In the last year we relocated in Wrexham on our reputation for offering premium fresh and Luton and consolidated two stores into produce, and our commitment to provenance one at Worcester.
We have modernised a knowing where every ingredient in every number of stores including Worthing and product has been sourced.
We have also closed two underperforming stores in Woking and Bracknell.
Looking ahead We will continue the process of flexing our Our long-term strategy remains in place.
store portfolio in 2009 10 to ensure we give We will continue to improve our retail space our customers stores where they want them, by increasing and extending into new and at a size that accommodates a wide locations and markets, as well as continuing variety of products.
the refurbishment programme over the next few years.
But we will also continue reviewing Building on the success of Simply Food under-performing stores to ensure we are We now have more than 300 wholly-owned 125 YEARS OF SERVICE working the portfolio to its fullest potential.
and franchised Simply Food stores in the UK.
Our M&S Cafs form the We opened 13 standalone Simply Food fourth largest take-away coffee chain on the High stores in 2008 09 in locations including Street, and have proven so popular that we now see an opportunity to expand the floor-space devoted to Epping and Dunblane.
They join our franchise our M&S Cafs in many of our new developments.
travel hubs which continue to work well, as reflected in Waitroses decision to enter this space in partnership with Welcome Break.
