M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:47 Page 36 36 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report How are we driving our M&S Direct business?
2 M&S Direct: It has been another successful year for M&S Direct.
Sales rose 19.0% to 324.4m and are on target for 500m by the end of 2010 11.
We launched a number of new initiatives to improve the breadth and convenience of our online service.
We also experienced our single biggest ever online trading day with the One Day Christmas Spectacular.
All of which have contributed to our growing share of the online market.
Carl Leaver Director of M&S Direct, International & Home A year in review Ultimately M&S Direct will offer greater choice M&S Direct sales M&S Direct is central to our commitment to and flexibility for customers, as we provide 324.4m becoming a multi-channel retailer.
It goes the convenience to order online and collect beyond merely selling our products online: in-store and vice versa.
19.0% encompassing our Home catalogue, flower A multi-channel business and wine delivery, Food to Order party Last summer we launched our Food to Order catering service and lunchtogo, which catering service, which enables customers delivers lunchtime platters.
It facilitates a to make their food selection online and then dialogue with customers through initiatives pick up in-store.
such as customer reviews and feedback, We will make even greater strides to and increasingly integrates our stores with become more convenient for our customers our website.
For example customers can with the introduction of the next phase of this now redeem gift cards online, or subscribe service.
An in-store collection service for to SMS alerts to find out about offers general merchandise will be trialled in 50 UK and promotions.
Sales from our website were up 34%, outpermorming the online market.
Our online clothing market share increased to 5.3% from FOCUS: M&S DIRECT 4.5% Fashiontrak.
The traffic to the site grew by 36% over the year.
HOME CATALOGUE During this year we continued to extend WEBSITE FLOWER DELIVERIES and innovate our online offer, launching WINE CLUB international delivery, a Wine Club, and 3,000 FOOD TO ORDER PARTY CATERING premium white goods.
Weve also focused LUNCH TO GO on providing an engaging shopping experience BUSINESS SOLUTIONS through initiatives such as Your M&S TV, HAMPERS hosting nine channels of interviews and catwalk videos.
125 YEARS OF VALUE Left: Deal of the Day Our daily web offers Deal of the Day has increased sales 100 fold on some products, like our opening price point womens mac for 29.50 M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:47 Page 37 37 125 YEARS OF SERVICE 125 YEARS OF QUALITY Below: lunchtogo Were keeping energy levels Below: Made to Measure Our bespoke Made up for two premiership football clubs by providing to Measure shirts have beaten the most exclusive healthy food on training and match days through tailors in the world for quality and fit.
Their nutritionists and chefs sought us watchdog Which?
found our 30 service was twice out because of the high quality and nutritional value as good as the Savile Row versions costing more of our food.
Customers will be able to order online and Reviews and ratings then pick up in-store.
As well as order in-store The ability to contribute reviews and ratings for pick-up in-store or delivery to home.
It will has provided customers with an independent give all of our customers access to the full verification of the goods they are shopping M&S range from their local stores, and the for.
Since the service was launched in convenience of picking items up at a time June 2008, reviewed products have received that suits them.
an average rating of 4.1 out of 5.
As a result, sales of well-received products have International delivery increased by as much as 20%.
Sales of M&S lingerie in France and home furnishings in Spain have soared this year Looking ahead 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION after the launch of our international delivery Our focus remains squarely on improving service in November 2008.
The service gives our online shopping experience and on Above: Whats on the box?
Over 140,000 minutes of video have been viewed through UK customers an opportunity to send M&S integrating our sales channels to give our Your M&S TV since it launched in February 2009. clothes and lingerie, as well as selected customers greater flexibility.
The look and beauty products and home accessories to feel of the site is critical to providing friends and family in France, Germany, Spain, customers with what they want, and we the US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand.
will refresh our website this year.
We will M&S is the first British retailer to deliver offer more opportunities to interact with internationally to New Zealand, and one our customers by building on the success of only a few that ships to Australia and of ratings and reviews, and Your M&S TV.
It underlines our commitment to We will also improve our online advertising grow sales of M&S Direct and build on our partnerships so customers are better momentum overseas.
We will be extending directed to promotions when seeking a deal.
the delivery service to more than 70 additional countries this autumn 2009.
125 YEARS OF SERVICE Wine Club Below: Hitting home Technology, household Boasting an online catalogue of more than electricals and home accessories were key drivers 125 YEARS OF TRUST 550 wines and a string of awards, the launch of Home sales online.
To shop online go to marksandspencer.
com of our Wine Club in November seemed the Below: Popping the question Six bouquet orders this Valentines Day contained a very special logical next step.
Early signs are encouraging, message... Will You Marry Me?
with almost 4,000 subscribers receiving a case of wine on a quarterly basis.
Wines, which are delivered free, are hand-picked by our team of specialists.
They also include tasting notes and can be enjoyed while viewing instructional tasting videos online.
