M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:48 Page 42 42 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report How are we integrating Plan A across every aspect of our business?
5 Commitments Plan A: Our five year eco plan, launched in January 2007, addresses the key social and environmental challenges facing 100 our business and the world.
Plan A marries our efforts to reduce our environmental impact and to achieve a true point of difference, Commitments achieved so far while at the same time meeting our corporate and business requirements to reduce costs throughout our operations.
39 We pledged to meet 100 separate Plan A commitments within Achieved commitments that now go a five-year time-frame, and are pleased to report that in just two even further years 39 commitments have been achieved.
24 In our second year of Plan A we have proved It is not only the normal buying metrics such that being green is not only the right thing to as price, quality, style, durability and do, but that it presents a compelling business fashionability, which resonate with our case.
In 2007 we were prepared to invest customers, but also ensuring all these things 200m into Plan A, but in just two years are underpinned by sustainability.
This sets we have achieved a cost positive position in us apart from our competitors and reassures OUR PLEDGE: BY 2012 M&S WILL: spite of the tough economic conditions of the our customers that they can trust us to do past year.
CLIMATE CHANGE BECOME CARBON NEUTRAL WITH MINIMAL OFFSETTING Plan A has inspired us to find new ways We are continuing to push hard to reduce, of working.
Efficiencies are coming from all reuse, recycle and reinvent to become more WASTE SEND NO WASTE TO LANDFILL areas of the business from reducing our efficient across our operations.
The following FROM OUR OPERATIONS packaging and waste, to working with our review highlights some of our Plan A successes SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS EXTEND suppliers to find new and better ways of over the past year, as well as new initiatives SUSTAINABLE SOURCING doing business.
It proves that this economic for the year ahead.
FAIR PARTNER SET NEW STANDARDS IN period has become an accelerator for our ETHICAL TRADING Climate change Plan A initiatives, with businesses having to To reach our goal of making our UK and HEALTH HELP CUSTOMERS AND approach things in a new way.
EMPLOYEES LIVE A HEALTHIER LIFESTYLE Republic of Ireland operations carbon Customers attitude neutral by 2012 we are improving our energy Recent reports show that the green agenda efficiency and increasing our use of continues to grow in importance despite renewable electricity.
In the last year weve the economic downturn and pressures on reduced our net CO emissions by 18%, 2 household budgets Source: Ipsos MORI.
and our energy efficiency in stores has now At M&S we have identified an increase in the improved by 10%.
number of our customers who say they will In February 2009 we signed the UK retail take environmental action if its easy, while sectors biggest renewable energy contract.
at the same time seeing a decrease in those The six-year deal with npower will provide who say whats the point?
or I cant make M&S with enough renewable energy to a difference.
ultimately power all our stores and offices in England and Wales.
In March 2009 we then signed with EDF to supply renewable energy to our Scottish operations.
M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:48 Page 43 43 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION Below: Hanger recycling We have rationalised the Below: Wind power Scottish farmer Grant Mackie number of different hangers we have to make reuse was one of the first farmers to benefit from the move even easier.
In 2008 09 we increased the number of to develop renewable power from small third-party clothing hangers collected for reuse or recycling to generators.
He launched the first M&S turbine on around 125m.
his Aberdeenshire farm in 2007 and now has three wind turbines.
Now 31% of our electricity comes from renewable sources.
The npower deal also underlines our We produced around 116,000 tonnes Reduction in food carrier bag use in 2008 09 commitment to work with local communities of waste of which 41% was recycled.
-387 million to encourage small third-party suppliers to One of our most high profile initiatives develop renewable electricity.
M&S buys, is our 5p carrier bag charge.
Profits fund -83% through npower, any renewable electricity local environmental projects run by our and as a result raised 1.2m for Groundwork UK generated by farmers see above.
Carrier bag usage The Plan A way to save campaign is a in our food halls is down 83%, saving over collection of simple green changes designed 387 million carrier bags from landfill.
In the to save family households up to 1,000 a process we have helped raise 1.2m for year.
Measures include encouraging washing Groundwork to create Greener Living at 30C and Love Food, Hate Waste, which Spaces in 46 local neighbourhoods.
can save customers up to 600 a year by The M&S and Oxfam Clothes Exchange cutting down on food waste.
is a unique partnership that has been a Our two pioneering eco factories in Sri remarkable success.
Over 875,000 Lanka were developed in partnership with customers have now donated 3.2m suppliers MAS Holdings, a new lingerie garments to their local Oxfam stores, in return factory operating exclusively for M&S, and for a 5 M&S discount voucher to spend Brandix, an existing casualwear factory that on purchases of 35 or more.
Their efforts has been upgraded to eco status.
They are have saved 1,500 tonnes of clothing from now hitting their targets, achieving 50% less landfill, helped Oxfam to raise 1.9m, and water use than factories of a similar scale.
While given our customers the opportunity to MAS Holdings was designed to be carbon save over 4.4m.
125 YEARS OF SERVICE neutral from day one, Brandix has also seen Sustainable raw materials Below: Reducing packaging Since 2006 07 a 78% reduction in its carbon footprint.
Innovation is key to ensuring that our key raw we have reduced our non-glass food packaging These are in addition to the 150,000 sq ft by 12%.
Projects included reducing pizza materials come from the most sustainable Westbridge eco factory in Wales responsible packaging by 62% 480 tonnes and taking the sources available to us.
equivalent of three double-decker buses worth for producing all of our UK furniture ranges As the winner of the RSPCA Good of packaging out of our Easter Eggs.
Max the and our new supplier eco factory in China Business Award in 2008, for both our Food Bunny was reduced by 90%.
It is the countrys and fashion business, we continue to push first eco clothing factory, with a green roof, Before After ahead on animal welfare.
We are trialling free low energy lighting and a water curtain for range pork in 100 stores, and we guarantee cooling the factory.
All of which will help that for all of our pork, no farrowing crates reduce electricity use by about 50% are used at birth, and that no pigs have compared to similar sized factories.
been castrated, had their tails docked These factories establish a benchmark or their teeth clipped.
we can share with other manufacturers There is also a clear plan to better across the world.
understand our impact on the global Waste freshwater supply.
Together with WWF and This year we retendered our waste contracts our suppliers, we are undertaking a water for stores and GM distribution centres.
footprint assessment of our supply chain so This contract includes a plan to achieve our that we can reduce our water impact during ambition of zero waste to landfill by 2012. the product sourcing and production stages.
So far this has involved five crops strawberries, tomatoes, lettuce, potatoes and roses and raw materials including cotton and leather.
M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:48 Page 44 44 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Integrating Plan A continued 125 YEARS OF TRUST 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION Below: Strength in numbers From WWF and Below: Walk this way We again supported Groundwork to WRAP and Oxfam, our partners Beefys Great British Walk for childhood leukaemia.
are vital to the way we do business.
By recycling The former cricketer started each of the nine legs 175 tonnes or Christmas cards, the equivalent of of his walk at one of our stores, raising 24,000 9 million cards, our customers have helped us to which M&S matched.
plant trees across the UK with the Woodland Trust.
During the year we launched the Fern Marks & Start is our flagship community Collection which is produced using timber programme and is the countrys largest sourced from sustainably managed forest company-led work experience and Fairtrade certified covers.
Some 705 work furniture is also filled with a combination placements were given out last year.
of Ecoflex foam a castor oil based foam We have also completed a successful containing 20% renewable resources year with Breakthrough, the breast cancer and fibre made from 80% post-consumer charity.
Since 2001 we have raised a waste.
This includes plastic drink bottles, staggering 11m making us their largest 122 of which are used to make every corporate partner.
Health Fair partner M&S has long led the way in food innovation, Plan A is not only becoming ingrained in the which is now more important than ever in way we do business and in the way we interact helping our customers and employees lead with our customers: it is also integrated into healthier lifestyles.
the way we conduct our day-to-day business Our current focus is on natural enrichment with suppliers.
As a fair partner were committed for instance the inclusion of probiotics in food 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION to improving the lives of the hundreds of such as yogurts and by feeding omega to Above: Supporting cancer charities The Prostate thousands of people in our supply chain salmon.
We have identified what people are Cancer Charity supports the 35,000 men affected and local communities.
missing in their diets and are finding a way by prostate cancer each year.
During March 2009 we donated 10% of the sales from Autograph Work on three garment factories in to put these essential vitamins back in.
The campaign was fronted Bangladesh part of our Ethical Model This builds on our commitment that all of by Channel 4 News anchorman Jon Snow, his Factories helps us to do this, by creating our food is now entirely free of artificial flavours cousin, presenter Peter Snow and Peters son Dan.
Funds support the UK wide helpline staffed by sustainable ways of improving the livelihood and colourings.
We have also continued to specialist Prostate Cancer nurses.
of those who work in the factories.
By providing expand our Eat Well healthier options, workers rights, supervisor and production reduce salt, and eliminate hydrogenated fats.
training we are ensuring long-term We have reduced the level of saturated fats by improvements in labour standards 70% across our range of crisps, and by 30% and establishment of a living wage.
across our range of sandwiches.
We now But setting new standards as a fair partner meet over 67% of the FSAs salt targets for is not just about helping overseas.
M&S 2010. prides itself on our work at home in the UK.
125 YEARS OF TRUST 125 YEARS OF SERVICE Above: Fairtrade Since Plan A was launched Right: Eat Well Healthier food ranges weve sold nearly 13 million Fairtrade certified cotton now comprise 30% of our total food offer.
garments and home products as well as 100% Fairtrade tea, coffee, bagged sugar and conserves.
M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:48 Page 45 45 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION Below: Award winning Awards underline our achievements as an ethical and responsible retailer.
Accolades include: winner of the Business in the Community Excellence Awards and 4th global brand in the Covalence ethical ranking.
Visit the Plan A website at plana.
com Looking ahead We made considerable progress with Plan A during the year.
The high street has provided some challenging conditions, but has also given us an opportunity to approach things in a new way.
Plan A differentiates M&S in the market.
With our commitment to producing quality goods, we are helping to dispel the myth that being environmentally and ethically sound is a more expensive way to live and shop.
We know we still have some way to go before we achieve our five-year targets.
But already it is embedded in our culture and evident in how we do business.
We will continue to innovate: develop and maintain partnerships: play a key role in local communities: and, perhaps most importantly, listen to what our customers want and communicate with them every step of the way.
Find out more Read our How We Do Business Report 2009 at www.
com annualreport09 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION Left: Fair partner Were improving the livelihoods of those who work in our Ethical Model Factories in Bangladesh, as well as our Green Factories in Sri Lanka.
