M&S p1 13. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:30 Page 10 10 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Chairmans overview continued 8 2 9 10 7 3 4 1 5 Our Executive Committee The management team 1.
Sir Stuart Rose Chairman Our management team is a great combination of old and new M&S DNA.
Ian Dyson Group Finance and Operations Director This means we are able to take the best of old M&S and reinvent it for 3.
Steven Sharp Executive Director, Marketing tomorrow without losing sight of the things we have done to become the 4.
Kate Bostock Executive Director, Clothing brand we are today.
We are working hard together to push the business 5.
Clem Constantine Director of Property forward.
and Store Development We recognise that continuity is vital if the business is to continue its 6.
John Dixon Director of Food progress.
The Board therefore took the decision last year to appoint 7.
Tanith Dodge Director of Human Resources me to Executive Chairman, to ensure the continuation of our objectives.
Carl Leaver Director of International, As Chairman, I together with the rest of the Board am acutely aware Home and M&S Direct of the recent corporate governance issues.
Nayna McIntosh Director of Store Marketing and Design Chairman, is responsible for our governance and will address this on page 12.
The Board is supported by Group Secretary, Graham Oakley, who after 10.
Steve Rowe Director of Retail 24 years of dedicated service to M&S will retire on 8 July 2009.
Andrew Skinner Director of GM Merchandising and Planning him for his wisdom and wish him well in his retirement.
Darrell Stein Director of IT and Logistics succeeded by Amanda Mellor, current Head of Investor Relations, and we welcome her to the role.
As of 18 May 2009 Finally, a special mention must go to George Davies who retired as the Kate Bostock Executive Director, Clothing & Home chair of per una in November 2008.
I would like to thank George for his Steve Rowe Director of Retail and M&S Direct considerable contribution to M&S.
In the seven years since its inception, Carl Leaver Resigned as Director of International, per una has significantly added to our womenswear offer and become a Home and M&S Direct brand that is loved by millions of customers.
We wish him all the best in his retirement.
M&S p1 13. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:30 Page 11 11 125 years in retail We are confident that M&S is well-placed to emerge from the recession as a stronger business.
Our optimism is based on the advances we have made in the past five years, and the vantage point we have as a retailer 12 with a 125 year history.
We have been through significant recessions in the UK, from the Great Depression of the 1930s to the dotcom bubble bursting in the early years of the 21st Century.
We have also traded through two World Wars and numerous other events that have all rocked consumer confidence.
We have approached this recession in exactly the same way as we approached previous recessions.
Our experience suggests M&S is 6 11 early to feel the effects and early to experience recovery.
Our customer base is broad and with high market share we have the clear advantage of being able to analyse trends and react quickly to changes.
Our core shopper is slightly older, and because they have been through previous recessions, were quick to rein back spending at the first signs of the economic downturn.
We have worked hard to help our customers and to reassure them that we offer great value, and there are now encouraging signs that our core customer is more confident.
Looking ahead Building an M&S that is fit for the future means we have to continue to listen to our customers and anticipate trends.
It also means looking to our rich heritage to inform our future.
This is a strong, resilient business and we are working hard to deliver our plans.
We are here for our customers in the bad times as well as in the good.
It would be impossible to deliver against our brand values without staff and suppliers who are second to none.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank them very much for their hard work, loyalty and support in the toughest of circumstances.
The year ahead will bring new challenges.
But we believe our strategy is sound, and we are fully focused on coming through the recession in the current year, and driving the business beyond that for the future.
Sir Stuart Rose Chairman 125 YEARS OF QUALITY 1926 Our first bra was 2009 The most popular bra size designed to flatten the breasts, bought in M&S stores is 36C, with in-keeping with the flapper 100,000 women fitted by our fashion of the time.
The first customer assistants every week.
tights then arrived in 1962 and we now use enough lycra in them to stretch to the moon and back 300 times.
