M&S p14 25. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:33 Page 20 20 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Our brand by Steven Sharp, Executive Director of Marketing This has been another year about listening and responding to our customers.
Nowhere is this more visible than in our marketing campaigns.
These have focused on reassuring our customers they are getting M&S Quality Worth Every Penny, as well as reaffirming that M&S is a brand our customers can trust to do the right thing.
Although we reduced our marketing spend in 2008 09, we delivered campaigns that our customers could relate to in a Steven Sharp Executive Director of Marketing downturn, while reaffirming our quality credentials.
Your M&S In 2004 we introduced Your M&S to reflect the unique position M&S holds in British hearts and minds.
Our customers are passionate about M&S and almost everyone has an opinion about us.
When times are tough, showing our customers that we continue to put the Your in Your M&S is crucial to retaining their loyalty and affection.
They want to see that we are keeping faith with them by developing exciting and iconic products: ensuring our stores are easy to shop in and offer an enjoyable experience: and perhaps most importantly, by demonstrating that we listen to their feedback in the actions we take.
Listening and responding The one clear message from our customers during the year is that they were feeling the pinch and wanted us to give them a helping hand.
Firstly, we saw an opportunity to draw on our value credentials and give them restaurant quality food at a really affordable price, and in the comfort of their homes.
The result was our Dine in for Two for 10 campaign introduced last autumn.
Also in Food, our Wise Buys campaign, discussed in further detail by John Dixon on page 33, gives customers value without compromising on the quality or the sourcing of our products.
Other key promotions included Dress for Less and our surprise One Day 125 YEARS OF VALUE Christmas Spectaculars.
Our Spectacular events proved useful in kicking off Below: Dress for Less customers could mix and the festive shopping season at a particulary difficult time.
match five investment pieces to create five different outfits without breaking the bank.
These campaigns resonated with our loyal customers while encouraging new shoppers into our stores.
Business with heart In our 125th year, we have the good fortune of being an incredible brand, with a rich history.
We will continue to talk to our customers and stay true to our founding principles of Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust.
As we move into 2009 10, we speak plainly to our customers through our advertising emphasising Quality Worth Every Penny.
Steven Sharp Executive Director of Marketing M&S p14 25. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:33 Page 21
