M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:43 Page 26 26 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report How are we investing in and growing our core UK retail business?
1 Womenswear: It has been a challenging year in womenswear, but we remain the number one brand on the High Street.
We continued to develop our brands, with particular focus on improving our value, while injecting newness and style across our ranges.
However, our core female shopper approached the economic downturn with caution, cutting back on her spending.
This impacted on our womenswear figures with volume market Kate Bostock Executive Director of Clothing share down to 9.2% from 10.0% last year, and value market share down to 10.5% from 11.1%.
A year in review Our brand strategy Womenswear value market share In a year of tough trading conditions M&S We began a strategic review of our 10.5% has continued to produce clothes for womenswear brands two years ago.
We remain The aim was threefold: to clearly segment -0.6% pts flexible to respond to catwalk trends and all our brands in line with our clear customer Womenswear volume market share create fast-fashion ranges for the under-35 profiles: to keep our brands fresh: and to woman, shown by our collaboration with offer great quality and value at all price points.
9.2% Patricia Field one of the most high profile We have made progress on each of these -0.8% pts launches of the year.
We have defined our brands and also We also continue to produce classic signposted our shops see below.
These tailoring for our older customers.
This year mini departments provide all of the other we launched our Portfolio range in 190 essentials such as footwear and accessories stores, aimed at 40 women and bridging needed to provide a full lifestyle choice for the gap between our per una and Classic our customers, as well as covering seasonal sub-brands.
or special occasion pieces such as Holiday With the retirement of George Davies the and Cashmere.
womenswear team will now evolve the per We are continuing to focus all of our una brand, launching the new collection ranges so that each brand stands for in-store for autumn.
With all parts of our something unique and addresses different clothing business now under one age and style needs.
We know that there management team, we are better able to are still some areas that need to be simplified: share best practice across our business being clear about each brand will enable units, adopt a consistent approach to pricing, us to do this.
and leverage our scale in the buying process to ensure the best possible value.
It also OUR SHOPS: WOMENSWEAR means we can eliminate duplication across ACCESSORIES KNITWEAR our ranges and create clothes to hit all price CAREERWEAR LINEN points.
This positions us well to tackle the CASHMERE MATERNITY challenges ahead.
COATS PETITE FOOTWEAR PLUS HOLIDAY M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:44 Page 27 27 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION Right: per una In November 2008, George Davies the innovative founder of per una retired as part-time Chairman of the brand.
In his seven years of working with M&S, George built per una into a significant brand and encouraged younger shoppers into our stores to buy the per una label.
Our brands BRAND FOCUS: WOMENSWEAR We have edited our main range so that all of our garments are now clearly identifiable CLASSIC CO-ORDINATED AND FEMININE as one of the M&S branded ranges.
PORTFOLIO CLEAN STYLE FOR THE OVER 40s PER UNA FEMININE AND PRETTY As we went through this process it was INDIGO CASUAL, SPORTS AND DENIM clear that we were left with a gap in AUTOGRAPH SIMPLE, HIGH-QUALITY LUXURY casualwear.
To address this, we will LIMITED COLLECTION FAST FASHION launch the Indigo collection see below.
Classic is aimed at our mature Value customers who want co-ordinated designs Fashion and clothing is about affordability that are comfortable and feminine.
We strive to deliver on both Portfolio is our new collection for our core these aspects as illustrated by our Dress for customer.
Launched as a small collection in Less campaign.
Fronted by Myleene Klass, January, sales have been encouraging.
We are the campaign shows our customers how to confident we have the right product with achieve five different looks from five wardrobe smart tailoring, coordinated soft separates, staples, costing just 15.00. more sleeves, modest necklines and flattering In all of our departments, and within all of skirt lengths and we will be putting greater our brands, we offer a clear pricing hierarchy depth behind the collection, growing it to a 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION so that shoppers can see whether they are full lifestyle brand.
shopping from our good, better, or best Below: Zandra Rhodes for M&S Notable fashion per una is our most feminine brand.
designer Zandra Rhodes, created a number of ranges.
For example a basic cotton blend It is bold and colourful and features plenty vibrant and iconic prints for an exclusive summer white shirt from our Careerwear shop, which of detail.
Now that it is under the direction of 2009 collection in womenswear, accessories, would fall under our good pricing point, holidaywear and lingerie.
Key items include our womenswear team we will be working jumpsuits in spiral and rose prints, a luminous costs 7.50: a pure cotton shirt with pleating closely with our customers to better develop snakeskin print cut-out swimsuit and butterfly detail, also from Careerwear, costs 15.00 the brand.
and is an example of a better pricing point: Indigo will be home to our remaining while a long sleeved pure cotton shirt from casualwear ranges, including essentials Autograph costs 29.50 and is an example and denim.
Autograph includes Essentials, Weekend To achieve better pricing, but without and Occasions, and is our biggest category.
compromising on quality or design, we have It is defined by luxurious fabrics and a high been focused on what we call garment level of detailing, but its signature pared-down engineering, as a way of look means it remains contemporary and working with our smart, ideal for careerwear.
suppliers to reduce the Limited Collection is our fashion-forward cost of clothes brand.
Fashion must-haves and newness is without reducing quality.
the DNA, with new stock phased in weekly.
For instance by asking our fabric suppliers to increase the width of their weave, we can get more from a roll of fabric.
125 YEARS OF INNOVATION Left: 1960s Our iconic red boots encapsulated the style of the swinging sixties.
M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:44 Page 28 28 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Core UK business: Womenswear continued 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION 125 YEARS OF QUALITY Below: Flower power When Sex and The City Right: Dresses of the decade Our 125th stylist Patricia Field produced her capsule collection anniversary gives us a chance to reflect on fashions for M&S, her clothes flew off the rails, with the of years gone by.
To mark this occasion we have famous corsage dress selling out on the first day.
created five dresses of the decades a nod to fashion of bygone years, brought up to date with a modern twist.
Responding to customers seasons, such as cardigans Knowing our customers is fundamental to the if the summer suddenly turns, way we develop products.
We constantly or mac coats if it rains.
It also helps us to be review our clothes through focus groups, faster at turning around new fashions, across core ages and among different encouraging customers to see it, like it, buy lifestyles.
For example we work closely with it because it will be gone within four weeks 125 YEARS OF VALUE the Womens Institute.
This is best shown and replaced by the next new range.
Below: UnLimited potential We attracted an by the creation of Portfolio, which directly Limited Collection is designed to be first additional 20% 200,000 new customers from responds to customers asking for clothes to translate catwalk trends in line with the the under-35s into womenswear in the last quarter that better suit older tastes.
We have similarly High Street.
We source from Turkey, of 2008 09. consulted with customers on the evolution Morocco, Italy and Spain with the latter two of the per una brand.
Consultation does key for sourcing footwear and accessories not stop when we have launched a range, for Limited Collection.
These markets offer as we regularly return to our customers to much shorter lead times, so that we can get get feedback.
new products into our stores every week.
Improving availability Looking ahead We want our customers to always find what The womenswear team has been significantly they are looking for availability is vital to strengthened in 2008 09 by a number of new delivering the best service.
With the right team in place we are updating our stock planning systems and with all of womenswear now under so we can replenish sizes or colours before the same management team, we are well we run out.
This is also helped by the speed placed going forward.
We are now in a and flexibility of our buying departments, position to pull the clothing strategy together, which can now buy additional items more maximising the best opportunities and using quickly and efficiently.
the best learnings from all parts of the clothing business.
Refreshing our ranges Our brands remain exclusive to us, which We used to buy clothes twice a year for means we can ensure they all do a different the spring summer and autumn winter job from each other.
We can stock products seasons.
This meant we spent almost that appeal to women of different ages and 100% of our seasonal buying budget, giving with different tastes.
us no flexibility if trading or the weather We remain aware of the wider economic suddenly changed.
downturn and will continue to pursue the With the help of our suppliers we have best value clothes and accessories for our now increased our buying to 10 times a year customers.
At the same time we will continue holding back 25% of our budget to spend to produce a confident fashion offering: deliver in season.
In its simplest form, it is about on-trend items for our younger customers: having the flexibility to buy much closer to produce new garments quickly: and deliver the season so we can react more quickly to the classic basics that our customers keep trends, or buy transitional products between coming back for.
M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:45 Page 29 29 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION Below: We boobed Its true our larger bras Number of inches taken off British waistlines cost more money to make, and we felt it was right to reflect this in the prices we charged.
We were wrong, and have since reduced the 250,000 price of our larger bras by up to 2.
Left: Were famous for our shapewear, with our magic knickers taking 250,000 inches off the waistlines of British women last Christmas.
Our shapewear is obviously effective, but in 2009 10 well be focused on making it stylish and pretty too.
Lingerie value market share Lingerie: In an increasingly competitive market, M&S lingerie is still the UKs first choice.
Over the year we grew our value market 25.2% share to 25.2% from 24.8% and volume share to 19.1% from 0.4% pts 17.9%.
By reducing our lead times to just eight weeks we Lingerie volume market share have been able to stay a step ahead of the market and refresh 19.1% our ranges regularly.
This strategy will continue in 2009 10.
1.2% pts Our brands such as opaque tights where sales have BRAND FOCUS: LINGERIE The slogan Every Woman, Every Time grown by 50% on the year.
Hosiery is a continues to encapsulate our approach to proven key footfall driver, with customers ADORED CLASSIC, COMFORTABLE STYLES lingerie.
M&S remains a destination shop for buying stockings and tights likely to buy AUTOGRAPH HIGH QUALITY SOPHISTICATION BODY SOLUTIONS MODERN AND SLEEK every British womans lingerie needs: we sell something else while in-store.
CERISO TRENDY, FUN AND FLIRTY nearly two pairs of knickers every second: Newness LIMITED COLLECTION MIX & MATCH FASHION 28 million pairs of tights every year: and one PER UNA FEMININE AND PRETTY Over the past year we have worked with our in three British women wear an M&S bra.
manufacturers in Sri Lanka, China and Turkey We were also In Style magazines Best Shop to enable us to make bras in just eight weeks, for Lingerie in 2008. reducing a typical 20-plus week lead time.
We have continued to refresh and broaden This is a milestone for us, with the quicker our ranges during the year to ensure our brands turnaround time giving us greater flexibility to offer a well-balanced collection to suit different produce fashion-forward items, and respond needs and tastes.
As part of our segmentation to customer demand.
work we have reduced duplication and filled gaps in ranges.
By simplifying our lingerie Innovation offer, our branding now clearly signposts Cellulite-busting tights and a memory foam each collection.
bra are just two of the innovative additions Adored classic feminine styles in soft we made to our lingerie collection this year.
fabrics that offer exceptional comfort.
We will continue to innovate, taking a more Autograph a sophisticated collection that is rigorous and methodical approach so that beautifully designed and finished.
Body Solutions we phase-in key innovations on a quarterly modern and streamlined, this beautifully soft basis throughout the year.
Ceriso fun, Looking ahead flirty and inspired by catwalk trends.
Limited Our approach to lingerie is about being clear Collection fashionable styles and confident.
Attention will be focused on in stretchy fabrics designed for mixing and branding and segmentation, as well as value matching.
per una pretty everyday styles and availability, to ensure we have the right in soft fabrics and feminine colours.
125 YEARS OF QUALITY Availability Above: Vintage style During 2008 09 sales of the High sales volumes mean we have to manage teddy and corsetry rose as women and men rushed to buy into the trend for yesteryear fashion.
our stock tightly, ensuring we never sell-out of Luxurious silk bras and basques in feminine, key lines.
This is especially the case for products dusky shades, and beautiful champagne-coloured silk and lace pieces, flew off the shelves.
M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:45 Page 30 30 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Core UK business continued 125 YEARS OF QUALITY Right: High fashion, low price We continue to collaborate with designers to bring high fashion style to the High Street, including Jeffrey West shoes, and Mark Powells ready-to-wear suit.
In autumn 2008, Take That signed on as the face of our Autograph suit range, featuring designs by Savile Row tailor Timothy Everest.
Menswear value market share Menswear: We have retained our number one position in menswear in spite of challenging market conditions.
Volume market share fell 10.1% 0.2% to 12.9%, while value share was down 0.4% at 10.1%.
As in -0.4% pts womenswear we have continued to simplify our brands, so each Menswear volume market share is distinctive in its offer.
We know we have work to do to strengthen 12.9% our menswear business, which is why we have gone back to the things that make us a destination shop for our customers: value, -0.2% pts innovation and availability.
A clear offer 40% of menswear sales.
Aside from a desire BRAND FOCUS: MENSWEAR Our menswear customer is predominately to buy investment pieces, our male customer female, accounting for more than 60% of is almost always drawn to the best deal, AUTOGRAPH SHARP AND CONTEMPORARY sales, and influencing a further 34% of which is why our recent deals and offers in BLUE HARBOUR SMART BRANDED STYLES NORTH COAST CASUAL AND STYLISH purchases.
She buys on a needs basis and formalwear of a free shirt and tie with every COLLEZIONE WELL-CUT ITALIAN TAILORING wants to quickly find what she is looking for.
In response we have provided a clear menu Innovation of menswear brands and have a defined TM Whether it is our water repellent Stormwear strategy to take each of them forward over or our climate control underwear developed the coming year.
in conjunction with NASA, innovative products Autograph which offers sharper styles always sell well in menswear.
We have kitted and contemporary designs, will grow to out the British and Irish Lions in our new Ultimate include more casual separates.
We will also Suit for their tour of South Africa over the expand our Autograph Essentials offer of summer.
The suits use revolutionary technology footwear and underwear.
Blue Harbour will to ensure the pure wool jacket and trousers go back to its roots and deliver the smarter, keep their shape, the lining remains cool, the sharper clothes that the brand was originally exterior is water repellent, and the ties are famous for.
North Coast which sat under the stain resistant.
Blue Harbour umbrella, is now a standalone Additionally, the launch of our miracle brand.
We will continue to develop its casual no-crease linen, produced by our oldest look, with a very different signature style to textile supplier in Italy, proved the new and Blue Harbour.
Collezione offers classic old blend perfectly at M&S.
pieces in well-cut Italian fabrics.
We have identified a similar gap in our menswear offer Looking ahead as the one we saw in womenswear, which We are confident of the adjustments we are led to the launch of Portfolio.
To meet this making to our brands in menswear, and the need we will re-vamp Collezione to make first changes will be visible in stores by autumn it more appropriate for our 40 customers 2009.
Although the menswear market is and include more core classic items relatively small, with fewer players than the and coordinates.
womenswear market, we see an opportunity 125 YEARS OF VALUE to take a bigger share by growing our Above: Suitable style Style doesnt always cost, Value as the Scotland national football team proved.
They casualwear, footwear and accessories offer.
An expectation that M&S represents good value signed a two-year deal with M&S to kit them out off is core to the shopping decisions of our male the pitch their navy three button Ultimate Suit cost just 149 each.
customers, who account for the remaining M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:46 Page 31 31 125 YEARS OF TRUST 125 YEARS OF QUALITY Below: Growing up green As part of our Plan A Below: Kids with character Character clothing commitment we have expanded our offer to include such as Thomas the Tank Engine continues to be Fairtrade organic babygrows.
This year we will a best-seller in kidswear.
In the year ahead we will deliver an entire school uniform made out of expand our range to coincide with new films, recycled materials.
introducing Hello Kitty, Ben 10 and Transformers.
Kidswear value market share Kidswear: Last year we set out our long-term goal to win back our market leading position in kidswear.
In a tough economic 5.4% climate we have grown our market share to 5.4% by value, up 0.6% pts 0.6%pts, and to 5.9% by volume, up 0.7%pts, putting us fourth Kidswear volume market share in the market overall, the highest level in seven years.
When it 5.9% comes to children we are confident that we are reclaiming our position as the destination store for style, quality and value.
0.7% pts Brand clarity quality, or on our ethical standards.
Busy parents who do not have the time to Parents who want to pay a bit more can browse, tell us they want an easy layout and upgrade to our better range of uniforms, good product availability so they can quickly offering extra detailing, our innovative water TM pick up what they need.
As in womenswear repellent and stain resistant Stormwear, and menswear we have focused on making or blazers made from recycled bottles.
our brands clear and cutting out duplication.
M&S for all ages In kidswear our brands are: Our newborn range is selling well, standing Everyday Casualwear for wardrobe basics: us in good stead to build strong relationships 125 YEARS OF SERVICE Autograph for something a bit more special with parents as their children grow.
We are for boys and girls: and Limited for more Below: Cross-shopping Were making progress also working to deliver desirable clothing at in encouraging customers to not only shop within, fashionable items.
the other end of the age spectrum, and will but across departments, with parents now also buying toys, books and baby furniture.
The success Quality and style this year introduce tailoring for boys including of our schoolwear has also encouraged parents to We regularly run focus groups with children the first ever sixth form suit.
shop our Everyday Casualwear section.
and their parents to make sure we deliver Looking ahead exactly what they want.
In addition to the We know there is a strong opportunity for hard-wearing washable fabrics that parents continued growth across all ages, and we look for, fashion also plays a part.
Our kidswear will not be satisfied until we are back in the needs to be on-trend, as in womenswear and number one position.
We will build on menswear, with products in bright colours the achievements of the past year by putting with plenty of detail.
Newness or refreshed more emphasis on availability and by ranges are also important and we have improving our Essentials range of socks been working with our suppliers to ensure and underwear, as well as nightwear, footwear we get new products into store every month.
Kidswear will increasingly Value get more space in-store, and, since we Customers know M&S provides value that know time is precious for parents, we will they can trust.
This is clearly demonstrated improve our online offer to ensure access in schoolwear where we offer great value to the full range.
at a starting price point of 6.50 for an entire uniform, including a 100% cotton jumper, a BRAND FOCUS: KIDSWEAR polo shirt, and a crease resistant skirt or pair EVERYDAY CASUALWEAR SIMPLE BASICS of non-iron trousers.
As the UKs number AUTOGRAPH SPECIAL PIECES one schoolwear provider, we stand by our LIMITED CASUAL AND STYLISH commitment to never compromise on fit, M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:46 Page 32 32 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Core UK business continued 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION Left: Start from scratch The launch of Cook Asian 1234 bridges the gap between scratch cooking and prepared meals.
Customers can rustle up a fresh healthy meal for two for just 6.99, using four core products with a potential of 110 combinations.
Food: Over the last year we have concentrated on what M&S does best: offering our customers the very best quality food at outstanding value.
Although sales for the year were level at 4.25bn, the changes we have made to increase innovation, improve our on-shelf availability, and reduce our prices, whilst maintaining outstanding quality, are beginning to bear fruit and should continue to deliver improvements in the year ahead.
John Dixon Director of Food M&S has always been committed to offering Our customers know that all the food they UK Food sales the freshest, best quality food, with a buy from us is quality assured.
But we are 4.25bn particular focus on healthy eating, innovation constantly finding new ways to improve and ethical sourcing.
These values remain our offer.
All of our fresh beef, pork, chicken, Food value market share at the core of our business.
However, we turkey and salmon are already sourced in 3.9% recognised that against a background of the UK and this year we extended our sourcing unprecedented economic conditions on so that it is local to individual M&S stores.
-0.4% pts the High Street, we needed to give our For example we have just begun regional customers more of the products they sourcing of chicken for Scottish stores.
This strategy runs through the very heart The foundations we are putting in place in of a Food business that is founded on ethical our Food business will stand the test of time.
sourcing, the highest standards of products While economic conditions may dictate some and raw materials, provenance of its tactical decisions, they will be consistent with ingredients and supports British farmers.
That is why we are Our wine range is widely recognised as rebuilding M&S Food using the founding having improved significantly over the last principles of our business: Quality, Value, few years: work recognised in 2008 at the Service, Innovation and Trust.
most important and coveted industry awards.
M&S won both Supermarket of the Year and Quality Wine Merchant of the Year at the International M&S has always been synonymous with the Wine Challenge, and was voted Supermarket highest quality food.
It is our core point of of the Year by Decanter Wine Magazine.
Customers continue to recognise this.
For example in a Value 125 YEARS OF` VALUE recent Watchdog survey of more than 36,000 In a challenging market, outstanding value is Above: Pure and simple Our new Simply range of sandwiches launched in February with the 75p people, M&S came out top for quality food, a fundamental requirement for our customers.
We are listening and responding.
During the year we launched Top Marks During the course of the year we as a way of highlighting undertook a number of major pricing to customers those products initiatives as the first and most obvious that have been independently response to the economic climate.
Wise judged as being the best in Buys, Family Favourites for 4 and the the market.
Top Marks draw Dine in for two for 10 promotions work attention to products that have in combination to offer our customers the won awards, received positive chance to buy great food on a regular basis, press reviews, or have been independently and at outstanding value.
M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:46 Page 33 33 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION 125 YEARS OF VALUE Below: The real McCoy Were banishing the Below: Take the cake Sex and the City came to misconception that lambrusco is cheap, fizzy and the High Street in April with the launch of the M&S flavourless, having dragged that 70s favourite into cup cakes, which cost 2.99 for four.
Derived from grapes grown by the of cakes was the result of extensive tasting and Medici family in the Emilia Romagna region of research in New York.
northern Italy, our red lambrusco AutenticoReggiano Lambrusco is fuller in taste and goes well with our meaty Italian range.
The Wise Buys label is now on 500 Delivering great service is about ensuring everyday products some 10% of our customers have the right information to make food range from staples such as milk informed choices about the food they buy.
and eggs, to ready-meals such as This was highlighted by the National lasagne.
The competitive prices Consumer Council that recognised our reassure our customers that they efforts to help customers make an informed can economise at M&S, without choice about their diet, using the front of compromising on quality.
pack traffic light labelling on over 800 of our As the credit crunch worsened, we products, or choosing to eat our healthier recognised that people were likely to dine options, identified by the Eat Well sunflower.
out less and instead eat more from home.
Great service is also about reformulating In anticipation of this trend we introduced product recipes to improve health and quality, our Dine in for two for 10 promotion, where while reducing the levels of potentially harmful customers can enjoy a restaurant-quality or unhealthy ingredients.
For example, by three-course meal with wine.
The success working with the Hyperactive Childrens of Dine in is demonstrated by significant Society we have already removed artificial increases in footfall from both regular and colours and flavours from all our childrens occasional M&S customers.
As a result we product ranges.
This was so well received continue to look at new variations on the that we have extended this policy to cover same theme to deliver something special all of our food ranges, as well as removing such as Dine in for two for Valentines Day hydrogenated vegetable oils and continuing at 20, which included a red rose or the to make significant reductions in salt levels.
Dine in for four for Mothers Day at 15.
We use only free range eggs whether they Our business philosophy is that our are in their shells or as an ingredient in all our BRAND FOCUS: UK FOOD products should always be made with the other foods such as cakes and pasta.
So while we may In a significant step for the business, REGIONAL RANGES ITALIAN, INDIAN, CHINESE reduce the prices of products or deliver we initiated a trial of 350 branded food COOK!
SCRATCH COOKING unbeatable promotions, we will never products in North East England in July 2008.
COOK ASIAN 1234 FRESH AND EASY GASTROPUB HEARTY GOURMET FOOD compromise on the quality of the product.
The decision comes in direct response to COUNT ON US TASTY HEALTHY OPTIONS customer feedback that they wanted the Service convenience of picking up a jar of Marmite Over the last few months we have improved or tube of toothpaste with their regular PROMOTIONS FOCUS: UK FOOD on-shelf availability by restructuring and M&S shop.
The trial has been well received increasing the number of people in our WISE BUYS GREAT VALUE STAPLES by our customers and colleagues alike, FAMILY FAVOURITES CLASSIC BRITISH FOOD trading teams, so that there is a greater and was extended to 23 stores in the DINE IN A TREAT FOR TWO focus on getting the right products to the South East to further gauge customer right stores, to meet customer demand.
Selling these products increases We appreciate that every store is different customer convenience, and we plan to in terms of local customer preferences and update further on this trial later in 2009 10. we need to make sure we accommodate as many of these local tastes as possible.
However we still have significant work to do, with much of our future capital investment focused on system developments to further improve on-shelf availability and reduce food waste.
M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:46 Page 34 34 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Core UK business: Food continued 125 YEARS OF TRUST Below: Say cheese!
M&S won more than 400 dairy awards in 2008 09 including seven gold awards at the prestigious Nantwich Cheese Show.
125 YEARS OF M&S Innovation For example we won the 2008 RSPCA Innovation is fundamental to our Food Good Business Award for food and the Above: Food for thought We are celebrating our 125th anniversary with a collection of forgotten strategy.
We want to excite our customers 2008 Compassion in World Farming favourites perfect for afternoon tea.
Customers with new products and ranges, and Compassionate Supermarket of the Year can enjoy a slice of classic cakes such as Madeira encourage them to come back time and Award, for our commitment to animal and Cherry Genoa and a cup of special blend Gold Label tea.
In October 2008 we relaunched our Italian It is important that our customers trust 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION range, a clear example of M&S innovation M&S which is why we are as transparent as Below: Free range pasta Our new Italian range at its best.
Our team travelled to Italy to possible in our business dealings and our sticks to those values that our customers expect create the new range, which draws on local interaction with customers.
This goes to the from us, such as using free-range eggs in our pasta expertise, uses more authentic ingredients, heart of what we do: from clearly labelling and substituting fresh local UK produce wherever possible.
and goes back to traditional cooking methods our healthy eating products and nutritional and recipes.
The relaunch has been a great content of our products, to our supplier success with average growth of 15% on relationships.
We have established an the year.
in-house ethical supplier exchange where In March 2009 we launched two major we have trained over 1,000 suppliers on innovations: Cook Asian 1234 and Bakery our ethical standards.
Both of these ranges are first to We continue to support farmers with the the market and are showing impressive early M&S Milk Pledge, which in addition to paying sales.
Such is our confidence in these ranges farmers a fixed and industry leading price for that they have featured heavily in our recent their milk, rewards them for good performance television and poster advertising campaigns on animal welfare.
We have extended this as great examples of all that is good in our pledge to our lamb farmers and are working Food business.
to extend to farmers in other markets as We have long held a reputation for quickly as possible.
innovation, by improving on classic recipes Looking ahead as well as developing new ingredients.
Listening to our customers and responding Our Chopin potatoes are a great example of to their needs is central to our Food strategy.
We developed this new variety of potato Our renewed focus on our five principles to be naturally creamy in flavour, reducing the of Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and need to add butter, and securing it Product Trust will enable us to build on the progress 125 YEARS OF VALUE of the Year at the Annual Produce Grower made in the second half of 2008 09.
We are Right: Flower power Our M&S serene bouquet for of the Year Awards.
confident that we can strengthen our position 35 was rated the number one choice for Mothers Trust as the most trusted food retailer offering the Day by consumer watchdog Which.
co. uk The awards we have won in 2008 09 are a highest quality food, representing excellent testament to the quality of our product, the value for money for our customers.
consistency with which we approach our Food business, and therefore the trust our customers place in us.
M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:46 Page 35 35 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION Below: Sweet dreams We introduced two ranges of nursery furniture in January 2009 the Ruby and Oscar collections which consist of a cot bed, changing unit and double wardrobe.
UK Home sales Home: Our Home business remains one of the fastest growing parts of our Group and one we have identified as having even 471.3m higher growth potential.
Our trusted reputation saw new customers 1.1% gravitate to us during the year.
So although the economy presented challenging conditions, our sales were up 1.1% on the year, despite Easter falling into the 2009 10 financial year.
Improve dont move Expanding the range BRAND FOCUS: HOME Our customers trust the M&S brand, We continue to add new products and ranges particularly when buying investment pieces to our home offer as a way of introducing BEAUTY CROCKERY such as beds and sofas.
And in recent times, our brand to new customers.
This year FURNITURE GIFTS SOFT FURNISHINGS TECHNOLOGY as customers have tightened their belts and we launched nursery furniture, white goods the housing market has slowed, customers and M&S Energy.
have also increasingly turned to M&S for Beauty homeware.
We acknowledged this trend and Our Beauty business has long been known introduced our Improve Dont Move campaign.
for its quality make-up, fragrances and As a result sales of items such as crockery, toiletries in fact we sell 33 tonnes of cushions and soft furnishings were strong, Magnolia talcum powder every year.
We are with customers knowing they could buy now also establishing a name for ourselves well-priced and lasting pieces to spruce up as experts in skincare with M&S Formula their homes.
Instant Fix Midnight Beauty Cream short- 125 YEARS OF VALUE Our locations listed in the 2009 UK Beauty Awards for Below: M&S Energy Launched in October 2008, There are now 64 M&S stores that sell Best New Skincare Product.
At the same M&S Energy rewards customers with vouchers furniture but almost all of our 293 main time as innovating our ranges, we will also for reducing their energy consumption.
More than 65,000 accounts have already been opened with us.
chain-stores offer homeware and gifts.
be improving the position of our Beauty offer The number of furniture stores will increase in-store and further clarifying our brands of as part of our modernisation programme Autograph, Essential Colours, Formula, albeit at a slower rate, given our decision to Florentyna and per una.
Home will Looking ahead have more floor space in our new stores, We have a real opportunity to continue to with an example being Westfield in London.
Encouraging We are also opening more standalone greater shopping across departments by Home stores.
In March we opened Cardiff attracting food and clothing customers is Capital, the third standalone store and the an important part of our Home strategy first to include a food hall and 80-seater going forward, and something we will M&S Caf.
It joins our existing standalone achieve through our promotional plan home stores in Lisburn in Northern Ireland, and improved store layouts.
Also important and Barton Square in Manchester.
is the development of our website so we 125 YEARS OF TRUST We will continue to open more standalone can showcase our products online for Above: Plugged in Seven of the top 10 bestHome stores, with three planned this financial selling home products are bought in our technology those customers who cannot get to one year in Cheltenham, Tunbridge Wells and department.
