M&S p1 13. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:29 Page 1 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report 1 Our Plan for the future Overview by Sir Stuart Rose We have spent the last five years putting in place strong foundations in line with our long-term plan.
We have introduced new products and services in our core business of General Merchandise GM and Food, broadened our multichannel offer, expanded our international presence, improved our property portfolio, and put Plan A at the heart of our business.
We are not immune to the short-term impact of the recession Sir Stuart Rose Chairman and have had to take action to protect the strength of the balance sheet.
As a result we have cut the dividend by 20.9%.
While this was a difficult decision for the Board, we believe it is the right thing to do for two main reasons: because economic conditions remain uncertain, and because of the need for us to retain financial strength and flexibility.
Throughout the year we have prudently managed costs and continued our investment in our systems and supply chain so we can improve efficency across the business.
We also responded to the changing needs of our customers by improving our values without compromising on quality: something we view as short-term pain for long-term gain.
As well as helping us through these tough conditions, these steps will enable us to take advantage of the opportunities that lie ahead and maximise value for our shareholders.
With a strong brand, the right products and an experienced management team, we are now: Increasing the pace of change and operational execution in the business: Leveraging M&S Direct by building more channels to market: Building our international portfolio to grow our global customer base: and Reinvigorating our brand communications.
In addition to leading M&S successfully through the recession, another of my priorities is to ensure there is a strong management team in place and an appropriate succession plan for the business.
As we celebrate our 125th anniversary we do so with an unrivalled reputation for Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust.
These core values are as important today as they ever have been.
They are all about doing the right thing which is, quite simply, how we do business.
M&S p1 13. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:29 Page 2 2 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Chairmans overview continued The year at a glance During the year we acted decisively to meet the challenges of the global economic downturn, taking steps to manage costs tightly and respond quickly to the changing needs of our customers.
Our adjusted profits are down 40.0% on last year to 604.4m.
This is due in part to conditions on the High Street as well as our conscious decision to improve our value, without compromising our 125 YEARS OF SERVICE quality.
We have built unrivalled trust in the M&S brand over the last Above: Florence Chittick has spent her entire 125 years, and will not sacrifice our core principles when times get tough.
working life at our flagship Marble Arch store in Clothing is our customers biggest discretionary purchase and as the London.
In 47 years shes seen recessions, watched our customers grow up from children UKs leading clothing retailer, with the largest market share, it was into adults and in the 1970s worked alongside our Chairman, Sir Stuart Rose.
inevitable that demand would ease off as customers reined in their spending.
Although value market share is marginally down from 11.0 to When I joined M&S, then Chairman Marcus Sieff told me I was now part of the family.
10.7%, we have held our volume market share at 11.2%.
We believe this He was absolutely right and every day Im is evidence that Kate Bostock and her team are in tune with our customer reminded of that when I come into work.
Having started at a time when we didnt have base see page 26. fitting rooms, when the food hall was just a You will see from John Dixons review of our Food business on page small room at the back of the building, and when all of our sales were done over the 32 that we are now back on track after a challenging period at the start counter, Ive seen Marks grow and grow.
John became Director of Food in July 2008 and Ive worked every department in the store, so there are always a lot of familiar faces immediately started to address our prices, innovation levels and as our loyal customers keep coming back.
With a clear mandate for growth, John and his team are Every day still brings new challenges, so Ill be here for quite some time yet.
returning to our brand values of Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust.
Early signs show that this is working, with the rate of decline in our Florence Chittick, Womenswear Section Manager, Marble Arch UK like-for-like sales improving quarter to quarter.
Our Home, International and M&S Direct businesses continue to be growth areas in a challenging year, with International and M&S Direct forming key platforms for our future growth plans.
M&S Direct had a good year, with sales up 19.0%, reflecting new initiatives including an online wine club and international delivery.
Our International business reported growth of 25.9% following the ongoing integration of our subsidiary partners.
125 YEARS OF QUALITY 1958 We sold our first Christmas pudding in 1929 We first started selling 1958 and now sell around 1.6 million each sandwiches from the ice cream year as well as 4 million Christmas cakes.
counters in our stores in 1929.
Today the nations favourite is prawn mayonnaise.
Sandwiches that is, not ice cream.
M&S p1 13. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:29 Page 3 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION This page: Womenswear In the last quarter of 2008 09, we enticed an additional 200,000 under- 35s into store, with the majority drawn to our high fashion brand Limited Collection.
200,000 M&S p1 13. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:30 Page 4 125 YEARS OF TRUST This page: Menswear We offer four menswear brands everything from a 4 pack of pants to a 499 luxury suit.
4 to 499 M&S p1 13. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:30 Page 5 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report 5 Chairmans overview continued Context, progress, and new challenges It is five years since I returned to M&S as Chief Executive.
At the time the business was suffering from a lack of investment and offering poor value, innovation and styling.
The Board charged the management team and me with reshaping the business and making it relevant for the 21st Century.
Specifically we were to: Defend the business from an unwelcome takeover advance: 125 YEARS OF SERVICE Above: Andy East New to M&S, Andy East is on Make the business relevant for the 21st Century: the Business Placement Programme for university students, and is meeting more people than he ever Develop the management team: thought possible.
I must meet a thousand people every day.
Articulate a strategy for the future: Working in the menswear department you get chatting with people buying a suit for a Initiate the strategy: and job interview or picking out clothes for their holiday.
I enjoy hearing their stories and Effect a seamless transition to new leadership in an appropriate timescale.
Andy East, Trainee Manager Over the past five years we have invested heavily in the business and re-established our value credentials.
As a result we have grown market share by both value and volume, and our brand is back in the hearts and minds of our customers.
In short, M&S is back on the map and well positioned to emerge stronger from the downturn.
Our priorities Managing through the recession Although we have achieved much over the last few years, the process Retain our market leading position in GM we started in 2004 is not yet finished.
The pace of change and growth Improve our performance in Food has been slowed by the recession, and it is still unclear how much longer the recession has to run but it will end.
Our overriding priority now is to Drive our International business lead the business through the recession, while continuing to invest for the Optimise margins and tightly control costs long term.
In November 2008 we put in place six priorities see left to do this.
Maintain a strong balance sheet Ian covers our balance sheet in detail later, but I would l like to focus on what we have done to retain our leading position in GM and improve our Uphold high ethical standards Food business, by focusing on value, and on some of the difficult decisions around costs.
I would also like to cover the trust with which our customers reward us for upholding high ethical standards in the way we do business.
125 YEARS OF INNOVATION 1970 Weve always believed fresh is best.
1972 We launched a major Thats why we introduced sell-by dates on fresh chicken advertising our food in 1970.
But as we were years ahead campaign that included a of the government and other retailers, the idea television commercial as well took some explaining.
Our Sell-By PR campaign as newspaper advertisements helped to establish using the slogan: Remember the idea in the public when chicken used to taste consciousness.
M&S p1 13. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:30 Page 6 6 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Chairmans overview continued Improving our value In 2008 09 we continued to focus on getting the basics right in GM and Food, and also addressed customers financial concerns.
As the economy worsened, we made a deliberate decision to invest in our prices, reviewing all of them to ensure we were delivering the very best quality at unbeatable value.
In GM we sharpened our opening price points and introduced new promotions such as the One Day Christmas Spectaculars and Dress for Less: while in Food we introduced 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION a series of permanent good value options such as Wise Buys and Family Above: Scotbeef Family business Scotbeef has Favourites for 4 as well as key promotions such as the popular Dine in worked with M&S for 47 years.
Since introducing for Two for 10.
The result is that we have given our customers better canned corned beef in 1962 weve grown together to the point where today we provide some 50% value without sacrificing our quality or ethical credentials, a fact reflected of the UKs fresh Aberdeen Angus beef.
in a gradually improving business performance towards the end of the After so many years, we still enjoy working financial year.
with the M&S team to find new ways of doing business.
This involves everything from Managing costs We are continuing to invest despite the recession.
working closely with our farmers to sample up to 20 steaks a week so we can select the But we also recognise that we have to balance the long-term strategy very best breeds, to recently seeing the launch with the short-term need to manage the business through the downturn of our exclusive M&S Cornish Cruncher cheese-filled burgers.
Its great to be part of by being prudent where necessary.
the innovation process and to know what an We worked closely with our employee representative groups to manage important role we play in providing the quality products M&S customers have come to love the closure of 26 under-performing mostly Simply Food stores and to and expect.
reduce roles across Head Office at the start of 2009.
Robbie Galloway, Managing Director of Scotbeef.
At the same time we looked carefully at our final salary pension scheme, which is a substantial cost to the Company.
It became clear that we needed to reduce costs so that we could secure long-term sustainability for the schemes 21,000 members.
We therefore decided to cap the level of pay increases which count towards pensions and change the formula for early retirement reductions.
Our staff understood that this was the right thing to do in order to protect the scheme, and were quick to adopt the changes.
Ian will explain the pension changes as well as other cost management measures more fully on page 14.
Trust Although the downturn has put household budgets under pressure, we believe our customers do not want low prices at the expense of quality or ethics.
Our research also shows that customers are no longer accepting green marketing at face value.
They are challenging companies to deliver on their promises so that they can be sure that they have made the right choices for their families.
125 YEARS OF SERVICE 1870 1910 During this time, products were 1932 Queen Mary visited the Marble Arch displayed behind counters, so customers often felt store and the following day an article in the obliged to buy once theyd asked to look at a product The Times noted that shed purchased an or try it on.
We introduced Admission Free signs to Axminster rug, a leather handbag, a willow make customers feel more pattern teapot and a 21-piece tea service.
comfortable about browsing, which proved a successful tactic and encouraged more impulse buys.
M&S p1 13. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:30 Page 7 125 YEARS OF INNOVATION This page: Food The relaunch of our Italian range is one of the clearest examples of innovation at its best, with average growth of 15% on the year.
15% M&S p1 13. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:30 Page 8 8 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report 125 YEARS OF VALUE This page: Kidswear In just a year we have grown our market share in kidswear by 0.6% pts, putting us fourth in the market the highest level in seven years.
0.6% pts M&S p1 13. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:30 Page 9 9 Chairmans overview continued We launched Plan A in January 2007 because we believed that all businesses have to take action to reduce their environmental and social impact.
Plan A was not a new idea but a continuation of the culture that has existed in our business for 125 years.
Our customers have always trusted us to make the right decisions on product sourcing and manufacturing, and to treat our 78,000 staff and over 2,000 suppliers fairly.
It gives us a true point of difference in a crowded market place, and now more than ever it is what our customers have come to expect.
125 YEARS OF INNOVATION We are not put off by the short-term impact of the recession.
We set Above: Manor Fresh Every fresh M&S spud ourselves 100 rigorous commitments as part of Plan A, and have achieved whether a jacket, new, Jersey or organic potato 39 with 24 of them now going even further.
In addition to being the right is provided by Manor Fresh.
With partners dotted across the UK, Manor Fresh gets our new potatoes thing to do, these commitments are generating cost savings across the into store faster than anyone else.
They have business that we can invest back into our prices.
extended our UK growing seasons, introduced new varieties, improved taste and reduced food Planning beyond the recession miles, all in line with our rigorous Field to Fork farming standards.
As I have already outlined, the recession has given us the opportunity to reAward-winning grower Steven Jack, supplies examine our plan.
We have therefore completed a review of where we are all M&S Scottish stores with his new potatoes in season.
He says: and what we need to do to deliver a step-change in the way we service our customers needs and in the way in which we operate our business.
We are: M&S has inspired us to really push the boundaries of traditional farming.
It feels good Increasing the pace of change and operational execution in the business: to get out of bed each day knowing that we are doing the right thing by the land, and are such a big part of bringing fresh veg to Accelerating towards becoming a multi-channel retailer, focusing all millions of British households.
our actions on the customer, whichever channel they wish to use: Steven Jack, Award-winning potato grower Driving our International business, particularly China, India and Southern and Eastern Europe, balancing investment and returns: and Reinvigorating our brand communication with our customers, highlighting our ethical and sustainability objectives.
In order to drive this process, we have launched a change programme under the banner 2020 Doing the Right Thing.
Ian Dyson will be responsible for the delivery of this programme across all areas of the business, supported by Kate Bostock, John Dixon, Steve Rowe and Tanith Dodge.
We are bringing our GM businesses together, and as a result Home will now report to Kate Bostock.
M&S Direct will report to Steve Rowe, enabling us to consolidate all customer channels under one person.
The changes mean we require someone to focus exclusively on growing our International business moving forward.
Regrettably Carl Leaver has decided he will not continue in this role.
We wish him the best in his future endeavours.
125 YEARS OF INNOVATION 1953 We launched the first 1970s The fashion for micro mini-skirts ever high street petite range led to adults buying childrens skirts For the Shorter Woman to achieve the right length.
in 1953 following research Within a week a number which showed that the of M&S stores sold out majority of women were of a seasons worth of a shorter than the accepted childrens kitts most of average of 5'5''.
which were purchased by women.
