M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:47 Page 38 38 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report How are we expanding our International business?
3 M&S International sales M&S International: In 2007 08 we announced our plan to grow our International business to between 15 to 20% of total Group 897.8m revenues by 2012.
Our strategy remains unchanged, although we 25.9% are adapting our plans as the economy dictates.
We are on course M&S International as a share of Group revenue to reach our target, with sales up 25.9%.
9.9% 2.0% pts Our plan a 40,000 sq ft flagship store in Shanghai.
There are five key elements to our We plan to grow our International selling International growth strategy: space by 20% next year with around 50 new stores opening across Europe, the Middle Growing our equity partnerships in line with East and India.
our revised business model: Improving operations Expanding our footprint into new markets During the year we also made significant and within markets where we already operate: changes to our operational model so that we Achieving operational excellence: can do business more efficiently.
The launch of our International Range Planner is the result Driving brand integrity and awareness: and of a years work and will revolutionise the Finding innovative ways to grow our food offer.
way we approach range buying and store cataloguing globally.
We know that it is never a case of one size fits all, and are confident these Our business model changes will ensure we accurately stock the 125 YEARS OF QUALITY In 2007 08 we made significant changes sizes and styles appropriate for customers in Right: Local tastes Customers across the globe to our business ownership model.
cant get enough of our redcurrant puffs a popular expansion in previous years has been Our International supply chain now includes pastry in the Asian market.
primarily through franchising, we are now regional hubs in Hong Kong, Singapore, placing a stronger emphasis on expanding Sri Lanka and Istanbul.
These changes make through partly-owned subsidiaries and on a distribution more efficient and cost-effective, wholly-owned basis.
Expanding in this way helping us get the latest trends into our has proved successful in emerging markets, international stores more quickly.
125 YEARS OF INNOVATION where our subsidiaries in Southern and Additionally, we are in the process of Below: Plan A-rt In July 2008 we launched Plan A Eastern Europe performed well for the year.
Working with WWF, the Hong Kong implementing a new SAP finance and We also continue to run a thriving franchise Youth Arts Foundation and a number of celebrities, operating system in China and Hong Kong, we created five innovative art pieces representative business, which gives us further flexibility which will be rolled-out through the rest of of the five pillars of Plan A. to select the most appropriate model on our International business, improving a market-by-market basis.
effectiveness through better management Expanding our footprint information and new processes.
As in the We opened 32 new stores during the year UK it will support our teams in delivering taking our total International store count improved supplier management.
Now in 40 territories, we have The Far East continued our strategy of closing smaller There are clear signs that the economic stores to concentrate our efforts on premium downturn is being felt in Asia.
This means we now have a total our Shanghai store is performing well, of 3.3m sq ft in our International portfolio, following some early problems importing including new stores in Libya, Montenegro, food, which were quickly resolved.
and most notably in China where we opened M&S p26 47. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:48 Page 39 39 Our International operations Mediterranean and Islands Southern and Eastern Europe 21 stores Including a new store 136 stores in Marbella 23 stores opened in the region Ireland and Channel Islands 28 stores 1 new store in 2008 09 Far East Middle East 76 stores 20 stores Flagship store in Shanghai 3 new stores opened in 2008 09, opened in August 2008 with 4 planned in 2009 10 Indian subcontinent 14 stores Other: Bermuda First non-franchised store opened in Mumbai in April 2009 1store We will continue to grow in a measured way, remained tough as a result of worsening learning from each market before ramping up economic conditions.
We are adapting our ranges, Indian subcontinent introducing smaller sizes in womenswear As reported last year, while we have traded in and shorter shirt sleeves in menswear, as India for a number of years through a franchise we do in Hong Kong.
agreement, in view of the long-term Our strategy requires us to make tough opportunity, we set out to find a partner who commercial decisions and be disciplined.
could help us grow in the market.
In April 2008 While we are expanding in China, earlier in the 125 YEARS OF QUALITY we formed a 51:49 subsidiary with Reliance year we closed our stores in Taiwan where our Above: Shanghai store Trading over four floors, Retail and on 31 March 2009 acquiring trial did not perform to a level that warranted our Shanghai store has one of the widest food Supreme Tradelinks, our former franchise ranges of M&S International stores, with 1,000 lines further investment.
In April 2009 including a full wine shop, grocery products and Elsewhere the response to lower pricing frozen lines.
we opened a new store in Mumbai.
We remain gives cause for encouragement, despite on track to open 10 to 15 stores within the trading conditions.
Our franchise businesses next two years.
in Indonesia and Thailand in particular have seen very positive growth.
Middle East The Middle East bucked the general trend, Southern and Eastern Europe and performed strongly through the year.
The market in Eastern Europe traded well Conditions have worsened recently but a up to last summer but softened in patches phased opening programme of four new large thereafter.
Our strongest market was Russia, stores will ensure that the business continues where we opened four new stores, and to grow through 2009 10. achieved high like-for-like sales growth.
The Czech Republic and Poland also held up Mediterranean well, although have softened since Christmas.
Our franchise partner in Gibraltar is opening In October we brought the Polish franchise a 10,000 sq ft store in Marbella, selling the business into our Czech subsidiary for 1.9m.
full range of M&S clothing, as well as We opened two stores in Poland, five stores homeware and food.
The store, which in the Czech Republic, and three in Slovakia will service the large expatriate community, during the year.
We have made strong operational Looking ahead 125 YEARS OF QUALITY improvements in Greece with our subsidiary The bursting of the property bubble and a Below: Chilled to frozen During the year we partner Marinopoulos Group.
We have weak pound will benefit our International introduced our ready-meals to 27 of our International improved the breadth of our ranges and stores.
The meals are especially frozen and include business.
This means that in the short term lowered prices as well as instigated plans Chicken Kiev and our chocolate melting middle we will continue to secure stores on more to tighten up supply chain performance.
We are now extending the range and favourable rental terms, extending our the number of countries stocking these products.
These actions have helped mitigate against footprint at comparatively reasonable costs.
the weak consumer market and the impact Most of our overseas businesses buy from of recent unrest in Athens, as well as support us in sterling, which makes products cheaper the growing business with six new stores for them, so they can pass that saving on opened during the year.
As in the UK our long-term Ireland and the Channnel Islands plan will be flexed to accommodate the In the Republic of Ireland, one of our most changing market environment.
extensive overseas markets, we opened a 14,000 sq ft store in Killarney, taking the total portfolio to 18.
