M&S p14 25. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:33 Page 22 22 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Our marketplace Consumer confidence index 10 Right: Consumer confidence The consumer 5 confidence index is at its lowest level since 0 records began.
Jun 01 Sep 01 Dec 01 Mar 02 Jun 02 Sep 02 Dec 02 Mar 03 Jun 03 Sep 03 Dec 03 Mar 04 Jun 04 Sep 04 Dec 04 Mar 05 Jun 05 -5 -10 -15 -20 -25 -30 -35 -40 Source: Gfk Consumer Confidence March 2009 -45 Overview We believe in giving our customers what they want and that means anticipating different trends as well as recognising and reacting to broader external issues such as the economy.
By doing this we keep half a step ahead of our customers, any more and we will be too far ahead, any less and we would be running to catch up.
Striking this delicate balance is considered so important at M&S that we set up a dedicated team of people to do just that.
MARKET FOCUS: M&S RESPONSE Since 1999 the Customer Insight Unit CIU has been tracking trends in Above: Portfolio fronted by Marie Helvin the marketplace.
With the analysis it produces through research, market is designed for our core customer.
data and by evaluating customer behaviour it informs and influences decisions within the business.
For example through talking to our older female customers the CIU was able to identify a gap in our current offer and pin-point what we needed to do to fill it.
By determining exactly what this customer wanted stylish, flattering and smart co-ordinates the CIU could then brief our womenswear team, who responded, and our new Portfolio collection was born.
The following piece distils some of what the CIU has been telling us about the marketplace.
With the insight it provides, we can continue to deliver everything that goes into creating Your M&S.
Clothing The clothing market faced a difficult year.
In this highly competitive sector several factors are driving shopping trends on the High Street.
Older customers, who are more cautious about spending, are increasingly buying on a needs basis or replacing staples with investment MARKET FOCUS: M&S RESPONSE pieces.
They are looking for clothing that lasts beyond the current season, which can be dressed up or down and accessorised.
Above: Something for everyone from 5 pairs of socks for 3.50 to a 499 luxury wool Additionally, the economic climate has forced customers to consider suit.
We have listened to our customers carefully before buying, prompting retailers to introduce promotions and concerns about budgets and have re-evaluated our value ranges and introduced clear pricing discounts to entice them in, especially during Christmas.
This resulted in points to direct customers to the price bracket that best suits them.
When appropriate we customers widening their store choice so they could cherry pick the best have introduced promotions on some lines offers, and use deals to trade up to better quality items for less money.
such as a free shirt and tie with a suit and discounted others.
All without compromising Under-35 customers are more unpredictable in their approach to on the high quality and stylish ranges that are spending.
While spending initially slowed at the start of 2008 09, they synonymous with our brand.
quickly returned to the impulse shopping that characterised their spending before the credit crunch.
They tend to buy for the moment and gravitate to cheap fashion items cutting back spending in other parts of their lives so they can afford to shop.
M&S p14 25. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:33 Page 23 23 Sep 03 Dec 03 Mar 04 Jun 04 Sep 04 Dec 04 Mar 05 Jun 05 Sep 05 Dec 05 Mar 06 Jun 06 Sep 06 Dec 06 Mar 07 Jun 07 Sep 07 Dec 07 Mar 08 Jun 08 Sep 08 Dec 08 Mar 09 Home The general slowdown in the housing market and a freeze in mortgage lending have prevented people from moving, encouraging them to make the most of their current homes.
This has led to many High Street closures which further impacted on consumer confidence.
So while spending on big ticket items such as furniture and white goods has fallen, there has been a marked rise in home improvements goods to spruce up the home.
Entertainment goods such as televisions, laptops and video gaming consoles sold well in 2008 09, reinforcing the trend to stay in although in the early months of 2009 10 many retailers have reported a softening of sales in this category.
Food Customers are experimenting with food shopping both in terms of the supermarkets where they shop and the type of food that is bought.
They are relying on supermarkets to guide them to smart choices and to clearly offer unbeatable value.
This desire for low cost food has spurred many supermarkets to reposition themselves as discount providers seducing customers with one-off offers or multi-buys.
Key trends include: Customers trading down either to a different supermarket, or switching to own label or value ranges within their favoured supermarket.
Rising raw material costs are filtering through to the supermarkets with price inflation now being passed on to customers.
Customers are attempting to MARKET FOCUS: M&S RESPONSE off-set this through clever shopping, by making use of deals.
Top: Our Improve Dont Move campaign Customers are treating themselves less.
When they do, they are seeking was a direct response to the housing market slowdown, and provided a strong uplift to core out comfort food, or they are indulging in restaurant quality ready meals.
Cooking from scratch has become increasingly popular as a way to enjoy Above: Our Wise Buys label is now on more great food at home and to budget more effectively.
than 500 products, from ready meals to fresh fruit and veg, so our customers can economise not compromise.
Online Although online continues to be a key growth area for retailers, conversion rates slowed during the year, with customers increasingly using websites to browse and look for a bargain.
To convert these browsers to buyers, online retailers offered free delivery and online deals.
Websites continued to evolve, to satisfy customer demands for a more personal and engaging experience.
Established players are being challenged by specialist players such as ASOS and Net-a-Porter that sell well-known brands.
