REAL ALE | REAL QUALITY | REAL WELCOME CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED Alcohol awareness our responsibility Community The Group is a longstanding member of the British Beer and Pub The Group is committed to being an active and positive Association BBPA, and both Marstons Inns and Taverns and contributor to the communities it serves.
Marstons Pub Company are associate members of the Portman Group and are committed to complying with the provisions of Each year our licensed retail managers, pub staff and tenants its code of practice, full details of which can be found on The raise significant amounts of money for many different charitable Portman Group website.
causes through local pub based activity and contributions from the Marstons Inns and Taverns Charitable Foundation.
Marstons The Group also supports both the Drinkaware Trust and the Beer Company makes prize donations for charitable activities industrys own alcohol awareness campaign.
This Campaign for run by its free trade customers.
Our head office team support Smarter Drinking represents a 5-year 100 million commitment charitable causes via donations and raffle prizes and during to funding the responsible drinking message by the industry and 2008 9 over 40 good causes benefited from donations from has the support of over 45 industry organisations.
either this fund or the Marstons Inns and Taverns Charitable Foundation.
Our promotional material carries a clear and concise message encouraging the responsible consumption of alcohol: on our Our employees also run their own Marstons Employee Charity bottles and cans we provide information about the alcohol content Fund, which we are proud to support.
This fund is run by of the product concerned.
Marstons Pedigree was the first beer employees for employees and in the last 12 months the fund has brand to include a responsible drinking message in its television donated over 9,000 to a range of local good causes nominated advertising, something that the rest of the sector has been quick by our employees.
Ethical purchasing The Company continues its association with the BII and the As a responsible employer we have a duty to support and Schools Project Partnership as the first Core Partner of the encourage a responsible purchasing policy for all of our goods Schools Hospitality Partnership, a nationwide programme to bring and services.
As a minimum, all of our purchasing professionals alcohol awareness web based teaching aids to secondary schools abide by the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supplys across the country.
Further information can be found at www.
CIPS Professional Code of Ethics Statement.
requires purchasing professionals to have due regard for their responsibilities in respect of a whole range of issues and full Responsible retailing details of the code can be found on the CIPS website.
In support The Company has made a significant investment in e-learning of our commitment to this code of practice, we also subscribe to tools which all pub staff joining Marstons Inns and Taverns must the European Eco Management and Audit Scheme EMAS.
complete and a core part of this programme is the identification of potential underage drinkers.
Marstons Pub Company runs a The Group Director of Purchasing is responsible for the customised drinks and drugs awareness programme, which our implementation and monitoring of the Groups ethical lessees and tenants are actively encouraged to attend and have purchasing policy.
produced checklists to assist them in ensuring they adopt a best practice approach to running their businesses.
The Company actively supports the Challenge 21 initiative in both its managed and leased pub estate and maintains close links with licensing and other enforcement bodies to help ensure that our pubs operate in a responsible and considerate manner.
Much of the advice and support we offer our tenants and lessees is also made available to our customers in the free trade.
In particular we have worked closely with the England and Wales Cricket Board, developing a Drink within your Boundaries campaign in support of their responsible retailing activities.
Kitchen at the Spread Eagle, Gailey.
| MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2009 24 | 25 Our largest production sites at Wolverhampton and Burton Environmental impact and use of natural comply with the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control resources IPPC standards as regulated by the Environment Agency.
The Group produces an annual Environmental Report which The IPPC Permit is issued by the Environment Agency once a explains the impacts which the Group has in terms of energy year and allows the site to process, ferment and package beer and resource consumption, emissions and waste.
The Permit sets out the authorised Environmental Report is available on the Companys website emissions to the air and sewers, and the controls expected to www.
co. uk together with the Groups Environmental reduce any environmental impact.
As part of the brewing industrys climate change agreement the Our business both pubs and breweries impacts on the Group is committed to reducing our emissions by increasing environment and local communities in a number of ways by: the efficiency of our operations.
This includes meeting energy efficiency targets which are split between the breweries as Q Use of raw materials and agricultural products follows: Wolverhampton brewery must increase its efficiency by Q Use of energy gas, electricity, fuel and water 32% from 1999 levels, Burton by 51% and Cockermouth by Q Emission of greenhouse gases, odours and noise 2% all by 2010.
The targets should produce an overall saving of Q Transportation, delivery and distribution of our products around 12,089 tonnes CO based on 1999 production volumes.
2 and employees Q Packaging waste bottles, card, plastic, food waste, spent During 2009 Marstons Inns and Taverns has introduced an grains and waste yeast Environment Management System EMS to be applied to all its Q Production, disposal, collection and processing of our waste pubs.
Electricity meters have been installed to take automatic solids and effluents readings in nearly all the managed pubs and electricity gas usage is tracked monthly by the inclusion of these figures in each pubs Of these six areas we have identified that our largest operating results.
The business is therefore well prepared for the environmental impacts are in the areas of energy consumption, Carbon Reduction Commitment which is the mandatory emissions water usage and waste, and we have prioritised the management trading scheme starting in 2010 that aims to improve energy of these accordingly.
efficiency and reduce CO emissions.
2 Environmental data The levels of waste produced by the Group are described in the Unit 2009 2008 2009 Environmental Report.
The majority of waste produced by the brewing process is recycled.
Some of the waste from brewing Consumption usage such as malt and hops is recycled as animal feed, whilst other Gas GWH 159.7 163.5 waste such as glass, metal, cardboard, paper and polythene after Electricity GWH 89.8 93.2 3 presorting are recycled through contractors.
Water breweries 000 M 660.8 698.0 Fossil fuel diesel 000 gallons 526.9 557.1 Emissions CO 000 tonnes 78.9 83.4 2 Company car fuel usage is not currently measured and is excluded from the calculation of carbon dioxide emissions and fuel usage.
The fuel figures shown are for the distribution fleet.
In the 2009 Environmental Report the Group explains its environmental impact in depth and publishes figures for energy consumption for the Group as well as emission volumes of carbon dioxide from fossil fuel consumption electricity, gas and transport fuel distribution fleet.
The only greenhouse gas directly produced by the brewing process in significant volume is carbon dioxide.
The report also sets out the efficiency ratios achieved by The Company was admitted into the FTSE4Good Index in our operations at each brewing site in terms of carbon dioxide September 2007.
Inclusion within the index is dependent upon emitted per tonne of product and water consumption per barrel achieving an expected standard in corporate responsibility as of product.
well as taking into account our policy towards monitoring and targeting reductions in environmental impacts.
This is challenging, not least because the criteria continues to evolve to reflect responsible business practices around the world.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS PERFORMANCE CORPORATE AND SOCIAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE DIRECTION RESPONSIBILITY REPORT REAL ALE | REAL QUALITY | REAL WELCOME DIRECTORS & ADVISERS 1.
STEPHEN OLIVER ADVISERS CHAIRMAN MANAGING DIRECTOR, MARSTONS Joined the Company in 1977 and BEER COMPANY Registrar and transfer office appointed to the Board in 1980.
Appointed Joined the Company on the acquisition Equiniti Registrars, Aspect House, Managing Director in 1986, Chairman of Marston, Thompson & Evershed and Spencer Road, Lancing, in 2001 and Non Executive Chairman became Managing Director of Marstons West Sussex, BN99 6DA in 2002.
He is a non executive director Pub Company on his appointment to Shareholder queries: 0870 600 3970 of Persimmon PLC, Tribal Group PLC, the Board in 2001.
co. uk Caledonia Investments PLC and Smiths Managing Director of Marstons Beer Flour Mills Limited.
He is Chief Executive Company.
He is a Trustee of the Burton of Anglia Maltings Holdings Ltd and an Breweries Charitable Trust.
Auditors executive Director of Ragleth Ltd.  LLP, 7.
NEIL GOULDEN 19 Cornwall Street, Birmingham, B3 2DT 2.
RALPH FINDLAY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CHIEF EXECUTIVE Appointed to the Company in April Merchant bankers Appointed to the Board as Finance 2008.
He is Executive Chairman of the NM Rothschild & Sons Limited, Director in 1996 becoming Chief Gala Coral Group Limited, Chairman of New Court, St Swithins Lane, London, Executive in 2001.
He previously worked the South Central Ambulance Service EC4P 4DU as Financial Controller at Geest plc and NHS Trust and a member of the Low Treasury Manager at Bass plc.
Formerly held Board Solicitors positions at Ladbrokes PLC, The Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, Compass Group PLC, Chef and Brewer 3.
ANDREW ANDREA 65 Fleet Street, London, EC4Y 1HS and Allied Leisure PLC.
FINANCE DIRECTOR Joined the Company in 2002 as 8.
MILES EMLEY Wragge & Co LLP, 55 Colmore Row, Divisional Finance Director for Marston s NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Beer Company and in 2006 he became Birmingham, B3 2AS Appointed to the Company in 1998.
Operations Director for Marston s Pub He is Chairman of St Ives PLC.
He was appointed to the Board Stockbrokers Director of NM Rothschild & Sons as Finance Director in March 2009.
A RBS Hoare Govett Ltd, Limited and UBS Phillips and Drew.
qualified Chartered Accountant, he has 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA previously worked in various financial and commercial roles with Guinness Brewing 9.
ROSALIND CUSCHIERI JP Morgan Cazenove Ltd, Worldwide, Bass Brewers Limited and NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 20 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6DA Dolland and Aitchinson.
Appointed to the Company in October 2006.
She is Commercial Director of 4.
DEREK ANDREW MBE Warburtons Limited.
She was previously responsible for the off trade category MANAGING DIRECTOR marketing with Scottish and Newcastle plc.
MARSTONS INNS AND TAVERNS REGISTERED OFFICE Joined the Company in 1980.
ROBIN HODGSON THE LORD range of managerial positions within the Marstons House, Brewery Road, Company including Managing Director HODGSON OF ASTLEY ABBOTS Wolverhampton, WV1 4JT of Camerons Brewery Company before CBE Telephone: 01902 711811 being appointed to the Board in 1994.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR He became Managing Director of Appointed to the Company in 2002.
He Marstons Inns and Taverns in 2001 and is Chairman and Director of Nova Capital in the same year was awarded a MBE for Group Limited, Johnson Brothers & Co services to the community and industry.
Limited, Tenet Group Limited, EIS Optics Limited and RFIB Group Limited.
ANNE-MARIE BRENNAN MANAGING DIRECTOR, MARSTONS COMPANY SECRETARY PUB COMPANY Joined the Company in 1997 and Appointed to the Board in 2003 on his appointed Company Secretary in 2004. appointment as Managing Director of Marstons Beer Company.
In 2008 he became Managing Director of Marstons Pub Company.
During the year he was Member of the Remuneration and Audit Committees Chairman of the All Party Parliamentary Member of the Nomination Committee Beer Group Steering Committee.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS & ADVISERS PERFORMANCE DIRECTION DIRECTORS REPORT FOR MARSTONS PLC Company Registration Number 31461 The Directors present their report, together with the audited Capital structure financial statements of the Group, for the 52 week period ended Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together 3 October 2009. with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the period, are shown in note 27 to the financial Principal activities statements on page 87.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares and one class of preference shares which carry no The Groups principal activities are operating managed, tenanted and leased public houses, brewing beer and wholesaling beer, right to fixed income.
On a poll vote, ordinary and preference shareholders have one vote for every 25p of nominal value wines and spirits.
of ordinary and preference share capital held in relation to all circumstances at general meetings of the Company.
Business Review The Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3 and the Business There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on Review on pages 8 to 22 provide detailed information relating to the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general the Group and its strategy, the operation of its divisions and the provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
results and financial position for the financial period ended The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders 3 October 2009. of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages The Company announced a rights issue of new shares at 59.0 31 to 36. pence per share for qualifying shareholders on 18 June 2009.
The rights issue was undertaken on the basis of 11 new shares All of the above are incorporated by reference in and shall be for every 10 existing shares held by the qualifying shareholders.
deemed to form part of this report.
Shareholders approved the necessary resolutions at an Extraordinary General Meeting EGM of the Company on 6 July Dividends 2009.
A total of 298,865,230 new ordinary shares were issued to An interim dividend of 3.44p adjusted to reflect the impact of the qualifying shareholders or subscribers for those shares.
issue of new shares under the rights issue on 22 July 2009 per ordinary share was paid on 30 June 2009.
The Directors Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 26 to the recommend a final dividend of 3.70p per ordinary share to be financial statements on page 84.
Shares held by the Employee paid on 2 February 2010 to shareholders on the register on Benefit Trust abstain from voting.
This would bring the total dividend for the period ended 3 October 2009 to 7.14p per ordinary share 2008: No person has any special rights of control over the Companys 9.5p adjusted.
The payment of the final dividend is subject to share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Under its Articles of Association, the Directors have authority to Research and development issue up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,104,870 of the Companys share capital as set at the EGM held on 6 July 2009.
The Group supports in-house research and development as well as through the British Beer and Pub Association and Brewing Research International.
Treasury management The Groups policy on the use of financial instruments is set out in note 20 to the financial statements on page 76.
Change of control There are a number of agreements that take effect after, or terminate, upon a change of control of the Company, such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2009 28 | 29 Directors and their interests Substantial shareholdings Details of changes to the Board during the period and of the As at 3 December 2009, the Company had been notified Directors offering themselves for reappointment at the AGM are under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and, for the set out on page 31. preference shares, with reference to the Register of Members, of the following substantial interests in the share capital of the Details of Directors service agreements are set out in the Company: Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 and 38.
Ordinary shares of 7.375p each The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company are Shareholder Number % shown on page 40.
Prudential plc 43,292,031 7.59 Legal & General Group Plc 22,441,741 3.93 Biographies of the Directors currently serving on the Board are Artemis Investment set out on page 27.
Management Ltd 28,748,591 5.04 Henderson Global Investors Ltd 32,019,399 5.61 Directors indemnities Preference shares As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which Shareholder Number % the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors to the extent Fiske Nominees Ltd 34,048 45.40 permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association, in Medlock & Medlock Ltd 6,750 9.00 respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the George Mary Allison Ltd 5,500 7.33 execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors Mrs A Somerville 5,500 7.33 of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Mr P F Knowles 4,356 5.81 Mr A W R Medlock 3,657 4.88 Supplier payment policy R C Greig Nominees Ltd 3,283 4.38 The Groups payment policy follows the CBIs Prompt Payment Mr A F Southall 2,855 3.81 Code for all suppliers.
Copies of this Code can be obtained from the Companys registered office.
Trade payables for the Group at Authority to purchase shares the financial period end are estimated as representing 39 days The Company was given authority at its AGM in 2009 to make purchases 2008: 42 days purchases and for the Company were market purchases of ordinary shares up to a maximum number nil 2008: nil.
Similar authority will again be sought from shareholders at the 2010 AGM.
Contributions for political and charitable purposes Following completion of the share buy-back programme, on Donations to charitable organisations during the period amounted 8 October 2008, the Company cancelled 950,000 ordinary to 9,000 2008: 14,000.
These were made across the divisions shares that were held in Treasury to ensure that the number of to various local and national charities, further details of which shares held in Treasury did not exceed 10% of the Companys can be found in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report issued share capital.
The Groups policy is not to make any donations for political purposes in the UK or to donate to EU political parties or Employees incur EU political expenditure.
Accordingly, neither the Company The average number of employees within the Group is shown in nor its subsidiaries made any political donations or incurred political note 5 to the financial statements on page 64. expenditure in the financial period under review 2008: nil.
Further details of arrangements relating to employees are Environmental policy described in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on Environmental policy is determined by the Board.
Performance page 23. against preset objectives is reviewed regularly by a committee of the Board chaired by Stephen Oliver, Managing Director of Marstons Beer Company.
Further details can be found in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on page 25 and in the 2009 Environmental Report on www.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT PERFORMANCE DIRECTION DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Auditors In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the date when this report was approved the following applies: Q so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Q each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Relevant audit information means information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
|  LLP has indicated its willingness to continue as auditors.
A resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the 2010 AGM.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review.
The financial position of the Group is described on pages 21 to 22.
In addition, note 20 to the financial statements on page 76 includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its exposures to interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, counterparty risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Details of the Groups financial instruments and hedging activities are also provided in note 20.
The Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational | 2.
| existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements set out on pages 49 to 94 and 96 to 104 have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at Walsall Football Club, Bankss Stadium, Walsall at 12 noon on 29 January 2010.
The notice convening the meeting, together with details of the special business to be considered and explanatory notes for each resolution, is distributed separately to shareholders.
It is also available on the Companys website: www.
co. uk, where a copy can be viewed and downloaded in a pdf format which may be printed or saved by following the link to Investors and then Financial Reports.
| Anne-Marie Brennan Company Secretary 3 December 2009 | 1.
Sizzling beef and a pint of Bankss.
| MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2009 30 | 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board has adopted a procedure whereby Directors may, in The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the performance of their duties, seek independent professional The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined advice at the Companys expense if considered appropriate.
Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 During the year the members of the Remuneration Committee sets out guidance in the form of principles and provisions on sought independent advice from Deloitte LLP on a review of how companies should be directed and controlled to follow good senior executive remuneration.
The Financial Services Authority requires companies listed in the UK to disclose how they have applied The Directors its principles and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
Where the provisions have not The Combined Code recommends that at least half the Board, been complied with companies must provide an explanation for this.
excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent in character and The Board of Directors of Marstons PLC recognises the judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which importance of strong corporate governance procedures and is may affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Nomination Committee regularly reviews Directors interests The Company has complied with the provisions of Section 1 in which all potential or perceived conflicts, including time of the Combined Code with the exception of provision A.
3.2 commitments, length of service and other issues relevant to their which recommends that at least half of the Board, excluding the independence, are considered.
Chairman, should comprise independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board comprises five Executive Directors, four independent This report sets out details of how the Company has applied Non-executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Chairman could the principles and provisions of the Combined Code.
Further not be considered independent at the time of his appointment information on the Combined Code can be found on the Financial under the requirement of the Combined Code because of his past Reporting Councils website, www.
experience as a long-serving Executive Director.
Miles Emley has served on the Board as a Non-executive Director for more than nine years, which the Combined Code states could be relevant to The Board the determination of a Non-executive Directors independence.
The Directors are responsible to shareholders for ensuring that The Board has determined that Miles Emley continues to be a the Company is appropriately managed and that it achieves person of independent character and judgement and so may its objectives.
It meets regularly to determine the Companys still be regarded as an independent Director for Combined Code strategic direction, to review the Companys operating and purposes.
It is the Boards view that Non-executive Directors financial performance and to ensure that adequate resources and present an objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to effective controls are in place to enable the Company to meet its management, drawing on their wider experiences to question objectives.
Matters requiring Board approval include: assumptions and viewpoints and where necessary defend their beliefs.
The Board considers that the current balance of Executive Q Group strategy, business objectives and annual plans: and Non-executive Directors is such that no one individual or Q Major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals: small group can dominate the Boards decision-making process.
Q Financial reporting and controls: Q Capital structure and dividend policy: During the year, Paul Inglett, Finance Director resigned with Q Health and safety and environmental policies: effect from 31 March 2009 following over twenty years service Q Overseeing the Companys internal control systems: with the Company.
Andrew Andrea was appointed as Finance Q The constitution of Board committees: and Director with effect from 31 March 2009 and his biography can Q Corporate governance arrangements.
Matters that are not specifically reserved for the Board and its Each Director is required to be elected by shareholders at the Committees under their terms of reference, or for shareholders in Annual General Meeting AGM following his her appointment general meeting, are delegated to the Chief Executive.
by the Board and to be re-elected at least once every three years.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for terms of three At Board and Committee meetings, Directors receive regular years.
In addition, Miles Emley, a Non-executive Director who has reports on the Groups financial position, risk management, served on the Board for more than nine years is subject to annual regulatory compliance, key business operations and other re-election by shareholders.
David Thompson, Ralph Findlay and material issues.
Directors are fully briefed in advance of Board Alistair Darby are standing for re-election at the forthcoming AGM and Committee meetings on all matters to be discussed and the and Andrew Andrea, who was appointed since the last AGM, will Chairman agrees the agenda of each meeting with the Chief also be standing for election.
The Company Secretary is responsible for following Board procedures and advising the Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters.
All Directors have access to her advice and services.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE DIRECTION REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Following this review, the results and observations were The Chairman and Group Chief Executive summarised by the Chairman in a report to the Board.
It The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are, in accordance concluded that the Board and its Committees operate effectively with the Combined Code, carried out by David Thompson and agreed actions in respect of certain processes identified for and Ralph Findlay respectively.
The Chairmans priority is the improvement.
Additionally, the Chairman has concluded that each leadership of the Board and the Chief Executives priority is the Director is contributing effectively to the Groups performance management of the Company.
During the year the Chairman and demonstrates full commitment to his her duties.
continued his appointment as Executive Director of Ragleth Ltd which is the controlling shareholder of Anglia Maltings Training and development Holdings Ltd.
He has no controlling interest in Ragleth Ltd and consequently the transactions between the Group and Ragleth The Board believes strongly in the development of all its Ltd are not Related Party Transactions as defined by International employees and Directors.
The form that this development takes is Financial Reporting Standards.
Other significant commitments of tailored to each Directors individual requirements.
Training needs the Chairman are set out in his biography on page 27.
The Board are discussed with each Director as part of the annual evaluation is satisfied that they do not restrict him from carrying out his exercise.
The Board has a comprehensive induction programme consisting of several separate sessions covering the operations of the Senior Independent Director Group, briefings on financial matters, key risks, Board procedure Under the Combined Code the Board appoints one of the Nonand governance and visits to sites across the Group.
executive Directors to act as Senior Independent Director.
The main responsibility of the Senior Independent Director is to be The Board holds at least one Board meeting per year at one of available to shareholders should they have concerns that they the Groups brewery sites and takes the opportunity to tour the have been unable to resolve through normal channels or when site, meet with operational and local management to discuss such channels would be inappropriate.
The Senior Independent issues and gain a deeper understanding of the operations.
Director is also responsible for leading the Boards discussion on the Chairmans performance and the appointment of a new Board meetings and attendance chairman, when appropriate.
Lord Hodgson served as the Senior Independent Director during the year.
The Company requires Directors to attend all meetings of the Board and the Committees on which they serve and to devote sufficient time to the Company in order to perform their duties.
Board effectiveness The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the The attendance of the Directors at the Board and Committee Group and the Chairman leads an annual evaluation, assisted meetings held during the period is set out below.
There were by the Company Secretary, to assess the performance of the 11 scheduled Board meetings, of which 3 were held away from Board, its Committees, and each of its individual Directors.
Three additional meetings were held in connection Where relevant, and not in respect of their own performance, with the Rights Issue.
The Directors also met off-site for a day to the Chairman and Chief Executive are involved in evaluating consider the Groups strategy.
the composition of the Boards and Committees, the meetings process, information and training, leadership, effectiveness and Name Board Rem Nom Audit compliance with the Combined Code.
David Thompson 14 14 2 2 Lord Hodgson 13 14 3 3 2 2 3 4 All Directors complete a questionnaire evaluating the Board and Miles Emley 14 14 3 3 2 2 4 4 its Committees, its processes and the effectiveness of their own Rosalind Cuschieri 13 14 2 3 2 2 3 4 contribution to the Boards performance.
In addition, the Chairman Neil Goulden 14 14 3 3 2 2 4 4 holds one-to-one meetings with each Director and the Company Ralph Findlay 14 14 2 2 Secretary.
Derek Andrew 14 14 Alistair Darby 14 14 The performance of the Chairman is evaluated by the Senior Stephen Oliver 14 14 Independent Director through consultation with the other Paul Inglett 6 6 Directors and a meeting of the Non-executive Directors, without Andrew Andrea 8 8 the Chairman being present.
Paul Inglett resigned on 31 March 2009.
Separately, each Committee undertakes an evaluation of its work Andrew Andrea was appointed in 31 March 2009. during the year and report their conclusions to the Board.
For the period under review, each Committee concluded that it was operating effectively.
MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2009 32 | 33 considered annually by the Committee, in the context of the Board Committees auditors independence, as part of the Committees review of The Board has established the following standing Committees the adequacy and objectivity of the audit process.
In reaching to oversee and debate important issues of policy and assist in this conclusion the Committee considered a report prepared by attending to its responsibilities:  LLP, reviewing the potential threats to their objectivity and independence in the light of the ethical Q Audit Committee: standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Where a Q Nomination Committee: potential risk was identified the Committee was satisfied that Q Remuneration Committee.
the safeguards that the external auditors had put in place were sufficient to prevent a threat to their independence and objectivity.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees comply with the provisions of the Combined Code The Audit Committee has reviewed the risk management process and are available for inspection, on the Companys website and the process by which the Board reviews effectiveness of the www.
Alternatively, they may be obtained on system of internal control during the period ended 3 October 2009 written request from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
and has reported to the Board on the outcome of this review.
The membership of all Board Committees is set out on page 27.
The Committee also has responsibility for the Groups whistleblowing policy and annually reviews the arrangements Audit Committee under this policy.
The Audit Committee comprises Miles Emley chairman, Lord Hodgson, Rosalind Cuschieri and Neil Goulden.
The Board Remuneration Committee considers that the Committee members have relevant experience.
The Remuneration Committee comprises Lord Hodgson By invitation of the Committee, other individuals such as the chairman, Miles Emley, Rosalind Cuschieri and Neil Goulden, Chief Executive, Finance Director and Corporate Risk Manager with Ralph Findlay in attendance if required.
It met 3 times in the will normally be in attendance for all or part of those meetings.
The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the Annually, the external auditors meet with the Committee without Board, service contract terms, remuneration and benefits, including any Executive Directors being present.
bonuses, for Executive Directors and senior managers.
It is also responsible for the granting of LTIP awards and share options.
The Committee met 4 times during the period to review the results of the full year audit, approve the interim results, consider Further information on the activities of the Remuneration the risks to the Group and the effectiveness of the Companys Committee is given in the Directors Remuneration Report internal controls and risk management systems, review the on pages 37 to 45.
The Directors Remuneration Report also performance of the external auditors and provide guidance on describes how the principles of the Combined Code are applied in the internal audit strategy.
The Committee also monitors the respect of remuneration matters and includes a statement on the relationship with the external auditors, agrees their scope of Companys policy on Directors and senior executive managers work and approves their audit fees.
It assesses annually the remuneration, benefits, share scheme entitlements and pension cost effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the external arrangements.
 LLP have been the Companys external auditors for a number of years.
The Committee has A resolution to approve the Remuneration Report will be evaluated the performance of the external auditors during the proposed at the AGM.
period concluding that it was satisfactory.
The Committee is also satisfied with the effectiveness and independence of the external Nomination Committee auditors and hence has recommended their re-appointment to the Board.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman, David Thompson, and its members are Miles Emley, Ralph Findlay, When appointing advisers for non-audit work, the Group Lord Hodgson, Rosalind Cuschieri and Neil Goulden.
Other considers the value for money, experience and objectivity required Executive Directors, senior management and external advisers and in this respect it has used other accounting firms for a range may be invited to attend meetings as considered appropriate.
The Group also uses the external auditors The Nomination Committee has responsibility for considering for non-audit services such as taxation advice and planning.
the size, structure and composition of the Board, retirements and Where non-audit work is expected to be in excess of an agreed appointments of additional and replacement Directors, succession monetary amount, the chairman of the Audit Committee must planning and making recommendations so as to maintain an approve the use of the external auditors.
The level of non-audit appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board.
services provided by the auditors and the associated fees are www.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE DIRECTION REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee meets at least twice a year.
No Director is The Board is equally interested in the concerns of private involved in any decision regarding his or her own re-appointment.
shareholders and, on its behalf, the Company Secretary oversees communication with these investors.
All material information During the year, the Committee met to consider the process for reported to the regulatory news services is simultaneously selection and appointment of a new Finance Director to replace published on the Companys website affording all shareholders Paul Inglett.
The skills, knowledge and experience required for full access to Company announcements.
the role were identified and a list of candidates produced.
The Committee agreed to recommend to the Board the appointment The Company has taken full advantage of the provisions within of Andrew Andrea with effect from 31 March 2009.
The Board is the Companies Act 2006 allowing communications to be made satisfied that Andrew Andreas appointment was objectively made electronically to shareholders where they have not requested on merit and followed the Groups succession planning criteria.
As a result the Companys website has become the primary method of communication for the majority of its shareholders.
Details of the other information available for Conflicts of interest shareholders on the website include comprehensive share price In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Articles of Association information, financial results and financial calendars.
were amended at the 2008 AGM to allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose such The Companys annual report and accounts, together with the limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
The decision to authorise a Companys interim management statements and other public conflict of interest can only be made by those Directors who announcements are designed to present a balanced and have no interest in the matter being considered and in making understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects such decision the Directors must act in a way they consider in and are available on the Companys website.
The Chairmans good faith will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
Statement and Business Review provide an assessment of the The Company has established a procedure whereby actual and Groups affairs and they will be supported by a presentation to be potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed by the Board made at the AGM.
and for the appropriate authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment of any new Director or if a new conflict arises.
This The Companys AGM provides a valuable opportunity for the procedure operated effectively during the period.
Board to communicate with private investors.
At the meeting, the Company complies with the Combined Code as it relates Directors insurance and indemnities to voting, the separation of resolutions and the attendance of The Group maintains Directors and officers liability and indemnity Committee chairmen.
Whenever possible, all Directors attend insurance to cover its Directors and officers against the costs of the Annual General Meeting and shareholders are invited to defending themselves in civil proceedings brought against them ask questions during the meeting and have an opportunity to in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting from any meet with the Directors following the conclusion of the formal unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
In line with the Combined Code, details of proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, are made Communication with shareholders available on request and are placed on the Companys website following the meeting.
The Company places considerable importance on communication with shareholders and engages with them on a wide range of Internal controls issues.
The Combined Code requires Directors to review and report The Company has an ongoing programme of dialogue and annually to shareholders on the effectiveness of the Companys meetings between the Executive Directors and institutional systems of internal control which include financial, operational investors, fund managers and analysts.
At these meetings a and compliance controls and risk management.
The Board has wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control management and governance are discussed within the and for monitoring their effectiveness whilst the implementation constraints of information already made publicly available.
of internal control systems is the responsibility of management.
The Groups systems of internal control are designed to manage The Directors consider it important to understand the views rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business of shareholders and, in particular, any issues which concern objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute them.
The Board receives written feedback from analysts and assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
institutional shareholders on meetings with management.
During the year, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director met with the Companys major institutional investors who are also able to make arrangements to meet with newly appointed Directors if required.
MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2009 34 | 35 The systems are designed to: achievement of the Groups business objectives.
The Chief Executive meets regularly with the Corporate Risk Manager to Q Safeguard assets: review the risks faced by the Group and the Board reviews risk Q Maintain proper accounting records: annually.
These reviews cover strategic, financial, operational and Q Provide reliable financial information: compliance risks.
Q Identify and manage business risks: Q Maintain compliance with appropriate legislation and Managers are required to identify key internal controls for each regulation: and of the risks they are responsible for and to identify the control Q Identify and adopt best practice.
The identified risks are then classified and recorded in the Groups risk register.
Of key importance to the Groups The principal features of the control framework and the methods risk management programme is the identification of risks by by which the Board satisfies itself that it is operating effectively the Corporate Risk Manager who in turn allocates ownership are detailed below.
The results are reported to the relevant divisional Managing Director who in turn prioritises the key risks for their management teams.
The Groups risk register is reported to every Control environment Audit Committee meeting which, in turn, provides an update to The principal elements of the system of internal control, which the Board.
is designed to ensure there is an ongoing process to identify, evaluate and manage the risks to which the Group is exposed, The internal audit strategy takes into account the key include: business risks of the Group and provides assurance to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the internal control Q a management structure which clearly defines authority levels, environment in mitigating the risks to an acceptable level.
The responsibility and accountability: and risk management programme provides vital information to ensure Q a detailed formal budgeting process for all Group activities that the internal audit strategy provides sufficient coverage of the with the annual Group budget being formally approved by the critical areas of internal control.
Board: and Q a process to ensure Board approval is given to all major Principal risks and uncertainties investment, divestment and strategic plans including capital expenditure, disposals and development programmes.
The following represents in the opinion of the Board the principal risks of the business.
It is not a complete list of all the risks and The internal audit function has co-ordinated, on behalf of the the priority, impact and likelihood of the risks can change quickly Board, an annual review of the effectiveness of all the key controls over time.
This includes a Group-wide certification that internal controls are in place and are operating effectively.
The Economic conditions internal audit function has carried out additional work on selective As the Group operates in the leisure sector, the business is controls as well as aligning internal audit projects to verify the reliant upon consumer levels of discretionary spend.
The recent certification of effectiveness.
Where weaknesses have been unsettled economic conditions in the UK have impacted upon identified by the managers, information has also been provided customer behaviour in all market sectors and in particular on on the plans to improve such controls.
The results of the exercise the leisure sector.
Next year, there remains a risk that the UKs are summarised and an overall assessment reported to the economic recovery will be slow, or that the economy could dip Audit Committee.
The review confirmed that there is a clear link again.
There consequently remains a risk that the leisure sector between the key risks of the business and the controls used to could be adversely affected by further economic uncertainty manage those risks.
Ownership of the controls by the managers impacting upon consumer confidence.
within the business is well defined and there are no significant weaknesses that require remedial actions to take place.
During 2009, the UK economy has been supported by the Governments policy of quantitative easing whereby money Risk identification, assessment and has been injected into the economy by purchasing gilts and management other assets.
This economic stimulus is expected to be reined in, and future Government policy on the economy will seek to There is in place an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating improve the UKs budget deficit, which could impact upon public and managing the significant risks faced by the Group which spending, unemployment levels and taxation.
There is a risk that has operated during the year and up to the date of signing this government policy in all these areas could impact upon consumer report.
The Groups risk management and governance framework behaviour and constrain the money that consumers have to spend is designed to support the identification, assessment, monitoring, upon leisure.
management and control of risks that are significant to the www.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE DIRECTION REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The risk of future VAT increases impacts upon our managed Reputation houses, tenants, free trade customers and national account The Company is a well-invested, visible and national brand.
The UKs VAT rate has remained at 15% throughout There is a risk that the Companys reputation could reduce if it 2009, but will rise back to 17.5% on 1 January 2010.
There is is not properly protected.
The reputation of the Group is central a risk that Government policy in order to raise general taxation to its relationship with investors, customers, staff, suppliers and could increase the rate further in 2010.
There is a risk that regulatory authorities.
future increases of VAT on goods purchased by the Group could adversely affect customer behaviour, particularly as a further For investors, financial performance of the Group is key.
In increase in alcohol duty of 2% above inflation is planned by the addition, the Companys rights issue in July 2009 has committed Government each year until 2012. the Group to development and performance targets, which if not met could risk impacting upon the Groups reputation amongst The strength of the UK economy is invariably reflected in property investors.
The Group is a major property owner within the UK and its pub values are consistent with future earnings.
In 2009, the Risk to reputation regarding other stakeholders relate to levels Group incurred a significant impairment to property values to of service, quality of customer experience, quality of products, ensure that the asset values at the balance sheet date are not continuity of supply, safety, professionalism, legal compliance, overstated.
However, there remains a risk that property values in corporate responsibility and governance.
the UK, and within the pub market sector, could decrease further and that additional impairments would have to be reflected in Operational control the financial statements.
In addition, depressed property prices The control of treasury risks and in particular the management of could restrict the Groups ability to actively manage the estate our banking and securitisation covenants to ensure operational through selling properties and investing the funds raised in new compliance are explained in the Financial Review on pages opportunities.
The tenants and free trade customers, with whom the Group Internal accounting controls are essential in order to operate trades, are in essence small businesses prone to risks similar to daily financial transactions securely, and to guard against any many other small businesses in the UK.
Economic factors such misstatement of results.
Such risks are largely mitigated by using as the ability to obtain credit, property values, taxation costs, appropriate authority levels for the approval of transactions, and inflation could all directly affect the profitability of these segregating duties and producing detailed reports of financial businesses, which could in turn affect the Groups own operating results throughout the year.
All the Groups operational activities are heavily reliant upon Legislation IT in order to deliver the expected profit margin.
The ability of In recent years there has been increased focus upon health the Groups communications network to process management concerns and law and order issues in connection with alcohol information, conduct financial transactions, place supplier orders consumption.
There is a risk that the UK Government could and receive customer orders without delay or interference introduce further legislation restricting the sale of alcohol and is essential to the smooth running of the business.
The IT the operation of licensed premises, or use higher duty rates to infrastructure is designed to have sufficient capacity and is discourage the purchase of alcohol.
protected behind a robust firewall from interference.
Business continuity controls are designed to ensure that the recovery of the There is a risk that the Government will impose further restrictions IT system can be achieved within acceptable tolerances.
on alcohol sales and licensed premises if the industry sector cannot continue to demonstrate a high level of self governance The funding of the final salary pension is a risk for the Group.
The to prevent underage drinking, to discourage anti-social behaviour management of the deficit is explained in the Financial Review.
and wherever possible promote responsible drinking.
Investment returns as well as the assumptions taken regarding future salaries and longevity all impact upon the valuation of the scheme and its future liabilities.
This uncertainty is controlled by conducting triennial valuations of the scheme, and by setting the Groups top-up contributions at a sufficient level.
MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2009 36 | 37 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee reflecting both Company performance and individual achievement.
and approved by the Board.
It has been written in line with the The main fixed and variable elements of remuneration for requirements of Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the Executive Directors are set out below.
Only the basic salary Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the Listing Rules element is pensionable.
Shareholders will be invited to approve the report at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 29 January 2010.
Fixed % of salary Q basic salary: Q benefits in kind detailed in the notes to the Composition and Terms of Reference of the Directors emoluments table on page 41 : Remuneration Committee Q pension benefits.
The Remuneration Committee is appointed by the Board and comprises Lord Hodgson Chairman, Miles Emley, Rosalind Variable Cuschieri and Neil Goulden with effect from 31 October 2008, all Q annual award of share options under up to 100% of whom are regarded as independent Non-executive Directors.
the LTIP, vesting after 3 years, subject to performance conditions being met: The Committee is responsible for setting the framework and Q annual bonus related to Company up to 100% policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors, which performance and individual objectives.
it reviews annually for appropriateness and relevance.
It is also responsible for determining the specific elements of the The Groups remuneration policy in respect of Non-executive Executive Directors remuneration, their contractual terms and Directors is to pay annual fees which reflect the responsibilities compensation arrangements.
In addition, the Committee monitors and duties placed upon them, whilst also having regard to market the level and structure of remuneration for senior management practice.
and approves their bonus payments.
It also oversees any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group.
Service contracts The Terms of Reference of the Committee can be found in the The Groups policy is that all Executive Directors contracts are Investors section of the Companys website at www.
They are subject to 12 months co. uk.
notice when terminated by the Group and 6 months notice when terminated by the Executive Director.
David Thompson has a In setting policy and compensation levels, the Remuneration 6 month rolling contract.
The table below details the Executive Committee has due regard to the Combined Code.
The Directors and David Thompsons service contracts.
Committee took advice during the period from the Chief Executive, Ralph Findlay, and Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
Ralph Payments to Directors upon termination of their contracts will be Findlay did not, however, provide any advice in relation to his own equal to the Directors basic salary for the duration of the notice remuneration.
Deloitte are retained by the Company to provide period.
For new Directors, including Andrew Andrea, who was independent advice with regard to general remuneration levels appointed as a Director during the year, any payment of salary and comparator group information for Executive Directors.
In during their notice period will be reduced by any amount earned in addition they are currently assisting with a review of the Longthat period from alternative employment.
There is no reduction for Term Incentive Plan LTIP and alternatives to existing pension mitigation or for early payment for the other Executive Directors provision.
Deloitte was also independently appointed by the listed overleaf as the Remuneration Committee has taken the Company to assist with specific internal audit projects, as directed view that as long standing employees of the Group they would by the Corporate Risk Manager.
merit full compensation in the event of unilateral termination of their employment by the Group.
Remuneration policy The Groups remuneration policy is to ensure that the With the exception of David Thompson, the Non-executive remuneration of Executive Directors is sufficiently competitive Directors do not have a service contract and their appointments to enable the Group to retain and motivate existing Directors may be terminated without compensation at any time.
All and attract high quality performers in the future.
The Committee Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment and their undertakes an annual review of market practice and considers appointment and subsequent re-appointment is subject to the remuneration levels of directors in companies of similar size approval by shareholders.
from within and outside the industry sector.
The Group aims to incentivise and reward its Executive Directors in a way that The Committee has reviewed these arrangements in the light is consistent with the Groups commercial objectives and to of current market practice and the relevant provisions of the align the interests of the Directors with those of shareholders.
Combined Code and considers that they are appropriate and To achieve this, the Executive Directors total remuneration in the interests of shareholders, the Group and the individuals comprises both fixed remuneration and variable reward, the latter concerned.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE DIRECTION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Notice Notice In all other respects the terms and conditions for bonus payments are unchanged from previous periods.
Bonuses for the current Period Period Date of Contract Group Director year are payable in December 2009.
Derek Andrew 22 July 2004 12 months 6 months Whilst the Committee cannot disclose the actual profit target Alistair Darby 16 May 2003 12 months 6 months because it is regarded as commercially sensitive, it is satisfied that Ralph Findlay 15 Aug 2001 12 months 6 months this is appropriately challenging.
Under the 2008 2009 annual Andrew Andrea 31 Mar 2009 12 months 6 months bonus scheme no bonuses were paid to the Executive Directors.
Stephen Oliver 15 Aug 2001 12 months 6 months David Thompson 24 Jan 2002 6 months 6 months Share incentive schemes Salaries The Group operates executive share option schemes, a Long Term Incentive Plan and a Save As You Earn share option scheme.
Salaries for Executive Directors were reviewed as at 1 October 2008 following an independent review of executive remuneration by Deloitte.
This review included consideration of the packages Executive share options offered by appropriate comparator companies having regard to The 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme is an HMRC approved their comparable size, complexity and sector.
scheme and the 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme is a non-HMRC approved scheme which was used to make awards As stated above, the aim of the Group is to provide a competitive to Executive Directors and other selected employees above their remuneration package to attract, retain and motivate key 30,000 tax efficient limit.
The 1994 scheme expired in January executives.
In this regard, salaries for the Executive Directors 2004 and this, together with the 1997 scheme, was replaced by are targeted at remaining competitive compared to appropriate the 2004 Executive Share Option Scheme which was approved comparator companies.
When positioning the Executive Directors by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM held on base salaries the Committee considers: 23 January 2004.
Executive share options are awarded at the prevailing market rate on the date of grant.
Options are normally Q Salary levels for similar jobs in appropriate comparator exercisable between three and ten years after grant and upon the companies: achievement of stated performance criteria.
Q The performance, experience and relative responsibilities of the individual: The exercise of executive share options granted under the 1994 Q The balance between fixed and variable reward: and and 1997 schemes have all met their exercise criteria.
These Q Relative remuneration levels throughout the organisation.
were subject to the Group achieving growth in earnings per share EPS in excess of the growth in the retail price index RPI by an Having regard to the economic environment, uncertain outlook average of 2.0% per year over a three-year performance period.
and pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group no Director has For the 2004 scheme, the growth in EPS must be in excess of received a salary increase for the period under review.
the growth in RPI by an average of 3.0% per year over a threeyear performance period before an option becomes exercisable.
No Executive Director earns fees outside their employment with At this level of performance the value of shares under option the Group.
which will vest will be up to 100% of base salary.
Bonuses The maximum value of options vesting is up to 200% of salary where the growth in EPS exceeds the growth in RPI by an At the start of the year the Remuneration Committee approved average of 9.0% per year.
Between these two growth rates a change to the basis of payout for all bonus schemes operating a straight-line vesting of options operates.
There are no rewithin the Sales, Operations and Supply Chain functions and testing provisions under any of the schemes.
The Remuneration Head Office, including Executive Directors.
This will apply for the Committee retains the discretion to change the performance period under review only and any extension of the arrangement measures for future awards, if appropriate, provided the new to subsequent years will be subject to review and approval by conditions are no less stretching.
The levels of the target and the Remuneration Committee.
Previously, bonus objectives maximum awards will not be increased without shareholder were based on a combination of Group profit achievement and approval.
The Committee believes the EPS performance personal objectives.
For 2008 2009 the level of payment made conditions to be appropriate and provide proper alignment with to any individual is based solely on the level of Group profit the Groups overall performance.
achieved, and is determined by the Remuneration Committee who retain discretion over the level of payout.
This was done to align No options have been granted under the executive share option bonus payments with the Groups objectives of delivering profit.
Of the 100% maximum bonus payout to Directors, 40% is payable if the Group achieves its profit target with 100% payable if the Group exceeds its profit target by 10% or more.
MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2009 38 | 39 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Save As You Earn Share Options SAYE The Group introduced the LTIP following shareholder approval at The Group also operates an HMRC approved SAYE plan which is the AGM in January 2004.
Both Executive Directors and senior open to all eligible employees, including the Executive Directors, managers are eligible to participate and the maximum annual on the completion of 2 years service.
conditional award of nil cost options that can be made to an individual is equivalent to 100% and 35% of salary respectively.
Invitations are usually offered annually for a savings contract of The options granted during a period will only become exercisable 3, 5 or 7 years subject to the maximum monthly savings limit of vest to the extent that the performance conditions are met.
Options are granted at a discount of 20% to the market Once the options have vested the participant may choose to value of the Companys share price at the date of grant, subject to exercise the option at any time thereafter provided they remain an the agreement of the Remuneration Committee.
Their exercise is employee of the Company.
not subject to performance conditions.
Participants will usually be required to hold shares in the There have been no changes from the previous year to the terms Company with a cost equal to at least one times salary.
Spouse and conditions of any of the Companys share incentive schemes.
holdings are taken into account in satisfying this requirement.
This shareholding guideline is scaled down to 35% of salary for Non-executive Directors fees and benefits participants below Board level.
audited information The fees for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors are The options will vest to the extent that the Groups growth in EPS determined by the Board as a whole and are normally reviewed exceeds the growth in RPI over a period of three years.
In view of the economic climate the Nonexecutive Directors and Chairman have deemed it appropriate not Awards vest, on a sliding scale between each step, as follows: to receive an increase in their fees this year.
The fee structure for 2008 2009 was as follows: % of total Annual EPS growth award vesting required above RPI Q A basic fee 34,000 per annum 35% 3% Q Chair of the Remuneration Committee 5,000 per annum 100% 9% Q Chair of the Audit Committee 6,000 per annum Q Senior Independent Director 5,000 per annum Previously, the Remuneration Committee had discretion to allow participants the opportunity to diversify the value of up to 50% The Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the of vested options into other securities the switching feature.
Groups share incentive plans, nor do they receive any benefits or During the period the Remuneration Committee considered pension contributions from the Group, with the exception of David the switching feature and determined that offering such an Thompson whose benefits are as set out on pages 41 and 44. opportunity was no longer appropriate and resolved that the feature should be removed permanently with immediate effect.
The LTIP options granted in 2006, which had completed the three year performance period and were available for vesting during the period, lapsed as the performance conditions had not been met.
At the time of signing this Report the Committee is reviewing the LTIP performance metrics and vesting ranges for the 2010 grant cycle to ensure they remain appropriately stretching for the 20102013 performance period.
The targets will be set following consultation with the Companys major shareholders and will be disclosed in the 2010 Directors Remuneration Report.
The Remuneration Committee does not intend to make awards under both the LTIP and the 2004 Executive Share Option Scheme in the same year.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE DIRECTION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Total shareholder return graph 270.00 220.00 170.00 120.00 70.00 20.00 Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep 04 05 05 06 06 07 07 08 08 09 09 Marstons FTSE Allshare The graph shows the comparative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance of the Company against the FTSE All Share Index during the previous five financial years.
The FTSE All Share Index has been selected as a comparator because the Group believes it is the most meaningful market index of which the Company is a member.
The Group believes it would have been less meaningful to use a narrower index such as the Leisure and Hotels index for comparison purposes.
The TSR indices used in the chart have been calculated in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 relative to a base date at the end of September 2004.
Interests of Directors The beneficial interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the ordinary share capital of the Company following the rights issue on 22 July 2009 and at 3 October 2009 were: Ordinary Shares of 7.375p 4 October 22 July 3 October 2008 2009 2009 Executive Directors Ralph Findlay 357,260 758,646 758,646 1 Andrew Andrea 42,959 42,959 Derek Andrew 355,636 841,335 841,335 Alistair Darby 125,604 196,384 196,384 Stephen Oliver 128,036 229,417 229,417 2 Paul Inglett 148,632 Non-executive Directors David Thompson 1,186,948 1,657,823 1,657,823 Lord Hodgson 36,720 77,112 77,112 Miles Emley 35,248 74,020 74,020 Rosalind Cuschieri 1,356 88,126 88,126 Neil Goulden 10,000 168,000 168,000 1 Appointed 31 March 2009.
2 Derek Andrew received a one-off long service payment of 2,006 during the year.
This was paid in accordance with the Company policy applicable to all long serving employees.
3 Alistair Darby received an amount of 2,783 in the first month of the period under review.
This represented back pay to reflect the pay increase he was awarded during the previous year as a result of his appointment to Managing Director of Marstons Pub Company.
4 Paul Inglett resigned with effect from 31 March 2009.
In accordance with the terms of the private healthcare plan, he retained entitlement to cover until the end of the plan year 30 September 2009.
The full value of this benefit is included in the table above.
In addition, he received 37,563 in salary and benefits for the period 1 April 2009 to 15 May 2009 whilst he remained with the Company.
5 The fees relating to the services of Lord Hodgson were paid to Johnson Brothers & Co Limited, and the fees relating to the services of Rosalind Cuschieri were paid to Warburtons Limited.
7 Non-cash benefits principally comprise private health cover.
8 Other cash benefits represent cash allowances paid in lieu of a company car.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the Directors emoluments for the current year and all salaries remain unchanged with the exception of Andrew Andrea whose salary has been increased to 240,000. www.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE DIRECTION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SAYE Share Options audited information At Date of At Adjusted 3 October Option Grant 05.10.08 Granted Exercised holding Cancelled 2009 price p Ralph Findlay 30 June 2008 9,462 9,462 123.43 3 July 2009 16,415 16,415 94.72 Derek Andrew 30 June 2008 10,145 10,145 123.43 3 July 2009 16,415 16,415 94.72 Alistair Darby 21 June 2005 3,144 3,144 150.70 29 June 2007 1,021 1,021 265.52 Stephen Oliver 26 June 2002 12,976 18,081 18,081 99.39 3 July 2009 16,415 16,415 94.72 Andrew Andrea At Date of At 31 March Option Grant 05.10.08 Granted Exercised Lapsed Cancelled 2009 price p Paul Inglett 21 June 2005 1,804 1,804 150.70 30 June 2008 5,465 5,465 123.43 The number of options granted or held by each Director and the relevant option price have been adjusted to reflect the impact of the rights issue completed in July 2009.
Ralph Findlay and Derek Andrew cancelled their SAYE options granted under the 2008 invitation and Alistair Darby cancelled his SAYE options under the 2005 and 2007 SAYE invitations.
Provided the required shareholding and the three-year performance conditions are met, options granted under the LTIP will not expire until the end of the calendar year following the option holders expected retirement date, or earlier at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE DIRECTION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors pensions audited information Defined contribution scheme The Company makes contributions into the Group Personal Pension Plan GPPP on behalf of Andrew Andrea.
A rate of 10.5% of base salary is payable in return for the Director making a personal contribution of 7.5%.
For the period under review the Company contribution for Andrew Andrea was 10,530 from 31 March 2009, the date of his appointment as an Executive Director.
Defined benefit scheme The following Directors accrued benefit under the defined benefit scheme provided by the Company.
Change in Change in accrued Transfer Transfer pension over Value over Value of Accrued 2008 2009 Transfer Transfer 2008 2009 the increase pension at excluding Members Value at Value at net of in the 3 October increase contributions 3 October 4 October members accrued 2009 for inflation over year 2009 2008 contributions pension Derek Andrew 142,289 7,172 2,195,084 1,836,840 358,244 85,560 Alistair Darby 63,423 10,288 773,267 543,981 229,286 104,851 Ralph Findlay 67,971 12,954 955,711 678,536 277,175 160,674 Paul Inglett Note 6 44,647 4,165 513,150 390,291 122,859 41,002 Stephen Oliver 65,102 10,255 1,089,244 833,189 256,055 144,435 David Thompson 154,307 11,238 2,330,155 1,921,118 409,037 141,099 Notes 1 The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year from the approved pension scheme.
2 The increase in accrued pension during the year reflects that inflation over the period has been -1.4%.
3 Members of the pension scheme have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions.
Neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the table above.
4 The Transfer Values at 3 October 2009 are calculated in accordance with the cash equivalent transfer value basis adopted by the Trustees on 16 August 2009, after taking advice from the Scheme Actuary.
5 Member contributions are zero because of the salary sacrifice arrangement introduced by the Company from 1 November 2007.
6 Paul Inglett resigned as a Director on 31 March 2009.
He ceased to be an active member of the pension scheme on 15 May 2009.
Therefore, the accrued pension calculations have been carried out using service to 15 May 2009 and not to 3 October 2009.
The following additional information relates to Directors pensions: a Normal retirement age is 60. b On death before retirement a lump sum is payable equal to the Directors contributions.
However, some or all of this lump sum may be used to provide a statutory minimum spouses pension.
On death after retirement the spouses pension payable is two-thirds of the members pre commutation pension for Derek Andrew and David Thompson, 60% of the members pre commutation pension for Ralph Findlay, Paul Inglett, Alistair Darby and Stephen Olivers post 1 January 2002 service and 50% of the members pre commutation pension for Stephen Olivers pre 1 January 2002 service.
c Early retirement can be taken from age 50 provided the Group gives its consent.
The accrued pension will then be reduced to take account of its early payment.
From April 2010, the minimum age at which early retirement can take place will increase to 55. d Pension increases for Derek Andrew, Ralph Findlay, David Thompson, Paul Inglett and Alistair Darby will be in line with statutory requirements before and after retirement.
Stephen Oliver will receive statutory increases before retirement, post retirement increases on pension earned prior to 6 April 1997 at the rate of 3% per annum, on pension earned between 6 April 1997 and 1 January 2002 at the increase in RPI, subject to a maximum of 5% and a minimum of 3%, and on pension earned after 1 January 2002 at the increase in RPI subject to a maximum of 5%.
The Trustees have the discretion to grant pension increases above these rates.
e There are no discretionary benefits.
MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2009 44 | 45 Prior to 6 April 2006, Ralph Findlay, Stephen Oliver and Paul The assumptions that have the most significant effect on the Inglett were contributing to a FURBS arrangement.
A new funding position of the Marstons Scheme are those relating pensions regime came into force on 6 April 2006.
Following a to the differences between the long-term rate of return on review of benefit provisions, contributions to the FURBS for Ralph investments and the rates of increase in earnings and pension Findlay, Stephen Oliver and Paul Inglett ceased with effect from increases.
The 30 September 2008 funding valuation for the 6 April 2006.
From that date, pension benefits for these Directors Marstons Scheme assumed that: the long-term investment and Alistair Darby are accrued on full salary previously limited return before retirement would exceed salary increases by 2.1% to the earnings cap from the Marstons PLC Pension and Life per annum and price inflation by 2.6% per annum, and the longAssurance Scheme the Marstons Scheme.
term investment return after retirement would exceed post 6 April 1997 and pre 6 April 2006 pension increases by 1.6% per annum and price inflation by 1.6% per annum.
Pension arrangements At the start of the year the Group operated one defined benefit The market value of the Marstons Scheme assets was 273.9 pension scheme, the Marstons Scheme, and ten defined million, which was sufficient to cover 72% of members accrued contribution arrangements.
benefits at 30 September 2008, after allowing for future increases in earnings at the long-term rate.
The Marstons Scheme During the year, the Group operated a defined benefit pension The amounts quoted above include the assets and liabilities of the scheme which was closed to new entrants from 29 September Eldridge Pope Pension Scheme, the Burtonwood Scheme and the 1997.
The Group contributed 25% of the pensionable payroll Jennings Scheme which have merged in to the Scheme.
until 30 September 2009, from 1 October 2009 the Group contributed 28.2% of pensionable payroll for those members The Group introduced a Group Personal Pension Plan GPPP who opted for the salary sacrifice arrangement introduced on for new entrants with effect from 29 September 1997 to which it 1 November 2007.
For all other members the Group contributed contributes 7.0% of pensionable salary and members contribute 17.5% of the pensionable payroll until 30 September 2009 a minimum of 3.5% of their pensionable salary.
and from 1 October 2009 the Group contributed 20.7% of pensionable payroll.
Members contributed in accordance with the Membership of the GPPP provides permanent health insurance Rules.
All employees in the Marstons Scheme have permanent and death-in-service life assurance cover to the value of between health insurance and death-in-service life assurance cover to the three and four times pensionable salary, subject to acceptance value of four times their salary, subject to acceptance by insurers.
The funds of the Marstons Scheme are administered by Trustees and are separate from the Group.
An actuarial valuation of the Marstons Scheme was carried out as at 30 September 2008.
This resulted in a long-term Group contribution rate of 28.2% of Lord Hodgson members pensionable earnings for members who opted for the Chairman, Remuneration Committee salary sacrifice and 20.7% of members pensionable earnings 3 December 2009 for other members plus a contribution of 10 million paid during October 2009.
Going forward a monthly contribution of 881,250 will be payable from 1 October 2010, increasing by 5.75% each October.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE DIRECTION REPORT STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT, THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the parent records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable and regulations.
them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Regulation and the parent Company financial statements and statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors the Directors Remuneration Report comply with Schedule 8 of have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as and Reports Regulations 2008.
They are also responsible adopted by the European Union, and the parent Company for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In preparing the Group financial statements, the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Directors have also elected to comply with IFRS, issued by the of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Group and governing the preparation and dissemination of financial parent Company financial statements are required by law to give statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Each of the persons who are Directors at the date that this Group and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
Annual Report is approved confirms that: In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit required to: information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Q select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: b he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware Q make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and of any relevant audit information and to establish that the prudent: Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Q state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs The Directors of Marstons PLC are listed on page 27. as adopted by the European Union and IFRS issued by the IASB and, with regard to the parent Company financial statements, that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Ralph Findlay Andrew Andrea Chief Executive Finance Director Q prepare the Group and parent Company financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
