How important is the industry to UK PLC?
A. Britains pubs and brewers directly employ 600,000 people and support a further 550,000 jobs.
The sector generates 28 billion in economic activity, and it has been estimated that Government revenue from the production and sales of beer equate to over 9 billion.
Over 2 million pints of beer are exported every day to more than 120 countries generating 400 million in export revenue.
The unique nature of pubs means that 4 | 1.
| they make an important contribution to the UK tourism industry.
How can Government best help the industry?
A. Britains brewing and pub sector is under pressure.
This is largely a function of current economic uncertainty and fragile consumer confidence.
There are four key priorities that we believe the Government should concentrate on: 1.
Enforce existing laws rather than create new | 2.
| ones and work in partnership with the industry to tackle alcohol misuse and antisocial behaviour.
Reduce the rate of beer tax.
Avoid regulation that penalises responsible consumers and encourage consumers to make informed choices and accept personal responsibility.
Support the British pub as the vital part of local communities across Britain.
What will the industry look like in five years time?
We believe that the image of pubs as leisure venues will be enhanced over time.
Competition will continue to be intense and will increase, whether that is from other pubs, restaurants or supermarkets.
Our focus is on ensuring that we can meet our customers increasingly exacting 6 standards through offering great value, service and choice, in high quality pubs.
Marstons Brewery, Burton upon Trent | www.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS DIRECTION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS REAL ALE | REAL QUALITY | REAL WELCOME BUSINESS REVIEW Ralph Findlay & Andrew Andrea Our performance has been resilient over a challenging year demonstrating the fundamental strengths of the business.
In addition to offering outstanding value for money and high quality products and service, we have benefited from anticipating and adapting to consumer trends.
Marstons is a vertically integrated business, and we believe Marstons and the industry that this business model has clear advantages.
We have greater We operate around 2,200 pubs in a UK pub sector comprising economies of scale, as we brew our own ales and control our own around 53,000 pubs.
Our products account for approximately supply chain, distributing to over 4,000 pubs and clubs.
9% of the UK ale market with our share of the premium cask ale market in pubs around 23%.
Our share of the premium bottled ale Strategic Objectives market is approximately 17%.
Our strategy has six key objectives: Changes in consumer habits, the smoking ban and investment in pubs and pub food have altered the nature of pub usage.
Target growth through the development of a national, More pub visits by women, families and an increasingly mature high quality pub estate population led to our development of the F-Plan in our managed In recent years this has been achieved through acquisitions pubs as described in the Strategic Objectives.
We estimate that which have widened our trading area throughout England and 65% of all pub visits in Marstons Inns and Taverns are food Wales: investing in new pub development: and the disposal of related.
pubs which do not meet our criteria for sustainable returns.
Intensifying competition, the introduction of the smoking ban We have a track record of delivering excellent returns from in 2007, aggressive price discounting by supermarkets and new pub development and we believe that this programme the weak economy have led to increased polarisation in the is a key driver of future shareholder value.
In anticipation of these changes Marstons Pub to invest at least 140 million of the rights issue proceeds in Company has disposed of around 400 pubs with limited potential the acquisition and development of new pubs over the next in recent years and as a result we have a high quality estate.
These pubs will be large, family friendly, food-led the same time, we have been careful to ensure that rents are set managed pubs.
In brewing, real ale has been increasing in popularity as consumers have become more interested in beers with taste and provenance.
Anticipating this trend, Marstons Beer Company has developed a unique and outstanding range of regional beers which achieved an increase in market share in 2009.
Beer consumption in pubs has been in overall decline for many years, but there has been consistent growth in the volume of beer sold in the off-trade.
Marstons Beer Company is the largest supplier of premium bottled ale in the UK market.
MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2009 20% INCREASE IN PREMIUM ALE VOLUMES THE REAL FACTS 08 | 09 Despite the difficult economic environment, Group revenue was only 1.4% down on a comparable 52 week basis... with tight cost control continuing to mitigate increases in food, energy and brewing raw material costs.
The Group is a market leader in developing such pubs and we have a highly skilled, experienced and specialist inhouse team.
The pubs are built to cost-efficient standard specifications to assist roll-out.
The 30 pubs of this type that we have opened in the last five years have been very successful and have delivered stronger like-for-like sales than the Groups other managed pubs.
In addition, the pubs achieve a higher average weekly take 20k versus 14k for all the Groups managed pubs and food represents around 57% of sales.
We have achieved high returns averaging 15% EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation return on invested capital.
The current market environment allows us to take advantage of increased availability of suitable sites, reduced competition, | 1.
| and lower average site acquisition costs.
Combined with more favourable construction costs we believe there is potential to achieve returns from the new-build programme in excess of the target level of a 15% EBITDA return on invested capital, OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES... with a lower risk profile than is often associated with buying Target growth through the development of a national, packages of existing pubs.
high quality pub estate: It is our intention to build 60 new pubs over the course of the Develop greater food skills and extend our appeal next three years.
In 2010 we expect to open around 15 new to new customer groups: sites, with a further 45 planned to open over the following two years.
Recruit the most skilled tenants and lessees: Focus on regional ale brands with genuine provenance: Create greater value for shareholders through vertical integration: and Match freehold assets with long-term fixed rate financing.
A selection of servings at a carvery.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECTION REAL ALE | REAL QUALITY | REAL WELCOME BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED 2.
Develop greater food skills and extend our appeal to new customer groups The F-Plan has been developed in Marstons Inns and Taverns to focus on food, families, females and forty fifty somethings.
We aim to benefit from longer term trends towards more eating out: to reposition our customer base in the face of the long-term decline in alcohol consumption in the on-trade: and to recognise the demographic effects of a maturing population on pub usage.
We have capitalised on this trend by increasing food sales from 27% of revenue in 2004 to 38% in 2009.
Recruit the most skilled tenants and lessees As the pub sector has become polarised between better pubs and those failing to meet customer expectations, so 4.
Focus on regional ale brands with genuine the demand for more able licensees has intensified.
Factors provenance which influence licensees who are considering taking on The success of the independent brewing sector in recent a particular pub include the quality, location and appeal of years is evidence of growing interest in beers with taste, the pub itself, the reputation of the pub owning company quality ingredients and genuine provenance.
Marstons in dealing with its tenants and lessees, and the level and Beer Company is unique in being able to exploit this trend suitability of support provided.
on a national scale through distribution of local beers from Wychwood Brewery in Oxfordshire: Ringwood Brewery in the With these factors in mind we have established commercial New Forest: Jennings Brewery in the Lake District: and the relationships with tenants and lessees that are based on Bankss and Marstons breweries in the Midlands.
openness, transparency, fair rents, a fair share of risks and rewards, and sustainability.
These objectives are reflected in This strategy provides benefits in two markets.
First, locally, in our Code of Practice, which is British Institute of Innkeeping the independent free trade our performance demonstrates that BII compliant, and the establishment of a rent review panel being the local brewer with high service levels and national in 2001 to ensure fair rents.
distribution helps to gain and retain distribution.
Second, nationally, when these local beers are made more widely We have responded quickly to market pressures on tenanted available, including in the Groups own pubs, there is real and leased pubs by introducing a range of innovative agreements which address the key licensee concerns of consumer interest in choice, individuality and regionality.
This has contributed to the 6% increase in ale volumes in Marstons funding, business skills and risk.
These agreements are an important point of difference in a competitive market and Inns and Taverns in 2009 and to the success of our brands sold to other pub companies.
are described in detail within the section on Marstons Pub Company.
The cost implications of multi-site brewing are not material We have also developed a comprehensive benefits package as the Jennings, Ringwood and Wychwood breweries are relatively small and local distribution and account for tenants and licensees which allows them to benefit from management is at low cost.
The local provenance and Group buying power across a wide range of goods and premium nature of these beers attracts higher net prices.
services including food, waste management, clothing and equipment.
These benefits can add several thousand pounds We have a particular focus on the higher margin premium ale to a licensees profits.
segment of the market and have increased volumes in this segment by approximately 90% over the past five years to 2009 including the benefit of acquisitions.
Create greater value for shareholders through vertical integration We believe that there are clear economic benefits as a consequence of our vertically integrated business model.
These include: Q The ability to share best practice between divisions in order to optimise the performance of our pubs and ale portfolio the development of the Retail Agreement and the strong performance of our ale brands in our own pubs are examples : Q The ability to share overheads and systems between trading divisions, increasing cost-efficiency: and Q Increased cost control in brewing and distribution and therefore greater control over costs incurred by our pub divisions.
Match freehold assets with long-term fixed rate financing Our financing is robust, principally comprising long-term debt at low rates of interest secured on freehold pub assets.
Following the rights issue we have strengthened the balance sheet with the ratio of net debt to EBITDA reducing from 6.2 times in 2008 to 5.7 times at the period end.
We will continue to target a reduction in the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
Overview of results Our performance has been resilient over a challenging year demonstrating the fundamental strengths of the business.
In addition to offering outstanding value for money and high quality products and service, we have benefited from anticipating and adapting to consumer trends in a number of areas.
| Q Maintained a rigorous approach to improving pub standards and quality, with a strong preference for freehold ownership.
In the last five years we have built Q Recognised a growing demand for choice in high over 50 managed pubs and bars targeting the growth sector quality ales with genuine provenance.
We have leading of the market, and over the last three years we have sold market shares in both cask and premium bottled ale and have around 400 smaller tenanted pubs with limited potential.
continued to develop our premium ale portfolio in both the The pub estate is therefore of high and improving quality, on-trade and the off-trade.
enhancing customers perceptions of the overall quality and the appeal of our offers.
Q Been proactive in generating solutions to the economic pressures affecting tenants and lessees.
Q Continued to develop the F-Plan We have developed In addition to focused tenant support of 3 million in 2009, we have introduced a range of market leading, innovative a focus on food, families, females and forty fifty somethings to benefit from longer term trends towards more eating out: agreements.
These are described further in the section on Marstons Pub Company.
to reposition our customer base in the face of the longterm decline in alcohol consumption in the on-trade: and to Q Improved the performance of our beer brands in recognise the demographic effects of a maturing population on pub usage.
In Marstons Inns and Taverns we achieved 6% volume growth of our own ales and a 20% increase in Although overall expenditure on eating out is estimated to have premium ale volumes.
contracted modestly in 2009, we have gained market share with like-for-like food sales growth of 2.8% in Marstons Inns and Taverns.
One of our premium ales, Hobgoblin | www.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE DIRECTION BUSINESS REVIEW REAL ALE | REAL QUALITY | REAL WELCOME BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Marstons Inns and Taverns As at 3 October 2009 the estate comprised 496 pubs.
Total revenue Our overall good performance has been driven by strong trading decreased by 3.6% to 367.8 million principally reflecting the in high quality food-led outlets, particularly those with a clear transfer of 47 smaller pubs to Marstons Pub Company in 2008. value-for-money offer, such as Two for One 87 pubs.
Similarly, Operating margin of 16.4% was 0.5% below last year demonstrating the introduction of carvery meals from 3.99 and a range of effective cost control despite continued growth in food sales and promotional offers during specific trading hours have proved increased price promotion activity.
Underlying operating profit of extremely popular and these, combined with interesting, refreshed 60.3 million was down 6.5%.
The average profit per pub increased menus and high quality ingredients, contributed to an increase in from 117k to 120k.
meals sold of 4% to around 23 million meals this year.
Average spend per head on food was broadly similar to the previous year Our performance improved steadily throughout the year after a at approximately 6. weak first quarter, and in the last nine weeks to 3 October 2009 total like-for-like sales increased by 2.7%, including food sales up The improvement in drink sales trends during the year was helped by 5.7% and drink sales up by 1.0%.
This stronger performance by good growth in sales of premium cask ale, which increased was achieved despite the generally poor summer weather, and by 20% in 2009.
This encouraging performance was achieved demonstrates the appeal of our value-for-money offers and our by extending the availability of our excellent range of cask beers focus on the F-Plan.
For the year, total like-for-like sales were to all pubs and by giving individual managers greater autonomy down by 0.6% with like-for-like food sales up by 2.8% and likein deciding which brands to sell.
Brands such as Ringwood for-like drink sales down 2.4%.
Family get-together at a Milestone Carvery.
| MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2009 12 | 13 partnership arrangement with Travelodge which provides us Best Bitter, Brakspear Oxford Gold, Jennings Cocker Hoop and with additional flexibility in relation to the new-build programme Hobgoblin all saw significant sales increases.
where sites have the potential for lodge development.
The introduction of a 70 jackpot and increased stakes to 1 During 2009 we opened 4 new large family friendly pubs plays in June 2009 together with new machines such as cash in, as planned, having opened 16 in 2008.
The acceleration of ticket out have proved attractive to players, contributing to likethe programme from 2010 onwards is described within the for-like sales growth in the last two months of the year against a Strategic Objectives.
Our criteria for new site development like-for-like sales decline of 7.2% for the year as a whole.
Income are based upon demographic data associated with population, from gaming machines had previously been in decline since the income levels and competition rather than specific geographies: introduction of the smoking ban in 2007. accordingly, we aim to acquire sites throughout England and Wales.
Our investments are likely to be in edge of town retail Marstons Inns operates around 50 pubs with over 800 rooms parks or prominent sites on arterial routes near residential maintained to a high, consistent standard.
Performance has been areas rather than in the high street, where intense competition robust with like-for-like sales growth of 1.3%, including increased continues to affect trading.
occupancy and higher room rates despite well publicised discounting in the lodge sector.
We will continue to invest in pubs with rooms where appropriate, although we have no plans to develop lodges separately.
We recently announced an informal Milestone Carvery a new REVENUE concept for Marstons Inns 367.8 million and Taverns During 2009 Marstons Inns and Taverns identified an opportunity in the marketplace for a food led concept that gave customers both value and choice and provided Marstons with a competitive 57% advantage.
GROUP Milestone Carvery aims to provide the ultimate menu choice offering a range of grills, fish and hotpot sections as well as a REVENUE traditional, freshly cooked, daily carvery.
SHARE Lucy Dalzell, Retail Marketing Manager, said: The Milestone Carvery concept offers customers fantastic choice and great value every day our daily carvery is available from 3.99.
We are able to offer something for everyone within our Milestone Carveries: we ensure our cask ale range is extensive and varied, we have small play areas or toy cupboards to help keep children entertained, all 4 NEW presented in a comfortable, relaxed pub atmosphere.
family-friendly pubs opened Milestone Carvery and the other key food concept Two for One complement each other and provide an offer suitable to different markets, both of which are central to the new-build programme.
By the end of 2010 there will be a further ten Milestone 800 new-build pubs.
BEDROOMS The great news for shareholders is that you can use your 20% discount in any Marstons Inns and Taverns pub and enjoy the in over 50 Marstons Inns Milestone experience for even less.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE MARSTONS INNS AND TAVERNS DIRECTION REAL ALE | REAL QUALITY | REAL WELCOME BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Marstons Inns and Taverns continued Our resilient sales performance was accompanied by robust in technology to refine and improve labour scheduling.
We expect gross margins, with drinks and food margins only slightly below both food and utility cost inflation to ease in 2010 having recently last years.
Good controls over purchasing and labour costs have negotiated a range of supply contracts on favourable terms.
significantly offset higher costs associated with the change in sales mix, including increased food service costs and input cost inflation.
The new-build programme is enabling Marstons Inns and Taverns Food input cost inflation was approximately 3% in 2009, an to develop a managed pub estate which includes the best pubs increase of around 1.4 million.
Bar staff costs represented around in the market, and is consistent with our objective to operate an 26% of revenue and were well controlled.
We continue to invest estate of the highest quality.
| Our overall good performance has been driven by strong trading in high quality food-led outlets, particularly those with a clear value-for-money offer.
| MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2009 120K AVERAGE PROFIT PER PUB THE REAL FACTS 14 | 15 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Marstons Pub Company As at 3 October 2009 the tenanted and leased pub estate The weakest 20% of pubs require more intensive management.
Total revenue decreased by 3.9% to 175.8 These pubs are currently operated under short-term agreements, million principally reflecting reduced volumes sold to tenants and such as tenancy-at-will, or by agencies.
The lower profitability of lessees.
Operating margin was down 1.6% to 46.5% and the these pubs results from low tenant stability, the costs of agency underlying operating profit was 81.8 million, a reduction of 7.0% and a weak consumer proposition.
including approximately 3 million of additional support costs for licensees.
Average profit per pub reduced from 51k to 48k.
Although these pubs have underperformed compared to the rest of the estate, the vast majority are capable of achieving Well invested pubs in good locations, operated by dedicated satisfactory returns and we have developed plans to significantly licensees who have responded to their customers needs, have improve their profitability as follows: continued to perform well: around 80% of pubs in the tenanted and leased estate achieved like-for-like profits in line with last year.
These are the better pubs in the estate and are let on substantive, medium to long-term agreements.
However, the economic recession has had a polarising effect on the performances of pubs and has accelerated existing market trends, contributing to a sharp decline in profits in the weakest 20% of pubs in the estate.
Well invested pubs in good locations, operated by dedicated licensees who have responded to their customers needs, have continued to perform well.
The Old Stags Head, Penn, Wolverhampton.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS 3MILLION IN ADDITIONAL SUPPORT FOR LICENSEES THE REAL FACTS PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE MARSTONS PUB COMPANY DIRECTION REAL ALE | REAL QUALITY | REAL WELCOME BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Marstons Pub Company continued 1.
Attractive pubs: approximately 5 million of additional We expect that around 90 pubs will operate under Retail Agreements during the course of 2010.
The agreement capital will be invested in 2010 to ensure that these pubs are better able to meet the expectations of customers.
offers experienced licensees the opportunity to run a pub with a reduced cash requirement at lower risk.
Lower risk for licensees: we have introduced a Tracker Marstons Pub Company to manage retail standards and agreement with rent linked to volume for pubs with an annual ensure that pricing is market competitive.
The performance rent of up to 15,000.
This reduces the financial risk for the of the 24 pubs currently operating under this agreement has licensee, with rent flexing according to the level of trade in been very encouraging.
Approximately 100 pubs are now let on Tracker agreements.
In addition to these new and innovative developments, we will continue to ensure that all our agreements are written in Plain 3.
Better retail standards: we have developed a highly English accredited by the Plain English Campaign.
We have innovative Retail Agreement which operates in a similar operated an independent rent review panel since 2001 and fully way to a franchise agreement.
Marstons Pub Company has support the new Pub Independent Rent Review Scheme which responsibility for the retail offer, including drinks brands sold, will provide licensees with a low cost dispute resolution service.
The licensee earns a percentage of revenue and is responsible for staff in the pub.
Marstons Pub Rents must be set on the basis of what is affordable and Company is responsible for all other costs, including utilities.
sustainable in any given pub operated by a good, capable licensee.
With average rent per pub at around 25,500 per year we believe that our rents are appropriate and competitive.
Value-for-money meal at our tenanted pubs.
| MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2009 16 | 17 Average rents in the 80% of the estate on substantive Development Manager BDM is responsible.
This is now around agreements increased by 2% in 2009.
30 pubs, representing a significant investment in resources to ensure that licensees are given more time, attention and better The commercial and training support package available from quality advice.
We believe this number of pubs for each BDM Marstons Pub Company is well established and continues to is far lower than the industry average and is contributing to develop.
It includes the availability of online ordering: licensee improved performance.
Our BDMs are trained using external training days through the Skills Bar programme: access to programmes from the BII and our own Pedigree People Marstons payroll bureau to pay employees: and a web-builder Programme.
This programme won a National Innkeeper Training software package to enable retailers to design their own Award in 2008. websites.
During 2009 we also invested around 3 million in rent alleviation and additional discounts to support licensees In 2010 we expect to implement the recently proposed Code where appropriate.
We plan for a similar level of support in 2010, of Conduct, developed by the industry in response to criticisms although as we make capital investments and extend our new of the industry by the BISC report.
This Code of Conduct will agreements as described above we expect this level of support to further improve transparency in agreements and provide a greater reduce over time.
understanding of the rent setting process.
We continue to develop our relationships with tenants and lessees, and to demonstrate The intensive management of weaker pubs also includes a that through these relationships, and as a result of our high reduction in the number of pubs for which each Business quality pubs, Marstons Pub Company is the leading operator in this sector.
The Retail Agreement REVENUE We have launched several new agreements in order to offer 175.8 million more choice and flexibility to our tenants and lessees whether new or existing.
The Retail Agreement is particularly innovative: having trialled it during 2009, we plan to have over 80 running by September 2010.
The agreement is designed to help good operators who want 27% to run their own pub but are struggling to raise the necessary capital.
We ensure that the pub which they take on is warm and GROUP welcoming, with a great range of cask beers and an attractive food and coffee offer.
We pay for all the running costs, including REVENUE stock, enabling the operator to concentrate on offering high SHARE standards of service and regular activities for customers such as bar sports, Sky and Wii games nights.
The operators are self-employed and they earn 20% of the net takings from which they pay themselves and their staff.
The only capital that they need to raise is for a deposit which is refundable 1,688 at the end of the agreement, subject to the initial terms and conditions being met.
tenanted pubs The agreement has many attractions: it allows an operator to directly benefit from his or her efforts to increase revenue: it addresses the need for pricing activity in certain locations: it can 48K be taken up with very low risk to the operator: and it also permits us to take advantage of our managed house retailing experience average profit per pub since we can bring appropriate elements of this into these pubs.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE MARSTONS PUB COMPANY DIRECTION REAL ALE | REAL QUALITY | REAL WELCOME BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Marstons Beer Company Total revenue exceeded 100 million increasing by 13.2% to Operating margin was down by 1.4% to 15.8% as a consequence 101.5 million.
Underlying operating profit increased by 3.9% to of the change in sales mix towards the off-trade, which is lower 16.0 million.
margin than the on-trade, and higher brewing costs.
Margin trends improved in the second half-year.
The key to our strong performance, against a weak beer market, is our unique range of strong national and regional ale brands Marstons Beer Company is a market leader in premium ale with together with high levels of marketing support and customer market shares of around 23% in premium cask ale in the on-trade service.
and 17% in premium bottled ale in the off-trade.
Our premium ale range includes distinctive characterful beers such as Marstons Own-brewed beer volumes increased by 8%.
Premium ale, which is now 54% of the ale portfolio, increased by 26% including 13% growth in the on-trade and 50% growth in the off-trade.
Bottling line, Burton upon Trent.
| MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2009 OWN-BREWED BEER VOLUMES INCREASED BY8% THE REAL FACTS 18 | 19 Pedigree, Hobgoblin, Marstons Old Empire, Jennings Cumberland Q Take Home: strong volume and profit growth were Ale, Brakspear Oxford Gold and Ringwood Old Thumper.
Popular achieved following the acquisition of Wychwood Brewery in local brands such as Bankss and Mansfield also contribute to our 2008, which more than doubled our share in the growing full range of exceptional beers.
This offer is meeting a growing bottled ale segment to position Marstons Beer Company demand from consumers for more choice, better quality, taste and as the market leader.
We continue to invest in national and regional advertising Approximately 72% of our own-brewed beers are sold to third campaigns as well as sponsorships which include Marstons party customers in the three distinct trade channels below: Pedigree being The Official Beer of England Cricket.
The brand enjoyed a particularly strong performance since its Q Free Trade: despite the difficult market we increased profits re-launch in February 2009, including growth of over 100% from sales to the independent free trade market, winning new in sales of bottled Pedigree in the second half-year.
The wide distribution as a consequence of our strong local presence, range of local radio, print and event sponsorships for our other regional marketing and a high level of service to customers.
regional brands are part of our aim to make Marstons Beer Company the pre-eminent ale brewer in the country.
Q Pub Companies: volumes sold to tenanted and managed pub companies were down year on year reflecting the challenging market generally, but we increased profit overall as a consequence of our stronger brand portfolio and improved pricing.
Promoting our Brands REVENUE England regained the Ashes and cricket fever was captured 101.5 million perfectly in pubs and homes by Marstons Pedigree, with high profile support for our boys in white.
Strong promotional activity saw the brand increase total market share and re-enter the Premium Bottled Ale PBA top 10.
Marstons Brewery also celebrated its 175th anniversary with 16% Darren Gough the celebrity guest at the birthday party in September.
GROUP REVENUE Hobgoblin continued to recruit more PBA drinkers than any other brand with its Halloween and British Beer Needs You campaigns SHARE and the mischievous character continued to convert lager boys to his favourite brew.
Strong campaigns around Jennings and Ringwood breweries saw a growth in local engagement and sales.
Bankss continues its close MARKET LEADER relationship with the Black Country, with football connections at the Bankss Stadium, the home of Walsall FC, and popular radio talk-ins IN PREMIUM ALE with West Midlands football team managers.
23% market share in All breweries contributed to the increasingly popular guest beer programme that saw over 50 cask and bottled beers brewed premium cask ale for a limited period, with special celebrations for the Ashes, Wolverhampton Wanderers return to the Premier League, and charity supporting beers with the Lords Taverners Marstons and Marie Curie Cancer Care Jennings Golden Host.
PREMIUM ALE 2009 also saw the publication of the industrys first ever PBA represents 54% of the ale Report confirming Marstons Beer Company as market leader in portfolio this category.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE MARSTONS BEER COMPANY DIRECTION REAL ALE | REAL QUALITY | REAL WELCOME BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Key Relationships Customers Local communities For our managed pubs our network of Area Managers is We recognise that our pubs are a valued part of their local sufficiently resourced to maintain weekly contact with our pub communities.
We strive to ensure that the development of our managers.
This ensures customers comments and preferences properties takes into account the community, in particular to are communicated promptly and can be considered and acted minimise any disturbance from noise, opening times and traffic.
All concerns communicated by our neighbours are considered and local meetings are arranged to seek to resolve any issues.
We use market research analysts to conduct surveys of consumers preferences regarding the food and drink choices Regulatory bodies available within the managed houses.
Since 24 November 2005 the licensing system in the UK has been controlled by Local Authorities and is governed For the supply of our brands to national supermarkets regular by strict guidelines laid down by the Government to ensure monthly contact is maintained with our customers.
Licensing objectives include prevention of crime meetings their opinions upon the brand range, in store display, and disorder, protection of public safety, prevention of public packaging and operational matters are considered by the nuisance and protection of children from harm.
licensing objectives is central to our relationship with the Local Authorities, both in our managed houses, through the high level Employees of staff training, and by supporting our tenants, lessees and retail The success of the Company will reflect the quality of its operators to operate in accordance.
The Company strives to meet the aspirations of its staff and recognises the value earned from developing the talents The Company also has a key relationship with the Environment Agency concerning its brewing activity at Wolverhampton and of its staff.
We conduct surveys of employees opinions on the Company.
The development of our employees is also described in Burton.
Due to the volume of production at these sites both the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report.
breweries have to demonstrate an adequate level of control over their environmental impact in order to qualify for an Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control IPPC Permit.
The sites are Suppliers periodically audited by the Environment Agency and any points of Although the Group is not solely reliant upon individual improvement have to be complied with in order to retain the Permit.
key suppliers, a lot of our operations can only be achieved competitively because of their efficiencies.
The Group benefits Current Trading from economies of scale by striking national deals with its suppliers.
These relations are managed carefully to ensure that We have seen an encouraging start to the new year.
In Marstons Inns and Taverns, like-for-like sales increased by 3.1% in the these contracts deliver mutual benefits.
eight weeks ended 28 November 2009 including food sales growth of 5.3% and drink sales up by 1.6%.
In Marstons Pub Company, for the same 8 week period, like-for-like profits were around 5% below last year representing an improvement in the rate of profit decline reported for the 2009 financial year.
Marstons Beer Company is performing in line with our expectations.
Underlying earnings per share are basic earnings per share Despite the difficult economic environment, Group revenue before exceptional items.
was only 1.4% down on a comparable 52 week basis.
Ratio of net debt to EBITDA is the net debt at the period operating margin was 1.1% below last year with tight cost control end compared to EBITDA before exceptional items.
continuing to mitigate increases in food, energy and brewing raw 3.
Like-for-like sales growth is the percentage change in material costs.
Performance improved significantly in the second revenue for managed pubs owned by the Group for the half-year, with Group revenue broadly flat in comparison to the prior whole of the current period under review and the prior year and operating margin down 0.5% as inflationary pressures comparative period.
eased on food and brewing raw materials.
New site openings are the number of managed pubs opened either as new-build pubs or acquired and Underlying operating profit reduced by 5.7% to 147.4 million and refurbished managed pubs in the period under review.
underlying earnings per share fell to 13.4 pence per share 2008 5 6.
Average profit per pub is operating profit before exceptional restated: 18.3 pence per share.
items divided by the average number of pubs in the period.
Operating profit after exceptional items was 110.4 million and Dividend basic earnings per share after exceptional items were 3.9 pence per share 2008 restated: 16.3 pence per share.
The proposed final dividend of 3.70 pence per share gives a total dividend for the year of 7.14 pence per share, compared to 9.52 Prior year earnings per share and dividends per share have been pence per share in the prior year.
Dividend cover at the periodrestated for the bonus element of the rights issue completed in end is 1.6 times 2008: 1.9 times.
The Board has rebased the final dividend for 2009 and also expects to rebase the interim dividend in 2010.
This follows a Key performance indicators review of the Companys dividend policy and payments having The Board of Marstons PLC and the divisional management regard to the immediate trading environment and longer term boards monitor a range of financial and non-financial performance considerations.
The Boards policy remains to target a dividend indicators, reported on a periodic basis, to measure performance cover of around 2 times over the medium-term although the level against expected targets.
Of these, the key performance indicators of cover in any one year may vary.
monitored by the Board are: Capital expenditure 2008 2009 As restated Capital expenditure was 56.4 million in 2009 and we expect this to increase to between 85 million and 90 million in 2010.
The Group level of maintenance capital expenditure will be broadly similar 1.
Underlying earnings per share 13.4p 18.3p to 2009, but investment capital will increase as we invest 45 2.
Ratio of net debt to EBITDA 5.7 times 6.2 times million of the rights issue proceeds in new-build pubs.
New site openings 4 16 We continually review our property portfolio and sell those with low growth prospects and those with higher alternative use value.
Average profit per pub Despite a challenging property market, we sold 70 properties during 5.
Marstons Inns and Taverns 120k 117k the year, realising book values and generating cash of 26.0 million.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECTION
