Grzegorz Krol Central and Eastern Europe Divisional Managing Director Group Management Team Grzegorz joined McBride in February 2009.
Most recently Greg was Managing Director for Nestl UK chilled foods.
Colin McIntyre UK Divisional Managing Director Colin joined McBride in 1990 and has progressed though the Company to his current position over the past 18 years.
He was appointed to his current role in July 2008.
Gary Saunders Business Development Director The Group Management Team comprises three divisional Managing Gary has recently moved to take up a new role in the Company Directors and the functional heads of finance, purchasing, human as Business Development Director.
Gary previously managed resources, business and strategic development and the Company the Western Continental Europe division since joining the Secretary.
The meetings are chaired by Miles Roberts, Chief Executive.
The role of the Group Management Team is to: 7.
Tim Seaman Develop and implement the Group strategy Strategic Development Director Develop and implement a Groupwide culture Following seven years as UK divisional Managing Director, Tim now Monitor results and allocate resources has responsibility for developing growth market opportunities outside our core markets.
He is also responsible for our growing 1.
Malcolm Allan Far East operations and has been with the Company for 25 years.
Group HR Director Malcolm joined McBride in 1987, and has been Group HR Director 8.
Company Secretary and Head of Strategy and Acquisitions Bob Beveridge joined McBride in May 2006 as Group Finance 2.
Andrea Barbier Director and was previously Finance Director of Marlborough West Continental Europe Divisional Managing Director Stirling plc and Cable & Wireless Communications plc.
Andrea joined McBride in May 2009.
Most recently, he was President and CEO of Yves St Laurent, Paris, and prior to this was General 9.
Paul Bergin Manager, Latin America, for LOral Paris.
Interim Group Finance Director Paul joined McBride in 2004 as Group Financial Controller and 3.
Thibaut Eissautier has been Interim Group Finance Director since April 2009.
Group Purchasing Director Thibaut was appointed Group Purchasing Director of McBride in July 2007.
Prior to joining McBride, Thibaut was Vice President International Purchasing at Scotts Miracle-Gro for four years, and before that he worked for 15 years at Procter & Gamble.
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 McBride plc Directors report 25 Annual report and accounts 2009 Group Management Team The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents
