Focused on Europes leading retailers McBride is by far the largest provider of Private Label Customer service is our main operational priority and Household and Personal Care products to Europes a highly visible benchmark by which we are measured largest and most successful retailers.
Our 19 factories by our customers.
It influences directly our ability to in seven countries across Europe supply over 90% of the maintain commercial leadership and supports the Groups top 30 retailers.
Our investments underpin our commitment to delivering customer service by providing In many markets throughout Europe the volumes the capacity, flexibility and integrated systems to support of Private Label sales are larger than many national this key performance indicator.
McBride has the range, technical competence, supply chain expertise and scale efficiencies to meet Our strategy is to continue to focus on building scale the increasing popularity of Private Label products.
positions in our priority product markets.
This will allow the Group to further improve efficiencies and unit costs, Across Europe certain retailers are expanding their in order to deliver even better value and performance in presence and require a pan-European supplier.
only McBride has the scale to satisfy this need.
Enhancing scale ultimately brings substantial benefits McBride has scale: to all our stakeholders including: We produce in the region of four million consumer Strengthening customer and supplier partnerships products a day Leveraging greater purchasing power for the benefit We produce over 220 million bottles of cleaning of customers and shareholders products at our factory in Ieper each year Delivering outstanding value products to customers We produce over 85 million trigger cleaners a year and consumers We produce 145 million aerosols each year Offering enhanced and more varied careers for We blow over 80% of our bottle requirement employees We have five factories in Europe using soluble Increasing resources focused on improving film technology sustainability Over the last five years McBride has invested over Europes leading retailers are considered to have the 100 million in: most highly developed and sophisticated Private Label ranges in the world and are now exporting that expertise Additional mixing and filling capacity into new geographic markets as the grocery market Additional blow moulding capacity becomes more global.
To achieve their ambitions they will End-of-line automation require manufacturing partners with scale and expertise.
New technologies and delivery systems IT infrastructure Health, safety and environmental controls
