Colin D Smith 62 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Board of Directors Chairman of the Audit and member of the Nomination and Remuneration sub-committees Colin Smith has been a non-executive director of McBride since April 2002.
His previous experience includes 20 years at Safeway plc, the last six years as Chief Executive and, before that, as Finance Director.
Colin is also Chairman of Assured Food Standards Limited and Poundland Holdings Limited.
Colin is McBrides Senior Independent Director.
Iain J G Napier 60 Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration and member of the Nomination Non-Executive Chairman Chairman of the Nomination and member of the and Audit sub-committees Bob Lee has been a non-executive director of McBride since Remuneration sub-committees Iain Napier was appointed non-executive Chairman of McBride in September 2003.
Bob has over 35 years experience in the petrochemical and allied industries.
He was employed by Dow July 2007.
He is also non-executive Chairman of Imperial Tobacco Group plc and a non-executive director of John Menzies plc, William Chemicals for 28 years in various international senior management roles.
In 1997, Bob joined the management team that led the demerger Grant & Sons Holdings Limited and Molson Coors Brewing Company a US quoted company.
He was previously Group Chief Executive of Octel Corp now Innospec Inc to become an independent NYSE-listed petroleum additive company.
Since 2000, he has been of Taylor Woodrow plc.
As a former main board director of Bass plc, he was Chief Executive of Bass Leisure and then Chief Executive of running a private packaging technology company, Advanced Plastics Technologies Luxembourg S. A. Bass Brewers and Bass International Brewers.
Following the sale of the Bass beer business in 2000, he became Vice President UK and 5.
Christine A Bogdanowicz-Bindert 58 Ireland for Interbrew SA until August 2001.
Independent Non-Executive Director Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 2.
Miles W Roberts 45 Chief Executive sub-committees Christine Bogdanowicz-Bindert has been a non-executive director Member of the Nomination sub-committee Miles Roberts is Chief Executive of McBride, a role he assumed of McBride since September 2003.
Christine is an experienced financier, having worked throughout Europe and the US for the last in July 2005 having originally joined the Company as Group Finance Director in January 2002.
His experience prior to McBride includes 30 years.
This has included experience at the International Monetary Fund in Washington DC, Lehman Brothers Inc in New York being Group Finance Director of Costain Group plc and Three Valleys Water plc.
Miles is also a non-executive director of and Frankfurt and as a non-executive director of various companies in Poland and the US.
Christine became a non-executive director Care UK plc, Chairman of its Audit Committee and a member of its Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
of Ford Financial Europe in September 2005 and is also a member of its Audit Committee.
01 02 03 04 05 McBride plc Directors report 24 Annual report and accounts 2009 Board of Directors
