Corporate governance report continued Such reserved matters include determination of the overall A strong feature of the Boards effectiveness is an open style strategy of the Group, approval of the annual report and accounts of management and a free flow of information between the and other financial statements and confirmation that these executives and non-executives.
This is encouraged by the statements provide a true and fair view of the financial status of non-executive Chairman and supported by the Chief Executive.
the Group, authorisation of major capital expenditure, disposals All directors communicate with each other on a regular basis and and acquisitions, ensuring the existence of proper internal controls, contact with senior executives within the Company is encouraged.
the approval of banking and other financial arrangements, and In this regard, various members of the senior management the monitoring of operational and trading performance as well as teams are frequently invited to attend Board meetings to make health, safety and environmental matters and risk management presentations on specific matters and this serves to facilitate procedures.
It also governs matters relating to appointments and a clearer understanding of business issues.
Board papers are the remuneration of Board members, reviews senior management prepared and issued prior to each Board meeting to enable performance and development potential, is responsible for directors to give due consideration to all matters in advance of corporate social responsibility policy setting and corporate the meeting.
Directors are able to take independent professional governance and reviews and authorises significant corporate advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
A copy of the schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board is displayed on All directors are entitled to undertake training relevant to their the Groups website at www.
During the year, Colin Smith and Bob Lee as Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration sub-committees respectively continued The Board holds at least six meetings a year at approximately to attend updates and discussion meetings held by leading advisory two-monthly intervals.
Additional meetings are held as necessary bodies.
New directors receive a formal induction programme to consider specific matters where a decision is required before the which includes site visits and operational presentations by senior next meeting.
During the year, eight formal Board meetings were executives.
Ongoing training is provided to all directors in the form held and the principal matters considered included regular reviews of regular briefing papers which are submitted to Board members of the operational and trading performance of and prospects for on regulatory legislative developments and on other topics of the Group, approval and monitoring of major projects including specific relevance to them, including their duties and obligations consideration of potential acquisitions, as well as evaluation and as directors of a listed company.
approval of potential new corporate development and growth opportunities for the Group.
The Board also reviewed and approved Board performance evaluation Group policies, its annual and medium-term plans, received feedback The Board has continued to run a formal Board evaluation from presentations to institutional shareholders, approved major process during the year to assess the overall performance of capital expenditure investments, approved the full year and interim the Board and the contribution made by individual directors.
The results statements, reviewed relevant governance matters and exercise again covered a review of the effectiveness of the work legislative developments, approved changes to the Groups banking of the sub-committees of the Board.
The process is undertaken in facilities and the capital structure of the Groups subsidiaries and an open manner with responses from Board members to detailed considered relevant health, safety and environmental matters.
questionnaires being submitted to the Company Secretary and discussed on a one to one basis between the Chairman and the Attendance at meetings of the Board and at meetings of subindividual director.
Feedback on the effectiveness and performance committees is set out in the table on page 32.
Several non-executive of the sub-committees is considered by the respective committee director meetings both formal and informal have been held during chairmen with the Chairman of the Board.
The directors led by the the year without the executive directors present.
The senior senior independent director and in the absence of the Chairman independent director and the non-executive directors have also convene a separate meeting to discuss the performance of the met without the presence of the Chairman as part of the Board Chairman.
We are of the view that the Board is best placed to performance evaluation exercise.
carry out such evaluation without the need to employ the services of an outside agency.
The exercise was devised internally and the There is a clear division of responsibilities between the nonprocess is co-ordinated and overseen by the Company Secretary executive Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman, who meets with the Chairman and the senior independent director supported by the Company Secretary, leads the Board through to summarise the output from the discussions.
The conclusions are governance matters, ensures that the meetings of the Board reported by the Chairman to the whole Board.
and with shareholders are properly conducted and is responsible for setting the Board agenda.
The Chief Executive, supported The results of this evaluation process showed that directors by the GMT, has day-to-day responsibility for all business of the were generally positive about the performance and processes of Group and for implementing the agreed strategy and policies of the Board and its sub-committees.
The Audit Committee is seen to the Board.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary be particularly effective.
Mutual respect exists between individual who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed members of the Board and the interaction between the Board and and that the Company complies with all applicable rules, regulations its sub-committees is seen as good.
The non-executive directors and obligations governing the Companys operations.
are comfortable about their knowledge and skills and their ability McBride plc Directors report 30 Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate governance report
