Investment was made in new production capacity and in increased automation of our factories.
New Product Development resources Divisional performance were increased and resulted in the development of some innovative new products during the year, notably soluble sachets of laundry liquid, concentrated low temperature laundry gel, encapsulated fabric conditioner and a range of branded products with strong environmental credentials under the brand Green force.
New Personal Care ranges were developed for Marks & Spencer and Superdrug.
McBrides determination and commitment to provide its customers with the very best combination of quality and price is reflected in the growth of the Private Label share of market.
We expect that UK business review this momentum will be maintained in the coming years.
Key developments 2009 2008 Change 1 Markets Total reported revenue 311.4m 297.3m 5% 2 The UK Household products market is relatively mature and Operating profit 16.2m 15.2m 7% increased by 3% in value but declined 2% in volume.
Private Label Average employee numbers 2,289 2,331 -2% products benefited from a high level of innovation in products, Proportion of revenue packaging and category development and also from increased in Household products 72% 73% -1pp trade focus: Private Label products sales grew by 5% in value on flat Proportion of revenue volumes.
The highest growth is in laundry liquids, sachets and gels, in Personal Care products 28% 27% 1pp household cleaners and automatic dishwashing tablets.
2 Before amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional items.
The overall UK Personal Care market grew by 4% in both value and volume terms in the year to June 2009, with particularly strong 5% sales growth and strong Private Label market share growth.
growth in deodorants and oral care.
Two factories closed and overheads restructured.
The excellent balance between quality and cost is expected Operating profit was 16.2 million 2008: 15.2m, with a return to continue to favour Private Labels share of the market in on sales of 5.2%.
Increased investment in New Product Development capability.
Source of market data: McBride estimates based on TNS retail selling price data.
Business description The UK business creates, develops and produces Household and Key business developments Personal Care products for our Private Label customers.
It also Coming into the year, the divisions priorities were to continue produces niche brands such as Surcare and Green Force and driving Private Label growth in core product categories, to continue provides contract manufacturing for other Household and Personal delivering premium growth in Personal Care and to expand the Care sector participants.
Retail customers include Aldi, Asda, Co-op, range of niche brands and distribution channels.
Marks & Spencer, Morrisons, Sainsburys, Tesco and Waitrose.
Actions taken included further increases in selling prices, in line with Overview much of the industry, and changes to the way of managing customer The UK business had a good year in terms of sales but nonetheless relations, as well as value engineering and efficiency improvements.
faced the ongoing challenge of increasing input costs, particularly Our capital investment focused on new product capacity and cost due to the weakness of Sterling against the Euro.
The impact was reduction activities.
mitigated by product re-engineering and cost restructuring but it was nevertheless necessary to raise selling prices across the The focus of priorities on Personal Care was reflected in organic business.
Volumes were affected as retailers focused on price revenue growth of 11%, well ahead of the overall Private Label market.
Good progress was made to strengthen the business going forward.
The St Helens factory, bought last year, was reconfigured in line with Automatic dishwashing tablets our plans and has allowed us to proceed with the closure of two McBride produce 350 million factories in Coventry and Warrington which were not strategic to dishwashing tablets a year in the our needs.
This, combined with a restructuring of overheads, has UK.
Thats around a million realised good annual savings.
Factory efficiencies in terms of waste dishwasher loads every day.
and labour efficiency were also improved.
Key performance indicator UK organic revenue growth 5% 2008: -4% McBride plc Directors report 13 Annual report and accounts 2009 Divisional performance The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents Financial review Divisional performance Revenue grew by 5% to 311.4 million 2008: 297.3m and organic revenue increased by the same amount.
continued Operating profit, before amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional items, increased slightly to 16.2 million 2008: 15.2m reflecting the positive impacts of growth, efficiencies and price increases offset by input cost inflation.
Development in revenues of UK business m 2009 311 2008 297 2007 277 2006 250 Nova hair spray 2005 243 McBrides Nova range of hair styling products continues to Capital investment in the year was focused on building incremental offer excellent performance capacity in areas with good growth opportunities, such as laundry and value to consumers.
gels and sachets, and Personal Care and improving efficiencies with internal bottle-blowing capabilities and line automation.
Investment was 9.4 million in the year 2008: 12.4m.
Future developments Our ongoing success depends critically upon the need to provide customers with excellent service levels and competitive and innovative new products.
We have recently increased our New Product Development headcount by four people as we continue to strengthen our business to satisfy the needs of our increasingly ambitious customers.
McBride continues to press ahead with initiatives to improve efficiency.
A three year programme has commenced to drive Lean business processes throughout the division.
In addition a major project has started to improve people engagement, further strengthening our communication and motivation skills.
The divisions Personal Care business is expected to continue its recent record of good organic growth, reflecting a widening product range and the potential offered by the new St Helens facility.
Dentimint toothpaste The growing dental hygiene category is a key focus for McBride Personal Care.
McBride plc Directors report 14 Annual report and accounts 2009 Divisional performance France is McBrides largest market in Western Continental Europe Western Continental Europe business review and the Group is active in both its Household and Personal Care Key developments 2009 2008 Change markets.
TNS market data shows that for Household products, 1 Total reported revenue 469.8m 395.4m 19% the French market in total declined by 2% but within this Private 2 Label sales grew by 1%, with particularly strong share gain for Operating profit 20.9m 11.4m 83% Private Label in automatic dishwashing products, washing up Average employee numbers 2,246 2,286 -2% liquid and specialist cleaners.
Proportion of revenue in Household products 90% 91% -1pp In Italy, McBrides second largest market in Western Continental Proportion of revenue Europe, where the Group operates predominantly in the Household in Personal Care products 10% 9% 1pp market, the market grew by 2% and Private Label again increased share with annual growth in value terms of 5.5% in the year to June 1 Revenue by origin.
Strong performance despite volatile input cost environment, Finally, in Germany the most recent GfK data shows a decline due to aggressive cost control, product re-engineering and of 2% in the market value but Private Label sales were flat, giving purchasing strategy.
an increased market share of 0.6% to Private Label.
2% organic growth, 3% Household and 7% Personal Care.
Operating profit up sharply to 20.9 million 2008: 11.4m Key business developments giving a return on sales of 4.4%.
The business has improved its margin through cost savings and the year-on-year impact of last years selling price increases.
It also Business description achieved further operational efficiencies, for example reducing The Western Continental Europe business creates, develops and headcount through investment in automation and by producing produces Household and Personal Care products for our Private 84% of bottles in house, reducing bought-in quantities by 12%.
Label customers in France, Italy, Spain, Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands.
Andrea Barbier was appointed as Managing Director In the Household products business, there was good sales growth of the region from May 2009, joining us from Yves St Laurent.
in specialist cleaners, automatic dishwashing tablets and laundry liquids offset by ongoing declines in laundry powder.
France, Overview Belgium, and Italy delivered good growth with success in increasing The Western Continental Europe business delivered a strong penetration of key retail accounts and retailers placing greater recovery in performance despite a difficult input cost environment emphasis on Private Label sales.
with good organic growth of 2% in markets which were broadly flat.
The divisions Personal Care business continued to expand rapidly The increasing focus on Personal Care delivered strong organic and Household products profitability returned to an acceptable growth once more with a particularly good performance in bath level, supported by strong sales growth in France, Belgium and Italy care and deodorants.
offset by a decline in Spain.
Return on sales was 4.4%, up from 2.9% last year.
Financial review Total Western Continental Europe revenue was up 19% to Margins were improved through a mixture of aggressive overhead 469.8 million 2008: 395.4m of which 17% was due to positive control, product re-engineering and by exiting certain less profitable currency exchange rate movements.
The underlying business parts of the business, especially in Spain and the Netherlands.
New delivered a resilient performance with an excellent performance contracts have been won at acceptable margins.
Promotional activity in Personal Care, which delivered 7% organic revenue growth.
has been focused on more profitable categories and a much more proactive management of product mix.
Markets In the last year, the Household and Personal Care markets in Western Continental Europe have been impacted by the adverse environment but in all cases Private Label has grown share significantly, as consumers reach for products which deliver the best balance of quality and price.
Household cleaners France 2009 saw strong growth of Private Label washing up liquids and cleaners in France.
Key performance indicator Western Continental Europe organic revenue growth 2% 2008: 0% McBride plc Directors report 15 Annual report and accounts 2009 Divisional performance The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents Divisional performance continued Development in revenues of Western Continental Europe business m 2009 470 2008 395 2007 304 Washing up liquids 2006 280 New fragrances help keep 2005 286 Private Label washing up liquids sector fresh and Operating profit, before amortisation of intangible assets and attractive to consumers.
exceptional items, was up by 83% to 20.9 million 2008: 11.4m.
Capital expenditure was 10.3 million 2008: 13.0m reflecting investments in blow moulding and end of line automation and the soluble sachet equipment bought from Budelpack.
Future developments The near term priority for the business is to continue investing in New Product Development, service and efficiency in order to offer the retailers the very best value for money in our priority categories.
By continuing to monitor cash tightly our customers continue to benefit from our stable financial position, particularly important since a number of competitors have failed in the last year.
Further investment is planned in New Product Development, focused on our core priority categories.
Category management skills will be further improved in order to persuade our customers of the extra profitability they can enjoy by driving their Private Label product ranges.
A major Private Label contact has been won to supply a large German based retailer and the Group will benefit from continued new store opening programmes of existing customers.
Automatic dishwashing products Private Label sales of automatic dishwashing tablets grew strongly in all markets in Western Europe.
McBride plc Directors report 16 Annual report and accounts 2009 Divisional performance Markets Eastern Continental Europe business review Both Household and Personal Care markets continue to grow Key developments 2009 2008 Change dynamically in the region, in line with the broader economic 1 Total reported revenue 33.2m 32.1m 3% environment.
According to Euromonitor, McBrides current core 2 Household and Personal Care markets increased in value terms by Operating profit 2.0m 2.1m -5% 4% and 5% respectively in 2009.
Average employee numbers 409 413 -1% Proportion of revenue Private Label continued to increase its share of these markets as in Household products 62% 64% -2pp retailers adapt to consumer demands for value products but they Proportion of revenue remain at lower levels compared to Western Europe, providing ample in Personal Care products 38% 36% 2pp scope for future growth.
This positive outlook should be supported by retail growth and consolidation led by the major retailers.
Latest information from AC Nielsen reported total sales of Reported revenue up 3%.
Household and Personal Care products in Hungary to June 2009 Organic sales up 9% excluding the impact of a decline in contract grew 3% year-on-year.
Private Label share of Household increased manufacturing.
Continued growth in Hungary and the Czech Republic.
Operating profit 2.0 million 2008: 2.1m and return on sales 6.0%.
Key business developments Further development of eastern and southern areas of region.
In 2009 the Eastern Continental European business went through End of significant contract manufacturing arrangement.
a very dynamic period of change.
Although McBrides Eastern Continental Europe sales were only up 3% and declined by 4% on a Business description constant currency basis, it was heavily affected by the cancellation The Eastern Continental Europe business creates, develops and of a major sub-contracting contract during the year.
Excluding this produces Household and Personal Care products for major retailers impact organic growth was 9%.
The Private Label business in Poland in Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
Retail continued to grow strongly with sales up 16%, while sales of branded customers in the region include Biedronka Jeronimo Martins, products grew by only 2%.
The increased core Private Label volume Schwarz Group Kaufland and Lidl, Metro Makro and Real, with a number of key accounts has offset the cessation of a major Carrefour and Tesco.
Greg Krol was appointed as Managing Director piece of contract manufacturing business.
of the region in February 2009, joining us from Nestl.
The growth in Private Label sales has been achieved by building a Overview fresh commercial approach based on New Product Development, The Eastern Continental Europe business had a robust performance innovation, customer service, further expansion of the product in what has been a challenging year because of the cancellation range in Poland and strengthened customer relationships.
Until of a significant manufacturing contract with a branded company.
recently sales have been capacity constrained and actions have This has been offset by a continued strong growth in Private Label been taken to release additional capacity.
The business is operating in the Household and Personal Care confident in the potential for this region, particularly in the rapidly sectors both of which have demonstrated consistent growth driven developing discount channel.
by increasing consumer demand with Private Label ranges becoming an increasingly important segment for our customers as they adapt their offers to match changing consumer needs.
Household cleaners Poland Avea McBrides sales of Private Label The relaunch of the Avea range Household cleaners in Poland of shampoos and toiletries has grew 16% in 2008-09. resulted in increased exports throughout the ECE region.
McBride plc Directors report 17 Annual report and accounts 2009 Divisional performance The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents Divisional performance continued Export sales of McBride brands have grown substantially, up 48%, mainly to Kazakhstan and Belarus where increased marketing and trading activities have underpinned this growth.
A significant improvement in customer service was achieved during the year, achieving the Group target level of 98% for the first time, thanks to improvements in forecasting, stock control and systems.
Financial review Cler Reported Eastern Continental Europe revenue increased 3% The Cler range of to 33.2 million 2008: 32.1m although on a constant currency concentrated Household cleaners have been basis sales were down 4%.
Strong organic growth of 16% was designed for Biedronka, achieved in the Polish Private Label business.
Personal Care one of Polands fastest products performed well with sales now accounting for 38% growing retail chains.
Operating profit, before amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional items, was 2.0 million 2008: 2.1m.
Capital expenditure was 0.8 million with significant investment in increased capacity and health and safety projects.
Future developments A combination of the overall market environment and both ongoing and planned initiatives, give confidence that there are significant opportunities for further rapid development of the Groups activities in Eastern Europe.
The New Product Development programme will focus on categories with the greatest growth and margin potential, and investment behind our brands will be increased again.
Key performance indicator Eastern Continental Europe organic revenue growth excluding contract manufacturing 9% 2008: 16% McBride plc Directors report 18 Annual report and accounts 2009 Divisional performance
