Private Label gaining share throughout Europe Private Label products have never been so popular than those of branded products which grew by 2.4% in the throughout Europe.
This is not just due to the current same period.
In Italy, the performance of Private Label economic climate but increasingly consumers are was even better with sales growth of 5.5% compared with switching to Private Label products due to the excellent branded sales up just 1.2%.
In France, TNSofres TNS value and performance they offer.
reported Private Label reached over 23% market share by value, with sales up 1% compared to branded sales In a recent study by the Institute of Grocery Distribution which declined 2.4%.
In Germany, Private Label share of IGD undertaken in April 2009, a survey of shoppers the Household cleaning and laundry products reached regarding their buying habits reported that 33% were 33.0% value share 2008:32.6% in the year to March 2009 intending to purchase more Private Label products in with volume share at 43.0% 2008: 42.5%.
the future, while only 4% of consumers questioned said they were intending to buy more branded products.
McBride growth categories Speciality cleaners saw Private Label value sales growth Own brands clean up ahead of the market in UK, France, Germany and Italy.
In the year ended July 2009, 41% of all grocery sales in the The automatic dishwashing sector saw strong gains for UK were Private Label compared to 38% to July 2008 Private Label in Italy, France, modest share gains in according to Datamonitor.
Neil Saunders, director of Germany and a slight decline in its value share in the UK.
Verdict Research, part of Datamonitor, said: Whats really In air care, Private Label growth was ahead of the market changed in the past few years is the range of own label in the UK, Italy and Germany but lost ground to branded products you can buy.
Its not just about the value products air fresheners in the French market.
The laundry liquid any more, supermarkets like Tesco have own label ranges sector including liquid sachets has been particularly right up to premium now.
Theres been a move towards dynamic in the last 12 months in the UK registering a down trading and the value end of the spectrum but in the 17% sales growth for laundry liquids at the expense of long-term premium products will do well.
laundry powders which declined by 7%.
UK Private Label laundry liquids growth was 21% for the same period.
Similarly a report by uSwitch found that almost 71% In Italy, laundry liquids grew strongly registering a 7% of shoppers in the UK were now active buyers of retailer growth with Private Label again delivering strong brands.
As part of their weekly shop 31 million consumers sales growth up 15% in the same period.
in the UK were now buying Private Label.
They reported that much of this increase was due to supermarkets Private Label is more established in developed retail expanding their range of own brand products in a bid to markets of Western Europe, but in the emerging markets stop consumers switching to cheaper discount stores.
of Eastern Europe and markets like the Far East and the USA, Private Label is gaining share providing further Private Label has been gaining ground not just in the UK growth opportunities for McBride in the future.
In McBrides sectors of Household products in the UK, Private Label sales in the year to June 2009 grew by 5.4%, over two times faster Private Label dynamics remain strong, Branded products Supermarket Private based on their value offer to the consumer.
Label products 55% Buying more Buying more brands 4% Private Label products 33% 19% 14% 4% 3% 3% 1% Only ever Buying brands Buying brands No change Buying Private Buying Private Only ever buy buy brands a lot more a little more Label a little more Label a lot more Private Label 1% said that they dont know.
Growth McBride, as the leading producer of Private Label Household and Personal Care products in Europe, is confident that consumers are recognising the benefits of the quality of Private Label.
Miles Roberts Chief Executive, McBride plc The majority of consumers in Europe consider Private Label store brands Household cleaners to be equivalent to the leading brands.
Question: All things considered, how similar are store brands e. g supermarket own brands in the following categories compared to well know leading brands?
Dont know Far superior Slightly superior Identical no difference Slightly inferior Far inferior 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Germany Italy France UK Germany Italy France UK Household cleaning products Laundry products Source : Datamonitor Consumer Survey, April 2009.
Private Label outperforms the market in Household products.
Market Private Label % value growth 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 -1 -2 UK Italy France Germany Source: UK: TNS to June 2009.
