Focusing on growth categories We have a clear strategy of focusing our resources on product categories which offer the highest growth and profit potential: automatic dishwashing tablets, Personal Care, air care, laundry liquids and specialist cleaners.
Air care Automatic dishwashing tablets are a key long-term growth The air care sector has attractive growth dynamics with consumers Household product category, reflecting the continuing rise in continuing to search for new fragrances and delivery formats.
ownership of automatic dishwashing machines across Europe.
Recent developments include timed-release air fresheners, This year we have launched the first Private Label automatic reed diffusers and attractive discreet fresheners sourced from dishwashing tablets wrapped in a soluble sachet in the UK.
To meet the demand for more eco-friendly The convenience of the self-dissolving wrapper helps consumers products we have recently launched a range of air fresheners in handling the tablets and benefits the environment through using nitrogen as the propellant.
Personal Care The convenience of laundry liquids has resulted in the category Personal Care remains an attractive growth opportunity for gaining market share from traditional laundry powders.
McBride McBride as it currently accounts for less than 20% of Group is at the forefront of developments in new super-concentrated revenue, whilst the overall Personal Care market is far larger liquids and gels that reduce environmental impact through than the Household products market.
Recent contract gains and reduced transportation and packaging costs as well as investment in broadening our range of Personal Care products delivering associated cost improvements.
McBride has further into new sectors including baby and skin care ranges have increased its capacity for laundry liquids in soluble sachets to helped push organic sales up 8% over the year.
become one of Europes leading producers of these products.
Specialist cleaners McBride is one of Europes leading producers of specialist cleaners, particularly in trigger format.
Last year we produced over 85 million trigger cleaners throughout Europe or almost 5% of the worlds production.
The range of applications for specialist cleaners continues to expand and Private Label products are continuing to gain a greater share of the specialist cleaners market.
Contents Performance highlights 02 Overview of the year Our business 04 This section provides a summary of who we are and what we do.
It includes highlights of our financial and operating performance in the 2009 financial year.
Chairmans statement 06 Business review Chief Executives review 08 This section gives details of our business Divisional performance 13 performance in the 2009 financial year.
Group financial review 19 We also provide other important financial Principal risks and uncertainties 21 information about the Group.
Resources and relationships 23 Board of Directors 24 Our governance Group Management Team 25 Find out who McBrides directors are Corporate social responsibility CSR report 26 and how we apply our values to the way Corporate governance report 29 we run our business in terms of corporate Audit Committee report 35 governance, accountability and corporate Nomination Committee report 37 social responsibility.
The remuneration Statutory information 38 section explains our pay policies and Remuneration report 43 contains details of the salaries and benefits received by the directors during the year.
Financial statements The figures Independent Auditors report 49 This section contains all the detailed Group financial statements 50 financial statements and other Notes to the Group financial statements 54 information shareholders find useful.
Company financial statements 79 As well as the statutory accounts, this Notes to the Company financial statements 80 section contains a financial calendar for the forthcoming year and a Shareholder information summary of financial performance Useful information for shareholders 82 over five years.
McBride plc 01 Annual report and accounts 2009 Directors report The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents
