Constantly reviewing and improving our efficiency We believe we can always improve efficiency and follow moulding in Middleton will also help improve a culture of continuous improvement.
Benchmarking and manufacturing efficiency by reducing delivery times sharing of operational performance data across the Group and storage of bought-in bottles.
means we are always improving the returns from our asset base by increasing output or reducing downtime and costs.
Batch traceability has become increasingly important not only in Personal Care products manufacturing We share data on blow moulding performance, filling but also in Household products.
McBride in Ieper have line effectiveness, supplier service and New Product recently implemented a system to control and report Development to maximise efficiency.
Where possible on the dosage of batch ingredients through the use of we use similar machinery in our factories and common hand-held scanners linked to our SAP system.
The new packaging formats, caps and triggers to provide system ensures there can be no mismatch of material flexibility across the Group.
We are introducing new usage against product formulations and provides greater standard operating procedures across the Group manufacturing efficiency through the integration of stock based on Lean principles.
visibility, batch tracking, quality control and traceability of every ingredient used in the manufacturing process.
During the year we have closed two factories in the UK and integrated their production into our larger facilities Significant investment in SAP systems in our Polish such as Middleton, Burnley and the St Helens factory factory and further expansion of our blow moulding which we acquired in 2008 to maintain a competitive capabilities at Strzelce have contributed to record and efficient cost base.
service levels for the factory during the year.
Essential to the integration of the St Helens facility We aim to ensure that our improvements in efficiency was the rapid implementation of our SAP systems and are not just related to increased output, but also provide reconfiguration of the production flow in the factory in a more sustainable manufacturing capability.
During the line with the need for flexibility required by a Private Label year we increased our eco-efficiency for tonnes of business.
Investment in recruitment, training new staff, production per cubic metre of water used by 3%, and establishment of new policies and procedures and audit further improved the tonnes of production per kilojoule approvals by both authorities and customers have been of energy consumed, despite the increase in bottlesuccessfully managed and the site is now fully operational.
In Middleton we have invested in new high-speed filling We will continue to focus on identifying opportunities capacity running at 200 bottles every minute: 24 hours to drive efficiency enhancements and share them per day thats two million bottles a week.
It is the fastest across the Group to maximise the benefits for all line installed to date.
Further investment in PET blow our stakeholders.
