Corporate governance report Combined Code compliance The role of senior independent non-executive director continues The McBride Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders to be held by Colin Smith, and has been held by him since July 2004. for the Groups activities and is responsible for the effectiveness of its corporate governance practices.
We remain committed From 1 October 2008, there has been a requirement that directors to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
For must avoid a situation where they have, or can have, a direct or the financial year under review, we are governed by and endorse indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the the provisions set out in The Combined Code on Corporate Companys interests.
Directors of public companies may authorise Governance The Code, as published by the Financial Reporting conflict and potential conflicts, where appropriate, if a companys Council and revised in June 2008.
We have continued to assess our articles of association permit and shareholders have approved level of compliance with The Code and disclosures in this years appropriate amendments.
report describe how the principles are applied.
The Board considers that, throughout the year under review, the Company has complied Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by directors of with the governance rules and best practice provisions applying to any such conflicts and also for the consideration and authorisation UK listed companies as contained in Section 1 of The Code.
of any conflicts by the Board.
These procedures allow for the imposition of limits or conditions by the Board when authorising Composition and independence of the Board any conflict, if they think this is appropriate.
These procedures For the year to 30 June 2009, the Board nominally comprised six have been applied during the year and are now included as a regular members, being two executive directors, the Chairman and three item for consideration by the Board at its meetings.
As announced in last years annual report, Henri Talerman stepped down from the Board with effect from Director elections the last Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Group Finance Director, In line with The Code, the Companys Articles of Association the Ian Johnson, who had been appointed from 18 August 2008, Articles require all directors to submit themselves for re-election subsequently resigned from the Board with effect from 30 April at every third AGM.
However, all the non-executive directors and 2009.
A process was immediately embarked upon to appoint a new the Chairman have agreed for this year to submit themselves for Group Finance Director.
It has subsequently been announced that annual re-election.
Iain Napier, Christine Bogdanowicz-Bindert, Richard Armitage will be appointed to the Board with effect from Bob Lee and Colin Smith shall therefore retire at the AGM and, being 1 November 2009.
The executive directors are strongly supported by eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Board is satisfied that the senior executives within the Group and, in particular, by the work all the non-executive directors standing for re-election continue to of the members of the Group Management Team the GMT whose perform effectively and to demonstrate commitment to their role, composition and role are outlined on page 25. including commitment of time for Board and committee meetings as well as any other duties which may be undertaken by them from time The directors biographies appear on page 24 and illustrate the to time.
In particular, the changes to the non-executive portfolio range of experience which ensures an effective Board to lead of Iain Napier are not considered to have an adverse impact on his and control the Group.
The size of the Board allows individuals commitment or ability to fulfil his duties as Chairman of McBride plc.
to communicate openly and freely and to make a personal contribution through the exercise of their individual skills and The executive directors have agreed to stand for re election on experience.
The executive and non-executive directors have a a bi-annual basis.
The Chief Executive, Miles Roberts, was last complementary range of financial, operational and entrepreneurial re-elected to the Board at the 2007 AGM and, accordingly, will experience which ensures that no single director is dominant in be subject to re-election this year.
All directors proposed to shareholders for election are accompanied We consider that all the Boards non-executive directors continue to by a biography and a description of the skills and experience that the be independent of management in both character and judgement: Company considers are relevant.
Voting levels at the 2008 AGM none of the non-executive directors have any relationships or demonstrated continued support for all directors.
circumstances which could affect their judgement.
The Board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the independence of Operation of the Board those directors who have other appointments in outside entities.
In carrying out its work, the Board focuses on key tasks, which We believe that the balance between non-executive and executive include active reviews of the Groups corporate plan and its representation encourages healthy independent challenge to the long-term strategy, monitoring the decisions and actions of the executive directors and senior management.
The non-executive Chief Executive and the GMT, the Groups trading performance directors have been appointed for their specific areas of expertise and reviews of Group health and safety and business risks.
and knowledge and their wide ranging experience and backgrounds ensure that they can debate matters constructively in relation to The Chief Executive is obliged to review and discuss with the both the development of strategy and performance against the Board all strategic projects or developments and all material objectives set out by the Board.
Specific skills include expertise in matters currently or prospectively affecting the Company and the sourcing of key raw materials, experience of the retail markets its performance.
The Board delegates its authority for executive and knowledge of financial and investment markets.
management of the Company to the Chief Executive, subject to monitoring by the Board and to reservation of various matters which must be referred to the Board.
McBride plc Directors report 29 Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate governance report The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents
