Driving Private Label across Europe McBride is passionate about Private Label and our Group purchasing works with all three divisions to provide employees believe in the Private Label business model.
This enables the Company to obtain the best value for money and security from McBride is the leading provider of Private Label our suppliers.
Household and Personal Care products in Europe, and teamwork is the vital ingredient that keeps us ahead.
Teamwork across international boundaries now delivers new air fresheners to European customers including new The popularity of Private Label has never been stronger.
air fresheners, new reed diffusers and new timed-release Private Label products are gaining share, not just in air fresheners from our factory in China.
Western Europe but also in Eastern Europe, South East Asia and more recently in the USA.
The technical and formulation skills of the Estaimpuis factory enabled McBride to be the first company to launch We believe passionately that our people are most liquid soluble sachets into the UK market.
Also, these skills effective when working together in teams and we and teamwork were instrumental in the development of promote a culture to make this happen.
We encourage new super concentrated laundry liquid products into the and develop teamwork which crosses functional and UK market this year.
The sharing of best practice across the Group facilitated Our teams of chemists, engineers, packaging designers extension of soluble film technology from laundry sachets and commercial people work together to deliver product to machine dishwashing tablets production.
development across our core product categories.
Crossfunctional teams co-operate across all the divisions Effective teamwork is the key to the exceptional to maximise efficiency of our resources often bringing performance from our people.
over 100 years of experience to New Product Development meetings.
This year, recent expansion of our soluble sachet capability brought together engineers from Burnley, St Helens and Estaimpuis, with commercial and logistics teams from both the UK and Western Continental European divisions.
The objective was to review capacity requirements across the Group and identify how best to optimise our capacity and supply chain.
Soluble laundry sachets McBride is Europes leading Private Label manufacturer of laundry liquids using soluble sachet format.
