Corporate governance report continued for non-audit services, a copy of which is available from the Groups The Committee meets as appropriate and a quorum is three website at www.
Non-audit work is awarded in line members, at least two of whom shall be independent non-executive with this policy.
To the extent that such services are carried out by directors.
the incumbent auditor, the Committee takes active account of the relevant ethical guidelines published both by the industry and the The report of the Nomination Committee is set out on page 37. audit firm itself and regular reviews of the auditors independence are undertaken by the Committee.
Attendance at meetings Attendance of individual directors at full Board meetings, meetings The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 35 and 36. of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees and the AGM during the year ended 30 June 2009 is given in the table below: Remuneration Committee Board Audit Remuneration Nomination AGM The Remuneration Committee comprises the three independent Number of meetings held: 8 3 5 2 1 non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Board.
The Number attended: Committee is chaired by Bob Lee.
It reviews the overall remuneration Mr I J G Napier 8 n a 5 2 1 policy and makes recommendations to the Board on remuneration Mr M W Roberts 8 n a n a 2 1 for the executive directors and monitors the level and structure of 1 Mr I R Johnson 6 n a n a n a 1 remuneration for key senior executives.
It also reviews the Companys Mrs C A Bogdanowicz-Bindert 8 3 5 2 1 talent and management development plans.
The Chief Executive is Mr R A Lee 8 3 5 2 1 invited to attend the Committee meetings on all matters except those Mr C D Smith 8 3 5 2 1 relating to his own remuneration.
The composition of the Committee 1 2 Mr H Talerman 3 n a n a 1 1 reflects the provisions of The Code.
The Committee does not formally retain remuneration consultants but takes professional advice from n a indicates the director is not a member of the committee.
external advisers as and when required.
1 Meetings attended by Mr Johnson and Mr Talerman during their respective periods of appointment.
The Committee meets at the request of any member but is 2 Mr Talerman was unable to attend one Board meeting Board due to other required to meet at least once in each financial year and a quorum commitments.
He had received relevant papers and had the opportunity to is two members.
The members of the Committee have no personal communicate his views and comments on the matters to be discussed in advance of the meetings.
financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the Committees decisions.
They have no conflicts of interest arising from cross Directors do not participate in meetings when matters relating to directorships with the executive directors nor from being involved them are being discussed.
in the day-to-day business of the Group.
Relations with shareholders The principal activities of the Committee during the period were to The Board places considerable importance on the maintenance of deal with reviews of the executive directors performances over the effective, balanced communications with all shareholders.
Meetings year against objectives: to establish objectives for the new financial with analysts and institutional shareholders are held at the time of year: to consider related pay award proposals: to consider senior the interim and final results.
These provide the opportunity for executive salary reviews and bonus and incentive scheme payments: shareholders to assess the Groups performance and prospects to consider and agree a remuneration package for the new Group and to explore the Groups approach to corporate governance Finance Director: and to deal with the allocation of LTIP awards.
The executive directors also regularly meet face to face Committee also reviewed the companys new talent management with analysts, brokers and fund managers to further promote a process as part of its consideration of succession planning.
better understanding of the business and its strategic development.
The Board is kept informed of investors views through distribution The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages and regular discussion of analysts and brokers briefings and a 43 to 48. summary of investor opinion feedback.
The Board also receives reports on the output from surveys carried out by various investor Nomination Committee research bodies.
The Chairman and the senior independent The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
non-executive director are available to discuss governance and The other members are the three non-executive directors and the strategy with major shareholders should such a request be made Chief Executive.
It is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and and both are prepared to contact individual shareholders should composition of the Board as well as considering and recommending any specific areas of concern or enquiry be raised.
Where applicable, the nomination of candidates for appointment as executive or the views of major shareholders are sought on certain issues.
We non-executive directors to the Board.
Members of the Committee respond throughout the year to correspondence received from are not involved in matters affecting their own positions.
individual shareholders on a wide range of issues and we also participate in a number of surveys and questionnaires submitted by a variety of investor research bodies.
McBride plc Directors report 32 Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate governance report
