Statutory information Principal activity Directors The Groups principal activity is the production, distribution and sale The directors who held office during the year were: of Private Label Household and Personal Care products to leading retailers in the UK and Continental Europe.
The Board expects the Mr I J G Napier Non-Executive Chairman Group to continue focusing on the current core business and main Mr M W Roberts Chief Executive product categories in which it currently operates.
Mr I R Johnson Group Finance Director appointed 18 August 2008: Business review resigned 30 April 2009 The Group is required to produce a business review complying with Mrs C A Bogdanowicz-Bindert Independent the requirements of section 417 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Non-Executive Director Group has complied with this requirement in the Business Review, Mr R A Lee Independent Non-Executive which is presented on pages 6 to 23.
This incorporates a detailed Director review of the Groups activities, its business performance and Mr C D Smith Senior Independent Non-Executive developments during the year and an indication of likely future Director developments.
Mr H Talerman Non-Executive Director resigned 27 October 2008 Group results and dividends The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income Biographical details of the directors holding office at the date of this statement on page 50 and a discussion of the Groups financial report appear on page 24. performance and progress are set out in the Business Review on pages 6 to 23.
A summary of the results for the year, together with Information on directors remuneration and service contracts is given financial key performance indicators is set out below.
in the Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 48.
Figures in m unless otherwise stated 2009 2008 Directors and their interests Revenue 792.4 700.9 The beneficial interests of the directors none of the directors had 1 2 Organic revenue growth 4% -2% any non-beneficial interests during the year in the share capital of the Operating profit 27.4 21.4 Company in terms of shares, options and conditional share awards 3 Adjusted operating profit 36.2 27.0 at 1 July 2008 and 30 June 2009 were: Diluted earnings per share 9.1p 6.3p 1 3 At 1 July 2008 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 12.8p 8.6p Conditional Dividend per share 6.0p 5.6p share 1 2 3 1 2 Return on capital employed 17.1% 12.8%Director Shares Options awards Mr I J G Napier 34,807 1 Indicates Group key performance indicator.
Mr M W Roberts 9,500 509,615 472,062 2 The calculation of organic revenue growth and return on capital employed is explained on page 3.
Mr I R Johnson 3 Before amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional items.
Details of exceptional Mrs C A Bogdanowicz-Bindert 20,000 items are set out in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements on page 61.
Mr R A Lee 5,000 Mr C D Smith 100,000 The directors recommend that a final dividend of 4.3 pence Mr H Talerman 36,068 2008: 3.9p per ordinary share be paid on 27 November 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 23 October At 30 June 2009 2009.
Combined with the interim dividend already paid, total Conditional share dividends for the year are 6.0 pence 2008: 5.6p per ordinary share.
1 2 Director Shares Options awards Further details of dividends are shown in note 10 to the consolidated Mr I J G Napier 34,807 financial statements on page 64.
Mr M W Roberts 9,500 509,615 755,017 4 Mr I R Johnson 10,000 Mrs C A Bogdanowicz-Bindert 20,000 Mr R A Lee 5,000 Mr C D Smith 100,000 3 Mr H Talerman 36,068 1 The options include those held under the 1995 International Executive Share Option Scheme Unapproved and the 2002 Unapproved Discretionary Share Option Scheme.
2 The conditional share awards are awards made under the McBride Long-Term Incentive Plan.
3 At the date of resignation for Ian Johnson and Henri Talerman.
4 During the year Ian Johnson acquired 10,000 ordinary shares in the Company.
McBride plc Directors report 38 Annual report and accounts 2009 Statutory information There have been no changes in the directors interests in the shares We have also established a company-wide First Line Management of the Company from those detailed above between 30 June 2009 Programme which extends over seven modules.
All sites have their and 2 September 2009.
None of the directors had any interest in the own training professionals.
We acknowledge that team working is shares of any subsidiary company.
Further details of options and invaluable in helping to deliver our goals and this is actively conditional share awards held by the directors are set out in the encouraged through cross-fertilisation of ideas both across Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 48. functions and across territories so that best practice is shared at every opportunity.
We have wide ranging employee policies in place Re-election of directors to help provide guidance and to set the standards expected of our Details of all directors offering themselves for election or employees in all their business dealings.
These policies are made re-election can be found in the Corporate Governance Report available to employees on a regular basis.
We are committed to employee consultation by way of regular Related party transactions briefings, partnership councils, listening groups, information Except for directors service contracts, the Company did not have bulletins and newsletters.
Many departments also hold annual away any material transactions or transactions of an unusual nature with, days which provide the opportunity for a cross section of colleagues and did not make loans to, related parties in the periods in which any to contribute to the development and realisation of business plans director is or was materially interested.
for their departments, and we have bi-annual conferences for managers.
Members of the senior management teams regularly visit Indemnification of directors the sites.
They also attend our management development In accordance with its Articles of Association Articles, the programmes for Q&A sessions.
These exercises provide the Company has the power at its discretion to grant an indemnity to opportunity for open questioning from employees and encourage the directors in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their two-way dialogue.
Most sites are actively engaged in involvement office.
In respect of those liabilities for which directors may not be initiatives to allow all employees to understand and relate to our indemnified, the Company maintained a directors and officers business goals and many sites hold open days to allow employees liability insurance policy throughout the period.
Although their families to see the environment in which their family members work.
defence costs may be met, neither the Companys indemnity nor the insurance policy provides cover in the event that the director is Reward and recognition proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Following changes Eligible employees participate in performance related bonus to company law, the Company is also permitted to advance costs to schemes and some senior management participate in share-based directors for their defence in investigations or legal actions.
option schemes and the LTIP scheme.
Local incentive schemes relating to site performance are available to most site based No claims or qualifying indemnity provisions and no qualifying employees and during the year the Company offered a three-year pension scheme indemnity provisions have been made either during Save As You Earn Scheme to eligible employees based in the UK.
the year or by the time of approval of this Directors Report.
We respect the right of employees to join trade unions and Employment policies employees appropriate representative bodies where they choose to do so.
Involvement of employees We have in place formal arrangements with recognised national Our continued success depends on having a skilled and motivated unions where this is deemed appropriate and Partnerships or Works workforce.
We endeavour to create a culture whereby employees Councils joint management employee consultation groups are recognised as a valuable asset.
A number of initiatives have been operate at all UK and Western Continental Europe facilities.
Where introduced to engage employees with the business and to ensure these arrangements include nomination of employee they feel valued in an environment where they can make a positive representatives, they are not discriminated against and they are contribution.
There is a focus on helping employees to give of their allowed reasonable time and facilities to carry out their best at work and to achieve their full career potential through the representative duties.
provision of training and development opportunities and to enhance individual performance we have introduced a system of Employment of disabled persons coaching as an element of our training resource.
Our appraisal We aim to provide a working environment and to offer terms and system is extended to all employees and helps to ensure that conditions of service which allow disabled people with the individuals performance is assessed objectively and their training necessary skills and qualifications to obtain employment with the and development is defined systematically and in relation to Group.
If employees become disabled during the course of their business needs.
There is a structured talent review process across employment, they will continue to be employed, wherever the Group which seeks to identify those of potential on a fully practicable in the same job, or, if this is not practicable, every effort inclusive basis.
The outcomes are re-assessed every year and the is made to find and provide appropriate retraining and process is used to obtain peer group feedback and draw up tailored redeployment.
Disabled people are afforded equal opportunities in personal development plans.
We continue to run our own innovative recruitment and promotion and full and fair consideration is given Management Development Programme supported by specific to providing opportunities for training and development of people modular training which is available to all relevant employees.
with disabilities according to their skills and capabilities.
McBride plc Directors report 39 Annual report and accounts 2009 Statutory information The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents Statutory information continued Equal opportunities Financial instruments It is our policy to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, selection, Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives, promotion, employee development, training and reward policies policies and activities and on the exposure of the Group to relevant and we have an Equal Opportunities and Diversity policy in place risks in respect of financial instruments is set out on page 20 and in which is monitored through the human resources function.
It is a key note 21 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 72 to 75. objective to ensure that successful candidates for appointment and promotion are selected taking account of individual ability, skills and Share capital competencies without regard to age, gender, race, religion, disability Details of the Companys share capital are shown in note 22 to the or sexual orientation.
We place great emphasis on establishing and consolidated financial statements on page 75.
The authorised share maintaining a safe working environment for our employees.
capital of the Company is 50,000,000 divided into 500,000,000 If an employee is injured during the course of his employment, ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
Pursuant to the Companies Act the incident is thoroughly investigated and, where appropriate, 2006 the Act from 1 October 2009 a company will no longer be rehabilitation support is provided to help the employee to return required to have an authorised share capital and consequently the to work as soon as possible.
Wherever a restructuring programme Company will propose to remove this from the Articles at the 2009 is undertaken, great care is taken to ensure that all relevant AGM.
The ordinary shares of the Company carry equal rights to communications, consultations and support and guidance is dividends, voting and return of capital on the winding up of the provided and every effort is taken to ensure that compulsory Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in redundancies are minimised.
the Company other than following service of a notice under section 792 of the Act and there are no restrictions on any voting rights or Charitable and political donations deadlines, other than those prescribed by law, nor is the Company The Group made donations to charities of 21,000 2008: 17,000 aware of any arrangements between holders of its shares which may during the year.
It is the Groups policy not to make political result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
donations and, accordingly, there were no payments to political Participants in employee share schemes have no voting or other organisations during the year 2008: nil.
rights in respect of the shares subject to those awards until the allocations are exercised, at which time the shares rank pari passu Environment in all respects with shares already in issue.
No such schemes have The Group recognises the importance of responsible environmental any rights with regard to control of the Company.
management and its obligations to protect the environment.
The Group therefore gives high priority to all environmental matters Share repurchases relevant to its business.
Further information appears in the At the 2008 AGM, shareholder approval was granted to allow the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 26 to 28 and in Company to repurchase up to 18,028,000 ordinary shares.
The the separate 2009 Sustainability Report available from the Groups existing authority will expire on the date of the 2009 AGM when the website at www.
co. uk directors will be seeking authority from shareholders to buy back shares which will be cancelled or may be held as Treasury shares for Research and development the purpose of meeting obligations under employee share schemes.
The Group recognises the importance of investing in research and development which brings New Product Development support for At the beginning of the financial year the Company held 752,019 its customers, research into new products and materials and further ordinary shares as Treasury shares.
No shares were repurchased development of existing products.
Research and development during the financial year.
At the end of the year, 752,019 shares expenditure in the year was 6.6 million 2008: 5.9m.
Supplier payment policy and practice Substantial shareholdings Group companies do not comply with any payment code but agree On 2 September 2009 being the latest practical date prior to the terms and conditions under which business transactions with their date of this report, the Company had been notified of the following suppliers are conducted.
Payments are then made in accordance interests amounting to 3% or more of its issued share capital.
with those terms, provided that suppliers also comply with all Shareholder Number of Shares % relevant terms and conditions.
At 30 June 2009, the amount the Invesco Perpetual 30,525,589 16.9 Group owed its suppliers represented 74 days purchases 2008: Aberdeen Asset Management 21,636,216 12.0 79 days.
The Company is a holding company and therefore does Allianz Global Investors 10,819,464 6.0 not have any trade creditors.
Aviva Investors 9,056,131 5.0 Legal & General Investment Management 8,102,326 4.
5 SEB Asset Management 5,914,929 3.3 All the above are institutional holders.
McBride plc Directors report 40 Annual report and accounts 2009 Statutory information Significant agreements takeovers directive Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or report and the financial statements terminate upon a change of control of the Group such as The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and commercial contracts, bank loan agreements and employee share the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance schemes.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of with applicable law and regulations.
their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent Articles of Association company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law The Companys Articles give power to the Board to appoint they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in directors, but also require directors to retire and submit themselves accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and for election at the first AGM following their appointment.
Specific have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in information regarding the re-election of directors is contained in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK the Corporate Governance Report on page 29.
The Articles place a general prohibition on a director voting in Under company law the directors must not approve the financial respect of any contract or arrangement in which he has a material statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair interest other than by virtue of his interest in shares in the company.
view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group In addition, the Act requires a director of a company who is in any and parent company financial statements, the directors are way interested in a contract or proposed contract with the company required to: to declare the nature of his interest at a meeting of the directors of the company.
The definition of interest includes the interests select suitable accounting policies and then apply them of spouses, children, companies and trusts.
The Act also requires consistently: that a director must avoid a situation where a director has, or could make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been conflict, with the companys interests.
The Act allows directors prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: of public companies to authorise such conflicts where appropriate, for the parent company financial statements, state whether if a companys Articles so permit.
The Companys shareholders applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject approved changes to the Articles to permit such authorisation to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent at the 2008 AGM.
company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis The Board of directors may exercise all the powers of the Company unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the subject to the provisions of relevant statutes and the Companys parent company will continue in business.
The Articles, for instance, contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Companys power to borrow money.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent currently included in the Articles and such authorities are renewed companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy by shareholders each year at the AGM.
The power in the Articles at any time the financial position of the parent company and relating to the buying back of shares will no longer be needed from enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with 1 October 2009 as sufficient authority is contained in the Act.
They have general responsibility for Therefore the Company will propose to remove this Article at the taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 2009 AGM.
A copy of the Articles is available from the Groups the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and website at www.
The Company is committed to ensuring that it keeps pace with Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also changing legislation and regulation.
Accordingly, the directors responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors propose to recommend to shareholders at the AGM that the current Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that Articles be updated to reflect the latest provisions of the Act.
complies with that law and those regulations.
McBride plc Directors report 41 Annual report and accounts 2009 Statutory information The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents Statutory information continued The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Directors statement regarding disclosure of information the corporate and financial information included on the companys to auditors website www.
Legislation in the UK governing the The directors who held office at the date of approval of this preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there from legislation in other jurisdictions.
is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps he or she ought to The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge and belief: have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information that is, information needed by the the financial statements in this document, prepared in auditors in connection with preparing their report and to establish accordance with applicable set of accounting standards, give that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and of the Group as a whole: and Annual General Meeting the Directors Report, including the Business Review, includes a The notice convening the Companys 2009 AGM at Centre Point, fair view of the development and performance of the business 103 New Oxford Street, London, WC1A 1DD on 26 October 2009 at and the position of the Company and of the Group as a whole, 2.30 pm is set out in a separate document issued to shareholders.
including a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 are available from the Groups website at www.
co. uk or can be Going concern obtained free of charge from the Companys registered office.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are Auditors set out in the Business Review on pages 6 to 23.
The financial On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, in accordance position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and with Section 489 of the Act, resolutions are to be proposed at the borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages AGM for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the 19 to 20.
In addition note 21 to the financial statements includes the Company and to authorise the Board to fix their remuneration.
Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: The remuneration of the auditors for the year ended 30 June 2009 is its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial fully disclosed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements on instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures page 62. to credit and liquidity risks.
Signed on behalf of the Board The Group meets its funding requirements through strong cash generation and bank facilities, most of which are committed until R J Beveridge February 2011 as described in note 21 to the financial statements.
Company Secretary The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably 2 September 2009 possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group will be able to operate comfortably within its current bank facilities.
Following preliminary discussions with its bankers, the directors are confident that the Group will be able to extend or refinance these facilities as and when required.
The Group has a robust business model and conservative balance sheet.
As a result, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
McBride plc Directors report 42 Annual report and accounts 2009 Statutory information
