Optimising performance and value In todays marketplace where consumers are becoming It is therefore not surprising that in the last 12 months increasingly aware of value for money, our Private Label Private Label sales of Household cleaning products have product development continues to focus on improving outperformed branded sales in every market throughout performance and reducing cost.
Our product development priorities are: Every year we spend more on research and development of new products.
Our customers rely on our speed to improved product performance: market to provide innovative new Private Label products lower environmental impact: and ranges.
improved convenience of use: and packaging reduction And it is not just in Private Label that we aim to provide products that suit our consumers pockets.
In many These priorities are underpinned by the need to ensure of the less developed markets in Eastern Europe we we are always providing the very best balance between provide value-for-money brands such as Avea shampoos quality and price.
and Yplon descalers, thereby enabling consumers to purchase products with great performance at prices Recent research by Datamonitor across Europe found which are much lower than major multinational brands.
that in our core European markets the UK, France, Italy and Germany over 60% of consumers thought We satisfy the eco-conscious consumer by providing the performance of Private Label Household cleaning products to help protect the environment.
In the UK products was identical or superior to that of famous McBride launched Greenforce, an eco-friendly range leading brands.
Furthermore, over 55% of respondents of products using plant-based ingredients and 100% thought the performance of supermarket own-label natural fragrances.
The whole range is made in the UK laundry products was identical or superior to that of using recyclable packaging.
These features, combined the leading brands.
with outstanding cleaning performance and great value for money, now mean consumers can afford to be green.
By providing the very best possible balance between quality and price, we enable our retail customers to provide consumers with the opportunity to make the Datamonitor Consumer Insight series Datamonitor Consumer smart purchase.
