3 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Chairmans statement Investing for the future We continue to support organic growth by acquiring complementary businesses.
The years signi cant acquisition was Firearms Training Systems Inc FATS for 68.3 million.
This was completed in October and the business is being integrated successfully into our defence systems division.
We also acquired Keith Products LLP, a vapour cycle equipment manufacturer, for an initial consideration of 16.6 million and Radatec Inc, a microwave-based sensing business for an initial consideration of 1.4 million.
Research and development including customer funded in the year amounted to 9% of revenue 57.6 million to provide the new products and technologies needed Meggitt delivered another outstanding financial to underpin future sales.
With signi cant investment result in 2006.
We continue to pursue our goal of in updating our manufacturing facilities, Meggitts delivering upper quartile returns through leadership capital expenditure increased to 31.4 million, up positions in our chosen markets, improved customer from 16.2 million in 2005. service, operational ef ciency and organisational Sir Colin Terry effectiveness.
People Chairman Revenues increased 9% to 670.3 million and Meggitt is growing and, to sustain this growth, we underlying pro t before taxation was up 14% to have reviewed our human resource programmes 132.7 million.
Pro t for the year increased by 47% to ensure we have people who can realise the to 96.5 million.
Cash ow was again strong with groups ambitions.
We have strengthened our 90% of underlying operating pro t converted to cash central management team to lead improvements and the order book at 31 December 2006 19% higher in operations, information technology, strategy and than the same time last year.
Acquisitions are being marketing and implemented systems to improve integrated according to plan, delivering performances the development of people at all levels.
In December, David Williams joined the board as a 2006 saw continued improvements in our main non-executive director.
David, a chartered accountant, aerospace and defence markets.
Prospects for the was Finance Director of Bunzl PLC from 1991 until civil aerospace market remain excellent with growth his retirement in January 2006.
Before that, he held in the large jet, business and light jet and general senior financial positions with RHM and Tootal Group.
aviation segments and we expect continuing demand He is a non-executive director of George Wimpey Plc for our military products.
Against a background of and Tullow Oil plc and, until earlier this year, held these favourable market conditions and with the a similar role with P&O.
groups order book strong, we are con dent we A successful business depends on the skills and hard will deliver further growth in 2007. work of its employees and I would like to congratulate Given our continued strong performance, the board all at Meggitt for their excellent performance this year.
is proposing a 13% increase in the final dividend to 6.0 pence.
