CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A YEAR OF STRONG PROFIT GROWTH.
2006 WAS ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR FOR MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE HOTELS.
WE ACHIEVED STRONG GROWTH IN PROFITABILITY WITH REVPAR GROWING ACROSS ALL REGIONS.
I am pleased to report on our 2006 results which show an improvement in operating pro ts and further capital gains from the realisation of some of our assets.
This has led to the Groups highest level of pro ts since our listing in 1996.
Since the industrys low point in 2003, the Group has achieved a steady and sustainable recovery through a focused strategy laid down by the Board in 2004.
This strategy was aimed at restoring the Groups pro tability, redeploying the Groups assets and developing the hotel brand whilst maintaining a dividend consistent with the Groups overall performance.
The Group recorded a pre tax pro t of 130.2m 2005: 95.8m and basic earnings per share increased by 62.0% to 34.5p 2005: 21.3p and headline earnings per share at 21.8p showing a 16.6% increase on the prior year 2005: 18.7p.
Revenue increased 8.6% to 646.3m with headline operating pro t up 15.4% to 124.7m.
Headline pro t before tax rose to 94.4m, an increase of 27.6%.
During the period under review we sold the long term leasehold interests in three Singapore hotels to the CDL Hospitality Trusts CDLHT.
This realised 210.6m in cash of which 78m was reinvested for a 39.1% stake in the REIT.
DIVIDEND The Board is recommending a dividend of 10.42p per share comprising a final dividend of 6.42p per share plus a special dividend of 4.00p per share.
Together with the interim dividend of 2.08p per share 2005: 2.08p, the total dividend of 12.5p represents an increase of 62.3% over last years total of 7.7p.
The dividend increase re ects both the growth in pro t before tax and the Groups future investment needs.
BOARD CHANGES Christopher Keljik joined the board on 4 May 2006 as a non-executive director.
Biographical details are on page 41.
In July 2006 Tony Potter, Group Chief Executive Of cer of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc announced his intention to resign to relocate outside the UK and on 27 October left the Group.
I have, as Chairman, been proud to work with him.
He left the company in a healthy and prosperous position and we wish him well in his future endeavours.
In the meantime, Wong Hong Ren has acted as Interim Group Chief Executive Of cer until Peter Papas joins the Group as Group Chief Executive Of cer on 1 March 2007.
Sir Idris Pearce, who joined the Group at the time of its otation in 1996, retired from the Board on 31 August 2006.
13 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT FUTURE DEVELOPMENT The Group remains committed to its priority to grow its international hotel business.
Despite the divestment trend evident in a number of hotel groups in recent years, our strategy has always been to be both long-term owner and operator of hotels given the size of our portfolio.
The Group will continue to grow the hotel business by adopting sustainable strategies.
The financial capacity re ected in the Groups balance sheet and the exibility created through the CDLHT platform put us in an advantageous position to seize opportunities.
As a hotel chain with substantial real estate assets, the Group is able to maximise the value of our hotels at the right time to create a larger sustainable earnings stream.
We have demonstrated our ability to unlock shareholder value.
The sale of The Plaza Hotel in New York is an example of how the Group maximised value by selling an asset based on its real estate potential rather than on earnings alone.
The recent otation of CDLHT is another example where we have realised both one off gains and continue to enjoy the value that CDLHT is generating.
The Group is now well placed for growth.
This will be realised through continued focus on improvements in operational performance and, in the medium term, by elevating the status of some of our key strategic hotels in prime locations.
This repositioning exercise will be achieved through the total refurbishment and redevelopment of these hotels, with the ultimate objective of enhancing their earnings potential and value.
We have commissioned a study of the Millennium brand.
This study con rms further improvement in both our brand recognition and reputation.
This progress is particularly encouraging following a recovery period in which we reduced brand investment to protect Group earnings.
In global terms, our brand awareness continues to grow and its strength is underlined by our success in winning management contracts in the highly competitive Asian, Middle Eastern and UK markets.
Our first hotel in China, the Millennium Hongqiao Hotel Shanghai opened in October 2006.
The Group announced nine new management contracts during the year taking the total number of rooms signed since 2004 to just under 4,000 and the total number of management contracts to 21.
In 2005, the Group announced its commitment to grow the Copthorne chain.
Since that announcement, we have secured four management contracts.
Over time, there remains a signi cant opportunity to increase the total number of Copthorne rooms without further acquisitions due to existing redevelopment potential within these properties.
The Copthorne Hotel Manchester, for instance, should be suitable for redevelopment to take advantage of the transformation of the city where the super casino will be located.
14 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Asia is a key region in the Groups future development.
It has fully recovered from the Asian financial crisis and is once again a resurgent region.
The growth in inter-city business and leisure travel resulting in increased demand for accommodation is expected to outstrip the growth in hotel rooms.
This situation is expected to remain particularly acute in Singapore for at least the next three years.
Beyond this timeframe visitor arrivals to Singapore are expected to increase from the current nine million to 17 million, by 2015, as a result of initiatives to be implemented by the Singapore tourism board.
The Group owns and operates prime assets in gateway Asian cities such as Bangkok, Kuala Lumpur, Taipei, Seoul, Shanghai and from 2008, Beijing.
With the substantial growth of real estate values in some of these key cities, acquisition of prime sites has become more restricted and more expensive.
LOOKING FORWARD The appointment of Peter Papas as the Group Chief Executive Of cer, with effect from 1 March, will bring a fresh perspective to the management team.
His broad experience as a chartered accountant, investment banker, director within the hospitality and private equity sectors as well as being a hands-on leader will be invaluable to the Group.
Peter will be able to offer new approaches and provide the Group with fresh impetus to drive organic growth, and, if the right opportunities arise, growth through acquisition.
In the first six weeks of 2007, trading has continued to be in line with the positive trends of 2006 with RevPAR growth of 10.5%.
We remain con dent, therefore, of a successful outcome to the year as a whole.
I am con dent that, with the new management team, we have a solid foundation from which we can move our business forward into the next stage of its development.
Kwek Leng Beng CHAIRMAN 22 February 2007 15 Annual Report & Accounts 2006
