Chairmans statement Sir Dominic Cadbury Our new Chairman assesses a year of transition for Misys and outlines clear priorities for the Company going forward.
Misys generated revenue of 953m and Board level and was an essential first step Gemalto International and HBOS.
In operating profit of 56m this year.
Our in the process of delivering greater November the Company appointed cash generation continued to be strong, shareholder value.
John King as a non-executive Director.
with cash flow from operations of 76m and John has more than 30 years experience in net debt of 95m.
We continued to return But it was only one of many actions taken the US healthcare industry and now serves cash to shareholders by buying back a during the year to position Misys for on the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination total of 12m shares in the year.
Adjusted sustained, profitable long-term growth in Committees of Misys.
Both Ian Dyson and earnings per share for the year were 14.3p.
We have continued to Bob Ingram stood down from the Board and The Board recommends a final dividend invest to capitalise on higher growth market we thank them for their commitment during of 4.49p per share, bringing the full year segments, for example.
This has included their time with the Company.
more organic product development, the will be retiring from the Board at the close acquisition of complementary solutions and of the Annual General Meeting this year the realignment of our businesses to match and we thank him for his strong contribution market opportunities.
and commitment during his many years The Board with Misys.
We are in two strong market sectors, both We acknowledge that in recent years Misys of which have potential for real growth.
has not delivered the value that shareholders Product investment remains core to our are entitled to expect.
When I took over the strategy: in the last year, in our continuing Banking Chairmanship this year from Kevin Lomax businesses, we again increased investment it became my job to lead the Board, enabling in product development to nearly 90m.
Misys has a strong, established position in him to focus on running the business as the international banking market.
I now manage the Board We made a number of other changes to excellent growth opportunities as we expect and our relationships with investors and it the composition of the Board this year, financial services institutions to continue to is the Board that makes the final decision adding two new independent non-executive increase spending with third party software on all key Company issues, and ensures Directors.
In October 2005 the Company vendors.
Our challenge is to compete in proper mechanisms are in place to manage, appointed John Ormerod as a non-executive the most valuable segments of this market protect and maximise the Companys value Director and Chairman of the Audit while increasing operating margin.
Committee, and in November he became senior independent Director.
John was During the year we reorganised our Banking The separation of roles clarified Practice Senior Partner at Deloitte in business to respond to market developments responsibilities and accountabilities at London and serves on audit committees at and to capitalise on our strengths.
This has Page 10 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 The whole Board is focused on the need to deliver the value shareholders rightly expect Our cash generation continued to be strong created a streamlined and more efficient and our strong relationships with Looking ahead organisation which is better aligned with existing customers provide us with a firm its customers.
We have now established foundation from which to pursue new I believe there is great scope for us to two new business units, Core Banking and opportunities for growth.
Our commitment improve our financial performance by Treasury & Capital Markets TCM.
The to excellence and customer service has maintaining prudent cost control, finding success of TCM is an indication of what been underlined through the year with new efficiencies and establishing ourselves Misys can achieve with the right products numerous awards and increased industry in the higher growth market segments.
and the right organisational structures.
We continue to refine key performance The combination of our Retail and indicators for the business around Wholesale operations in the new Core customer satisfaction, product quality, Banking unit provides the right foundation sales growth and total shareholder return for future growth and will realise cost People which will help us better measure savings, much of which will be invested performance.
The quality of our products and processes and the calibre of the people working This has been a year of transition for Misys: Structural change is testing for any business, here are vital to our performance.
Misys the actions taken and the plans put in place but Banking is now well positioned with a employees have great passion for their have better positioned the Company to clear focus and a more coherent offering to products and solutions and I want to thank deliver long-term shareholder value.
The customers and I have been impressed by everyone in the Company for their whole Board is focused on the need to the commitment of people here to making commitment in the last year.
deliver the value shareholders rightly expect.
At the present time we are in an offer period for the Company, which may or may not lead Getting full value from our assets to an actual bid.
The Independent Committee Healthcare of the Board, comprising all of the nonThis year we streamlined the Companys executive Directors and led by myself, is In the United States, healthcare is the portfolio by selling our General Insurance conducting a disciplined process to ensure largest component of the countrys economy business.
The sale was completed on equal access for all interested parties.
and spending on it is expected to continue 5 May 2006, producing gross proceeds We will evaluate any offer that may come to increase.
Misys has a strong presence of approximately 183m and profit after forward and recommend whatever course in this market as a supplier of IT solutions tax of 172m.
The sale underlines the of action we judge will deliver best value to physicians, hospitals and other care Companys ability to execute a major to shareholders.
This is a valuable and sustainable transaction successfully, at the right value.
market with growth driven by rising costs, limited clinical capacity, quality concerns With Sesame, our UK financial adviser and increasing patient demand for support services business, we decided treatment.
to end our discussions with potential purchasers as their offers did not match Sir Dominic Cadbury The case for investment in IT to reduce the value of the business.
Sesame is a Chairman, Misys plc costs and raise quality is widely recognised strong business with good prospects a and we are well positioned to benefit from leader in its market.
We recognise that care providers further investment in we are not its natural owners and remain software solutions.
Market demand, our committed to selling at a time when we increased investment in our core products can get good value for shareholders.
