About us | Financial highlights | Chairmans statement | Operating and financial review | Directors report | Corporate governance | Audit Committee report | Remuneration report | Directors responsibilities | Report from the auditors | Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements | Five year review | Parent company balance sheet | Notes to the parent company financial statements | Shareholder information | Glossary Chairmans statement Roger Carr, Chairman A year of considerable corporate activity to thank all of them for their hard work, tenacity and application Mitchells & Butlers strategy is to build sustainable value by growing throughout the busiest period of corporate activity the business has our sales and profits, investing our cash flows in the estate and value ever faced.
Despite some uncertain trading conditions in the first creative acquisitions and to reward shareholders with progressive quarter and against the background of the continued shift of beer dividends and the return of surplus funds when appropriate.
In 2006, sales from the on-trade to the off-trade this operational focus has good progress has been made on all these fronts.
In July, after careful evaluation, we successfully acquired 239 of In converting these sales gains to profit growth the business has faced the best pub restaurant sites in the UK for conversion to our proven an unprecedented level of energy and regulatory cost increases, some brands and operating formats.
In September, we refinanced the 24m in total.
However expertise in managing productivity, controlling business at a reduced interest rate, increasing our securitised debt the cost base and delivering purchasing benefits has, once again, by 655m.
Throughout the year, we have sold a number of smaller offset these increases and generated net operating margins ahead drinks-led pubs at attractive prices, including a package of 102 pubs of last year and earnings per share, 15.4% ahead of last year.
which was completed in October.
Committed to the generation and delivery of value for shareholders Well over 500m returned to shareholders by the end of October Earlier in the year we rejected a pre-conditional proposal from a I am particularly pleased that, as well as investing 497m in acquiring consortium to acquire the entire equity of the Company for 550p high quality sites that provide an additional platform for future growth a share.
This was based on the Boards absolute belief that this and investing 182m in the development of the existing estate, we proposal materially under-valued the Company and its assets.
All of have also been able to return some 560m to shareholders by way the actions and achievements this year have been underpinned by of a Special Dividend and share buybacks.
In total, since demerger in the Boards absolute commitment to the creation and delivery of value 2003, we have now returned over 1.1bn to shareholders in addition to shareholders.
In Mitchells & Butlers brief history, this principle has to ordinary dividends.
been pivotal to all our decisions.
I can assure you that it will remain firmly so in the future.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 8.6p taking the total dividend for the year to 12.25p, an increase of 14% on last year and consistent with our commitment to progressive growth in dividends in line with the medium term earnings prospects for the business.
The dedication and focus of our employees has been outstanding It is a tribute to the professionalism of our employees that the corporate activity during the year has served only to increase their motivation and focus on the successful execution of our operating strategy and the delivery of sales and earnings growth.
I would like Roger Carr, Chairman Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 Report 3 |
