08 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Chairmans statement I am delighted to be joining Morgan Crucible at an exciting time for the Company and on its 150th anniversary.
We look forward with confidence to the next phase in our history.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc 09 Let me briey introduce both myself and your large and small, with more information on our new Chief Executive Officer.
I am currently performance, the risks and opportunities we Chairman of Travis Perkins plc and the Senior face and how we manage the business.
Independent Director of Tribal plc: I also chair Bid approach the Governors of Oxford Brookes University.
I spent the majority of my management years at In August 2006 we announced that Burmah Castrol plc where I was Chief Executive Morgan Crucible had received a preliminary from 1998 to 2000. approach which might or might not have led to an offer for the Company.
The Board and Board changes management team are focused on delivering There have been some substantial changes to value to you, our shareholders, and are fully your Board during the year, with both a new aware of their duciary responsibility to entertain Chairman and a new Chief Executive officer.
In October we announced Lars Kylberg retired from the Board in December that discussions had not led to an offer that was after a total of ten years at Morgan Crucible acceptable to the Board and that talks had thus including three as Chairman.
The management team did retired as Chief Executive officer in August 2006 not solicit any offer and they, along with your after three and a half successful years turning Board, are confident in the prospects of the the fortunes of your Company around.
business and its strategy for delivering value to you through profitable growth.
Morgan Crucible is in a very strong financial position and has delivered higher returns to you, Dividend our shareholders, compared to the FTSE 350 A final dividend of 3.0 pence per share index since 2003.
Much of this is due to Warrens 2005: 2.5 pence per share will be leadership.
On behalf of the Board I should like recommended at the forthcoming AGM, to wish both Lars and Warren well in the future.
making a total dividend for the year of Your new Chief Executive Officer is Mark 4.5 pence 2005: 2.5 pence.
Robertshaw, who succeeded Warren on Our people 4 August.
Mark joined Morgan Crucible in October 2004 as Chief Financial officer and The continuing momentum of the progress then Chief Operating officer, and has made a of Morgan Crucible is down to its people our vital contribution to the successful transformation employees.
I know that we have many of the Company.
I am much looking forward to dedicated and skilled people around the world working with Mark and the Board in building who strive for high standards in providing high Morgan Crucibles future success.
On your behalf I should like to congratulate them for their Kevin Dangereld succeeded Mark as achievements and to thank them for all their Chief Financial officer after five years as Group hard work and commitment.
His deep knowledge of the business will be of considerable benefit to Morgan Crucible is well placed to continue the Company.
You may know that 2006 was the 150th anniversary of the David Coker retired as Company Secretary in Company.
Not many British companies can December after 18 years with Morgan Crucible.
claim the accolade of remaining an I thank him on behalf of the Board for his hard independent business for 150 years.
work and we wish him a happy and restful We look forward with confidence to retirement.
Paul Boulton, our Group Legal the next phase in our history.
Counsel, replaced David with effect from 1 January and, on behalf of the Board, Tim Stevenson we welcome the great contribution that Chairman he has made so far.
Reporting structure After the positive feedback that we received when we adopted the framework of the Operating and Financial Review OFR in our 2005 Report, we have built on that by providing a comprehensive Business Review for 2006.
Providing transparent information to shareholders is important to us and our Business Review provides shareholders, both
