CHAIRMANS STATEMENT In the UK, Midland Mainline retained its Above all, National Express Group has position as the best performing Inter the objective of Making Travel Simpler, City rail operator as well as being by listening to our customers and wider awarded the prestigious Operator of stakeholders and then delivering what the Year Award for 2006 at the they want.
To do that, we recognise our National Rail Awards.
c2c was once people are our most important asset.
again named Britains best performing We ask great things of them day after train company.
Our coach business, day and the Board would like to thank Britains No 1 coach operator, goes all our employees for their efforts in from strength to strength with strong 2006 and looks forward to their support volume growth and innovative fare in the future.
Our award winning Levante In early January 2007 a National coaches are fully accessible to all our Express coach accident occurred on DAVID ROSS CHAIRMAN customers including those with the M25 M4.
The safety and security of wheelchairs.
We have committed to our customers and employees making our entire fleet similarly accessible is of paramount importance to us and EXCELLENT by 2012.
Despite increased fuel costs, we were deeply saddened by the our Bus division produced another events of that night.
Our condolences go RESULTS AND strong contribution.
to those involved in this incident and The publication of the Stern Review particularly those who lost loved ones.
A PLATFORM highlighted the pivotal role that transport This year will be a period of change can play in tackling climate change.
and growth at National Express.
We will FOR GROWTH During 2007, National Express Group continue utilising the skills and values RESULTS AND DIVIDEND will be launching and participating in a such as operational excellence that Revenue was up 14% to 2.5bn number of initiatives aimed at maximising have made this Group so successful 2005: 2.2bn and normalised Group the role bus, coach and rail can play in but we will build on them.
We will apply operating profit increased by 19% to reducing the impact of climate change.
an entrepreneurial approach to our 184.8m 2005: 155.5m.
After product and business development GROUP STRATEGY interest and the Groups share of and most of all we will listen to our 2006 was also a year of change for the losses from associated undertakings, customers, our stakeholders and Group.
We welcomed Richard Bowker normalised profit before tax was up our people.
as Chief Executive in September.
Richard has reviewed our businesses OUTLOOK AND Normalised diluted earnings per share and with the Board concluded that: CURRENT TRADING from continuing operations were 76.5 We have a strong and diversified I am very pleased to report that we pence 2005: 76.3 pence.
The Group will have started the year well.
We have We are recommending a final grow them through acquisitions and prequalified for the Inter City East Coast dividend of 24.0 pence per ordinary new developments, both in the franchise and have recently submitted share 2005: 22.25 pence, an increase UK and overseas.
We are now actively our bids for the East Midlands and New of 7.9%, to be paid on 4 May 2007 to seeking opportunities to do this and Cross Country franchises.
shareholders on the register at 27 April have a number of potential All of our businesses are performing 2007.
Including the interim dividend, opportunities under consideration: well.
We believe we can do more in the proposed total dividend for the We are a leading provider of 2007 and beyond by offering new year is 34.75 pence 2005: 32.25 integrated transport solutions both in services, putting our customers and pence.
the UK and other geographies.
Our long stakeholders at the forefront of term commitment to rail is demonstrated everything we do and bringing an even am pleased to report that 2006 in our submissions for the East Midlands greater focus to sales and marketing.
was another excellent year for the and New Cross Country franchise bids Our plans are designed to stimulate Group with a strong finish to the and, later this year, the Inter City East repeat business and attract new year delivering results ahead of Coast franchise: customers to our services thereby our expectations.
This was We will invest in the necessary maximising the growth of our revenue.
achieved through sustained products and systems to maximise Alongside this organic growth we topline growth driven by our continued the value of our customer base.
will continue to seek attractive focus on operational excellence, as Through greater customer relationship acquisitions in those core markets in well as innovation and development of management and marketing we believe which we operate.
We have a our broad range of products and we can develop this relationship further strong balance sheet and look forward services.
and, by providing a level of service and to utilising this to maximise our We are particularly pleased with innovation that customers want, opportunities.
We look to the future the performance of Alsa, making its stimulate repeat business: with confidence.
n first full year contribution to the Group.
We will maintain the efficiency of We achieved excellent growth in our our balance sheet to give us greater long distance operations in Spain and flexibility and greater capacity for won a number of new contracts.
We acquisitions whilst ensuring our also experienced yet another best ever investment strategy is driven by long bid season in North America.
2 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006
