Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Chairmans Statement 01 National Grid Gas Chairmans Statement Financial performance On 1 June 2005 we completed the sales of four of our regional The Groups adjusted operating profit was up by 104 million gas distribution networks for a total cash consideration of to 862 million compared to last year.
This was primarily a result 5.8 billion.
This creates, what is in effect, a new gas of reduced UK gas distribution controllable operating costs and distribution market in the UK.
We have retained four of the the effect of colder weather on our revenues.
networks, which together represent the largest of the UK gas distribution businesses.
Strategy As an infrastructure based network provider, it is essential that Our safety performance has continued to improve through the we deliver high standards of service and reliability as well as implementation of best practice with a further 44% reduction in outperforming our benchmarks and regulatory targets.
We need lost time injuries.
Once again, we exceeded all our safety related to continue managing our regulatory relationships successfully standards of service.
to benefit both our customers and shareholders of the National Investment Grid group.
Our disciplined approach to capital management Investment in our networks remains a priority for the Group.
Total investment reached 0.9 billion this year, up by 50% Progress on last years 0.6 billion.
We expect it will stay at or above Delivering our strategy involves the continued focus on our key 1.0 billion each year over the medium term.
strengths of operational excellence, our ability to exceed our Investment in UK gas transmission is primarily due to new efficiency targets, and our prudent use of capital.
Investment in infrastructure required to meet the changing gas supply pattern our current businesses and strategic opportunities are made as the UK becomes a net importer of gas.
This includes our only where we believe we can create shareholder value.
largest ever project, connecting the new LNG liquefied natural Our parent company, National Grid, has re-branded its gas terminals currently being built at Milford Haven.
This will businesses during the year, adopting the National Grid name as require investment of more than 750 million over the next a common identity.
As part of this re-branding, Transco has two years.
become National Grid Gas and is implementing a new livery for Outlook its vehicle fleet, as they are replaced.
Our priority remains to create value for National Grids Our regulatory controls provide significant incentives towards shareholders through the efficient delivery of our regulatory improving operational efficiency by permitting the sharing of the contracts, while maintaining the drive for continuous benefits of increased efficiencies between energy users and improvement in safety, reliability, efficiency and responsibility.
This year we have added to our impressive cost efficiency track record when UK gas distribution achieved its cost-efficiency target one year early.
Excludes the impact of exceptional items and remeasurements.
