Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that NEXT has had another satisfactory year, despite a tough trading environment throughout 2005.
Profit before tax increased by 6% to 449m, on sales of 3.1 billion which were 9% ahead of last year.
Over the past five years, there have been significant achievements by NEXT in many areas.
Sales have almost doubled, accompanied by a doubling of profit and an even greater increase in earnings per share.
During that time we have returned 1.4 billion to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks.
We have also succeeded in delivering excellent levels of capital growth through a rising share price.
These financial results have been achieved through the continued focus on our products offering style, quality and value for money to our customers.
The development of our store portfolio to over 4 million square feet and our Directory customer base to over 2 million active customers have been the main drivers of growth.
Our infrastructure, which supports these objectives, provides the platform from which we can continue to grow the business and deliver value to our customers and shareholders.
It has already been announced that I will retire from the Board at the AGM in May 2006.
I have been at NEXT for 20 years and I will be sad to no longer be part of a great team, but I am a great believer in well planned and timely succession.
I will be succeeded as Chairman by John Barton.
We appointed John as a non-executive director in 2002 and he was appointed Deputy Chairman in 2004.
He has shown that he has all the qualities that are necessary in a good Chairman and I am confident that John and Simon will be a formidable partnership in promoting the continued success of NEXT.
I would like to thank our suppliers, many of whom have supported NEXT so well over my 20 years.
I would particularly thank the three Chairmen that I worked with during my time as Chief Executive Michael Stoddart, David Wolfson and Sir Brian Pitman.
They all brought their own individual style and knowledge which helped me enormously.
And finally, thank you to everyone who has worked with me at NEXT, it has been a great adventure.
David Jones CBE Chairman 23 March 2006 2
