N040009 Report 01-26 13 6 06 1:37 pm Page 02 Chairmans review: We will create a more focused and competitive company, capable of driving improved shareholder returns Anthony Hobson Chairman 02 Chairmans review Northern Foods plc N040009 Report 01-26 13 6 06 1:37 pm Page 03 Overview Dividend Our employees This has been a challenging year for The board recommends a full year dividend I would particularly wish to express my Northern Foods.
Following a disappointing of 4.25 pence 2004 05: 9.05p per share, thanks, and those of the board, to our trading performance, we have undertaken including a final dividend of 0.85 pence per employees.
They are a motivated, committed a comprehensive business review.
The rebased dividend reflects the scale and highly competent team who have strived identified actions which will create a more of the more focused business and recent to deliver improvements across the business.
focused and competitive company, capable financial results.
Over the medium term, They work tirelessly to maintain our enviable of driving improved shareholder returns.
the board expects dividends broadly to grow reputation built on the excellence of the food in line with earnings and for dividend cover we produce and the quality of service we Northern Foods will be a simpler, more to be between one and a half and two times deliver to our customers.
The challenges ahead competitive and resilient business, enabling basic earnings per share.
will place further demands on our employees us to serve our customers better.
The new and I thank them in advance for their support, focused group will be built on strong brands Shaping the future endurance and continued commitment and categories where we have distinctive Our business review will deliver a smaller, through this time of uncertainty and change.
competence in own label foods.
Approximately more focused group, based around five core half of the groups sales will be from branded categories Pizza, Biscuits, Ready Meals, Your board products.
We will rationalise products and Sandwiches and Christmas Puddings.
Peter Blackburn stepped down as Chairman sites to achieve the lowest cost base whilst These categories reflect quality brands at the previous Annual general meeting, after retaining capacity for growth.
Capital and strong own label categories.
They offer guiding the company through the first phase management will be strong and rigorous.
good competitive positions, exposure to of our major change programme and we growing segments of the food market and are indebted to him for his vision, counsel We intend to implement a major divestment opportunities for improved performance and support.
programme, which will reduce risk and through a rigorous focus on delivering great complexity, and free up capital and products, excellent customer service and Matthew Gribbin left the board in February management time for the refocused group.
Based on 2005 06 2006, after more than 20 years with Northern performance, the new focused group has a Foods in a variety of executive roles, most Performance better operating margin of 6.6% compared latterly as our strategy director.
Colin Dyer In 2005 06, we achieved underlying sales to 4.9%, a manageable capital requirement will be leaving the board in September 2006 growth of 2.2%, with revenue from continuing and a stronger return on assets.
after more than nine years.
and Colin will be greatly missed and I would Profit before taxation and restructuring items 2006 07 will be a year of transformation like to thank them both for their immense from continuing operations reduced to for the group.
We will begin a programme contributions to the group.
45.1m 2004 05: 62.4m, although this to divest our non-core categories across was in line with our revised expectations.
chilled distribution, Pastry Products, Cakes, We have welcomed four new colleagues We are pleased with the continued strong Flour Milling and Speciality Bread.
We will of considerable talent to the board this year.
performance of our Frozen division, with its continue to support and invest in these Jez Maiden joined us as Chief Finance Officer stable of strong brands led by market leading businesses, reflecting our commitment in September 2005 and Stefan Barden Goodfellas pizza, and by the performance to both our customers and our employees assumed the role of Executive Director, in key categories such as Sandwiches in affected by these disposals.
We recognise the Chilled in January 2006.
Both of these new the Chilled division and Puddings and Flour challenge that this will present and will work board colleagues bring a wealth of very Milling in Bakery.
However, very competitive with customers, employees and prospective relevant senior financial and operational trading conditions continued adversely to owners to manage this process.
We firmly experience to the group.
impact other parts of the Chilled and Bakery believe that each of these businesses offers business, most notably in Pastry Products attractive opportunities but that these will We have also been fortunate to obtain the and Biscuits.
be best delivered by other companies in services of Ronnie Bell and David Nish as these markets.
Ronnie, who enjoyed Notwithstanding this, we achieved substantial a stellar career with Kraft Foods, joined us progress in key areas.
These included delivery In parallel with the divestment programme, in September 2005.
David, who held board of our target of over 21m of savings in we will be working within the new focused finance and operational appointments at the year through cost efficiencies, achieving group to grow our business, making targeted ScottishPower, joined us in July 2005. a good operational Christmas performance, investments around rigorous return criteria, and robust initial action to improve capital whilst driving down costs to meet the Conclusion and cash management across the group, demands of our competitive market place.
We have major challenges ahead as we through more targeted capital investment.
This will involve ongoing transformation restructure and refocus the business in a very However, the overall financial performance and restructuring to deliver our targeted competitive trading environment, but we are remains unsatisfactory and the conclusions improvements.
determined to create value for our shareholders of our business review seek radically to and to ensure that we are best positioned to address this.
provide great value, quality products for our customers.
I am confident that the radical changes we have announced will be the basis for the successful recovery of Northern Foods.
Anthony Hobson Chairman 31 May 2006 Northern Foods plc Chairmans review 03
