Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Chairmans statement Sir Frederick Holliday We have made a good start with the delivery of our investment programme in the first year of this new period.
Over the five year period we will invest nearly 1 billion to deliver improvements to our services and the environment.
This year marks a new phase in the In September 2005, we issued 150 I would like to thank the members of Groups development.
We have million index linked 2.033% Eurobonds the NWG and NWL boards for their sharpened the focus on our core due in 2036.
In January 2006, we issued contribution not only to the work of the business, disposing of three non-core further 60 million index linked 1.6274% boards but also the very important board companies, and have begun a new five Eurobonds due in 2041. committees.
They have given wise year regulatory period.
We have made counsel and support to me as Board a good start with the delivery of our The credit rating of our core business has Chairman.
Their deliberations determine investment programme in the first year of remained consistent throughout the year not just what the Group will do, but how this new period.
Alongside maintaining at BBB stable, Fitch Ratings Fitch and that work should be done.
our extensive asset base, our main targets Standard & Poors S&P and Baa1 stable, are to reduce the incidence of sewer Moodys Investors Service Moodys.
In particular, the Audit Committee and flooding and discoloured water.
Over the Remuneration Committee have the five year period we will invest nearly The Board will recommend an ordinary important delegated responsibilities 1 billion to deliver improvements to final dividend of 7.04 pence per share which help the Board maintain the our services and the environment.
for the year ended 31 March 2006 to integrity of the business.
The Nomination shareholders at the Annual General Committee looks at the overall business NWGs financial performance Meeting AGM on 27 July 2006. and reviews the talents and experience NWGs revenue from continuing Together with the ordinary interim of the boards to ensure there is a strong, operations was 591.5 million for the dividend of 3.52 pence per share, the complementary range of expertise to year to 31 March 2006 and represents ordinary dividends paid and proposed undertake the work needed and add a 9.2% increase on the year to 31 March for the year will be 10.56 pence per value to the business.
2005 541.6 million, mainly due to the share.
This represents an increase of price increase on water and sewerage 5.6% on the dividend for the previous In October, we welcomed Ron Lepin to charges to support the continuing high year.
A special dividend of 2.82 pence the Board as a non-executive director of capital investment programme.
per share was paid in the year, in respect NWG.
He is a vice president of Ontario of the profit on disposal of subsidiaries Teachers Pension Plan Board, which has Profit on ordinary activities before of 14.6 million.
We also interest from continuing operations welcomed Alex Scott-Barrett as an for the year was 236.2 million The ordinary dividends paid and independent non-executive director to 2005: 196.1 million.
proposed for the year are consistent the board of NWL in November.
with the progressive dividend policy The sale of Fastflow Pipeline Services announced by the Board in June 2005.
In recognition of NWGs increasing focus Limited FPS, Entec UK Limited Entec on its core water and sewerage business and ULG Northumbrian Limited ULG This performance is the result of the skills through its principal operating subsidiary, contributed 14.6 million to the results and effort of everyone within the Group.
NWL, my five non-executive colleagues at for the year and is included in the NWG joined me on the board of NWL on discontinued operations result of 15.4 1 January 2006. million see note 8 for further analysis.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 5 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Left: Sir Fred at the launch of a new weather station at Hyde Hall in Essex Below: Sir Fred presenting at NWLs health and safety roadshow We have had positive and constructive This is my final report: I retire at relationships with our regulators Ofwat, the AGM after 15 years service to the the Environment Agency EA and the Group and pass the chairmanship to Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI.
will continue to seek to maintain this relationship, based on an understanding I am leaving a splendid Group in of each others needs and objectives.
We must learn to The value of these relationships lies in live with, and manage, a more highly mutual respect and regard, and the energised atmosphere, a water cycle confidence that our deliberations are driven harder by higher temperatures rooted in sound science and secure and more extreme weather events.
That stepped-up cycle can be managed to the benefit of both the wider I continue to be impressed by the environment and our customers, but it commitment and loyalty of our calls for different actions and attitudes.
employees both to the business and We must learn to retain water as it falls, the communities we serve.
They perform redistribute it without waste and recycle well beyond their job descriptions.
To neglect any of dedication is recognised in the many those will put not only our gardens and letters and messages of tribute I receive parks at risk, but also the habitats of from grateful members of the public.
I would like to record my own thanks for the dedication of all our employees.
I am confident that the Group has the skills and the commitment to Our strategy has been chosen to guide meet the challenge.
the business through the challenges ahead, within the boundaries set by sir Frederick Holliday the regulators.
Chairman 6 June 2006 The strategy is simple.
The job of achieving it is not.
Whether we supply water, or clean it, the procedures are complex and the implications of keeping within the narrow bands of our consents are huge.
We cannot always manage in the ways we have done in the past.
In particular, we need to find new ways of managing as we respond to environmental changes.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts
