3 Chairmans Statement INTRODUCTION I am delighted to present Northgate Information Solutions annual report for 2005 6.
This has been a challenging but highly successful year for the Group, in which we achieved significant growth across our operations despite the explosion at the Buncefield oil depot, which destroyed our head office and temporarily disabled many of our critical systems.
As a result of the tremendous effort from all our management and employees, Northgate has emerged from the Buncefield incident stronger than ever, with an enhanced reputation for the integrity of its systems and its ability to manage in adverse circumstances.
While we are pleased to put the incident behind us, we will not forget the valuable lessons it has taught us.
About Northgate Information Solutions Financial Results Northgate Information Solutions is the UKs leading supplier Revenue increased by 62% during the year from 205.7m to of specialist software and IT services for the human 332.7m due to continued organic growth and inclusion of resources, education and public services markets.
Our services touch the lives of almost everyone in Britain.
Operating profit before one-off provisions, amortisation Our systems pay one in three of the population.
Last year of capitalised customer relationships and option costs our systems sent out 8.7m council tax bills and 3.0m was 55.0m, an increase of 63% from the 33.7m in the speeding and parking tickets.
Our customers include all of previous year.
Profit before tax rose 95% from 15.7m to the UKs police forces and more than seven out of every 30.6m, whilst adjusted earnings per share grew by 29% eight local authorities.
Our task is to enable our customers to deliver complex, Northgate continues to enjoy a strong cash flow.
Adjusted administrative services so effortlessly and seamlessly that operating cash inflow for the year was 48.8m, an increase their recipients take them for granted.
Large organisations, of 64% over the 29.8m reported last year.
As a such as local authorities or major retailers, have a thousand consequence net debt reduced from 173.5m to 158.9m.
issues to deal with every day.
Our mission is to ensure that the services we provide are never among them.
I am delighted to announce that, in the light of the strength of the cash flow and the overall continuing growth of the The Group consists of three substantial businesses business, the Board has decided to recommend the payment Northgate HR, Northgate Public Services and Northgate of a dividend of 0.6p a share.
This dividend, Northgates first Managed Services.
Each is a leader in its own market, and in its current form, will be proposed to shareholders at the each has attractive growth prospects as their markets grow Annual General Meeting to be held on 28 September 2006. and consolidate.
We have numerous opportunities to win Adjusted operating cash inflow is after capital items but before acquisitions new additional contracts and to make suitable acquisitions and restructuring payments as they present themselves.
Northgate has clearly demonstrated its growth potential: in the past five years, Group revenues have increased by 293% whilst earnings measured using adjusted basic EPS have grown at a compound annual rate of over 40%.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS The Company has never been in better shape.
Over the past five years it has built leading positions in key markets due to strong organic growth and has demonstrated the ability to make sizeable acquisitions and extract value from them 5 Chairmans Statement continued Buncefield Board and Management I could not make a full report to shareholders without No changes to the PLC Board occurred during the year.
referring to the events surrounding the Buncefield incident on 11 December last year.
The explosion of the nearby fuel At the end of this calendar year I will have been Chairman of depot destroyed our head office and temporarily disabled all Northgate Information Solutions for seven very rewarding 212 client systems that were located there.
During that time, the talented management team led by Chris Stone has transformed the business and turned it Although this was a disaster on a scale that had not been into a world-class systems and outsourcing group.
predicted by even the gloomiest disaster recovery specialists, in many respects we were fortunate.
The I have now decided it is time to move on, and the Board has explosion occurred early on Sunday morning and crucially accordingly commenced a full search process to identify my we suffered no serious injury or loss of life among our staff.
I will step down once he or she joins and is fully conversant with the role, which is likely to be early in the New In addition to the destruction of client systems, Northgates Year.
We will of course update you as soon as we have more communications hub was also critically damaged.
I will leave knowing the business is in very safe hands.
Nevertheless both management and staff responded magnificently to the challenging circumstances.
Our On behalf of all the Board I would like to thank the technicians started work on rebuilding client systems in a management and the staff for their enormous contribution remote location that afternoon, and many of them to the Groups success, in this year of all years.
continued working round the clock until the job was done.
Our clients showed remarkable calmness and forbearance Outlook when we explained what had happened, and gave us the The Company has never been in better shape.
Over the past time to put things right.
five years it has built leading positions in key markets due to strong organic growth and has demonstrated the ability to I would like to thank everyone who played their part in the make sizeable acquisitions and extract value from them.
Our recovery effort, not only our staff and management but also current year has started with an order book of 366.0m and our clients, SunGard our disaster recovery supplier and our strong order intake.
insurers, who have worked tirelessly with us to put the pieces back together.
Looking forwards, there are a number of opportunities the Group intends to pursue.
The provision of education Our response to Buncefield demonstrates the quality of information technology IT is a fast growing sector and our Northgate Information Solutions as an organisation.
I am recent success in winning preferred bidder for the contract convinced there are very few systems companies in the from C2K to provide IT services to all primary schools in world that could have responded so effectively and Northern Ireland is extremely encouraging in this regard.
efficiently to a blow of this magnitude.
Our ability to respond and recover in adversity has not been overlooked by In addition, our Human Resources business is now the third the outside world and I am confident it will benefit us in our largest of its kind in the world and we are increasingly new business effort going forwards.
looking to expand its operations outside the UK, particularly into Continental Europe.
We believe that Northgate Information Solutions is well placed for future success.
Nick Irens Chairman 5 July 2006 NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS
