Ken Harvey Chairman CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Pennon Group Plc THE GROUP CONTINUED TO MAKE EXCELLENT PROGRESS DURING THE YEAR DELIVERING PROFITABLE GROWTH IN ALL AREAS OF THE BUSINESS.
THE RESULTS AFFIRM OUR STRATEGY OF FOCUSING ON THE TWO KEY BUSINESSES, SOUTH WEST WATER LIMITED AND VIRIDOR WASTE LIMITED.
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW The efficiency targets set by the Director General of Water Services for the five year period 2005-2010 represent a tough challenge for Group revenue increased by 17.1% to 645.7 million, mainly due South West Water, but results from the first full year of the K4 period to increased revenue generated by the Ofwat approved tariff indicate that the company is on track to achieve the necessary increases in South West Water and another year of strong trading operating cost reductions.
South West Water continued to deliver high levels of product and Before exceptional items, operating profit increased by 16% to customer service.
In addition, the successful delivery of its waste 175.1 million, profit before tax increased by 24.6% to 110.9 water improvement programme, which provides significant million, and earnings per share increased by 17.4% to 75.5p.
environmental enhancement, enables the region to boast some of Europes finest bathing waters, beaches and rivers.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 35.1p, a 20.2% increase which is in line with the Boards previously stated dividend During the five year period 2005-2010, a key element of South West policy.
Together with the interim dividend of 16.5p, this will result Waters capital investment is in water mains renovation with an in a total dividend for the year of 51.6p, a 20.0% increase on the enhanced programme already well under way.
During the year, a total dividend for the previous year.
record length of 695 kilometres of water mains were either laid, replaced or refurbished, providing customers with even higher levels The Boards policy is to grow the Group dividend by 3% per annum of drinking water quality.
The programme is ahead of schedule and is in real terms at least up to 2009 10.
Shareholders will also be given on track to meet the delivery targets set by the Drinking Water the opportunity to participate in a Dividend Re-investment Plan, Inspectorate.
details of which will be circulated to shareholders in August 2006.
Drinking water quality remains at a record high level and, as a direct In December 2005, the Board announced its decision to increase consequence of careful planning and capital expenditure, the the level of gearing in South West Water to further improve the regions water storage, treatment and distribution capability has efficiency of the Groups capital structure.
As a consequence of this, been progressively and significantly enhanced over the years.
circa 145 million has been returned to shareholders via a B Share Scheme and 55 million is being returned via a share buy back.
There has not been a water restriction in the region since 1996 and In addition, 14.5 million has been paid to South West Water none is envisaged.
The companys leakage detection and reduction customers in the form of a one-off payment of 20 per customer.
programme continues to deliver results in line with mandatory After the year end, the Board announced subject to shareholder targets set by Ofwat.
approval a 3 for 1 share split to increase the liquidity and marketability of the Companys shares.
VIRIDOR WASTE LIMITED SOUTH WEST WATER LIMITED Viridor Wastes financial performance during the year was again strong with revenue increasing by 20.4% to 298.9 million and South West Waters revenue increased by 41.5 million to 348.5 operating profit before intangibles amortisation rising by 19.7% to million and operating profit rose by 15.8% to 141.5 million before 35.9 million.
Operating costs, including depreciation, increased by 22.2 million to 207.0 million after efficiency savings of 4.0 million.
2 Viridor Waste has, since 2000 01, increased operating profit STRATEGY before intangibles amortisation at a compound rate of 22.3% The Boards priority continues to be the creation of shareholder per annum with around 11% being via organic growth and the value through its strategic focus on water, sewerage and waste remainder as a result of acquisitions.
The years financial results are testament to the In June 2005, Viridor Waste acquired Brett Waste Management Boards strategy of focusing on these key business areas.
The move Limited, a landfill and power generation business for a cash to a more highly geared structure has enabled the Group to return consideration of 44.4 million.
The company owns strategically value to shareholders and customers and provide an enhanced located landfill sites in Kent and Essex with approximately 11 dividend.
million cubic metres of consented capacity, landfill gas power PROSPECTS generation schemes and other associated activities.
The acquisition complements the companys existing facilities in the South East.
The Board has confidence that South West Water will successfully During the year, Viridor Waste established a 50:50 joint venture deliver the new K4 regulatory contract and significantly grow its company with Grundon Waste Management Limited and the new Regulatory Capital Value up to 2010.
Viridor Wastes successful business Lakeside Energy from Waste Limited will build and strategy of creating long term sustainable profit growth is expected operate an energy from waste plant in Colnbrook, near Heathrow.
to continue through capitalising on its landfill asset base, exploiting The plant will have a capacity of 400,000 tonnes of waste per its landfill gas power generation potential and pursuing profitable annum and will also provide a power generation capacity of 32 opportunities in line with the Governments developing waste megawatts of electricity.
The plant is now under construction strategy.
with commissioning scheduled for mid 2008.
BOARD MATTERS In May 2006, Viridor Waste acquired Wyvern Waste Services Limited Bob Baty, Chief Executive of South West Water, is due to retire at the from Somerset County Council for 25 million as part of a 25 year end of July following 45 years service in the industry.
The Board Public Private Partnership with the County.
The acquisition includes would like to take this opportunity to express its gratitude to Bob for 5 million cubic metres of consented landfill void, 7 megawatts of his significant contribution to South West Water since privatisation power generation capacity and associated recycling and treatment in 1989 and to wish him well in his retirement.
Viridor Wastes expansion via organic growth and acquisition has The Board looks forward to welcoming Chris Loughlin as an been a notable accomplishment within the waste sector and the Executive Director of Pennon and Chief Executive of South West company is well placed to deliver further strong financial Water.
He will take up his post on 1 August.
EMPLOYEES RETURN OF CAPITAL During my years as Chairman of the Group, many structural On 15 February 2006, Pennons shareholders approved the and organisational changes have taken place.
Throughout this return of 200 million of cash to shareholders, with circa 145 time, employees have continued to demonstrate a high level of million of this return by way of a B Share Scheme and circa loyalty, commitment and professionalism and I thank them 55 million through an on-market share buy back programme.
The most sincerely for their efforts.
B Shares have now been issued with circa 138 million of capital returned in March and the balance in April 2006.
In order to maintain comparability of the share price after the B Share Scheme, Pennon undertook a share capital consolidation whereby shareholders received 10 new Ordinary shares for every 11 existing KEN HARVEY, Chairman, Pennon Group Plc Ordinary shares.
As a result, the number of Ordinary shares in issue 22 June 2006 was reduced from approximately 130.5 million to 118.6 million.
