Business review Chairmans statement It was with great pleasure that I accepted the position of Chairman Strong cash flow has not only enabled us to invest in the business and of ARM from 1 October 2006, following the retirement of Sir Robin make acquisitions of operations with complementary technology, but Saxby.
I took up my role towards the end of another successful year also to return cash to shareholders through dividends and the share for the Company, and we entered 2007 well placed to build on buyback programme.
It is the boards intention to increase the dividend our market-leading position.
over time, taking into account the opportunity for continued investment in the business and the Companys underlying operational performance.
Results and dividend With this in mind, the board is recommending a final dividend of The increasingly widespread adoption of ARM technology in consumer 0.60 pence per share, bringing the total for the year to 1.0 pence per electronic devices was illustrated during 2006 by the 47% increase in share, an increase of 19% over the dividend paid in respect of 2005. the reported total shipments of ARM Powered products to 2.45 billion units, up from the reported 1.66 billion units in 2005.
Our strong We see the return of cash to shareholders through a dividend as part financial performance continued: dollar revenue growth increased of a package of measures to make the best use of the businesss by 16% and there was a 20% increase compared with 2005 in the cash resources and plan to continue the share buyback programme, year-end order backlog.
which we initiated in July 2005.
During 2006, we purchased a total of 63.6 million shares at a total cost of 76.5 million.
The strong cash generation resulting from this robust operational performance, together with our confidence in the Companys longThe market term prospects, enabled us to invest heavily in our business and to The year was another one of healthy growth, approximately 10%, for strengthen our IP portfolio through the acquisitions during 2006 of the semiconductor industry as a whole, although it began to show signs Falanx Microsystems, an innovative graphics IP company, and Soisic, of slowing by the end of the year.
a leading company in physical IP based on silicon on insulator SOI technology.
These acquisitions add to ARMs microprocessor and physical IP capabilities, which have accelerated the Companys momentum towards becoming the architecture for the digital world.
The 16% increase in ARMs dollar revenue was, once again, significantly ahead of the industry growth rate and exemplifies the opportunities that exist for the Company.
4 ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 Looking to 2007, we expect the industry to continue to be impacted by People the inventory correction in the first half at least, but we believe that the 2006 was a year of investment in new businesses and people, resulting effect on ARM will be attenuated and we expect to exceed the industry in a significant increase in our total number of employees.
I thank all growth rate in 2007 as we have done in past years.
employees worldwide for the contribution they have made to the excellent results achieved in 2006 in the increasingly demanding market Our confidence in the development of our business in 2007 is in which we operate.
At 31 December 2006, we had 1,659 full-time underpinned by a healthy technology portfolio of processor and physical employees compared with 1,324 at the end of 2005.
Of these, 671 are IP, comprising new and mature products.
There is the prospect of more based in the UK, 582 in the US, 153 in continental Europe, 203 in India synergistic deals for the physical IP division and continued acceleration and 50 in the Asia Pacific region.
of the penetration of our IP into royalty-generating designs, in both mobile and non-mobile markets.
We were delighted that the efforts of our people were recognised recently by the Company winning three prestigious awards, which Momentum for our processor and physical IP portfolio increased were open to businesses from all sectors.
In November 2006, ARM was throughout 2006.
Demand continues to grow for the Cortex family chosen as UK Business of the Year at the National Business Awards, an of processors which enabled ARM to complete 13 licence deals in the award which takes market leadership, innovation, growth and financial year.
This has been the most successful introduction of any family return into consideration.
In January 2007, the Company was recognised of ARM processors and we expect this success to continue in 2007. as European Business of the Year, competing against the other national award winners within the European Union.
Further, at the Management In physical IP, we completed seven licence deals with some of the Today awards in November 2006 for Britains Most Admired Companies, worlds largest foundries TSMC, Samsung, IBM, and Chartered for our ARM was recognised as the company with the greatest capacity to most advanced 45nm physical IP products.
While these awards were for companies with headquarters for licensing exist across the Physical IP portfolio as we seek to benefit in the UK or the European Union, they recognise the efforts of all ARM from the desire of semiconductor companies to offset the impact of employees worldwide.
increasing costs, as envisaged when we outlined industry transitions in the original rationale for the acquisition of Artisan in 2004.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 5 ARM Annual report and accounts 2006 5 Business review Chairmans statement continued Board changes These appointments are part of the planned succession for Peter As part of a planned succession, Sir Robin Saxby retired as Chairman Cawdron who has been a member of the board since 1998 and will and as a director of the Company on 1 October 2006, when he took step down at the AGM on 15 May 2007.
More detailed biographies up his role as President of the Institute of Engineering and Technology appear on page 18.
In his year as President of the IET, Robin will continue to be associated with ARM as Chairman Emeritus.
During his 15 years with Current trading and prospects ARM, the Company has earned a reputation as one of the worlds most 2006 was a year of building for the future.
We invested significantly in respected technology companies and has become a global leader in the business, with the majority of the investment going to the Physical IP semiconductor intellectual property.
On behalf of the board I thank him Division and the emerging business units.
Increasing momentum across for the very significant contribution he has made to ARMs success.
our business lines resulted in an above-industry level revenue growth of 16%.
We were very pleased to welcome Kathleen ODonovan as an independent non-executive director on 7 December 2006.
She is a nonA broad technology portfolio for licensing, a healthy opportunity pipeline, executive director and Chairman of the audit committee of Prudential plc an increasing drive in royalties, and the prospect of more synergistic and Great Portland Estates plc, and a former non-executive director and revenues arising from the combination of processor IP and physical IP, Chairman of the audit committee of the Court of the Bank of England.
underpin our confidence in another strong performance in 2007.
She has been appointed to the audit and remuneration committees with effect from 1 January 2007.
We were also very pleased to welcome Young Sohn as an independent non-executive director on 2 April 2007.
He has extensive experience in the semiconductor industry both in Silicon Valley and in Asia.
He is a director of Cymer, Inc. and M-Stream Technology Limited.
He will be appointed to the audit and remuneration Doug Dunn Chairman committees of the Company with effect from 15 May 2007.
6 ARM Annual report and accounts 2006
