04 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Chairmans Statement Operating profit for the year was 60.3 million During the year, steady improvement in Actions taken 2005: 72.5 million.
Underlying operating profit customer service was achieved as the Groups was 72.2 million 2005: 72.5 million, producing service programme, introduced in the prior year, in the second an underlying operating margin of 8.9 per cent gained momentum.
Underlying operating Our electronic component distribution half of the year profit is stated before an inventory provision of businesses have worked closely with suppliers 6.6 million, which arises from obsolete stock to anticipate patterns of customer demand to improve that is likely to result across the Group from the resulting from implementation of the EUs RoHS implementation of the Restriction of the use of Directive on 1st July 2006.
By the year-end some the Groups certain Hazardous Substances RoHS Directive, 57,000 RoHS-compliant products in Europe, and before reorganisation costs of 5.3 million, and 57,000 in North America, were being actively including 3.9 million for the restructuring of performance marketed on the web.
These businesses have BuckHickman InOne.
launched services to help customers comply have started to with the legislation and have established profit before tax in the year was 38.1 million leadership positions that are being used as part 2005: 59.0 million.
Earnings per share were show results of a wider drive to grow sales.
8.6 pence for the year 2005: 10.6 pence, and underlying earnings per share were up 4.7 per cent to 11.1 pence 2005: 10.6 pence.
People The Board is recommending a final dividend of On 4th July 2005, at the Boards request, 5.0 pence 2005: 5.0 pence making a total for I assumed executive responsibility for the Group the year of 9.0 pence 2005: 9.0 pence.
Subject following the resignation of John Hirst, Chief to the approval of shareholders at the Executive.
The Board wishes to record its thanks Companys Annual General Meeting, the final to John for the achievements during his dividend is payable on 21st June 2006 to seven years with the Group.
In January, I was shareholders on the register on 26th May 2006. delighted to announce the appointment of Harriet Green as Chief Executive, with effect from 3rd April 2006.
Accordingly, I have now reverted Balance Sheet and Cash Flow to the position of Non-Executive Chairman.
Harriet brings with her an outstanding track The Groups financial position remains sound.
record of success and extensive experience Net financial liabilities at 29th January 2006 Sir Peter Gershon, CBE FREng of the global component distribution market.
were 330.1 million, including 110.2 million Chairman I would like to express my gratitude to the attributable to the reclassication of the management team for the support they gave me Companys preference shares as debt as in this period, and to all employees for their effort required by IFRS.
Interest was covered 5.2 times and positive contribution during the year.
Net cash ow from operating activities was 79.3 million Andrew Fisher, Group Finance Director, will be 2005: 72.5 million.
Working capital was tightly leaving Premier Farnell on 16th May.
On behalf of Overview controlled and net cash inow, after dividends the Board I thank Andrew for his distinguished Whilst Premier Farnells profits for the year but before 7.6 million of acquisitions, was service over 11 years.
Michael Lester will be declined compared to last year, performance 1.2 million.
retiring from the Board at Premier Farnells improved signicantly in the second half of Annual General Meeting on 13th June 2006. the year.
Michael has been a Non-Executive Director since Acquisitions 1998, during which time his counsel has been In our Marketing and Distribution Division, sales greatly valued by the Board.
in North America tracked the rising trend in the In June, Weldon Technology, a US-based US market and the gross margin erosion seen supplier of lighting and electrical controls for in the first half was stemmed in the latter part of speciality vehicles, was acquired by Akron Brass Outlook for 5.9 million.
Also in June, Newark InOne the year.
In the UK, Farnell InOne performed Actions taken in the second half of the year to resiliently in a very difficult market for electronics, acquired the assets of R&R Instrumentation for improve the Groups performance have started and CPC achieved a strong recovery.
Substantial 1.7 million, enabling it to offer calibration to be rewarded as underlying return on sales market share gains were made in mainland services to its customers.
advanced sequentially in both the third and Europe throughout the year.
They create a stronger profitability was held back by an unacceptable Business progress foundation from which Harriet Green can pursue reduction in the contribution from BuckHickman the opportunities available to the Group.
InOne which is being addressed through the During the year, the Group has focused on restructuring programme announced at the end improving efficiency, customer service and We continue to plan on the basis of modest of January.
marketing effectiveness, and on preparing for growth in our markets.
Whilst maintaining tight the RoHS legislation.
control of cost, we are reinvesting selectively to The Industrial Products Division performed support business development and growth strongly with both sales and operating profit The focus on efficiency resulted in tighter control opportunities.
signicantly ahead of the prior year.
of cash and costs, including 130 redundancies across the Group, announced in the Interim Financial results statement.
BuckHickman InOne has since been subject to a more comprehensive review to This is the first year for which the Group has identify how its performance could be improved.
reported results in accordance with International The resulting plan, announced in January, Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
comprises a variety of measures including a Group sales for the year were 814.0 million major restructuring of sales and logistics 2005: 776.7 million.
operations that will be implemented during 2006.
