Chairmans statement 2 Financial and operating performance Premiers results for 2006 Continuing strength in oil and gas prices, especially in the first half of the year, supported reflect the impact of our quality sales revenues from continuing operations of US$358.8 million in 2006 2005: US$359.4 producing assets at higher oil million.
Of particular note was the high gas demand in Pakistan which led to record and gas prices.
and operating successes during Profit after tax for the year was US$67.6 million 2005: US$38.6 million reflecting the year have significantly higher realised oil and gas prices.
Operating cash flow after tax and interest was US$244.8 added to this strong base.
2 million which fully funded our investments in exploration and development activities and our acquisition activity in the year.
Net cash at 3 December 2006 was US$40.9 million 2005: net debt of US$26.2 million.
Average production for the year was stable at 33,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day boepd 2005: 33,300 boepd and finished the year with a final production rate of 34,300 boepd through increased gas volumes in Pakistan.
The Chinguetti field in Mauritania was successfully brought on-stream in February 2006, but subsequently produced below expectations as a result of reservoir complexities.
Following a review and third party approaches, it has been decided to pursue sale discussions with a limited number of parties Profit after tax for our Mauritanian assets.
Therefore the financial results of our activities in Mauritania are US$ million reported separately from all continuing operations in the attached financial statements.
80 70 Subsequent to year-end we exercised a pre-emptive right to acquire a further interest 60 in the Scott field.
On completion, this interest will add approximately 5,000 boepd 50 to our current year production.
40 30 20 In addition to this increased interest in the Scott field, we are pleased to have completed 10 two separate purchases of interests in North Sumatra Block A in Indonesia.
Together, 0 these take our equity in the block to 4.
The block contains several 2004 2005 2006 undeveloped gas fields which will be developed to supply existing local fertiliser plants.
A Memorandum of Understanding MoU for the sale of this gas has already been signed.
There is much further prospectivity on the block and in North Sumatra generally.
Oil and gas proven and probable booked reserves amount to 65 million barrels of oil equivalent mmboe, including 3 mmboe acquired with the Scott field interest subsequent to year-end 2005: 64 mmboe.
Following our successful exploration activity during the year, and the completion of the two acquisitions in North Sumatra, total reserves and resources, which include discoveries not yet booked pending commercialisation, have increased to an estimated 289 mmboe 2005: 232 mmboe.
Our exploration programme in 2006 delivered seven successes out of wells including two sidetracks at less than the planned spend of US$50 million.
Of particular encouragement were the two discoveries in Vietnam, Dua and Blackbird.
Our teams in Ho Chi Minh City and elsewhere are now moving rapidly into planning the development of these discoveries.
The continuing success in Indonesia, where as operator we have drilled 3 out of 5 successful wells in the last seven years, is also pleasing and we are following up with an extensive programme of exploration, appraisal and development in 2007.
Beyond the significant current year plans, it is important to build a future programme of drilling opportunities.
To this end, we have added good quality new acreage in Congo, UK, Vietnam and Indonesia and, in early 2007, received five new awards in the 2006 Norwegian APA Licensing Round.
During the year we qualified as an operator on the Norwegian Continental Shelf and the new awards include our first operated block.
Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chairmans statement We continue to focus on improving our consistent health, safety and environmental 3 performance and yet again are pleased to state that we have beaten our own targets in this area.
Shareholder returns During 2006 Premier shares increased in value by 52 per cent.
Over the five years to 3 December 2006, Premiers share price has increased by 645 per cent.
The company continued to be a top 0 performer in the FTSE 250 over the same period.
This exceptional performance has reinforced our policy to reward shareholders principally through share price growth and to utilise cash flow within the business.
The Board announced on 7 December 2006, that it had terminated all discussions regarding a possible offer for the company following the earlier receipt of a preliminary and conditional proposal.
The Board remains extremely confident that the pursuit of the companys strategy of high impact exploration and its growing portfolio of development projects will continue to be of long-term benefit to shareholders.
Board changes During 2006 Premier shares During the year we were pleased to announce the appointment of Professor David increased in value by 52 per Roberts as a non-executive director.
David has over 30 years experience in all aspects cent.
Over the five years to of exploration worldwide and will provide invaluable technical input at Board level.
3 December 2006, Premiers Two non-executive directors, Azam Alizai and Ian Gray, retired after 0 years on the share price has increased by Board.
We are enormously grateful for their contributions over this long period of time.
Outlook It is pleasing to report early successes in delivering on the strategic targets set out by the Board in September 2005.
In particular, with good progress on our development projects we feel increasingly confident that our production will exceed the medium-term target level of 50,000 boepd.
In addition, the discoveries in Vietnam are early evidence that our exploration strategy focusing our efforts on at least four high impact wells per year is bearing fruit.
2007 promises to be another exciting year for Premier as we continue to pursue our strategy.
We have already acquired interests in existing fields such as North Sumatra Block A in Indonesia, and the Scott field in the UK.
Our drilling campaign for the year is under way with early successes in Pakistan and Indonesia and with current activity in Guinea Bissau, India and the UK.
Additional wells will follow later in the year in Pakistan, Indonesia and Gabon.
We will be returning for a further programme in Vietnam during 2008.
I am confident that we will achieve further significant milestones during the year in our development projects in Norway, Indonesia, Pakistan and Vietnam.
The strength of our performance has generated an excellent set of financial results and maintained our solid balance sheet position.
We will maintain this disciplined approach as we enter a period of significant growth.
Sir David John KCMG Chairman Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006
