Continuity in a developing business environment Chairmans statement 2006 and the early part of 2007 have brought increased public and political focus on the transport industry.
Concerns about the sustainability of carbon-based transport, Almost a decade of building Arrivas presence, which now fluctuating oil prices, increasing congestion on many routes, extends to towns and cities in nine European countries, has and a growing environmental debate have pushed transport established a valuable network of contacts and relationships, up the agenda.
an increasingly balanced portfolio of businesses, and a depth of market understanding and knowledge that cannot Across Europe, populations are increasing, stimulating more easily be replicated.
demand for safe, effective and sustainable means of affordable public transport.
Passenger transport markets The value of having developed our businesses in this way continue to open to competition, and the role of a skilled, goes further than the profitable growth that Arriva is strong, private sector is now firmly established.
This is the generating in mainland Europe.
Our spread of operations environment in which Arrivas business strategy is rooted.
maximises our opportunities in a business environment which is continuously developing, but not necessarily in predictable The execution of that strategy has continued this year fashion in any one jurisdiction.
Risks are diversified across under David Martins leadership.
Taking over as chief countries, and we gain opportunities for economies of scale, executive at our annual general meeting in April 2006, transfer of best practice and innovation across our operations.
he has provided continuity and expertise in maximising our existing opportunities as well as seeking out new ones.
The results can be seen in our record.
Over the three-year period from 1 January 2004, Arrivas annualised total The progress of change varies across countries, and even shareholder return has been a healthy 29 per cent.
across the individual city-scale markets that are a feature of urban transport.
But whilst the timing and nature of For 2006 I am pleased to report that revenue was up 10 per opportunities can never be fully predictable, we are confident cent to 1,729.0 million 2005: 1,571.2 million and group that in Europe as a whole our strategy is based on a strong, operating profit before goodwill impairment and intangible historic trend across the continent.
asset amortisation was up eight per cent at 126.7 million 2005: 117.8 million.
12 Moving you across Europe The growth of our mainland European business, including The Board is recommending a final dividend of 15.51 pence the contribution from associates, has been particularly per share.
Together with the interim dividend of 5.32 pence strong.
Contract wins, acquisitions and investments in 2006 per share paid in October 2006, this makes a total dividend and early 2007 have strengthened our positions in Germany, of 20.83 pence per share, five per cent higher than last year, Portugal, the UK, Sweden and Spain as well as bringing us in line with our policy of stable dividend growth.
The final into the Czech Republic for the first time.
Our estimated dividend will be paid on 1 May 2007 to all shareholders mainland European order book has risen by 13 per cent on the register at the close of business on 30 March 2007. year on year, and we are active in many tender processes Strategically and financially, Arriva is in excellent shape to which we hope will bear fruit in the year ahead.
make further progress throughout 2007 by continuing to Basic earnings per share rose substantially to 51.8 pence make the most of the many opportunities for profitable 2005: 43.7 pence, largely reflecting the gain on disposal of growth in our chosen markets.
the vehicle rental business in February 2006.
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding goodwill impairment, intangible asset amortisation and exceptional Sir Richard Broadbent items, increased to 44.4 pence 2005: 43.6 pence.
Earnings Chairman before interest, tax, depreciation, goodwill impairment and intangible asset amortisation EBITDA from continuing businesses is up 10 per cent at 232.9 million.
Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 13
