| | 02 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Welcome.
2006 has been another year of successful development of the Group.
| | CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ANNUAL REPORT 2006 03 2006 has been another year of successful development Nigel Green retired as Group Chief Executive on of the Group with operating profit before exceptional 31st May 2006.
During his highly successful ten year items reaching 60.2 million, an increase of 13%.
tenure Group revenue increased from 360 million to 540 million and pre-exceptional profitability from This excellent performance is as a result of continuing to 19 million to 63 million.
Whilst focusing on specic target specic markets with growth potential, in particular markets the Group has gone into significant new areas Nigeria, as well as pursuing a margin improvement of activity.
All of this has been achieved utilising the programme across the Group.
Groups own resources and he leaves behind a strong balance sheet as well as an impressive management Highlights in the year have been as follows: development programme out of which will come our Successful completion of the milk factory in Nigeria, leaders of tomorrow.
constructed with Glanbia Plc, with sales of milk exceeding expectations.
I should like to take this opportunity to thank Nigel for his significant growth in our electrical goods business very substantial contribution and wish him and his wife, with Haier in Nigeria with further expansion of the Jane, a long and happy retirement.
Commissioning of the new bar soap factory in Thailand.
John Spyridoulias retired as Technical Director on Completion of the restructuring of our Eastern 28th February 2006 after 30 years with the Group.
has maintained the very high technical standards the Commencement of roll-out of the Charles Worthington Group has always been fortunate enough to enjoy and brand into the UK nationwide trade.
I wish him and his wife, Vaso, a very enjoyable retirement.
At a corporate level, following approval of the Alex Kanellis succeeded Nigel as Group Chief Executive enfranchisement of the A non-voting shares and the on 1st June 2006 and was joined on 1st January 2006 repayment of the preference share capital in June 2005, on the board by Brandon Leigh as Finance Director and the board is now proposing to shareholders that a share Chris Davis as Regional Director, Africa.
split is undertaken to further improve the liquidity of the companys shares.
Shareholders will be asked to vote Our strategic focus remains on growth and margin on this at the forthcoming annual general meeting with improvement in selected markets, and the Groups success further details provided in the enclosed circular.
continues to be achieved as a result of the hard work and dedication of all our staff throughout the PZ Cussons Turning now to the board of directors, 2006 has been Group.
In this respect, I would like to thank all of them a year of transition with the retirement of long serving very much indeed.
directors and the appointment of new directors to the board, who are well equipped to deal with the exciting opportunities ahead.
