Chairmans statement Given the robust balance sheet and the continued strong cash Even by the hectic standards of flows expected from the operations, the board decided that recent times, 2006 was a it was appropriate to start dividend payments and declared a momentous year for the gold market dividend of 10 cents per share.
This is, of course, not our first distribution to shareholders: In 2002, the company returned and for Randgold Resources.
The some US$81 million to investors through a share buyback.
bull run continued into its seventh Operationally, it was also a successful year for Randgold year - and is now the longest in the Resources, with gold production increasing by 36%.
The industrys history - while Randgold delays and difficulties caused by a defaulting contractor at Resources advanced on all fronts Loulo were overcome and in its first full year of production, the mine has lived up to our expectations.
With the plant and the as its profitable growth strategy openpit operations settled at the rated level, work started on continued to deliver positive results.
the development of the Yalea underground mine and the planning of the Gara underground mine was completed.
These higher grade mines will significantly enhance Loulos production In 2006, Randgold Resources profile and extend its life to 2024. increased its profit before tax by The companys Morila joint venture again continued to make more than 50% to US$74 million a solid contribution.
Unhedged and debt free, it remains a and its net profit by 6% to major cash generator.
In Cte dIvoire, the Tongon project has progressed to the bankable feasibility stage: a development US$51 million after a US$23 million decision will be made within two years.
Elsewhere in the tax charge at Morila.
The company companys prospect portfolio, a number of advanced targets are returning promising results.
ended the year with cash of US$143 million after spending more During the review period, as before, Randgold Resources than US$100 million on the management has been guided by a simple philosophy: to invest our financial and intellectual capital in exploration to find completion of the Loulo plant, the successful operations capable of generating profits which we repayment of the first third of the can reinvest in our future to create sustainability.
The growth strategy based on this belief is a long term one, and while we Loulo project finance, the first stage regularly review its implementation, we do not allow ourselves of the Yalea underground to become distracted from our course by transient market trends.
It is this consistency, I believe, that has given Randgold development and its ongoing Resources a record of value creation that has very few peers exploration programmes.
This is particularly important in the current market, where the excitement of a rising gold price seems to have shifted the industrys emphasis from building profitable businesses to pursuing short term trading opportunities.
Similarly, some investors appear to be more interested in production and short term share price performance than in real value creation and sustainable profitability.
The industrys market capitalisation has grown substantially but this growth has been driven by merger and acquisition activity and a flurry of new listings, rather than by the discovery 02 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 In the challenging spheres of African mining and international markets, a companys success is directly linked to the skills and motivation of its personnel and their ability to work as a team.
Philippe Litard Chairman and development of new gold reserves.
Indeed, the new gold The fine results of the past year, and the companys distinguished record of delivery, stand as a tribute to the wide ranging abilities, supply remains flat at best.
This suggests that the market is depth of experience and seamless cooperation of its corporate, being buoyed up by short term speculative sentiment rather regional and operational teams.
than the development of new resources and the creation of real value.
As part of the continuing expansion of the companys intellectual base, two eminent international businessmen We do not know how long the bull run in the gold price will joined our board as non-executive directors last year.
However, as far as Randgold Resources is concerned, are Norborne P Cole, Jr and Karl Voltaire.
our overriding priority is to continue finding and developing good gold prospects and building a business that will be Norb, a US national, is a former chief executive of the secondprofitable not only at the present gold prices but also at the largest Coca-Cola bottler in the world while Karl, a French much lower price levels at which the metal has traded in the national, oversaw the development of a number of major mining projects in Africa during more than 20 years with the World past.
Bank and the International Finance Corporation.
Both of them have extensive board level experience and they have significantly This is why we maintain our focus on organic growth through broadened the Randgold Resources boards international discovery and development, and why we continue to invest dimensions and enhanced its capacity to deal with an and to re-invest in our future, thus strengthening and enhancing increasingly complex legal and commercial environment.
the quality of our assets.
And it is important to note that in our pursuit of growth, we place quality far above size.
As the Jean-Antoine Cramer retired as a non-executive director.
We philosopher Voltaire observed: Dieu nest pas pour les gros thank him for almost 10 years of service to the company.
I bataillons, mais pour ceux qui tirent le mieux God is not on should also like to express my gratitude to my colleagues on the side of the heavy battalions, but of the best shots.
the board for the sure guidance they again supplied at the strategic level and in matters of governance.
A special word Chief among these assets are Randgold Resources people.
of appreciation is due to Mark Bristow for his dedication and the inspirational leadership he continues to provide.
In the challenging spheres of African mining and international markets, a companys success is directly linked to the skills We also thank the many other people, including our business and motivation of its personnel and their ability to work as a partners, advisors and suppliers, who in one way or another team.
The Randgold Resources team is acknowledged as again contributed to the companys success last year.
one of the best in the business.
Indeed, a recent analysts report from Arbuthnot Securities puts it even more strongly: Over the past 10 years, Randgold Resources has invested Management with a solid understanding of production and more than US$1 billion in Africa.
The mines it has developed exploration is key to the success of a mining company.
have paid more than US$550 million in taxes, dividends and Randgold has in our opinion the foremost team of any in the royalties to their host countries and provided skills and careers industry.
They have demonstrated their ability, initially through for more than 3 000 people.
By working in partnership with the discovery and construction of Morila, followed by the these countries, we aim to create not only short term prosperity development of the Loulo operation.
but economic welfare capable of outliving the mines on which it was built.
We also seek to be a responsible corporate citizen and a good neighbour in the countries where we operate, with Randgold Resources has since its establishment had concerted actions to improve the quality of life and protect the exceptionally competent executive and exploration teams.
Over time, the company has also developed first class skills in evaluation, design and development of capital projects, We have sustained our efforts to explain the company and its operational management, corporate finance, procurement and intentions clearly to investors worldwide.
We are gratified by logistics.
It has also invested a great deal of effort in nurturing the level of investor interest and support Randgold Resources local managers in host countries, to considerable effect.
For enjoys and which are reflected not only in the performance of example, the general manager and the financial controller for its share price but in the breadth and quality of its shareholder Mali as well as the general manager of Loulo are all Malian base.
We thank our shareholders for their support and look forward to delivering on their expectations in years to come.
