RECKITT 01-22:RECKITT 01-22 7 3 07 02:07 Page 1 Chairmans Statement We are pleased to report to shareholders The Board reviewed various aspects of the another year of progress and considerable business during the year, including annual achievement.
The Company again exceeded reviews of corporate governance, corporate its financial targets and has put in place a responsibility, reputational and business risk.
powerful platform in consumer healthcare, The Board regularly reviews the performance through the acquisition and integration of and results of the business and holds specific Boots Healthcare International BHI, reviews with management on brand, area offering new growth opportunities.
The Board also conducted its annual appraisal of its own Strategy performance.
The Companys strategy, as clearly set out in the Chief Executives Review, remains unchanged Annual General Meeting resolutions but with raised horizons in consumer healthcare.
The Board strongly recommends that shareholders The management team continues to develop support the resolutions at the AGM on 3 May 2007, a world-leading business in household cleaning endorsing the policies that have brought the and health & personal care with powerful Company continuing success.
brands, global reach and a clear focus on Thanks delivering better products to consumers.
On behalf of all shareholders I extend thanks Management to Bart Becht and his team for the fine The year has seen some evolution in the achievements of this past year.
My thanks also management team.
Fortunately we have to the members of the Board for their helpful replaced strength with strength confirming and supportive contributions.
that our long-term succession planning is working well, ensuring both a supply of talented people and strong continuity Adrian Bellamy in culture and style.
Chairman Returning cash to shareholders Shareholders have again benefited from the very strong cash generation of the business.
Despite the cost of acquiring Boots Healthcare International 1.9bn and integrating it into Reckitt Benckiser, the Company has continued to return cash to shareholders.
If the proposed final dividend is approved, declared dividends for the year will total 45.5p, an overall increase of 17%.
Together with the 300m share buy back programme completed during the year, this will mean that over 625m will have been returned to shareholders in total.
Even with these distributions the Companys finances remain strong.
The Board of Directors George Greener retired at the last AGM following ten years as a Director.
Once again I thank him for his considerable contribution.
I welcome David Tyler who has joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director since the year end.
Ken Hydon has taken over the chair of the Audit Committee and has therefore relinquished his role as Senior Non-Executive Director.
Peter White, who is no longer an independent director due to his tenure on the Board, has been an excellent Chairman of the Audit Committee since 1998 and I thank him very much.
Graham Mackay has been appointed Senior Non-Executive Director.
The Board continually seeks to strengthen itself with new Non-Executive Directors as appropriate opportunities arise.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 1
