Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 9 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 09 These results and comparatives for the prior year have been prepared under the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU.
Revenue and trading Revenue has increased by 13.6% to 175.8m 2005 154.8m with growth in all geographical regions, particularly notable being the Far East and North and South America increasing by 23% and 18% respectively.
Revenue in all product lines grew with the sole exception of digitising where a large initial stock of dental demonstration products was delivered in the first half of 2005.
Products reflecting significant growth include laser scale, machine tool, encoder and spectroscopy.
Group revenue has benefited during the year to the extent of 2.9m due to more favourable currency exchange rates compared with the previous year and 1.4m previous year 0.7m from currency hedging contracts.
I am pleased to report record results for the year ended 30th June 2006, both in revenue and profitability.
Further exciting developments have taken place in the dental Profit Operating profit for the year has increased by 21% to field with the launch of the incise scanning system for use by dental laboratories which are now being offered precision 35.5m 2005 29.3m.
Profit before tax rose by 20% to 38.1m 2005 31.7m resulting in earnings per share frameworks for crowns and bridges from the Companys new dental manufacturing facility at Stonehouse.
Total research and development expenditure during the Manufacturing year, including engineering costs, amounted to a record The Groups production facilities in the UK have again 29.3m 2005 25.4m, of which 1.8m 2005 0.5m, net undergone significant expansion.
The manufacturing plant of amortisation, has been capitalised as an intangible asset and machinery were successfully moved from New Mills in accordance with adopted IFRS.
to the Companys facilities at Stonehouse with minimal disruption.
The old machine hall at New Mills is now Marketing currently undergoing refurbishment to provide a preThe Group continues its drive into developing markets production machining and assembly facility, with completion with further sales and marketing representation, particularly scheduled for the end of July.
in the growth markets of the Far East and India.
In China, At our Woodchester facility, 27,000 sq feet is being refurbished new offices have been established in Chengdu, Guangzhou to provide both additional assembly space and a new and Shenyang, with an office in Qingdao about to open.
automated storage facility for finished goods and components.
There is now a representative office established in Thailand, with Malaysia to follow in the near future.
A liaison office has The recently purchased facility in Pune, India, is currently being also been established in Turkey.
In India, additional staff have refurbished to provide additional and complementary been recruited in Kolkatta, Punjab, Gujarat, Coimbatore, production facilities and is due to be operational in September.
Hyderabad and Chennai and in Bangalore the staff have moved into larger premises.
Research and development The Group continues to expand its product range and a number of very promising new products have been introduced during the last 12 months, including the SiGNUM Intelligent Encoder with Fanuc serial output and RELM from our encoder product line.
The GYRO range of heads to complement the very well received REVO and RENSCAN5, was introduced at EMO held in Hannover in September 2005 by our co-ordinate measuring machine product line.
The machine tool product line introduced the OMP400 high-accuracy strain gauge probe and Productivity Active Editor Pro for the graphical measurement cycle design environment.
Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 10 10 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT: continued Pension fund The Board has for some time been discussing the future of the Company pension fund with its trustees and has proposed the closure of the current defined benefit scheme to new employees and the establishment of a defined contribution category within the existing trust.
The contribution rates for existing members would also be increased.
A consultation process is being undertaken with a view to the changes becoming effective from 1st November 2006.
The pension fund liability as at 30th June 2006 measured under the rules for IAS19, net of deferred tax, has decreased Investments to 13.4m 2005 14.8m.
In addition to the acquisition of a 50% interest in both Personnel PulseTeq Ltd and Metrology Software Products Ltd, reported The number of staff employed in the Group at the end of at the half-year, the Company purchased itp GmbH in May the year increased by 7% to 2,004 2005 1,865.
This is a German manufacturer of high quality styli and Recruitment has principally been in overseas marketing, accessories, based in Vlklingen, close to Saarbrcken on UK manufacturing and engineering.
itp GmbH designs and manufactures styli for touch trigger probe applications on I would like to thank all staff worldwide for their contribution co-ordinate measuring machines and CNC machine tools, to yet another demanding but very successful year.
plus styli for gear measurement systems and will further add Prospects and dividend to the Companys market penetration of styli products.
The current year has again started well.
We continue to Queens award invest in the research and development of new products I am delighted to report that the Company was granted a and new market areas as well as manufacturing processes Queens Award for Enterprise in the Innovations Category in to improve efficiency.
Providing there are no major adverse respect of its NC1 and NC4 non-contact tool setting currency movements or a significant downturn in world systems: these are used for the automatic setting of cutting economies, we are confident of continuing growth, both tool parameters within the harsh environment of CNC for the current year and the longer-term future.
machine tools, together with tool breakage detection.
This Your Board proposes a final dividend of 15.07p per share, is the eleventh Queens Award in the Companys history.
giving a total for the year of 21.78p 2005 19.8p.
Balance sheet The Group aims to operate with a strong balance sheet including good liquidity.
Total capital expenditure for the year on tangible fixed assets amounted to 13.2m 2005 14.9m, of which 3.5m 2005 6.0m was property.
Sir David R McMurtry Cash balances at 30th June 2006 were 30.7m compared CBE, RDI, CEng, FIMechE, FREng with 30.1m at June 2005.
Chairman and Chief Executive 26th July 2006 Engineering costs Capital expenditure million million Other Land and buildings Research and development Plant and vehicles % of sales 02 03 04 05 06 02 03 04 05 06 FROM LEFT: Geoff McFarland, Group Engineering Director Renishaw plc, Peter Bungard, Clerk to the Lieutenancy and Chief Executive, Gloucestershire County Council, Ben Taylor, Assistant Chief Executive Renishaw plc, Henry Elwes, Her Majestys Lord Lieutenant for Gloucestershire.
