The Restaurant Group plc Operating and financial review 04 Annual Report 2006 Chairmans statement 2006 was, in many ways, a watershed year for The Restaurant Group the first full twelve months of trading in its new form.
These results demonstrate the strength and potential of our business and our brands.
Alan M. Jackson Chairman Prospering in a challenging marketplace This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007.
This information in itself does not constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of section 240 Companies Act 1985.
The Restaurant Group plc 05 Annual Report 2006 I am delighted to report that the Group has enjoyed another Our Concessions Division delivered a terrific set of results with successful year of profitable growth.
2006 was, in many ways, operating profits for this division increasing by 24%.
Against a very a watershed year for The Restaurant Group the first full twelve challenging backdrop for parts of 2006, this was an outstanding months of trading in its new form.
You will recall that 2005 was performance.
We opened six new units during the year and we a year of considerable change for the Group on the corporate are pleased with the initial performance.
This year we expect to front, as we continued to direct our focus away from the open a further 2-5 new units in the Concessions Division.
increasingly crowded high street marketplace and positioned our business firmly in the out of town segments of the eating During 2006 we concluded the conversion programme for 13 out market.
This was in line with our strategy of focusing on of the DPP sites which we acquired in early 2006 and the results markets with distinct barriers to entry, good growth prospects from these have been pleasing.
The remaining sites have been, or and high returns on investment.
The impact of these changes will be, sold or closed.
Although the performance of our associate is clear to see in this set of results.
company, Living Ventures, was disappointing we are encouraged that the actions being taken by their management are beginning For 2006 we delivered a like-for-like sales increase of 5% which to impact positively on performance.
Notwithstanding this, we was a fantastic performance.
As a result, our adjusted profit have made a provision of 9.5m against our carrying value of the before tax grew by 19% on the prior year.
In addition, our strong loan note, which has no cash impact, following an impairment cash generation enabled the Group to add 47 new restaurants review of our investment and loan note.
including rebranding former DPP units to its portfolio during the year, taking the total number of outlets to 284.
Overall, this is an outstanding set of results and demonstrates both the strength and potential of our business and its brands.
Building on a strong first half performance we made further good However, none of this would have been possible without the hard progress during the second six months to produce excellent full work and dedication of our senior management team and staff.
Full year adjusted pre-tax profit increased by 19% to We have a fantastic team at The Restaurant Group and on behalf 35.0m 2005: 29.5m with turnover from our principal trading of the Board I would like to thank them all for their valued brands increasing by 24% to 308.7m 2005: 248.8m.
Adjusted contribution over the past year.
earnings per share increased by 27% to 11.50p 2005: 9.08p.
We have started the current year well, with like-for-like sales As a result of this excellent performance the Board is for the first nine weeks 5% ahead.
This year our target will recommending an increased final dividend of 4.95p per share be to open 30-35 new restaurants, we will be seeking to 2005: 3.84p, an increase of 29%, giving a total dividend for deliver further improvement in margins and our people will be the year of 6.00p 2005: 4.75p per share.
Subject to approval looking to match or exceed the expectations of our customers at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be payable and shareholders.
on 4 July 2007 to shareholders on the register on 8 June 2007 and the shares will be marked ex-dividend on 6 June 2007.
As I am confident that we will continue to make further good detailed in my interim statement, we also paid a special dividend progress during the coming year.
of 34.8m during the first half of the year.
Our Leisure Division which incorporates Frankie & Bennys, Alan M. Jackson Chiquito, Blubeckers and Garfunkels enjoyed another excellent Chairman year, recording a 27% increase in operating profit.
All of the 4 April 2007 brands delivered strong like-for-like growth during 2006 and we look forward to a continuation of this trend in 2007.
During the year we opened 41 new restaurants in this division and we expect to open approximately 30 more units in the Leisure Division during 2007.
Our new openings are performing well and we continue to enjoy high levels of return on investment.
The performance of our co-located units Frankie & Bennys and Chiquito has been particularly pleasing and we believe that there is scope to continue this pattern of dual roll-out.
Results are stated excluding non-trading items and excluding the results of Deep Pan Pizza in the prior year comparatives.
Further information is provided in note 2 of the financial statements.
5% like-for-like sales growth Frankie & Bennys Gunwharf Key Blubeckers, Sevenoaks A real jewel in the crown.
The latest addition to the estate.
Our like-for-like sales growth is a key performance indicator and this growth demonstrates the continuing appeal of our brands This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007.
