10 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 We are pleased to present our first set of Maintaining a constant attack on costs full year results since RHM rejoined the is vital to our success.
Cost reduction Chairmans stock market in July 2005.
The Groups programmes have this year delivered total return to public ownership marked an savings of 53m across all areas of our important step and was made possible business, an excellent performance and Comments by the significant progress that has ahead of our own expectations at the been made in recent years as we seek time of flotation.
We have also been to transform RHM into the leading able broadly to offset 11m in increased UK-focused food group.
energy costs through price increases and non-branded volume growth.
Since flotation the transformation has continued apace and, for the most part, These initiatives have made a key according to plan.
We have delivered contribution to a 9.7 per cent improvement overall sales growth of 2.1 per cent, in underlying operating profit from within our long-term target of two to four 158.2m to 173.5m.
Pro forma earnings per cent annual sales growth.
Second half per share increased by 19 per cent, from sales growth was 3.7 per cent.
This reflects a significantly of Hovis, which has reached record market improved trading performance, particularly shares, in part due to the launch of Hovis in the second half of the year, and the Invisible Crust, and of Bisto, which benefit of reduced interest payments.
benefited from an extremely effective The Group is a strong cash generator, with advertising campaign, helped compensate cash flow from operations for the year for lower branded Cakes sales, particularly amounting to 124m.
This has led to a in the first half of the year.
As I stated at reduction in year end net debt to 676m the time of our interim results, we have from a pro forma 711m at the time of taken decisive action to improve Cakes flotation and provides us with financial performance, and, following a better result flexibility in the event that attractive in the second half, the Board is confident bolt-on acquisition opportunities arise.
that our Cakes business will demonstrate further progress in the coming year.
The Board is heartened by the significantly improved trading performance delivered in the second half of the year and is confident that RHM will deliver further progress in the year ahead.
11 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chairmans Comments Pensions Review We have also announced today the The Board is pleased that, following the appointment of Brian Buchan to the completion of the triennial pension review RHM Board as a non-executive director.
earlier in the year, we have clarity on the He brings enormous operational experience Groups pension obligations and funding and consumer insight from over 30 years requirements.
These are explained in more spent at the forefront of the consumer detail in the Financial Review.
The steps goods industry, including most recently taken during the year have contributed from his role as Chief Executive Officer to a reduction in our UK pension deficit of SSL International Plc.
under IFRS as at 29 April 2006 to 160m, Dividends or 112m net of a deferred tax credit of The directors have proposed the payment 48m.
This represented an equitable of a final dividend of 10.6p per share, outcome for employees, pensioners and which, together with the interim dividend shareholders and created a solid basis from of 5.3p paid to shareholders in February which to move forward.
We will continue 2006, makes a total of 15.9p per share to monitor our pension position carefully.
This amounts to a total Board payment of 55m and is in line with the I am delighted to report that the three new commitment made by the Board at the non-executive directors appointed during time of the IPO.
the year, Michael Baulk, Roger Matthews Employees and Erhard Schoewel have already made Ultimately, the success of our plans to outstanding contributions to the Boards transform RHM depend upon the hard strategic thinking and are providing work and enthusiasm of our employees.
invaluable support to our executive team.
Since becoming your Chairman, I have We look forward to benefiting further been impressed by the positive attitude from their complementary experience in and dedication of the many employees the coming years.
that I have had the privilege of meeting.
On behalf of all shareholders, I thank them all for their efforts and congratulate them on the many achievements of the past year.
Outlook We know that the new year will not be without its challenges in particular from a competitive market place and further inflationary cost pressures.
However, we will continue to invest behind our brands, accelerate new product development and capitalise on opportunities to reduce costs across all of our businesses.
Jan du Plessis Chairman 28 June 2006
