02 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 International equipment rental Chairmans report The year saw the Group move forward stronglywith underlying pre-tax profits of 67.5m just over triple last years 22.4m The year saw the Group move forward strongly, particularly in the United States, with underlying pre-tax profits of 67.5m just over triple last years 22.4m.
We also invested heavily to ensure that our fleet age remained competitive, spending 220.2m in the year, almost double our depreciation charge.
64.5m was for growth with the balance representing replacement or maintenance expenditure.
We also spent $100m on acquisitions in the US.
With the support of shareholders in last summers equity placing, we also further strengthened the balance sheet and provided an appropriate platform from which to execute our growth plans.
Cliff Miller and the Sunbelt team took advantage of the strong market conditions in the US to deliver an impressive 24% revenue growth to $818.7m 2005: $661.1m and operating profits up 63% to $175.5m 2005: $107.9m.
Whilst 19% of the revenue growth was same store, we also welcomed to the Group the staff of 16 new profit centres acquired during the year in the Florida, Southern California, Las Vegas, Indianapolis and Tennessee markets as well as Sunbelts six new openings.
The acquisitions delivered an excellent first year return.
The Board was also pleased to note the success of the new national sales force structure in A-Plant which drove a rise both in its profitability and rate of return.
We look for these trends to continue in the coming year.
Ashtead Technology also delivered solid growth in revenues and profit and continues to earn the highest returns in the Group.
At A-Plant in particular, we face very different market conditions to those which prevail in the US and its staff and management are to be congratulated on the progress made in the past year.
These strong results and the strengthening of the balance sheet last summer enabled the Board to announce the resumption of dividend payments last December.
Accordingly an interim dividend of 0.5p per share was paid in February and the Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.0p per share.
If approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this will be paid on 28 September 2006 to shareholders on the register on 28 July 2006.
At Board level we saw no changes in the past year.
However, as we announced with the release of the preliminary results on 28 June 2006, 03 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 www.
com Group revenue up from 2005 by 21.8% from 638m 523.7 million.
George Burnett will be retiring from his role as chief executive at the end Code requires that the Company has at least an equal number of of 2006.
George co-founded Ashtead in 1984 when he and a fellow independent non-executive directors as there are executive directors, not investor purchased what was then a five branch business trading in counting myself.
Your Board endorses these principles and accordingly the south-east of England with revenues of 1m.
George has been is initiating a search for a new independent non-executive to replace instrumental in all the key steps undertaken by the Group since that time.
Philip who cannot be classed as independent under the rules of the Since George assumed the role of Group Chief Executive in February Code because of the length of his service as a director before the end 2000 he has successfully led the Group through the US economic of the current financial year.
I therefore wish to record the Companys downturn of 2001 2 and the turbulent times which followed and has thanks to Philip for his expertise and advice over many years.
overseen the recovery with profits now at record levels.
In closing, I should like to thank all the Groups employees for their George well deserves to enjoy his forthcoming retirement and, on behalf continuing efforts on behalf of the Company in the past demanding of my fellow directors, the Companys shareholders and its employees, but successful year.
I would like to thank George for his leadership in developing the Group into one of the largest equipment rental businesses in the world and to record our best wishes for the future.
Cob Stenham Chairman At the same time I would like to introduce our new Chief Executive, 27 June 2006 Geoff Drabble and to welcome him to his new role in the Company.
Geoff joined the Board in 2005 following our search for a non-executive director with substantial experience of running businesses in the US.
He is currently an executive director of the Laird Group where he is responsible for the Building Products division.
Geoff has extensive experience of managing businesses with operations in both the US and the UK from both his time with Laird and previously with Black & Decker.
We are certain that, in his new role, Geoff will bring both an understanding and continuity of our strategy whilst also providing renewed focus on all aspects of the Groups operations.
Geoff emerged as the Nomination Committees preferred candidate after an extensive external and internal search and we are delighted he has agreed to join Ashtead as its next Chief Executive.
Geoff will be available to start full time in his new role from early October and will benefit from a handover period working alongside George until his retirement at the end of the year.
Amongst the other Board members, Philip Lovegrove remained on the Board longer than I had anticipated this time last year.
Like George, he has served on the Companys Board since 1984 and for a long time was the sole non-executive.
As a member of the FTSE 250 the Combined
