846725 pp002 pp005 27 2 07 2:54 pm Page 2 Chairmans message generated continues to be profitable Tom brings a broad based experience of the investment in the growth of the business with mining industry developed in a sequence of particular emphasis on our portfolio of challenging roles in Rio Tinto.
He has been a economically robust projects.
Our capital key player in a number of important initiatives investment grew from US$2.5 billion in 2005 to over recent years and in shaping our strategic US$3.9 billion in 2006.
Our pipeline of project direction.
We have plans in place for a smooth opportunities will see this grow to around handover from Leigh to Tom and the board is US$5 billion in 2007. confident that, under his leadership, Rio Tinto will continue to deliver profitable growth and Strategy increased value for shareholders.
Our strategy remains to focus on large, long life, low cost ore bodies capable of delivering Board developments superior returns across the economic cycle.
Michael Fitzpatrick joined the board in June Creating value for shareholders is our primary 2006 after a successful period in investment objective and will remain so.
We are fortunate fund management.
He brings a long to have a geographical portfolio weighted experience of entrepreneurial activity to the towards large, mature and growing board and is a valuable addition to our economies.
However, we recognise that Australian representation.
We are fortunate to pursuit of future value growth will see us have an experienced and diverse board which operating in a wider range of countries than in provides strong support and constructive the past.
Recent projects and investments in challenge to our executive team.
Russia, Madagascar, Peru and Mongolia are evidence of this.
Forward outlook We are also focused on driving productivity The global economy remains resilient in the We continued to experience strong global and performance improvements across all our face of a range of political and economic risks.
demand and high prices across our product primary business processes, thereby adding to We expect a continuation of positive economic groups in 2006 and are pleased to report a the resilience of our portfolios in more growth in 2007 in most of the major third successive year of record earnings.
Chinas strong, growing demand performance reflects the underlying quality of progress towards that objective in 2006. for metals and minerals, which has been a key the Rio Tinto portfolio, which has proved driver of market strength, seems set to robust across the economic cycle.
I have warned in previous messages about Rio Tinto is in a long term, capital intensive On the supply side, a number of the risk of complacency that can flow from a business and our investments typically have life constraints, ranging from shortages of key period of strong markets and sustained spans of 30 years or more and are often in consumables, like truck tyres and explosives, success.
We remain alert to this and recognise remote locations.
Without economic and social to the tight supply of skilled technical the long term cyclical nature of our industry.
In stability we cannot deliver economic returns to managers and tradesmen, have limited the response we continue to focus on rigorous our host governments, local communities and growth of new production capacity.
Stocks of investment discipline, operational excellence our shareholders.
We therefore remain most products have remained low, resulting in and pursuing all opportunities to enhance the committed to the principles of sustainable tight markets.
This has reinforced the strength underlying performance of our business.
development, which is fully reflected in all of the current cycle and we expect prices in aspects of our business.
It facilitates access to 2007 to continue at levels significantly above Results and dividends new opportunities, improves business the long term trend.
The Groups underlying earnings in 2006 performance and inspires our own people, who were US$7,338 million, US$2,383 million or fully share this commitment.
Our people 48 per cent above 2005.
Net earnings were As we move into new geographical areas, Despite the benefit of strong markets, 2006 US$7,438 million, compared with US$5,215 meeting economic, social and environmental was very challenging in operational terms.
Cash flow from operations challenges simultaneously will be an increasingly We have faced daily pressures in meeting the increased 36 per cent to US$11,196 million.
critical feature of our business.
I am pleased requirements of our customers and developing The final dividend declared for 2006 of that our way of doing business has received new projects within tight timetables and 64 US cents per share brings the total for 2006 positive recognition and support from our budgets.
Our record results would not have to 104 US cents, an increase of 30 per cent.
various stakeholders in these environments.
been possible without the commitment, We have a long standing policy of progressive dedication and hard work of our global dividend delivery and maintaining it remains a New chief executive workforce.
Once again, on behalf of the board priority.
In addition, our strong operational cash We have announced that Tom Albanese will and you, our shareholders, I thank them for all flows have enabled us to return US$2.4 billion succeed Leigh Clifford as chief executive on they have achieved in an excellent year for to shareholders through the buyback of shares 1 May 2007.
Leigh has made an outstanding Rio Tinto.
and the payment of US$1.5 billion special contribution to Rio Tinto for almost 37 years.
We have recently announced, subject His seven years as chief executive have seen to market conditions, our intention to return a significant growth in the profitability and value further US$3 billion to be completed by the end of the business and major enhancements in of 2007, while still retaining the financial flexibility our operational performance.
We thank him for to take up growth opportunities as they arise.
all he has done for Rio Tinto and wish him well Our main priority for the use of cash for the future.
Paul Skinner Chairman 2 Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements CHAIRMANS MESSAGE 2006
