Chairmans statement Simon Robertson PICTURE TO COME I am delighted to be able to report that Rolls-Royce performed strongly in 2006, despite the challenging business environment.
19% 22% 705m 29.81p Underlying profit Underlying earnings before taxation per ordinary share Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 10 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w I am delighted to be able to report that Rolls-Royce I would like to thank the management and all our performed strongly in 2006, despite the challenging employees very much for another successful year.
I believe this proved once Their commitment has been outstanding.
I should again the resilience of our business model and the also pay tribute to my fellow directors for the support effectiveness of our strategy.
they have given to me personally and for their wider The Group increased underlying profit before contribution to the Group.
tax by 19 per cent and generated 491 million of cash Our business has been built on strong foundations: whilst investing more in new markets, technologies, world-leading technologies: a competitive portfolio products and capabilities.
As a result of this performance of businesses and products: and a dedicated and we are proposing to increase the payment to committed workforce.
In 2006, we demonstrated again shareholders by ten per cent.
our resilience and I look forward to further success Our performance was achieved despite the as we work to improve our positions in the long-term continued weakness of the US dollar against sterling growth markets we serve.
and in the face of significant raw material price ination.
Simon Robertson We are continuing to benefit from our pursuit of Chairman February 7, 2007 a consistent strategy over many years.
Our businesses operate on long cycles and therefore generate returns over many decades, as evidenced by the sustained growth of our aftermarket services revenues.
As a result, the Group is achieving a better balance between the investments required for future growth and the returns secured from past investments.
Rolls-Royce is committed to play an important and positive role with respect to climate change.
Our gas turbines and diesels, whether used for aviation, marine or energy purposes, do, of course, produce carbon dioxide and other emissions.
However, they also improve the quality of life enjoyed by people all over the world.
The challenge for the industry and for Rolls-Royce is to ensure that society can continue to enjoy these benets on a sustainable and environmentally friendly basis.
Rolls-Royce has a strong reputation for engineering excellence as demonstrated by the continuing improvements in the efficiency of our engines and the resulting reduction in their environmental impact over the years.
We therefore believe that we are particularly well placed to make a major contribution in this area.
There have been a number of Board changes over the year.
Two of our non-executive directors, Amy Bondurant and Carl-Peter Forster, retired and I am very grateful to them for the outstanding contribution they have made to the success of the Group.
Sir John Taylor will be retiring in May 2007 and I would like to thank him also for his advice and support over the period he has served on the Board.
We expect to make additional appointments to the Board before the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
In line with previous plans, Peter Byrom will, in 2007 stand down as the Groups Senior Independent Director and as Chairman of the audit committee but will remain on the Board.
The Board is indebted to him for his very considerable contribution in both these roles.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 11 Chief Executives review 7% 14% Sir John Rose 26.1bn 7,353m Order book Underlying sales rm and announced The Group continued to make good progress in 2006, increasing sales to 7,156 million 2005 6,603 million, with underlying sales growth of 14 per cent, and increasing underlying profit before tax by 19 per cent to 705 million 2005 593 million.
Importantly, our ability to access growing markets on a global basis enabled us to continue to grow our order book, which ended the year at 26.1 billion 2005 24.4 billion.
We continue to invest in technologies, products, people and capabilities with the objective of broadening and strengthening our product portfolio, improving our efficiency and enhancing the environmental performance of our products.
In 2006 total investment in research and development amounted to 747 million 2005 663 million.
After increasing investment in manufacturing capability and research and development, there was a strong cash inflow of 491 million resulting in an improvement of 410 million in our average cash balance, with a cash balance of 826 million at the end of the year 2005 335 million.
Basic earnings per ordinary share rose to 57.32p 2005 20.11p with underlying earnings per ordinary share increasing by 22 per cent to 29.81p 2005 24.48p.
We propose to increase the final payment to shareholders to 5.92p making a total payment for the year of 9.59p per share, an increase of ten per cent on 2005.
Our overall performance in 2006 was strong in an undoubtedly challenging year.
The underlying financial results were achieved after accommodating a further seven cent deterioration in the dollar achieved rate relative to 2005.
We expect to absorb similar further deterioration in the exchange rate we achieve in 2007.
We manage our exposure to the US dollar by long-term hedging.
Today we have the benefit of a hedge book of approximately US$10 billion, which means that we have clear visibility of the exchange rate we can achieve over the next three years.
Whilst it is impossible to offset sustained dollar weakness through hedging, the cover we have taken reduces the volatility that exchange rate fluctuations cause and creates the opportunity for us to take other mitigating actions, such as cost reduction and thedollarisationof our cost base.
Our market sectors present global growth opportunities.
We continued to make progress in 2006.
18 Read more on our strategy Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 12
