Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT impacted by adverse currency movements of 4.8m closed up Financial highlights Chairmans Statement 19.2% at 76.0m.
In 2006 Rotork saw further strong growth in its main end user markets oil and gas, power and water and across all geographical We continue to increase investment in the development of our areas with each of our divisions delivering record sales, profits and products and services which, together with the addition of new order intake.
Overall sales revenue was up 18.2% to 206.7m, and production facilities and improved operational efficiencies, provides profit before tax increased by 25.7% to 46.1m.
us with an expanding platform upon which to fully capitalise on future growth opportunities.
The impact of currency movements had been to flatter profit by nearly 1m in the first half of the year.
The rapidly weakening US Divisional highlights dollar from May onwards meant that the second half suffered a The Electric actuator business had another good year achieving a 1.8m negative currency movement with the overall annual result 19.8% year on year increase in operating profit.
Our US businesses being a charge of 0.8m.
However, net margin was 22.3% in both traded well and most of the Europe, Middle East and Asia sales halves of the year compared with 21.0% for 2005, demonstrating the operations met or exceeded our expectations.
The main Bath resilience of our business model as we improve our design processes assembly plant performed well meeting higher than anticipated and supply chain.
The year end order book itself negatively RC Lockwood Chairman In 2006 Rotork saw Over 30 years further strong growth in its main end user of dividend growth markets.
We continue to Dividend p increase investment in Core dividend the development of our Additional dividend products and services.
The new Shanghai Outlook production facility commenced shipping product to customers in Order intake has started strongly in 2007.
Furthermore, there China during the second half of the year as planned.
appears to be an active project workload in most of our geographic and end user markets, which should ensure that we make further Rotork Fluid System continued to build on the high growth rates revenue and earnings progress in the current year.
This is despite the achieved in the preceding two years by recording a 25.3% increase negative drag that currencies will have if the US dollar and euro in sales to 40.5m.
With a further improvement in the year to 13.3%, exchange rates to sterling are maintained at around current levels.
operating margin moved closer to our 15% target.
We are now recognised as a major force in the industry with a developed management structure, good product offering, efficient production facilities and a strong customer orientated ethos.
Rotork Gears produced a robust 2006 performance increasing sales and operating profit by 27.4% and 21.3% respectively.
We are encouraged by the performance of our Milan operation, acquired at the beginning of the year, and the success with which the Roger Lockwood management has integrated quickly into the wider Group.
The Chairman Shanghai gearbox facility, established primarily for export out of 27 February 2006 China, has been shipping increasing quantities throughout the year.
Performance measurement Management have a structured and well established approach to performance measurement as defined by a series of financial and other indicators.
The Board reviews this information to assess the effectiveness of our operations and to consider its response to specific issues as they arise.
In light of an increasing external interest in this subject we now show the key performance measures, used by the Group, in the Business Review.
Dividend The Board reviews dividend policy regularly and acknowledges a correlation between improvements in earnings and dividend increases.
Recognising the very strong earnings growth in the year, and that cash generation has been good, the Board is recommending both an increase in the final dividend for the year and the payment of an additional dividend.
It is proposing that the final dividend, payable on 11 May to shareholders on the register on 20 April 2007, will increase by 17.7% to 11.65p, making a total increase in core dividend of 14.9% for the year.
In addition, a further 8 million will be paid by way of a one-off additional dividend of 9.30p on 22 June 2007.
50th Anniversary Rotork will celebrate its 50th anniversary in 2007.
From the beginning under the inspiration of founder Jeremy Fry the Company has, through a strong and consistent commitment to innovation and customer focus, grown to occupy its current enviable position as both world leader in valve actuation and a highly rated constituent of the FTSE 250.
None of this would have been achieved without the year by year dedication of Rotork employees worldwide to whom the Board extends its appreciation and gratitude.
