Chairmans statement Meyer Kahn Chairman and Panama.
A successful business in its own right, Bavaria will make a major Dear shareholder contribution to our portfolio.
It consolidates our position as world number two and will make Latin America our second biggest We have delivered another 12 months source of profits after South Africa.
As a Share price sterling of good performance following two years result of this transaction, we now have of outstanding results.
As I mentioned last leading positions on five continents and a year, the recent exceptional growth was new platform for growth in South America.
12.00 unlikely to continue, especially after a period Combined with our positions in Russia, in which currency rates had run so much in Africa, China and India, Bavaria weights 10.00 our favour.
the portfolio even more towards young, 8.00 However, we are pleased with the years developing markets.
While some were results, with strong growth in volumes, sceptical when we started investing in 6.00 margins and earnings.
Our beverage newer territories in the 1990s, we are now volumes were 176 million hectolitres of lager positioned in many markets where beer 4.00 and a further 45 million hectolitres of other consumption is growing faster than the 2.00 beverages.
Adjusted earnings were 22% global average giving us a higher higher at US$1,497 million, translating into embedded growth rate than most of our an 11% increase in comparable adjusted key competitors.
Our ability to succeed 01 02 03 04 05 06 earnings per share.
in developing markets a skill we owe to 2 April 2001 31 March 2006 At US$3,291 million, net cash inflow our African origins has proved to be a from our operations was 18% higher competitive advantage on the world stage.
than the prior year and reflects the overall per share.
This makes a total of 44 US cents Today, our portfolio is well balanced strength of the trading performance and the per share for the year, an increase of 16% between developing markets offering high groups enlargement.
At the year end, the over last year.
This dividend is covered potential for growth and developed markets groups gearing stood at 52.1% compared 2.5 times by adjusted earnings per share.
characterised by strong cash flow.
The to 25.2% restated a year previously.
The capital markets have recognised the value rise reflects the increase in debt following Expanding the portfolio of this combination and have rewarded the Bavaria transaction.
The highlight of the year was our merger SABMiller with a 37% increase in share price In the light of this good performance with Grupo Empresarial Bavaria, the second in the 12 months to 31 March 2006.
As a particularly the strong cash flow the board largest brewer in South America and clear result, the total return to shareholders since has proposed a final dividend of 31 US cents market leader in Colombia, Peru, Ecuador our UK listing in 1999 is 215% compared 4 Many years of well-judged acquisitions, successful integration and constant operational improvement have created a group with strong potential for further growth.
Its inbuilt strengths are reflected in the years results and will continue to be realised as we implement our strategic priorities.
with 20% for the FTSE 100 as a whole as national brand.
With a 52% increase in sales Corporate governance measured on 31 March 2006.
As the global during the year, Snow is now one of the 10 We continue to observe the strictest industry continues to consolidate, our task is biggest lager brands in the world.
Weve standards of corporate governance.
We to keep ahead by taking advantage of the continued to improve our national sales and believe our reporting has always been open scale and spread of our business and brand distribution network while the acquisition of and transparent, but this year we refined portfolio to generate greater value.
Qingyuan Brewery has given us our first our reporting practices in the light of the plant in the south east province of Fujian.
requirements of the Business Review.
Operational highlights As mentioned last year, we bought out We also believe we have a board of Our businesses in South Africa continue our joint venture partner in India in May exceptional quality.
As part of the Bavaria to do well, although volumes were affected 2005.
The Indian beer industry is growing, transaction, the former majority owners, the by an abnormally wet summer and the but is held back by heavy regulation.
In Santo Domingo family, gained a 15% share absence of an Easter period in the year.
those states that have begun to liberalise, in SABMiller and the right to nominate two One beneficial effect of the buoyant South the results show what could happen when representatives to the group board.
We were African economy is to enable consumers to the rest of the country follows.
In the therefore pleased to appoint Alejandro Santo move from the mainstream to the premium meantime, we continue to invest in Domingo Dvila and Carlos Alejandro Prez sector of the market where weve now preparation for future growth.
Dvila as new non-executive directors.
launched our three international premium In November we acquired the One consequence of these appointments brands Miller Genuine Draft, Pilsner Urquell outstanding minority interest in our Central was to set back our efforts to meet the and, more recently, Peroni Nastro Azzurro.
Trading conditions independence requirements of the This effect has contributed to a good continue to be competitive in both our Combined Code.
In working towards increase in profitability.
Soft drink volumes a stronger balance of independent In North America, the initial three-year increased, but beer volumes fell as a result representation on the board, we turnaround phase at Miller is now complete.
of higher excise on beer in El Salvador.
appointed Liz Doherty as an independent The initial aims of halting the operational non-executive director from 1 April 2006. decline of the business and establishing a Corporate social responsibility Along with our new directors, we solid platform for future growth have been Given our economic and social influence welcome the employees and contractors achieved.
In the process, Miller positioned in so many parts of the world, we are who have come to the group from Bavaria itself as challenger to the market leader.
constantly examining how we can best and other companies acquired during the Not surprisingly the leader has retaliated, contribute to the countries and communities year.
They join a workforce that any global and sought to protect its market share by in which we operate.
Our first priority is business would be proud to employ and discounting prices.
While we take this as simply to run a successful business, thereby whose contribution this year has been evidence of Millers success, it has generating taxes and creating jobs and magnificent.
produced some tough trading conditions wealth for local people.
In addition, we try In paying tribute to Graham Mackay, in the last year.
to build value chains that offer opportunities his executive team and all our staff, I would It was another strong year in Europe.
for local businesses, be they in farming, also like to thank our many business partners Of our two biggest operations, Poland the manufacture of packaging, distribution and of course you, our shareholders, for performed well and the Czech business or retail.
your support during the year.
gained share in a static market.
There were In the past year, weve formalised our The 2006 results represent a year of good results in Russia and encouraging approach by establishing a sustainable good performance following two years of signs in Italy with the Peroni brands growing development framework consisting of 10 outstanding growth.
The groups global for the first time in many years.
In Slovakia, environmental and social priorities from the footprint and its portfolio of businesses and our acquisition of the Topvar brewery has use of water and the treatment of waste to brands, which have been enhanced by the brought our share of the market to 25%.
human rights and policies on HIV AIDS.
Bavaria transaction, position it well to make In Africa, we again benefited from having These now apply across all our wholly further progress in the current year.
a broad enough portfolio to compensate for owned operations.
the ups and downs of individual countries.
One of those 10 priorities is to promote Botswana slipped as a result of difficult responsibility in the consumption of alcohol.
economic conditions, but Tanzania, Uganda Far from being an add-on, this requirement and Mozambique continued to do well.
informs every part of our business from The big story in China is the success of marketing and point-of-sale material to the Snow brand, which weve grown from educational programmes and research Meyer Kahn a small regional brand into Chinas largest into alcohol-related issues.
