The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p3 Chairmans Introduction We maintained our strong market positions 01 Operating and Financial Highlights by providing locally-developed solutions, by 03 Chairmans Introduction working closely with our high quality business 07 Overview of our Business partners and by supporting customers with 11 Long-term Strategy and Business Objectives locally-based services.
This enabled us to 13 Key Performance Indicators increase our customer base to 5.2 million 14 Results for 2006 businesses 2005: 4.7 million.
Financial Year 16 Future Outlook 16 Risks and Uncertainties Our 2006 results reflect strong progress 17 Resources towards the long-term strategy and business 18 Corporate Social objectives described in more detail on pages Responsibility 21 Financial Review 11 and 12 of our Operating and Financial Review.
We will continue to pursue our I am pleased to report a strategy in 2007 and beyond.
strong performance, with MARKET TRENDS As our customers grow, they demand more revenue increasing 22% and sophisticated applications for managing their businesses, tailored to the requirements of adjusted earnings per share their specific industry.
Over the year, we increasing 20%.
These results introduced new industry-specific applications in health care, food distribution, transport, demonstrate that our manufacturing and real estate construction, further extending the product range we can businesses have responded offer our customers.
These applications well to the competitive broaden the range of industry-specific solutions we offer globally to our customers challenges they face.
There is also increased demand for packaged combinations of software upgrades and support services contracts.
These combined services contracts represented 53% of total support revenues and showed an organic growth rate of 12%.
We expect that these combined software support contracts will constitute an increasing portion of services revenue going forward and will strengthen the recurring revenues derived from traditional software revenues.
Overall, these specialist solutions and enhanced services are higher margin business lines and enjoy strong customer loyalty.
PEOPLE We now employ over 13,000 people 2005: 10,000, the increase resulting principally from acquisitions.
Our new employees have integrated well into our corporate structure The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p4 and are already making a contribution to our In September 2006, Ruth Markland joined local businesses.
In all our businesses, our the Board as a non-executive director.
Ruth, people have demonstrated commitment to a non-executive director of Standard meeting the needs of our customers and their Chartered plc, has wide experience of achievements have been reflected in international business from her role between numerous industry awards for product 1996 and 2003 as Managing Partner, Asia quality and customer service.
for the international law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer.
Our decentralised approach to managing our global network enables our people to be OUTLOOK responsive to our customers needs and to This has been an exciting year for Sage with a continue to develop products and services that number of significant acquisitions broadening match country-specific customer requirements.
both the products and services we offer to SMEs.
We are one of the largest suppliers of The contribution of individuals at Sage is business management software solutions to always highly valued and respected and this the SME market worldwide and our presence year we have continued to benefit from new in high growth, high margin markets continues ideas on business processes and products, to expand.
We have reported strong organic thanks to the innovative approach of our growth in our business, demonstrating the people.
I would like to thank everyone in strength and potential of our existing Sage for their professionalism, dedication customer base.
and contribution to the years performance.
We will continue to serve the changing needs BOARD of our dynamic SME customer base using I joined the Board on 3 March 2006 having our expertise and insight into a wide range previously held the role of Deputy Chief of industries.
We remain confident about Executive of Vodafone Group plc.
I became our prospects for continued growth through Chairman on 1 August 2006. focusing on value-added services, tailored solutions and premium versions of On 1 August 2006 Michael Jackson retired current products.
Michael joined the Board in 1984 and was Chairman from 1997.
During this period Michael helped guide the Group through its initial growth to become UK Sir Julian Horn-Smith market leader, its flotation as a listed Chairman company and its international expansion 18 January 2007 through a series of successful acquisitions.
The Board would like to thank Michael for his substantial contribution to Sages growth over the past 22 years.
During the year, Lindsay Bury retired from the Board.
Lindsay joined the Board in 1996 and chaired its Remuneration Committee from that date.
He also acted as Senior Independent Director.
Lindsay made a significant contribution to the Board during this time.
On behalf of the Sage team, I would like to thank Lindsay for his valuable contribution.
Foreign currency results for the year ended 30 September 2005 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2006 of $1.80 1 and 1.46 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Results for 2005 have been restated in accordance with IFRS.
EPS figures stated prior to amortisation of intangible assets.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p5 The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p6 Operating and Financial Review CONTENTS This review has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Report Business Review Requirements in section 234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985.
It also incorporates much of the guidance set out in the Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Statement on the Operating and Financial Review OFR.
The OFRs intent is to provide information to shareholders.
It should not be relied on by any other party or for any other purpose.
Where this review contains forward-looking statements, these are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of their approval of this report.
These statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties underlying any such forward-looking information.
The OFR discusses the following areas: 07 Overview of our Business 11 Long-term Strategy and Business Objectives 13 Key Performance Indicators 14 Results for 2006 Financial Year 16 Future Outlook 16 Risks and Uncertainties 17 Resources 18 Corporate Social Responsibility 21 Financial Review
