cottish & Newcastle has made strong progress OUR PLANET Chairmans throughout the year through our continuing This year has seen an increased focus and awareness Sstrategy of developing a portfolio of brands around the issues of the environment and climate Statement across our markets worldwide.
This has the potential to have a major impact This portfolio strategy has given us leading upon our business especially in terms of sustainable positions in key mature markets such as the UK and supplies of energy, clean water, barley or apples.
France as well as Baltikas leadership of the massive Thats why we have worked in a sustainable way for Creating and dynamic Russian market.
Other parts of the BBH many years to reduce the way our business impacts business, and our joint ventures in India and China on the environment.
a unique also give us exposure to new and exciting markets.
Over the last few years we have invested in new In the UK, our four main brands Kronenbourg projects, significantly reducing our carbon footprint 1664, Fosters, John Smiths and Strongbow together for every pint of beer we produce.
We have reduced investment are continuing to grow well ahead of the market.
the amount of energy we use, whilst increasing the In France, our three main brands Kronenbourg amount of renewable energy we produce.
We are also balance 1664, Kronenbourg Red and White, and Grimbergen reducing the amount of water we use by 5% in 2006. are also outperforming the market as a result of But we are also investing for the future.
renewed focus on brand development.
We are developing new and innovative sources And following our successful integration of our of renewable energy, which will deliver significant Russian businesses in 2006 the same broad strategy energy supplies for our breweries further reducing our has given us leadership of the massive and exciting carbon emissions and removing significant numbers Russian market through the strength and depth of of lorry journeys from our roads.
These projects are the newly-integrated Baltika brand portfolio.
not just limited to our developed markets in India As a result, we continue to benefit from value our business has reduced fuel use by 9% last year and growth in our mature markets and volume growth innovative rain water collection and recycling systems in our developing markets, an exciting combination are being extended to other breweries this year.
which gives our investors a unique balance of risk Reducing the amount of waste that we produce is and reward across our many markets worldwide.
another key priority for us.
We now recycle over 94% of the waste that we produce and are working on OUR WORLD ways to eliminate all waste that goes to landfill sites We remain undisputed market leader in the over the next few years.
UK and continue to outperform the market and to grow value in one of the most competitive OUR VALUES markets in Europe.
Our responsibility to the communities in which we Our international businesses in France, operate lies at the heart of our corporate philosophy.
Finland, Belgium, Portugal and the USA continue The growing awareness of public health issues in to show steady underlying growth.
To that we can developed markets as well as our continued expansion now add Greece, where our Mythos business is now into new and exciting emerging markets brings different wholly-owned.
Challenges that we are rising But the key to growth remains our success to meet through developing innovative partnerships in continuing to expand the horizons and drive and solutions.
Promoting the responsible consumption the aspirations of our business.
of our products and targeting irresponsible drinking It is now some years since we embarked on is a key priority for our business and I am proud of expansion, both at home and abroad, and our strategic the leadership that is being shown by each of our successes are now clear.
In every country where we businesses in their markets.
are brewers, we are either market leader or in the Key stakeholders in the alcohol debate are our position of challenger.
customers and we are working alongside some of Our acquisition of Bulmers, when cider was our largest customers on this issue.
Likewise we are on the brink of becoming fashionable, has proved endeavouring to be seen as strong partners for their extraordinarily timely.
By applying our marketing businesses during times of change.
For example our teams expertise to expand the Strongbow brand, we are now are working closely with the trade to use our positive in the forefront of the cider expansion with the only experiences of the smoking ban in Ireland to minimise cider portfolio with products across the entire market.
the impacts on their businesses in the increasing Our acquisition of Hartwall in Finland has opened spread of anti-smoking legislation across Europe.
the door to the vast and exciting markets of the Our products are brewed in local markets from former Soviet Union.
Scottish & Newcastle is proud ingredients grown locally.
Our brands are icons in their to be Britains biggest investor in Russia outside communities and we have a responsibility to those the energy sector, and we look forward to Baltikas communities to produce, market and sell those brands continuing growth in one of the worlds most in a responsible and sustainable manner.
We are working with our suppliers to ensure their Further east, our emphasis on partnership businesses are sustainable and meet high ethical and is also bearing fruit.
As in BBH, S&N aims to be socially responsible standards.
A key part of our supply seen as partner of choice.
chain is the agricultural sector and I am pleased that As with BBH and the Russian market, our joint we are working on projects as diverse as planting a venture approach in Asian markets is giving us further 360,000 apple trees in the UK or our contract brand leadership in India: regional volume in China, farming initiative in India which is giving small farmers and a seed-corn new business in Vietnam.
in India fair value for their crops.
02 Report of the Directors Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 BOARD AND MANAGEMENT ISSUES Joint ventures Chairmans We are continuing to develop both our Executive In our major joint ventures Baltic Beverages and main Board team, with experience appropriate to Holding in Russia, the Baltic countries and the former Statement our scale and geographic spread.
The recent addition CIS countries and United Breweries in India we do continued of Brian Wallace to the Board as a Non-Executive not hold a controlling interest.
Although we do not Director continues this strategy, bringing a wealth of believe we have been materially constrained to date financial, commercial and international experience by our lack of ability to fully control the decisions taken to the Company.
within such ventures, no assurance can be given that Dr Neville Bain has decided to retire from the we will not be impeded from achieving our strategic Board following this years AGM.
I would like to objectives in respect of these companies, particularly express the Boards appreciation for the considerable if a joint venture partner is acquired by a hostile contribution Neville has made to the development third party.
and governance of the Group.
Brian Wallace has agreed to take over his role as Chairman of the Fluctuations in input prices Audit Committee.
Our beer, cider and other drinks are produced from Bridget Macaskill has agreed to join the Board from materials such as malt, hops and apples, all of which April of this year.
She brings to the Board a wealth of are subject to fluctuations in price due to factors financial and corporate experience.
Energy usage in our I believe that the current Board has both strength, manufacturing facilities is one of our main production depth and balance to ensure good governance, costs and energy prices can be volatile.
In some cases, and also provide guidance for the Company both due to the basis for pricing in some of our sales strategically and commercially.
contracts or due to competitive markets, we may not be able to immediately or fully pass on to our MANAGING BUSINESS RISKS customers the increase in such costs, which could Scottish & Newcastle has a comprehensive risk reduce our profitability.
In line with recent guidelines we set out below a non-exhaustive Recognising and meeting these risks and challenges summary of the principal risks and uncertainties are an inevitable part of managing the business.
which we have identified: In the past year we believe that your Company has Clearly it is a fundamental part of our management made strong progress.
strategy to recognise and respond to these risks and the challenges that they pose.
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK Trading for the first few weeks of the year has started Challenging conditions well and overall is in line with our expectations.
Going In many of our western Europe markets we forward we are confident that we will achieve our top face challenging developments such as declining line sales targets 3%-5% as previously indicated.
consumption, consolidation of customers, increase of The strength of our brand portfolio and the momentum lower margin off-trade at the expense of the on-trade, that we have achieved in BBH gives us confidence expansion of discount retailers and smoking bans.
that we can manage the impact of short-term issues We are responding to those conditions in many ways, such as the smoking ban in the UK.
Furthermore, including focusing on innovation and managing our our ongoing focus on costs should ensure that we cost base, to ensure we are maximising our ability continue to develop our margins in the medium-term, to invest in our brands to drive growth.
In turn, this despite the short-term impact of input price increases presents the risk that we may not deliver the cost which we estimate will be around 20m in 2007.
Cash reductions required or may encounter difficulties generation remains a priority and we believe that we with the change programmes which drive such will continue to increase ROIC on a sustainable basis cost reductions.
Regulatory changes DIVIDEND Our businesses are located in a large number of The Board has proposed a final dividend payment countries, each of which has its own legislative and of 14.44p per share for the twelve months to regulatory systems which can produce decisions that 31 December 2006, an increase of 2.5%.
may affect the Groups business.
This includes health The final dividend will be payable on 2 May to Our responsibility related legislation such as restrictions on advertising of shareholders on the register at 30 March 2007. alcohol or smoking bans, the regulation of competition to the communities in markets which can restrict our ability to carry out in which we operate certain transactions and variations in taxation or lies at the heart excise duty.
In some countries in which we operate, there is a greater degree of political intervention in of our corporate such regulatory decisions, which increases the risk philosophy.
of an adverse impact upon our Group.
Sir Brian Stewart, Chairman Report of the Directors Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 03
