Chairmans Statement Read more at www.
com reorganisation, was 9.4 pence per share, bringing the total dividend for the year to 25.0 pence in respect of each ordinary share held on the relevant record dates.
Our restructuring programme has brought early success.
We have been able to simplify executive and reporting functions, freeing management to concentrate on improving performance and reducing costs across group operations.
The investment of 4.8 billion planned by 2010 is targeted on the creation of longterm value and operational improvement to sustain our renewed momentum.
ScottishPower is now focused on its retained businesses and all are performing well.
The consequence of any restructuring programme is the The investment of 4.8 billion that we loss of jobs and substantial change for the people who remain.
are planning by 2010 is targeted on the On behalf of the Board, I want to thank all our colleagues, creation of long-term value and operational past and present, for their part in the success of the transition.
Despite the years uncertainties, they displayed complete improvement to sustain our renewed professionalism.
There were extensive changes in the Board and Executive Team.
Ian Russell resigned after 11 years with the group, latterly as Chief Executive.
His commitment and integrity merit our respect and thanks.
Other roles became redundant in the groups simpler business structure, including those of Charles CHARLES MILLER SMITH Berry, Dominic Fry, David Nish and James Stanley.
Judi Johansen, Ronnie Mercer and Mike Pittman left with the sale HE announcement in May 2005 that ScottishPower of PaciCorp.
Two American non-executive directors, would sell its regulated US business, PaciCorp, Nolan Karras and Vicky Bailey, will also be stepping down marked the start of a demanding period.
With all at this years AGM.
We thank them all for their significant regulatory approvals secured sooner than expected, contributions, insights and advice they have provided and the sale was completed ahead of schedule and T wish them every success in the future.
approximately 2.25 billion in cash will be returned to We welcome Philip Bowman as Chief Executive.
brings wide industrial experience and a track record of building In addition, we held discussions with E. ON, at their value for shareholders at leading public companies.
His fresh instigation, on a possible bid for the company.
The Board judged perspective will be a valuable asset as we move forward.
that E. ONs final proposal failed to reect adequately the value, New talent has been appointed to the Executive Team in performance and potential of the ScottishPower businesses.
John Campbell, Sheelagh Dufeld, Stephen Dunn, Willie Consequently, the Board terminated these talks as their conclusion MacDiarmid, Susan Reilly and David Rutherford all of would not have been in our shareholders best interests.
whom have huge experience in our industry.
These changes Against this backdrop ScottishPower achieved adjusted bring new energy and experience into our leadership team.
profit before tax for continuing operations of 675 million, We now look forward to driving performance within our an increase of 47% on the previous year.
Adjusted earnings per existing businesses and exploiting the investment opportunities share for continuing operations at 27.9 pence were 46% ahead.
The extraordinary volatility within the world Adjusted earnings per share for the group at 44.1 pence, were energy markets may complicate our task but I am confident that 22% ahead.
The final quarter dividend, payable on the new ScottishPower and its people will prove equal to the challenges.
ordinary shares in issue following the return of cash and capital Items marked represent adjusted results, further details of which, together with the reported results, are given in the Business Review section on page 9.
