ChairmansStatement Kevin Beeston Executive Chairman .
6Annual Review and Accounts 2006 ChairmansStatement Revenue including share of joint ventures 2,548 m 2,260 1,637 1,556 1,326 1,141 958 808 688 572 462 368 289 219 176 126 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 ExcellentYear, CompellingFuture During the year, wesigned 3bn of Thestrengthof Iamdelighted to report that, building on contracts and were appointed preferred very strong growth in 2005, Serco has bidder for contracts valued at around Sercosreputationand again delivered an excellent performance 1.9bn.
We rebid two of our larger in 2006 and the Groups prospects are contracts: rstly, the renewed franchise with ourabilitytodeliver equally compelling.
Transport for London to operate, maintain and support the Docklands Light Railway.
high-qualityservice Revenue grew by 12.7% to 2,548.2m.
The contract is valued at 400m over nine profit before tax increased 37.9% to years and started in May 2006.
In addition, werereectedin 107.4m and earnings per share grew aSerco-led joint venture was selected 42.5% to 16.62p.
as preferred bidder for the UK Ministry maintainedwinrates of Defences MoD Future Provision of profit before tax, amortisation and the gain Marine Services contract, valued at 1bn ofmorethan90%on on sale of PFI investments rose by 22.6% over 15 years.
The joint venture will deliver to 112.2m and earnings per share on the marine support at major UK naval bases in rebidsandoneintwo same basis grew 21.6% to 17.13p.
Portsmouth, Devonport and the Clyde.
The corresponding margin increased from onnewbids 4.0% to 4.4%, benefiting from our portfolio We also signed the 500m contract with management, higher value services and the MoDs Defence Science and efficiency improvements.
Technology Laboratories for the design and build of new facilities and the provision of Our focus on cash generation delivered support services.
excellent results once again, with Group EBITDAtocash conversion of 98% The London Development Agency selected 2005: 90%.
Group free cash ow Serco to provideanew Business Link increased 15.7% to 85.4m.
service to Londons 600,000 small and medium sized enterprises from April 2007.
The strength of Sercos reputation and our The agreement is valued at 69m over ability to deliver high-quality service were three years, plus an option to renew for reected in maintained win rates of more two additional years, and draws on skills than 90% on rebids and one in two on from across the Group.
com 7 In Australia we signedave-year contract We regularly review the funding prole of to manage and operate Acacia prison for our main Group dened benefit pension the Government of Western Australias scheme.
As previously announced, Department of Corrective Services.
70m has been injected into the scheme The client has the option to extend the representing approximately half the deficit, AUS$155m contract by up to ten years.
with 19m added at the end of 2006 and 51m in early 2007.
We also increased The Operational Performance section employer and employee contribution of the Business Review provides further rates from January 2007.
The sale of information on contract wins, on pages our investments in six PFI projects, the 16 to 33. corresponding removal of non recourse debt and the cash injected into the pension We createdastrategic PFI investment scheme have resulted inasignicant partnership with Infrastructure Investors reduction in debt and simplication of the 2 Limited Partnership I and sold equity balance sheet.
and subordinated debt in six PFI projects 2 to an I subsidiary.
Wereceivedacash At the year end, our order book stood at Attheyearend, our consideration of 76.5m, resulting in a arecord 13.9bn and we were preferred profit on disposal of 11.4m.
Under the bidder on contracts valued at 3.5bn.
We orderbookstoodata 2 partnership, I will be able to provide also had bids valued at 4.5bn for which we equity investment for Sercos future PFI had been shortlisted to the final two or three record13.9bnand projects, giving us access toalarge and bidders.
In addition, we have identied a competitively priced source of capital and pipeline of further opportunities across our wewerepreferred enhancing our ability to compete in this markets estimated at more than 23bn.
Serco has retained the associated bidderoncontracts long-term operating contracts.
The visibility of our future revenue remains significant.
At 31 December 2006, we had valuedat3.5bn We are continuously working to deliver identied 91% of our planned revenue for higher-value services to clients, reecting 2007, 77% for 2008 and 64% for 2009. the increasing skills and capabilities available across the Group.
We also rigorously analyse contracts and markets to ensure that conditions exist for strong organic growth and appropriate returns.
In addition, we continue to improve our internal structures and systems by, where appropriate, providing standardised systems and streamlining management structures.
Asaconsequence, margins have improved and will improve further.
Visibility of Planned Revenue at 31 December 2006 75% 12% 4% 2007 91% 61% 13% 3% 77% 2008 47% 14% 3% 2009 64% Order book Extensions and rebids Preferred bidder 8Annual Review and Accounts 2006 ChairmansStatement StrongStartto2007 In April 2006, Leonard V. Broese van Serco has also enjoyedastrong start to Groenou joined the Board as a 2007.
The US Army selected our North Non-Executive Director.
Leonard is a American business to provide cost member of the Remuneration, Audit, analysis, logistics planning and supply Nomination and Training and Development chain consulting services worldwide.
He was previously The indefinite-delivery indefinite-quantity Vice-President Human Resources and contract has aone-year base period with member of the corporate executive four annual options and has apotential committee of Air Products.
value of $225m over the five years.
 Other wins includeacontract to manage and operate Yarls Wood Immigration Governments increasingly face the same Removal Centre on behalf of the UK Home issues, driven by social demands for Ofce.
The three-year contract starts in better public services andareduced tax April 2007, with optional extensions for a burden, along with the impact of the global further five years.
Over the full eight years, challenges of security, migration and the contract is valued at around 85m.
Our breadth and depth MoD also selected us as preferred bidder of skills and relationships allows us to for ave-year Gibraltar-based support address new markets and opportunities.
services contract valued at around 50m, Our identied pipeline of opportunities is with afurther option for two years and the in excess of 23bn and this, together with potential for additional work.
our high visibility of revenues, enables us Wearecondentof to be confident of continuing to deliver double-digit growth.
At the same time, our  Dividend continued focus on proactively managing Our policy is to increase the total dividend our contract portfolio, bidding selectively growthandfurther each year broadly in line with the increase and driving internal efficiency will allow us in underlying earnings.
The Board has to further improve margins.
improvingmargins proposed anal dividend of 2.55p per share, representing an increase on the 2005 final dividend of 23.8%.
The total dividend for the year is 3.60p, an increase Group Free Cash Flow of 21.2%.
The final dividend will be paid on 16 May to shareholders on the register on m 85 9March.
74 Board There were two notable events during the year.
On31August 2006Iannounced my intention to move to the role of 56 Non-Executive Chairman from 1September 2007.
47 It has been agreat honour to be an integral part of Sercos remarkable journey from asmall technical support company to a leading multi-national service company valued at over 2bn and to have served shareholders in many roles over the past 22 years, including Finance Director, Chief 10 Executive and Executive Chairman.
As I now seek to diversify my business interests, Ilook forward as Non-Executive Chairman to continuing to chair the Board and 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 overseeing the Groups development on behalf of shareholders.
10 Annual Review and Accounts 2006 Christopher Hyman Chief Executive BusinessReview   WhatDoesSuccess MeantoYou?
Formore than 40 years, we have built My role as Chief Executive is to put in place Serco by understanding the many different the conditions that will allow us to achieve answers to this question.
We ask it of our vision the right strategy, people and those who use the services we run.
Our approach to these, and their ask it of our customers.
And we ask it of importance, is explained on the next our employees, shareholders, partners, few pages, along with an overview of suppliers and the communities in which our markets.
Our expertise lies in taking the varied ambitions of our stakeholders and OurStrategy developing innovative, people-led solutions.
We then implement those solutions Sercos strategy is to buildabalanced efficiently, sothat these ambitions are met contract portfolio, spread across different Ourvisionistobe and often exceeded.
We do this through organic growth, which results from theleadingservice Because of this approach, Serco has delivering excellent service and building becomeavery successful business.
long-term relationships with our customers.
companyinour We retain more than 90% of our contracts at rebid, win more than one in two of our ABalanced Contract Portfolio chosenmarkets.
new bids and have grown at double-digit Havingabalanced portfolio brings three rates every year since we listed.
But we do benets: broader exposure to growth Ourstrategyistobuild not measure success purely by financial opportunities, better diversication of risk returns, crucial though they are.
and the opportunity to share good practice abalancedcontract honed by wide experience.
Our vision is to be the leading service portfolio, spread company in our chosen markets.
We aim Exposure to many markets and to be the best partner to work with, the geographies, through more than 600 acrossdifferent company people aspire to work for and the contracts, ensures strong growth company that delivers superior returns to opportunities are always to be found.
Even if one market slows down, our other markets will still deliver more than enough geographicmarkets We will not achieve that vision unless new opportunities.
everyone withastake in Serco believes we help them achieve their ambitions, The breadth of our business also allows by bringing service to life.
We still have a us to select the best opportunitiesthose long way to go butIamheartened by our which meet our requirements for building progress towards our vision and by the long-term relationships, growth during the difference our people make every day.
contract life, return on capital and margins.
This selectiveness underpins our confidence And our success is being recognised.
For that we can continue to increase the Groups the third year running Serco was voted the margins in the medium term.
Most Admired Support Services Company in the Management Today survey and Risk is diversied because we are not we won the UK growth category in the reliant on any one contract forasubstantial European Business Awards.
proportion of our revenue, with the largest Northern Railproviding around 10% of More signicantly, colleagues such as Mick revenue in 2006.
Walker MBE achieved personal recognition in the Queens New Years Honours List for the tremendous contribution they make.
Youcan read about Micks view of success on page 20. www.
com 11 Serco Group Executive Team, left to right: Grant Rumbles Chief Operating officer, Andrew White Marketing Director, Kevin Beeston Executive Chairman, Andrew Jenner Finance Director, Christopher Hyman Chief Executive and Clive Barton Corporate Development Director The third benefit is our ability to share best As Sercos organic growth prospects are practice across Serco.
We can transfer strong, we only make acquisitions in two our skills and capabilities from one sector circumstancestobring new skills into the to another and to other countries as their Group or to open up new markets, either markets develop, helping to grow our geographically or in new business areas.
Organicgrowthis business and deliver the service quality our In either case, acquisitions must enhance customers deserve.
Sercos prospects for organic growth.
Organic Growth Delivering Excellent Service and Building Itcomesfromwinning Organic growth is fundamental to Serco.
Long-Term Relationships It comes from winning new work and by Our customers employ us to improve the newworkandby expanding the scale and scope of existing quality of their services.
Sercos devolved structure meetingand often exceedingthe expandingthescale enables this.
Our divisions focus on individual service levels they demand, we attract markets or regions, making them expert in new customers and encourage our existing andscopeofexisting the needs of local customers and allowing ones to expand the scale and scope of them to identify new growth opportunities.
We aim to work contracts in partnership with our customers to Within our divisions, we devolve continually improve our services, to their responsibility as far as we can.
We run each benefit and ours.
And by building these contract as an individual business, making long-term relationships, we retain more Serco more responsive, customer-focused than 90% of our contracts when they and entrepreneurial.
12 Annual Review and Accounts 2006 BusinessReview  OurPeople To succeed, Serco must attract and retain As their name suggests, our Governing the right people.
The skills and aptitudes Principles are not voluntary.
They are the they bring are important but not the only behaviours we expect to see throughout factor.
Tosucceed, our people must believe Serco.
They embody Sercos determination in Sercos vision and live by our Governing to act in the best interests of our customers, Principles.
The talented people we recruit our people and bydelivering strong directly or who join us as we win new growthour shareholders.
Our Governing contracts, bring with them apublic service Principles align our people to common ethos that is central to the way we work.
standards, essential in an organisation as devolved as Serco.
Once we have the right people, we must harness their talents effectively.
Weprovide Youcan nd our Governing Principles and training and personal development on what they mean on page 15. the job, on internal programmes and with outside training organisations.
These ensure continuous improvement at both personal and company levels.
MarketDevelopment Weareproudto People development is core to how we The world in which we operate is changing manage our business.
Each contract is faster than ever.
Governments, communities combinecommercial required to have succession plans that and individuals are increasingly bring through the next generation of experiencing the same challenges: know-howwitha managers.
This allows our longer-serving dealing with climate change, declining contract managers to continue their own energy reserves, rising migration, ageing deeppublicservice development and take on different roles, populations and increasing health needs, often running new contracts we bring into the threat of terrorism and the challenge of ethosandwework the Group.
These transformational issues are further inuenced by new technology, hardtoprotectthat The breadth of Sercos business also globalisation, increasing demands for benets our people, offering them career better services, increasing costs of service spiritbylivingour paths that are unavailable in more narrowlyprovision and citizens unwillingness to focused organisations.
This helps us to accept higher tax burdens.
GoverningPrinciples motivate and retain people.
Serco also gains, since bringing together people from Serco is ideally placed to help governments different backgrounds promotes original resolve their challenges.
Our teams thinking and fresh approaches to the work efficiently deliver service transformations we do.
that improveawide variety of public services around the world.
We have grown More information on our employment strongly for the last 20 years, as successive policies and training programmes is UK governments have led the way in included on page 32. reforming public services and enabling new models of service delivery.
This has deliveredavery strong and highly visible forward order book and bid pipeline.
OurCultureand As governments around the world are dealing with the same issues and GoverningPrinciples increasing the rate of reform of their public Serco is one company made up of many services, we are increasingly seeing businesses.
Although the cultures vary, opportunities to transfer our experience they are based on asingle, fundamental to international markets.
What we were set of values.
We are proud to combine delivering for one governmentafew years commercial know-how with adeep ago, we are now delivering for several.
public service ethos and we work hard to protect that spirit by living our Governing Principles.
com 13 The nature of Sercos broad portfolio of In our education business, improving skills, relationships, contracts, markets outcomes is driving new ways of organising and geographies, combined with our service delivery.
The Childrens Services inherent ability to deliver through change, Act requires those working in social means that we are very well placed to services, health and education to work continue to grow.
Ten years ago, Sercos together for the benefit of children.
Local annual revenue was less than 500m and authorities throughout England and Wales Theworldinwhichwe our businesses in home affairs, transport are using our organisational design and IT and business process outsourcing were transformation capabilities to manage this operateischanging just developing.
These have become change programme.
substantial businesses in the UK and are fasterthanever.
Serco also driving growth internationally.
In transport, better utilisation of existing road and rail infrastructure is proving an isideallyplacedto Our home affairs business is helping environmentally and economically attractive governments to address common issues proposition.
Issues of congestion, carbon helpgovernments including reducing re-offending and emissions, safety and journey reliability the cost of crime, managing increasing are being addressed through innovative resolvetheir migration and tackling the threat of technology and improved transport terrorism.
Serco is the only company integration.
Serco is at the forefront of using challenges competing in each of the market subtechnology and operational delivery to sectors of civil resilience homeland security, better manage the movement of vehicles, migration control, offender management such as through the UKs Active Trafc and law enforcement.
We expect more Management scheme and Englands growth both in the UK home affairs National Trafc Control Centre.
marketalready approaching 3bn per annumand overseas, particularly in International commitments have stretched Australia and the US.
defence budgets in the US and the UK.
Private sector provision of back ofce In the UK local government market, the support releases uniformed troops for front priority for councils is building better and line service, and can deliver significant cost safer communities, with particular focus efficiencies and innovation.
In the UK, the on children and young people, health, MoDs spend on services is expected to economic development and independent increase, driven by integration across the living.
To meet the needs of local markets, armed forces of equipment procurement we work in partnership with the emergency, and maintenance.
This is evident in the health and education services, utility merger of the Defence Logistics companies and private and voluntary Organisation with the Defence Procurement organisations.
Serco operates across Organisation, and the Defence Training the whole community to make citizens Review, which is integrating training, where lives better, whether through running a appropriate, across the armed forces.
local education authority, piloting telecare In the US, pressures on defence spending projects to enable independent living, have delayed contracting of some support working to reduce re-offending levels or services.
However, significant opportunities helping small businesses to grow.
The remain in the US and more opportunities skills, services and support we provide are emerging in Australia.
align with the Gershon-related drive to improve efficiency through joined-up An important new market has developed government, and enable more to be spent in the UK for the decommissioning of the on front line services by increasing back countrys civil nuclear liabilities.
is valued at around 70bn in total, equating to more than 2bn per annum.
Serco has Within health, expansion of the UK  consortium to address funded market is driven by the demand this opportunity.
for better outcomes from nite resources.
Our growing presence in primary care and occupational health is complemented by an established offering in hospital support services, all of which means we can addressasubstantial part of this market.
14 Annual Review and Accounts 2006 BusinessReview  FutureSuccess Ibelieve we have put the foundations in Serco has an outstanding record of place for future success.
developing new businesses, by taking our skills and capabilities into new market Foraslong asIhave worked in Serco, we sectors and new countries.
Our ability to do have talked of the Group being like afamily.
this will make our future as compelling as As we grow, wewill put that family feel to our past.
the test but we are, and always will be, a people-focused organisation.
These challenges also mean that the ambitions of our stakeholders are We deliver people-led change inaworld constantly evolving.
ForSerco to continue that faces an increasingly shared set of to succeed and achieve its vision, we must challenges.
These challenges are making never stop asking: What does success us all rethink how we live and provide new mean to you?
opportunities for us to grow as acompany.
 We foster an entrepreneurial culture We are passionate about building innovative and successful businesses.
This means we succeed by encouraging and generating new ideas.
We trust our people to deliver.
Weembrace change and by taking measured risks encourage creative thinking.
We enable our people to excel Our success comes from our commitment and energy to go the extra mile.
This means we are responsible to each other and can expect support when we need it most.
We expect our people to achieve more by recognising and harnessing the power of individuals.
We value people for their knowledge, ideas and potential to contribute.
We deliver our promises We do what we say we will do to meet expectations.
This means we only promise what we can deliver.
Ifwemake mistakes we put them right.
We are clear about what we need to achieve and we expect to makeafair profit.
We build trust and respect We build trust and respect by operating inasafe, socially responsible, consistent and honest manner.
This means we never compromise on safety.
We treat others as we would wish to be treated and challenge when we see something is wrong.
All Serco employees are expected to adhere to the highest standards in dealings with colleagues, customers, suppliers or shareholders.
By setting these standards and by supporting each other, weaim to get the best out of our people and subsequently the best service for our customers.
This is vital to our ongoing business.
16 Annual Review and Accounts 2006 Brian Anderson Director, HMP&YOI Doncaster BusinessReview  CivilGovernment  homeaffairs,  BPO, localgovernment, education, health, consulting, .
HomeAffairs Additionally, in2006 we createdastrong Ourteamshave Home affairs encompasses our work in foothold in the changing Australian offender management, law enforcement, offender management market.
We were succeededin civil resilience and immigration control.
selected by the Government of Western Our teams have succeeded in signicantly Australias Department of Corrective signicantlygrowing growing existing services, extending into Services to manage and operate the important new markets and delivering medium security Acacia Prison.
The existingservices, quality services in complex environments.
contract is valued at AUS$155m over five years, with the potential to extend by up expandinginto We began our contract to provide electronic to ten years.
Sercos proven success in monitoring EM of offenders in Scotland.
prisoner rehabilitation and re-integration importantnew Volumes in both this contract and our programmes and our specic Indigenous contracts in England and Wales have Strategy were crucial elements to the marketsand increased as the benets of EM have been successful securing of the contract.
deliveringquality Further home affairs opportunities have The capacity constraints in the UK prison been identied in Australia, including servicesincomplex estate have also led the Home Ofce to prison management, electronic monitoring, order extensions to existing prisons and transport and migration management.
environments centres managed by us, valued at more than 79m.
Our successful operation of Colnbrook Immigration Removal Centre, near The National Offender Management Service Heathrow, was instrumental in securing the is the UK Governments new body for contract to run Yarls Wood Immigration protecting the public and rehabilitating Removal Centre.
The contract starts in offenders in new ways, in particular having April 2007 for an initial period of three years, prison and probation services working with potential to extend for afurther five closer than ever before and by using the years.
Over the full eight years, the contract best that the private and third sectors have is valued at around 85m.
Together with our partners, Raytheon, In the first award of its kind, Serco and third Accenture and Detica, we are part of the sector bodies Turning Point and Rainer Trusted Borders consortium, one of two were chosen to provide employment consortia selected for the final stage of the and rehabilitation support to offenders e-Borders procurement, aUKHome Ofce returning to the community.
The contract, initiative to provide electronic screening and with the East of England Regional Offender tracking of travellers arriving and departing Management Pathnder Project, is valued from the UK.
at around 1.4m to Serco over two years.
com 17 The law enforcement market is developing are key to helping councils meet climate in the UK with proposals to merge police change related targets and freeing up forces being dropped in favour of greater savings for reinvestment inafull range of collaboration between forces and even local improvements.
the sharing of services in order to improve efficiency and service.
Education At Education Bradford and Education ITServicesandBPO Walsall, pupils have achieved signicantly We are benefiting from the skills and improved GCSE andAlevel results, capabilities that Serco Solutions has exceeding the GCSE targets set by brought to the Group.
Building on the contract win in 2005 to run The Department for Education and Skills the UK Governments Businesslink.
gov web has awarded atwo-year contract to the portal, the London Development Agency Together for Children partnership, which selected us to run the Business Link service is led by Serco.
The contract, valued in London.
The 69m, three-year agreement at around 10m to Serco, supports the is focused on helping the capitals 600,000 development of 3,500 childrens centres small and medium-sized enterprises to across England.
increase their competitiveness, including regeneration opportunities created by the Health 2012 Olympics.
Serco was appointed preferred bidder Serco was also successful in rebidding to provide support services for the new the Envirowise contract for the Department NHS Forth Valley Acute Hospital, valued for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
We have This contract, in conjunction with our drawn on our healthcare experience to partner Momenta, advises and supports inuence the design of the new hospital, UK businesses in minimising waste and including the innovative use of robotics.
In addition to providing health services to Additional business has been contracted Serco-run prisons, our healthcare business over the year, with customers including the is now providing services to prisons run by London boroughs of Southwark and Eneld, the Home Ofce.
We have been awarded and Coventry and Cambridge city councils.
three-year contracts at Cardiff, Bullingdon and Leicester prisons.
Amongst private sector clients, MAN B&W extended its SAP FM support contract Consulting with Serco until the end of 2008 and awardedaseparate contract to provide New awards for our successful consulting SAP application support for the same business included work with the BBC, the period.
Red Bee Media selected us for an Home Ofce, HM Revenue&Customs, IT-enabled change programme valued at the Department for Environment, Food 7.1m over five years.
and Rural Affairs, Carlisle City Council and Cheshire Constabulary.
Projects under way We continue to invest in the capacity and include helping aconsortium comprising capability of the business and we have the Cabinet Ofce, Department for implementedaplanned restructuring to Education and Skills and the Department enhance Serco Solutions ability to grow.
of Health to manage the provision of We look forward to strong growth in electronic government services through an this sector.
LocalGovernment In other aspects of our local government business, we signed and started two new streetscene services partnerships, with Welwyn Hateld Council and Restormel Borough Council, valued at approximately 50m and 45m respectively.
Our services 18 Annual Review and Accounts 2006 Whatdoessuccess meantoyou?
Clare Sly Mother ofapupil at aWalsall school www.
20 Annual Review and Accounts 2006 Mick Walker MBE Operations Manager, RAF Spadeadam BusinessReview  Defence %to645m, representing25%ofGrouprevenue 2005:25%.
Our defence customers operate in an We were selected as preferred bidder increasingly pressurised environment for the MoDs Future Provision of Marine characterised by stringent budgetary Services contract, which will enhance the constraints, operational complexity, operational capability of the Royal Navy demanding performance measures and at Portsmouth, Devonport and the Clyde.
Weenable them The contract is valued at around 1bn over to succeed in this tough environment by 15 years, asubstantial increase from the designing, integrating and applying the previous contract, and will be delivered best possible combination of people, by Serco Denholm, a90:10 joint venture processes, resources and technology between Serco and J&J Denholm.
In July, wesignedastrategic partnership The MoDs Defence Industrial Strategy with the UK Defence Science and emphasisesashift from new platform Technology Laboratories Dstl, for which design and development to the upgrade we were appointed preferred bidder in and maintenance of equipment.
Under the 500m, 15-year contract, is to enhance capability and availability of we are managing the design and build equipment through its lifespan.
To succeed, of new facilities and providing integrated this requiresanew way of working between services across the Dstl estate.
suppliers, and between Government and industry.
Our support for the Governments drive Wewereselectedas to transform through-life capability This is reected inanumber of our contract management will continue in the coming  wins in 2006.
Weare developing the technology 125m 25-year manpower services contract that will enable the MoD to predict and MoDsFutureProvision with AgustaWestland under the Integrated plan for the cost of equipment throughout Merlin Operational Support IMOS its operational life.
The whole life costing ofMarineServices programme.
IMOS is transforming logistics and optimisation model has the potential support for the MoDs EH101 Merlin to deliver significant savings to the MoD, at contract, whichwill helicopter eet while improving availability the same time as enhancing the throughand reducing through-life support costs for life availability of equipment to the front line.
In addition, our defence experts are working  In June, Rolls-Royce wonacontract to in close collaboration with technical and ensure engine availability for the Hercules security specialists in our science and oftheRoyalNavyat C-130 and engaged Serco to provide home affairs businesses to explore the engineers for servicing work on the eet at potential of the Governments Defence Portsmouth, Devonport RAF Lyneham.
Serco and Rolls-Royces Technology Strategy DTS.
The DTS relationship was further strengthened describes the technologies that the MoD andtheClyde throughaMemorandum of Understanding regards as critical to maintaining the UKs signed to provideajoint service offering in defence and security capabilities, playing the defence sector.
to Sercos strengths in defence technology, chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear technology and homeland security.
com 21 Our contract to provide secure In Australia, we have signicantly expanded communications to the armed forces our presence.
Our Serco Sodexho Defence through the Skynet5satellite programme Services SSDS 50:50 joint venture now was extended by the Defence has apresence on every operational Communications Services Agency and and training base in Australia after being the prime contractor, Paradigm Secure appointed to the Australian Defence Communications.
This takes the contract Forces National Clothing Stores contract.
to 2020, with an additional value of The contract is valued at up to AUS$60m approximately 58m.
to SSDS over six years and presents considerable opportunities for In North America, our solid reputation for organic growth.
providing key services to the military meant that we won contracts, including several for SSDS has also been selected for two other larger, longer and more complex services, major garrison support services contracts againstabackdrop of reduced spending on the east coast of Australia.
In particular, year contracts are valued at more than the existing family support and personnel AUS$400m.
services providedaplatform to expand the reach of those services into other branches of the military.
WewonaMilitary Family Support services contract for the Navy valued at $28m over two years.
This is the first such service we have provided outside the Army.
Our extensive experience in providing administration support to the Army and Navy enabled us to winatwo-year, $6.5m contract with another new customerthe Air National Guardtoprovide administrative support services.
We were also selected by the Chief of the Naval Reserve Command fora$12m contract to assist with their recruiting.
Other examples of expansion of our military services includedave-year contract valued at a potential $34m for the US Army Military Personnel Division MPD in Korea and a similar $12.8 million contract with the MPD for the Army Reserve at Fort Dix.
Our San Diego-based engineering unit was included ina$56.6m multiple award to provide systems development, engineering support, evaluation and logistics for the submarine command in the US Navy Space and Naval Warfare Systems Center.
This win is strategically important for us since it moves us into an area of more complex and integrated services that allow us to showcase our capabilities inabroader range of C4I services.
22 Annual Review and Accounts 2006 Whatdoessuccess meantoyou?
David Morris Alliance Manager, Serco Illawarra, Australia www.
Johnnie 24 Annual Review Harrison and Accounts Contract 2006 Manager of aschool bus maintenance contract in Portsmouth, VA, US BusinessReview  Transport %to626m, representing 25%ofGrouprevenue 2005:24%.
Rail We have been operating Metrolink for ten Northern Rail and Merseyrailour two joint years, overseeing significant extensions and ventures with NedRailwayshave grown improvements to the service: this contract passenger numbers on the back of rising will end in 2007.
Our contract to operate the levels of customer satisfaction.
At Northern Copenhagen Metro is also coming to an Rail, train punctuality and reliability have end this year.
Merseyrail continues to deliver the levels of service  which have made it one of the UKs best BothNorthernRail performing franchises.
Sercooperatesthe National Trafc Control Centre NTCC on behalf of the Highways andMerseyrail Both Northern Rail and Merseyrail continue Agency.
NTCCisaworld-first facility, giving to deliver excellent safety performance, with areal-time analysis of what is happening continuetodeliver Northern Rail winning the prestigious across Englands motorway and trunk road Sir Robert Horton Award for Safety at the network and helping drivers to better plan excellentsafety 2006 National Rail Awards.
While full implementation has taken longer than expected, we were performance, with With NedRailways, we are bidding to run the delighted that Transport Secretary Alistair West Midlands rail franchise from Darling ofcially opened the NTCC on NorthernRailwinning November 2007.
We continue to work closely with the Highways Agency to theprestigious In Australia, our new timetable for The Ghan achieve formal completion.
commenced, with two weekly services SirRobertHorton now undertaking the 2,000 mile continental Other developments in the trafc crossing between Adelaide and Darwin.
We management sector include new pilot AwardforSafetyat have also committed toaeet expansion schemes to increase the capacity of programme, currently in the design phase, motorways in England and motorway the2006National which will provide additional capacity and technology services.
The Highways Agency potential for revenue growth from late 2007. has selected Serco to develop and maintain RailAwards anew control system for the Active Trafc Management pilot scheme on the M42 to UrbanTransportation better manage the roadspace and utilise the Keydevelopments in the year included hard shoulder during periods of congestion.
signing the new franchise agreement to This contract applies toa17km section of continue to operate, maintain and support the motorway and is valued at 4.5m up the highly successful Docklands Light to 2010.
The seven-year contract may be extended forafurther two years Our trafc management experience is and is valued at around 400m over this attracting interest from outside the UK and extended period.
The new franchise further we have been selected to run systems in improves services through more frequent Sweden, Hong Kong and China.
trains, enhanced security and higher targets for punctuality, customer satisfaction and Air availability of ticket machines, escalators and information displays.
We are also one of In the United Arab Emirates, we successfully the three companies bidding for the Dubai renewed our contract to provide air trafc Metro project, which will be the worlds control and engineering services at the largest driverless urban transport system.
Emirates Area Control Centre, based in Abu Dhabi.
The new contract is valued We were disappointed not to renew the at 11.5m over three years, asubstantial Manchester Metrolink contract at rebid.
increase from the previous contract.
Serco enhanced its position in 2006 as British Energy and Magnox Electric in aleading partner in the practice and support of generating stations.
In addition, management of science and has continued we are assisting the MoD inamulti-million to grow its business in the UK civil and pound study looking at future nuclear defence nuclear markets.
The National Physical Laboratory NPL Sercos expertise in the civil and defence hadavital impact on industry and society nuclear elds is being brought to bear in 2006.
In addition to NPLs focus on onadeveloping UK market for the leading edge research in biotechnology, decommissioning of the countrys civil nanotechnology and advanced materials, nuclear liabilities.
the laboratory has established anational framework for training in measurement In 2006, Serco createdaworld-class Sercoenhancedits skills, in partnership with Rolls-Royce.
consortium to address the Sellaeld NPL increased its commercial income decommissioning and operations positionin2006asa by 18%, includinga1.2m contract to opportunity.
The consortium, called SBB run aknowledge transfer network for Nuclear, brings together three leading leadingpartnerinthe Government and work worth 1.9m to international companiesSerco, Bechtel provide equipment and expertise to the and BWXTall with proven track records of practiceand new micro and nano manufacturing centre service delivery, nuclear site management of excellence.
SBB Nuclear is managementof committed to the Nuclear Decommissioning NPL playedakey role in addressing the Authoritys process of selectingaParent science global challenge of climate change.
Its Body Organisation for the Sellaeld Site measurement work monitoring emissions Licence Company and to the safe, secure from power stations, airports and industrial and environmentally sensitive management locations has enabled carbon pricing to be of the site and to supporting the economic based on robust, scientically sound and regeneration of the surrounding community internationally accepted measurements.
Our strong position in the civil and defence Our science business also combines nuclear markets was further enhanced the technical, financial and management during the year through our work at the expertise to deliver some of the UK Atomic Weapons Establishment AWE and Governments most ambitious scienceour technical assurance business.
2006 was another successful year for our We have unrivalled experience in managing work at the AWE, afacility we manage agship government-owned, contractorand operate throughajoint venture with operated facilities at NPL and AWE.
This was the Combined with our safety and technical first full year of the programme to upgrade assurance expertise and track record in skills and facilities.
Within this challenging delivering big, complex programmes on programme, all major projects are on track time and on budget, this puts Serco in and the key performance indicators are agood position to help the Government showing record levels of performance in achieve its National Nuclear Laboratory almost all areas of activity.
programme, and potentially other science management programmes which are Our assurance business increased its currently emerging in the marketplace.
presence in the civil nuclear market, with contract awards from BNG to help with the clean up of the Sellaeld site and from 26 Annual Review and Accounts 2006 Whatdoessuccess meantoyou?
Steve Jacques Senior Engineer, Serco Assurance www.
Yvonne Fenn Community Matron Serco 28 AnnualCivil ReviewGovernment and Accounts 2006 Whatdoessuccess Successisthe meantoyou?
Adel Al Awadhi Business Development Manager, Serco Middle East www.
Bill Murphy Strategic Director of Customer and Corporate Services, London Borough of Southwark 30 Annual Review and Accounts 2006 BusinessReview  Suppliers  Partnerships Alongside the hundreds of services Serco manages through contracts on behalf of customers, the Group also has its own Serco hasanumber of joint ventures and extensive supplier relationships.
We take strategic partnerships around the world that the same approach to suppliers as we manage service contracts, particularly in do to customers.
We look for long-term the transport, defence and science sectors.
relationships in which there is opportunity for continuous improvement and value Strong relationships, mutual trust and creation based on innovation.
respect and clarity of role are all essential ingredients if aservice is to be successfully In order to continually improve quality delivered throughajoint venture.
and manage costs, the Group has steadily standardised the centralisation Our track record for successful partnerships of buying for the 500m of goods and speaks volumes.
In the transport arena, services that we purchase each year.
our partnership with NedRailways began The number of preferred suppliers for work at Merseyrail in 2003 and together we such goods and services, ranging from have become one of the UKs major train commodity computer peripherals to agency operating companies, having been selected employees, has reduced and the terms for the eight-year Northern Rail franchise.
Our partnership with Lockheed Martin Procurement policies and processes and BNFL at the Atomic Weapons are clearly communicated internally and Establishment has been highly successful facilitated through online purchasing and together we have consistently systems which reduce administration costs, exceeded service targets.
reduce wastage, improve cash ow and give contract managers more time to focus Relationships with joint venture partners are on client needs.
the responsibility of the relevant divisional management teams, supported by In 2006, Serco established key relationships members of the Group Executive Team and with global software and IT services Board as appropriate.
Regular strategy and companies Patni, Tata and Genpact to review meetings ensure the joint venture support continual improvement in our partners remain rmly committed to working administration processes and to access together to deliver services to clients.
their leading software and IT-development capabilities.
This demonstrates our In 2006, Serco created further strategic ability to transcend traditional contractual partnerships.
Forexample, we brought relationships and develop true partnerships together Serco, Bechtel and BWXT into that benefit both parties and extend service aconsortium to support the UK Nuclear relationships into relationships that more Decommissioning Authoritys clean-up closely resemble joint ventures.
programme and we createdastrategic partnership with Infrastructure Investors Limited Partnership in order to enhance our competitiveness within the attractive PFI market.
com 31 Resources OurPeople We haveagroundbreaking relationship with the Institute of Directors IoD, which We know that our people are the key to underpins the strategic role of contract and our continuing success and so we have divisional board membership.
To date, 116 developed acomprehensive suite of people have been awarded the IoD Serco employment policies to support our 47,000 certicate, with 70 awardedadiploma and employees, wherever they are in the world.
seven achieving chartered director status.
The key employment policies are made We were delighted when our Skills for You available through line managers, human programme receivedaBusiness in the resources teams and our intranet and Community Big Tick award for business include policies covering diversity and excellence.
Skills for Youisgeared to the equality, for employees having children, UK Governments Skills for Life strategy, for resolving issues, health and safety, boosting adults basic skills.
2,753 of our condentiality, security and ethics and people have been assessed, with 380 time off work.
As an international company, weexperience differing employment legislation, customs OurReputation and practice in different parts of the world.
Our approach is always to respect local Our reputation for delivering excellent differences but not to fall short of minimum service and our ability to build long-term standards.
relationships is behind the consistent success Serco has enjoyed to date.
Our performance against our policies, and the implications of changing legislation and As we move deeper into markets and new best practice, is monitored by our extend into new ones, we need our human resources function.
Where we reputation to precede us.
The Serco name is need to change an approach, then becoming better known among commercial appropriate communications and training and political audiences and we continue to are implemented.
strengthen our brand through the services we provide, our contribution to policy Serco has developed bespoke debates and the provision of tangible and programmes to assist people working topical examples of service improvement.
in management and front line roles.
In January 2006 we introducedabusiness managers programme, leading to aDiploma in Management from the Chartered Management Institute, which helps our managers develop their business insight and people skills.
32 Annual Review and Accounts 2006 Whatdoessuccess meantoyou?
Jonathan Fox Director, Docklands Light Railway, Transport www for.
34 Andrew Annual Review Jenner and Accounts Financ 2006eDirector BusinessReview FinanceReview FinanceReview 1.
Financialperformance Sercos financial results for 2006 demonstrate the strong growth in the business, a significant increase in margins and agood cash performance, together with asimplified balance sheet.
Sercos income statement for 2006 is summarised in Figure 1.
This includes the results of joint ventures, which are proportionately consolidated.
Figure1:Incomestatement Year ended 31 December 2006 2005 Increase m m Revenue 2,548.2 2,260.3 12.7% Gross profit 365.7 325.0 12.5% Administrative expenses 235.7 214.3 Investment revenueand financecosts 17.8 19.2 Profit before tax, amortisation and gain on sale 112.2 91.522.6% Gain on sale of PFI investments 11.4 Profit before tax and amortisation 123.6 91.5 35.1% Amortisation 16.2 13.6 Profit before tax 107.4 77.9 37.9% Tax 27.9 23.5 Profit for the year 79.5 54.446.1% Effectivetax rate 26.0% 30.2% Earnings per share 16.62p 11.66p 42.5% Earnings per sharebefore amortisation and gain on sale of PFI investments 17.13p 14.09p 21.6% Dividend per share 3.60p 2.97p 21.2% 2.1Revenue Revenue grew by 12.7% to 2,548.2m.
Excluding revenue from Serco Solutions and RCI, revenue growth was 11.4%.
Joint venture revenue increased by 20.0% to 643.3m.
This increase was primarily due to growth in our contract to operate the Atomic Weapons Establishment.
During 2006, Serco Solutions contributed revenue of 216.2m 2005: 190.6m.
These businesses were acquired in February 2005 and March 2005 respectively.
2.2Grossmargin Gross margin the averagecontract margin across our portfolio was 14.4% in 2006, consistentwiththe margin in 2005.
 Investment revenue and finance costs totalled anet cost of 17.8m 2005: 19.2m.
The decrease was due to lower net finance cost on the assets and liabilities of our defined benefit pension schemes.
com 35  PBTA PBTAbefore the gain on sale of PFI investments was 112.2m in 2006, which was an increase of 22.6% from 2005.
This represented amargin of 4.4% in 2006, up from 4.0% in 2005.
Serco Solutions contributed PBTAof16.8m 2005: 14.3m, representing aPBTAmargin of 7.8% 2005: 7.5%, while RCI added 12.4m to PBTA 2005: 9.3m, at aPBTAmargin of 6.7% 2005: 6.5%.
Excluding the profits generated by Serco Solutions and RCI, their associated funding costs and the gain on sale, growth in PBTAwas 22.0%.
 The charge for intangible amortisation in the period was 16.2m 2005: 13.6m.
The increase resulted from afull year of the amortisation of intangible assets arising on the acquisition of Serco Solutions and RCI and increased amortisation of software and development expenditure.
2.6Profitbeforetax Profit before tax increased by 37.9% to 107.4m 2005: 77.9m.
2.7Tax The tax charge of 27.9m 2005: 23.5m represents an effective rate of 26.0%, compared with 30.2% in 2005.
This decrease is principally due to the gain on the sale of the PFI investments not being taxable.
2.8Earningspershare EPS EPS grew by 42.5% to 16.62p.
EPS before amortisation and the gain on sale of PFI investments rose by 21.6% to 17.13p.
EPS is calculated on an average share base of 471.2m during the period 2005: 458.1m.
The increase resulted from acombination of share options issued in the year and the full year effect of shares issued during the first half of 2005, in part consideration for the acquisition of Serco Solutions.
Dividends Sercos policy is to increase the total dividend per share each year broadly in line with the underlying increase in earnings.
The proposed final dividend for 2.55p per share represents a23.8% increase on the final dividend for 2005.
The total dividend for 2006 is 3.60p per share, an increase of 21.2%.
The final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9March 2007.
Cashflow The Group generated afree cash inflow of 85.4m, an increase of 15.7% compared with 2005.
Asinprevious periods, we have designed the analysis to show the true cash performance of the Group the cash flows generated by subsidiaries plus the dividends received from joint ventures.
It therefore differs from the consolidated cash flow on page 76, which proportionately consolidates the cash flows of joint ventures.
The adjustment line in Figure 2reconciles the movement in Group cash to the consolidated cash flow.
36 Annual Review and Accounts 2006 BusinessReview FinanceReview Figure2:Cashflow Year ended 31 December 2006 2005 m m Operating profit excluding joint ventures 87.9 62.4 Non cash items 35.0 45.2 Group EBITDA 122.9 107.6 Working capital movement 2.1 11.2 Group operating cash flow 120.8 96.4 Interest 10.6 15.7 Tax 6.7 1.0 Expenditure on tangible and intangible assets 47.7 31.6 Dividends from joint ventures 29.6 25.7 Group free cash flow 85.4 73.8 Cash received on sale of PFI investments 76.5 Cash disposed of and transaction costs on sale of PFIs 58.3 Acquisitions 281.7 Other financing 98.6 253.8  19.0 Dividends paid 14.5 12.5 Group net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 28.5 33.4 Adjustment to include joint venture cash impacts 10.3 4.1 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 18.2 37.5 Note: Group EBITDAisearnings from subsidiaries excluding joint ventures before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and other non cash items  The Group operating cash inflow was 120.8m 2005: 96.4m, an increase of 25.3%.
This  of Group EBITDAinto cash of 98% 2005: 90%.
This EBITDAconversion and working capital performance is particularly notable given the strong level of organic growth.
4.2Interest Net interest paid in 2006 was 10.6m, compared to 15.7m in 2005.
The decrease was principally due to the timing of the sale of the PFI investments.
4.3Tax Taxpaid in 2006, excluding joint ventures, was 6.7m compared to 1.0m in 2005.
This increase is primarily due to atax refund received in 2005.
Cash tax is below the equivalent tax charge in the income statement.
The difference reflects timing differences, including acontinued residual level of accelerated capital allowances, and the availability of tax relief on the special pension contribution.
  and intangible assets in the period was 47.7m 2005: 31.6m.
This represents 2.5% of revenue excluding joint ventures 2005: 1.8%.
The increase mainly resulted from expenditure on designing and building our new SAP accounting system and shared service centre.
The total cost of the initial programme is estimated to be approximately 35m, of which 20m was incurred in 2006 and 7m in 2005.
 Dividends received from joint ventures totalled 29.6m 2005: 25.7m, equivalentto98% 2005: 101% of joint ventures profit after tax and minority interest.
The high level of conversion in both years reflects dividend payments made by joint ventures from reserves retained in previous years.
com 37 4.6Otherfinancing The movement in other financing is primarily as aresult of repayments on our loan facility.
Netdebt Sercos net debt has reduced significantlyduring 2006.
Group recourse net debt has decreased by 92.1m to 171.9m and total net debt has decreased by 389.3m to 205.9m.
Figure 3analyses Sercos net debt at 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005.
Figure3:Netdebt At 31 December 2006 2005 m m Group cash and cash equivalents 177.8 210.0 Group loans 334.4 453.1 Group obligations under financeleases 15.3 20.9 Group recourse net debt 171.9 264.0 Joint venturerecourse net cash 28.2 18.0 Total recourse net debt 143.7 246.0 Group non recourse debt 62.2 326.8 Joint venture non recourse debt 22.4 Total non recourse debt 62.2 349.2 Total net debt 205.9 595.2  Group recourse net debt reduced from 264.0m at 31 December 2005 to 171.9m at 31 December 2006.
Included within Group recourse net debt is 10.6m 2005: 22.7m of encumbered cash, comprising cash of PFI and other project companies securing credit obligations and customer advance payments.
 The Group's debt is non recourse if no Group company other than the relevant borrower such as aspecial purpose company for aPFI has an obligation to repay the debt under aguarantee or other arrangement.
The debt is excluded from all of our credit agreements and other covenant calculations, and therefore has no impact on the Groups ability to borrow.
Group non recourse debt reduced by 264.6m to 62.2m during the year, primarily as a result of the sale of the PFI investments see section 7.
At 31 December 2006, the remaining non recourse debt related to the Kilmarnock prison contract and our Driver Examination Services contract in Canada.
 The joint venture non recourse debt recorded in 2005 resulted from debt taken on in the course of operating acontract where we have aright of full cost reimbursement.
Adebtor equal to the value of this non recourse debt was included in Sercos accounts to reflect this.
During the first half of 2006, we renegotiated certain terms of this loan.
This allows us to offset the debtor and non recourse debt in our accounts, thereby reflecting the economic reality of the contract.
Pensions At 31 December 2006, the net liability included in the balance sheet arising from our defined benefit pension scheme obligationswas 120.0m 2005: 149.9m.
38 Annual Review and Accounts 2006 BusinessReview FinanceReview Figure4: At 31 December 2006 2005 m m Group schemes non contract specific 157.8 200.4 Contract specific schemes reimbursable 67.6 84.9 not certain to be reimbursable 23.9 21.3 Net retirement benefit liabilities 249.3 306.6 Intangible assets arising from rights to operate franchises and contracts 20.6 19.0 Reimbursable rights debtor 67.6 84.9 Deferred tax assets 41.1 52.8 Net balance sheet liabilities 120.0 149.9 Serco has three main types of scheme which are accounted for as defined benefit pension schemes.
Each type has its own accounting treatment under IFRS.
These are: Schemes which do not relate to specific contracts or franchises non contract specific principally the Group scheme.
Forthese schemes, we charge the actuarial gain or loss for the period to the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense the SORIE, and Schemes where we have aright of full cost reimbursement and therefore include both the pension scheme deficit and offsetting reimbursable rights debtor in the balance sheet reimbursable, and Schemes relating to specific contracts or franchises, where the deficit will pass back to the customer or to the next contractor at the end of the contract not certain to be reimbursable.
Forthese schemes, we charge the actuarial gain or loss on our share of the deficit for the period to the SORIE, recognise arecoverable intangible asset on the balance sheet and amortise the intangible asset to the income statement over the contract or franchise life.
At 31 December 2006, the principal non contract specific scheme was the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS.
This scheme was closed to new members in 2001.
Prior to the special pension contributions at the end of the year, the scheme had agross deficit of 136m.
Following adetailed funding review in the second half of 2006, we have made aspecial cash contribution of 70m into the scheme.
Apayment of 19m was made in December 2006 and the remaining 51m was paid in January 2007.
We have agreed an increase in employer and employee contributions from January 2007.
Figure 5shows the sensitivity of the liabilities of our pension schemes to changes in discount rates and to adjustments in the actuarial assumptions for the rate of inflation, members salary increases and life expectancies.
Figure5: Change in assumption Change in liability Discount rate 0.5% 9 % 0.5 % 10% Price inflation 0.5% 7% 0.5 % 7% Salary 0.5% 3% 0.5 % 3 % Longevity Increase by one year 2.75% www.
 PFIs  On 2December 2006, Serco sold its equity investments relating to six PFI projects to 2 Infrastructure Investors Limited I.
As part of this transaction, we retained the long-term 2 operating contracts associated with the PFIs, and provide management services to I, such as acting as the day-to-day interface with the customer.
The investments were sold for atotal cash consideration of 76.5m, resulting in again on sale of 11.4m.
Net assets of 46.8m were disposed of, including cash of 56.6m, PFI debtors of 329.8m and non recourse loans of 242.3m.
The cash disposed of was held in the special purpose companies primarily to honour forthcoming debt repayments.
 At 31 December 2006, Serco continued to hold a100% equity investment in one PFI special purpose company and aminority shareholding in two others.
Serco retains operating contracts in eleven PFI projects.
We continue to recognise our remaining PFI debtors at amortised cost, as defined by IAS 39, maintaining an accounting treatment consistent with UK GAAP and existing IFRS.
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements has been issued but is not mandatory until 1January 2008.
We will review the impact of the IFRIC during 2007.
Provisions At 31 December 2006, the Group held provisions amounting to 22.3m 2005: 26.3m.
Provisions include amounts relating to long-term service awards, terminal gratuities, property, contracts and restructuring.
The decrease in provisions includes areduction as aresult of the completion of aplanned restructuring in Serco Solutions.
Treasury The Groups principal debt finance consists of a400m bank credit facility comprising a term loan facility and arevolving credit facility.
At31December 2006, we had 163m 2005: 279m outstanding on the term loans and the revolving facility was undrawn.
Interest is charged at arate of 50 basis points over LIBOR on borrowings under the facility.
The facility is unsecured and matures in December 2009.
Serco has also issued loan notes under two private placements.
The first private placement, for 43.2m, matures in December 2007 and the second, for 117.0m, amortises evenly from 2011 to 2015.
At 31 December 2006, Serco also had 62.2m 2005: 349.2m of non recourse debt that is used to fund remaining PFI and similar activities.
In all cases, no entity other than the relevant borrower has an obligation, as aresult of aguarantee or other arrangement, to repay non recourse debt.
40 Annual Review and Accounts 2006 BusinessReview    An ethical standard defines the following Wewillundertakeour The Group has awell-establishedand principles that apply to all our business embedded system of internal control, activities: businessactivitiesin including financial, operational and Wewill comply with the laws of the country compliance controls and risk management accordancewiththe in which business is being transacted designed to safeguard shareholders Wewill respect the rights of the individual investments and the Groups assets and higheststandardsof Wewill respect the traditions and culture reputation.
Whilstthe Board has overall of communities and protect the responsibility for the Groups system of professionalism, environment within which we operate internalcontrol and for reviewing its effectiveness, it is the role of management to Wewill undertake our business activities integrityandhonesty implement the policies on risk and control.
in accordance with the highest standards of professionalism, integrity and honesty.
The Groups risk management process identifies the key risks facing each These broad principles are further businessand reports to the Board on how interpreted in respect of individual and those risks are being managed.
processes are reviewedregularly by the Board and conform to the requirements of Aseparate corporate responsibility the CombinedCode.
Such asystem, standard defines the corporate however, can only be designed to mitigate, responsibility programme that is rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to implemented throughout the Group.
achieve businessobjectives, and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute The Groups risk management standard assurance, against misstatement or loss.
defines the processes required in the The Board confirms that this process has organisation to manage and mitigate threats been in place for the year under review and to our business objectives.
The risk up to the date of approval of the Annual management process is described in arisk Review and Accounts.
management manual and aset of guidance notes covering specific aspects appropriate The Serco Management System SMS is to particular business activities.
An internally the framework within which business developed and supported risk database tool divisions, operating companies and supports the risk management process and contracts implement processes and is used to create risk, opportunity, procedures that are appropriate to the assumption and issue registers.
Divisional chief executives and business unit Risk registers are maintained at acontract, managers have the responsibility and business unit, divisional and Group level authority to implement and monitor the and are reviewed at least quarterly and system within their businesses.
The SMS more frequently as required.
The risk incorporates the Groups vision and registers identify the key risks, the strategy: the core values and business probability of those risks occurring, their principles that define the corporate potential impact on the business and the behaviour of the organisation:the actions being taken to reduce and mitigate operating structure and roles and the risks.
Guidance on the risk appetite of responsibilities of the principal elements of the Group has been issued which defines the organisation and its core processes.
the appetite tolerance levels both for individual risks and for projects or business units where multiple risks are present.
 As part of the SMS, the Board has authorised aset of policy statements which PrincipalRisks are supported by standards, guidance and The Group risk register identifies the principal risks facing the business, training material.
including those that are managed directly at aGroup level.
com 41 identifies the business objectives and the Communications and the Board on an interests not only of shareholders but also ongoing basis.
of other stakeholders that are likely, directly or indirectly, toinfluence the performance Forthe Group, the most significant risks of the business and its value.
These relate to the strategy and safety areas.
include, but are not limited to, customers, Social, environmental and ethical issues, suppliers, staff, trade unions, government, while recognised within anumber of the regulators, banks and insurers.
The Groups risks, do not represent significant interests of the wider community in areas threats to the Groups strategy at present.
such as social, environmentaland ethical All risks and potential threats are kept under impact are recognised in the Groups regular review and the Board informed of corporate responsibility programme.
Recent work has included the identification and tracking of emerging risks The Group risk register is updatedatleast including pandemic influenza.
quarterly, reviewed six monthly by the Risk Oversight Group and discussed at RiskMitigation quarterly Board meetings: active risks are Each risk in the Group register is assigned Themostsignificant ranked by importance and grouped under an owner at Board or senior management the following six headings: level and specific risk reduction and risk risksrelatetothe Strategic covering threats to the longmitigation actions are identified.
The Board term deliverability of the Groups strategy.
may ask for additional informationinrespect strategyandsafety Principal risks include loss of competitive of risk reduction or mitigation actions or position and risks associated with request that an audit is undertaken to areas.
Social, acquisitions provide additional assurance.
Risk Financial commercial covering threats management techniques used include environmentaland to the short-term performance.
Principal appropriate systems, staff, internal controls, risks include the loss of key contracts, public and media relations and business ethicalissues, while failure to meet financial business plans, continuity planning.
These techniques are pension fund liabilities and delays or cost designed with clarity of accountability and recognisedwithina over-runs in major transition programmes responsibility and with certain formal Compliance covering compliance with policies covering areas such as compliance, numberoftheGroups all relevant legislation and regulations.
Principal risks include legal action risks, donotrepresent resulting from compliance failures and Sercos business units build and maintain unethical behaviour by Directors or an understanding of their operational risk significantthreats members of staff profiles and are expected to fully understand the likelihood and potential Safety and security covering threats to impact of any operational incidents, at the the safety of staff, sub-contractors, same time making appropriate and members of the public and the informed decisions that balance the risks environment and the security of the Groups assets and staff.
Risks include against the potential returns and opportunities.
the responsibility for amajor accident or incident where public safety is concerned, , While operational risk can never be assaults on staff in the course of their eliminated, the Group endeavours to duties and crime, fraud and terrorism minimise the impact by ensuring that appropriate infrastructure, controls, Operational covering threats to the systems, staff and processes are in place.
continuity of business operations after Some of the key management and control adverse events.
Principal risks include techniques are set out below: the failure of information systems, loss of key infrastructure and the recruitment The principles of clear delegation of and retention of key staff authority and segregation of duties are fully reflected in the Groups operating Management covering possible processes internal failures of managers or management systems.
Principal risks Comprehensive business review include failures of internal controls and processes ensure that our services and management systems.
products meet customer expectations, performance criteria, operational effectiveness, regulatory requirements, Additionally, risks relating to the reputation investment returns and profitability of the Group are assessed by Corporate 42 Annual Review and Accounts 2006 BusinessReview  AnInvestment Committee meets on a from plan, customer satisfaction and monthly basis to consider new or retention data, staff turnover and developing projects against adefined set satisfaction levels, occupational health of criteria.
Projects can then be and safety incidents, and error and submitted to the Global Management exception reporting.
Board for considerationand allocation of The Group maintains insurance policies to appropriate resources provide protection from losses arising from There is aformal review and approval circumstances such as damage or process for all proposals and business destruction of physical assets, theft and acquisitions including delegated authority legal liability for third party loss.
The for sign-off based on the financial value adequacy of the insurance cover is and capital requirement of the reviewed at regular intervals.
transaction and the assessed risk of the project  Sound project management and change The Corporate Assurance Group CAG implementation disciplines are applied to oversees and reviews internal controls and all major development projects including risk policies, procedures and management new contract phase-ins, acquisitions, frameworks and develops guidance, new technology applications, change training material and management training programmes and other major initiatives to ensure the business needs are met.
The Thecommitmentand The commitment and capability of staff is Board recognises its responsibilities to critical for the effective management of shareholders and the wider community capabilityofstaffis operational risk.
Ongoing training and where social, environmental and ethical career development constantly improves issues are very important.
CAG is  the skills of our employees.
Selective responsible for developing and overseeing recruitment, succession planning and the corporate responsibility activities within managementof other human resource policies and the Group.
practices are in place to ensure that staff operationalrisk skills are aligned with the needs of Every quarter, CAG reports formally to the the organisation Executive Chairman and the Board, Safety management systems in the providing analyses of performance against Groups aviation, rail, defence, nuclear targets and advises the Board on policy and marine businesses have been and future activities to enhance best addressed by the appointment of safety practice.
In 2006, CAG reviewed internal specialists for each area who report controls including risk management, directly to the Board and maintain and health, safety and environmental further develop the very high standards management.
As aresult, anumber of expected in these industries activities have been included in CAGs The Groups approach to health, safety 2007 programme to strengthen and  is performance in these areas.
described in the Directors Report.
Qualified and experienced staff in each CAG sponsors five specialist groups: business unit provide advice and support AnAssurance Network Group, chaired by on health, safety and environmental the Assurance Director, and comprising issues and undertake regular audits senior assurance representatives from The Company Secretary is responsible across the Group.
During the year, this for the review of ethical issues that may group met four times to review policy and arise from the Groups activities and for procedures, and the development, managing the confidential reporting integration and dissemination of the SMS service whistleblowing, to which staff that defines how the Group operates can report illegal, dangerous, dishonest A Risk Oversight Group, chaired by the or unethical activities Risk Director, comprising assurance A programme of internal audits confirms representatives from across the Group, the extent to which key controls are which met twice during the year to review applied across the Group.
Audit priorities the Group risk register and key risk are established on the basis of risk controls.
This group provides additional assessments, regulatory requirements assurance in relation to the system of and business imperatives internal control and risk management and enhances the Boards ability to The operational risk framework tracks key discharge its responsibilities in relation to indicators.
These include analysis of internal control business performance and variances www.
com 43 AnAviation Safety Oversight Group,  chaired by the Aviation Safety Director The Board confirms that the actions it and comprising the aviation safety considers necessary have been taken to representatives from across the Group, remedy such failings and weaknesses which which met twice during the year.
This it has determined to be significant from its group has been responsible for the review of the internal controls.
The Board implementation of the aviation safety also confirms that it has not been advised of management system across the Group material weaknesses in that part of the and for transferring best practice internal control system that relates to between Sercos aviation operating financial reporting.
companies A Rail Safety Oversight Group, chaired by the Rail Technical Director and  comprising the rail safety representatives from across the Group oversees the Corporate responsibility is about living the safety management systems within values and principles that govern the way Sercos rail businesses in the United we operate and behave.
Our approach Kingdom, Denmark and Australia reflects the importance corporate responsibility has to those we come into A Corporate Responsibility Steering contact with.
It is also good business Group, chaired by the Executive Chairman, provides direction on projects practice, which we believe will ultimately Ourapproachto help us deliver better returns that address the social and environmental to shareholders.
corporate issues affecting our staff and the communities within which we work.
The responsibilities of CAG, which reports  directly to the Board, include developing InternalAudit and overseeing our corporate responsibility theimportanceithas During 2006, Grant Thornton continued to activities.
Our corporate responsibility provide an internal audit function within the model, which is described in detail in our tothosewecomeinto Group, in addition to that provided by separate Corporate Responsibility Report, internal peer review and CAG.
Their encompasses four elements: contactwith.
Itisalso programme is complementary to the Safety recognising our legal Groups broader programme and has been goodbusiness responsibility for the safety of our staff, designed to address internal control and risk sub-contractors and the general public management processes and the practice, whichwe for whom we have aduty of care recommendations of the Combined Code.
People addressing our legal and moral Grant Thornton reported to the Audit  responsibility for our employees Committee twice during the year.
There were Community addressing our social no material weaknesses identified as aresult helpusdeliverbetter responsibility for the communities within of the audits undertaken and corrective which we operate action has been taken where deficiencies returnsto were found.
 our legal and moralresponsibility to protect the shareholders environment from damage asadirect result of our operations and to promote activities to JointVentures protect and sustain the widerenvironment.
In addition to contracts held in Sercos name, the Group has material investments in anumber of joint ventures and Details of our performance in 2006 and associated companies.
Where these targets and objectives for 2007, are investmentsare not wholly owned by included in the 2006 Corporate Serco, the Group can influence, but not Responsibility Report and at control, management practices.
representatives within these companies CAG reports formally to the Chief Executive ensure that the processes and procedures and to the Board on aquarterly basis, for identifying and managing risk are providing analyses of performance against appropriate for the business and that our assurance targets and also advises internal controls exist and are regularly the Board regarding policy and future monitored.
Employees from the Groups activities to enhance best practice around joint ventures participate in the Assurance the organisation.
Network and the Risk Oversight and Rail Safety Oversight Groups.
