Direction Chairmans statement We have unveiled a new comprehensive strategy Group results for the Severn Trent group of companies which Overall, the Severn Trent group has delivered will have at its heart a focus on water.
an encouraging performance in 2005 06, with group profit from continuing operations before Our UK integrated waste management business, tax, IAS 39 fair value adjustments and exceptional Biffa, is to be demerged from the Severn Trent group items at 322.4 million, an increase of 39.5% of companies, subject to shareholder approval.
and group profit from continuing operations before tax was 270.0 million 228.8 million, The board of Severn Trent Plc rmly believes an increase of 18%.
that the creation of two separate listed companies, Severn Trent Plc and Biffa Plc, each with dedicated The board is proposing a final dividend of boards and experienced management teams 31.97 pence 30.30 pence to be paid on focused on continued strategic and operational 2 August 2006.
This would give a total dividend development with access to their own capital, will for the year of 51.13 pence, an increase of 5.4%.
Sir John Egan deliver greater benets to shareholders, customers Chairman and employees.
Corporate responsibility Our ambition is to make Severn Trent the best Following the proposed demerger Severn Trent Plc water company in the UK and restore the trust is expected to remain the UKs second largest listed of our customers and Ofwat.
We are determined water company and a constituent of the FTSE 100, that the unacceptable mistakes of 2000-2004, continuing to focus on delivering investment however caused, will not be repeated.
programmes, improving efficiencies and customer service levels.
We have accepted the conclusions of Ofwats interim report concerning allegations of false reporting Our strategy also means that Severn Trent made against Severn Trent Water in 2004.
Laboratories US is no longer considered a core activity so we shall look to improve its Ofwats interim report found that we had business performance while we consider how to overcharged our customers during 2004 05 best realise its value for shareholders.
Severn Trent and had set prices too high for 2005 10.
Laboratories UK will remain in the group as it plays an important role working with Severn Trent Water.
Our internal investigations and Ofwats investigations have been thorough and lengthy, Our Water Purication and Operating Services requiring complex judgements.
Our judgements business, while a small proportion of the group, have not been identical to Ofwats in every aspect, is profitable and growing and has synergy with our but in the interests of making amends as soon as water business so will be allowed to develop under possible, we concluded it was sensible to proceed close management and tight budgetary control.
by agreement, and have apologised unreservedly.
Our new strategy also allows us to become more Having considered Ofwats findings, we agreed nancially efficient by increasing our debt to that customer accounts should be credited as regulated capital value ratio to 60% by 2010, soon as possible and bills altered appropriately the start of the next regulatory review period.
We also expect to return cash to shareholders, As the Ofwat report acknowledges, the board of the amount and timing of which is still to be Severn Trent Plc and the new senior management determined.
team started in 2004 to make major changes to organisation structure, to people and to processes Our Chief Executive, Colin Matthews, outlines in the and controls.
The intense drive to improve Severn next two pages the reasons behind our new strategy.
Trent Water will continue to be a top priority for its new Managing Director, Tony Wray, and his management team as well as for myself, Colin Matthews and the rest of the Severn Trent Plc board.
4 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Direction As a result of a referral by Ofwat, the Serious We also welcomed two new non-executive Fraud Ofce is undertaking a criminal investigation directors, Richard Davey and Bernard Bulkin, into alleged reporting irregularities made to Ofwat from January 2006. by Severn Trent Water between 2000 and 2003 concerning leakage.
Severn Trent is supporting Richard, a former Head of Investment Banking for Ofwat in its review of these allegations and will NM Rothschild & Sons, is a non-executive director co-operate fully with the Serious Fraud Ofce.
of Yorkshire Building Society and Amlin Plc.
He was appointed senior independent non-executive We acknowledge that Ofwat may expect further director and chairman of the Remuneration amends to be made to customers.
Ofwat has stated Committee with effect from 11 June 2006. that this penalty will be discussed with Severn Trent Water on completion of the Serious Fraud Bernard is chairman of AEA Technology Plc Ofce investigation into leakage.
and is a Commissioner on the UK Sustainable Development Commission.
He retired from The board has also provided Ofwat with an interim BP Plc as Chief Scientist in 2003. report into the misreporting of customer relations data over several years.
Fiona Smith joined as General Counsel and Company Secretary in February 2006, having been We will co-operate fully with Ofwat to restore General Counsel for Transport for London and confidence in Severn Trent Water going forward.
previously the National Grid Group.
She replaced Peter Davies who retired with our best wishes.
We have taken, and will continue to take, all actions we think appropriate to ensure the maintenance of We again carried out rigorous board effectiveness both high ethical and professional standards and reviews with the help of independent consultants, resilient and effective controls throughout all group which have generated a number of actions to companies.
secure improvements to board performance.
Board, management and staff I would also thank our dedicated and hard working John McAdam, a non-executive director, stepped staff whose commitment during a particularly down from the board in September 2005 after five intense year has ensured we continue to achieve years of valued service for which I thank him.
Derek Osborn, a non-executive director, retired Outlook from the board in March 2006, after seven years Our objective over the next four years is to ensure of valuable contributions, particularly concerning customers in our water businesses get the benets environmental issues and I wish him well.
of high quality and cost effective services while ensuring investors receive an appropriate return.
Martin Flower, senior independent non-executive director and Deputy Chairman, stood down from We believe that the newly focused water group the board in June after ten years service.
I am will be able to pay a progressive dividend as a extremely grateful for his support, particularly in consequence.
ensuring continuity on the board and support for our new management team.
Our dividend policy will therefore be to increase dividends by 3% above RPI ination until 2010.
Mark Wilson, Group Finance Director, stood down from the board in December 2005 after ten years at the heart of three regulatory reviews.
I am grateful to Mark for his contribution to the groups success.
Marks successor as Group Finance Director, Mike McKeon, joined us in December 2005.
Formerly Group Finance Director of Novar Plc, the building materials group, Mike worked with Rolls Royce Plc and has had extensive international business experience for CarnaudMetalbox, Elf Atochem and Price Waterhouse.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 5
