continued Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr R Pointon and comprises the Non-executive Directors see page 16.
The Committee determines the Companys policy on remuneration and on a specific package for each of the Executive Directors.
It also determines the terms on which Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Save As You Earn SAYE share options are awarded to employees.
The Committee also determines the remuneration of the Groups senior management and that of the Chairman.
It recommends the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors for determination by the Board.
In exercising its responsibilities the Committee has access to professional advice, both internally and externally, and may consult the Chief Executive about its proposals.
The Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 30 contains particulars of Directors remuneration and interests in the Companys shares.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr I Clubb and comprises the Non-executive Directors see page 16.
It meets as required and is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and succession planning.
During the year the structure, composition and balance of skills of the Board were reviewed including ensuring that all members of the Board had devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board.
Following this review and taking into account the impending retirement of Mr I Clubb, two new Non-executive Directors, both with recent and relevant financial experience, were appointed after an external executive search.
The Committee agreed that Mr A Auer would be nominated for approval by the Board to succeed Mr I Clubb as Chairman of the Board.
Pensions The assets of both the final salary and money purchase schemes in the UK are held separately from those of the Group, are invested by independent professional investment managers and cannot be invested directly in the Company.
Three trustees have been appointed by the Company and, in addition, two member nominated trustees were appointed in 2004 for a period of three years.
Senior employees in Belgium are provided with defined contribution pension benefits.
In the Netherlands, employees participate in compulsory collective transport industry wide pension schemes which provide benefits up to a certain level of pay.
Senior employees in the Netherlands earning in excess of the maximum level of pay allowed for within the compulsory pension schemes also participate in a defined contribution arrangement for the excess amount.
Relationship with Investors The Company has an active investor relations programme, with designated members of the Board regularly meeting institutional investors, analysts, press and other parties.
The Company is pleased to welcome both private and institutional shareholders to its Annual General Meeting and to discuss any topic shareholders may wish to raise.
co. uk provides additional information for shareholders and the general public.
All interim, preliminary and final results together with other press releases are published on the website.
annual report 2006 Internal Control The Board confirms that a continuing formal process for identifying, evaluating and managing the material risks faced by the Group has been in place for the financial year 2005 6 and to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
This includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures.
This process is regularly reviewed by both the Group and subsidiary boards and complies with the Turnbull guidance.
This approach ensures that internal control and risk management measures are embedded into the operations of the business and any areas requiring improvement are addressed.
The Directors are responsible for and have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control during the period covered by the annual report and accounts.
The system is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material avoidable loss or misstatement of financial information.
The key features of the control system are as follows: i monthly visits by Executive Directors to key operating locations to attend local board or management meetings: ii regular Executive Committee meetings of the Groups most senior managers and Executive Directors: iii formal written financial policies and procedures applicable to all business units with procedures for reporting compliance therewith, for identifying weaknesses and for taking corrective action: iv comprehensive annual budgets, requiring Board and business sector approval, reviewed on a regular basis, with performance measured against budgets and explanations sought for significant variances: v a formal clearly defined framework for control and approval of capital expenditure and investment programmes, with cash authorisation limits and post investment appraisals along with contract authorisation levels: vi identification and evaluation of key risks applicable to each area of business assessed on a continuing basis at both operating board and Group Board level: vii appointment of experienced and professional staff of the necessary calibre to meet their responsibilities: viii the Groups internal audit activities comprise a programme of site audits performed by each Country Office, and a programme of peer reviews where the adequacy of the internal controls in each Countrys operations are reviewed by senior individuals from elsewhere in the Group.
The Group does not maintain a seperate internal audit department: ix the Groups operations use a range of quality assurance and environmental management systems across its sites.
Where appropriate these are independently certified to internationally recognised standards such as ISO 9001 and ISO 14001: and x an Audit Committee comprising Non-executive Directors, the responsibilities of which are set out on page 21.
The Group publishes a Health and Safety Report and an Environmental Report.
The independent Environmental Advisory Board also publishes its own annual report.
Further details about these reports can be found on pages 14 and 15 and copies are also available on the Groups website www.
