6746 UK Report Section 2006. qxd 16 5 07 15:14 Page 2 Chairmans We are delivering review on our strategy.
A proven pace setter A clear and winning growth strategy One of the strengths that makes Shire Shires unique business model is supported by different from all other pharmaceutical a clear growth strategy that continues to move companies is our proven ability to set the us ever-closer to our goal of becoming the pace in new therapies and therapeutic areas worlds leading specialty biopharmaceutical that are currently underserved by the industry.
A key element of this strategy is our We look at new markets where we have recognition that understanding patient needs, identied strong patient needs and then especially in areas that are not currently welllead in those markets by developing the served by therapies, is crucial to creating widest possible range of treatment options growth going forward.
Key elements include: to address those needs.
diversication of Shires product portfolio The track record of our Attention deficit with a focus on developing and marketing Hyperactivity Disorder ADHD franchise offers specialty products that offer significant an excellent example.
Over the years, we have levels of competitive differentiation or successfully developed and expanded our serve areas of limited competitive activity.
product portfolio to serve the multiple needs Many of our specialty products, in particular of ADHD patients and have become the clear those developed to treat rare diseases market leader.
Our existing marketed products so-called orphan drugs, are more insulated in this franchise are ADDERALL XR, providing from wide competition and overcrowded all-day treatment for ADHD with a single dose: market pressures and enjoy better market DAYTRANA, the only ADHD patch medication exclusivity than the industry average: offering improved compliance options for Dr James Cavanaugh children by allowing parents complete control focusing on the core areas of ADHD, Chairman of wear time and administration: we recently Gastro-intestinal, Renal, and HGT.
received Food and Drug Administration FDA These represent some of the fastest The pharmaceutical industry continued to approval for VYVANSE, our future agship growing sectors and offer some of the evolve at a rapid pace in 2006.
This presented product for ADHD, and we also led SPD503, best opportunities for growth in the considerable challenges for many members a non-stimulant ADHD therapy, with the FDA.
specialty biopharmaceutical market: of the industry, who accelerated restructurings, cost cutting and merger and acquisition In the Human Genetics Therapies HGT an R&D strategy targeting later-stage activities to cope with the new economic area, we now have two launched products, and lower risk projects that have the best realities.
At the same time, it offered significant REPLAGAL and ELAPRASE, and four chances of reaching the market.
However, opportunities for those companies that are products under development in our pipeline our R&D engine is also exible enough well positioned to succeed in this changing which are designed to target protein deficient to accommodate change.
Such was the case for Shire with diseases by utilizing our unique human-based limited number of available, late-stage its model based on specialty biopharmaceuticals.
Once again, compounds, we have recently started Our outstanding results in 2006 and positive we are exploring ways to address the looking at compounds in earlier phases outlook heading into 2007 further underscore multiple needs of Hunter syndrome patients of development but with proof-of-concept the qualities of our business model, which by developing a product that can also treat that t into our strategic and lower risk is focused on delivering products with a central nervous system disorders associated focus.
The in-licensing of Valrocemide, clear competitive advantage to specialist with the disease.
an anti-epileptic compound, and of Tissue physicians, using small-scale sales forces.
Protective Cytokine technology during 2006 are just two examples: 2 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc 6746 UK Report Section 2006. qxd 16 5 07 15:14 Page 3 strengthening our global reach by potentially attractive new specialty drug Shire celebrated two remarkable milestones establishing a presence in growing candidates and technology.
Shortly following in 2006: the 20th anniversary of its founding pharmaceutical markets through this announcement, the FDA confirmed the and the 10th anniversary of being listed on distributors or partners, and partnering approval of VYVANSE for marketing in the the London Stock Exchange.
We have since with others to co-promote products US and launch of this very exciting product become one of the worlds leading global where we feel this could strengthen our is planned during Q2 2007. specialty biopharmaceutical companies by market position in a cost-effective way: always staying focused, championing New Board members achievement and never shying away from a vigorously protecting our intellectual We welcomed two new Non-Executive good challenge.
We enjoy competition and property, as reected by important Directors to our Board of Directors: Kate thrive on winning.
We can all be proud of settlements with Impax Laboratories, Nealon and Dr Jeffrey M. Leiden.
Ms Nealon, Shires accomplishments and look forward Inc. and Barr Laboratories, Inc. Barr who joined our Remuneration Committee in to the future with considerable optimism.
during 2006: and 2006 and our Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee in 2007, was formerly Group nally, following our move into Head of Legal & Compliance at Standard biopharmaceuticals through the highly Chartered plc.
She brings significant successful acquisition of Transkaryotic experience of merger and acquisition Therapies, Inc. TKT in 2005, we are activities, risk management, compliance continuing to actively study and pursue and regulatory issues with global companies.
Dr James Cavanaugh in-licensing, partnering and acquisition Dr Leiden previously served as President opportunities in areas where we can lead.
and Chief Operating officer, Pharmaceutical Products Group and Chief scientific officer 2006 results at Abbott Laboratories Inc.
He brings a high Shires business model and growth strategy level of medical, scientific and business produced record revenues in 2006.
Total experience of the pharmaceutical industry to revenues were up 12% to $1,796.5 million Shire.
Ronald Nordmann, a long-time member and net income was $56.2 million.
Our cash of Shires Board, also stepped down during position remains strong at $1,126.9 million.
We thank him for his outstanding contribution during his seven-year period Shire agrees to acquire New River in ofce.
Pharmaceuticals Inc. New River to gain full control of VYVANSE, its future agship A remarkable record of success product for ADHD Shire is well positioned to benefit from In January 2005, we entered into a collaboration opportunities in specialty biopharmaceuticals.
agreement with New River to develop and coWe have four areas of therapeutic focus and promote NRP104, now known as VYVANSE.
seven major marketed products, several of On February 20, 2007 we announced that we which are leaders in their sectors.
We are the have agreed to acquire New River for $2.6 leading pharmaceutical company in the ADHD billion in cash.
The acquisition of New River eld.
We have products in development that will allow us to capture the full economic value have the potential to be both life-prolonging of VYVANSE, and gain control of the future and life enhancing for patients who currently development and commercialization of this have no other treatment choice.
This is consistent with our already an exciting array of products ready to be stated focus on the growing ADHD market launched in the year ahead and possess a rich and allows us to progress and benefit from our pipeline, including one of the best early-stage successful strategy of acquiring, developing development platforms for inherited diseases.
In addition, And nally, we have some of the most talented the acquisition will provide us with access to people in the business working for us.
Annual report and accounts for the 3 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc
