2 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Chairmans statement The past year has seen further progress in revenues, headline Headline earnings profits and cash generation across the Smiths Group.
There per share is clear evidence of improvement in all these key variables.
The growth in revenues can be traced back to the successful Full Potential initiative led by our Chief Executive, Keith Butler-Wheelhouse, over the last few years.
Smiths has always been good at cost control and it is pleasing to see 23% revenues now growing apace.
During the period, the Groups positioning has proved 64.8p beneficial with underlying growth in our chosen markets.
This positioning is no accident, and the Board continues to keep the shape of the Group under constant review.
We position Donald Brydon the Group for growth and to create shareholder value, whilst Dividend Chairman maintaining the financial discipline that has served us well to date in relation to both acquisitions and on-going business.
The decision has been taken to write down the carrying value of the Groups investment in the preference shares in TI Automotive Ltd.
This is a prudent measure that does not 8.1% affect cash-flow.
We will maintain our drive for improved production techniques, 31.35p enhanced technology developments, and innovative customer solutions, combined with a passion for efficiency that you will find right across Smiths.
Taken together, these qualities help make us a world leader in the practical application of Statutory earnings advanced technologies.
Throughout this report you will see per share examples of Smiths products and services that help to make the world safer, healthier and more productive.
It is a little disappointing that the market is reluctant to give the Smiths management full credit for the investments we have made in our Aerospace business.
This business has long development times, but the quality of the products and the strength of our customer relationships are truly a major 4.3p asset.
The seeds of future profitability have been well sown.
3 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Chairmans statement continued During the year, Lord Robertson resigned from the Board I am delighted that the Financial Reporting Council has and already we miss his ready wit and wisdom.
We will caught up with Smiths Board practice and legitimised a also be losing Sir Julian Horn-Smith at the Annual General Chairmans membership of the Remuneration Committee.
Meeting after almost seven years during which he has made This is a sensible reversal of the Councils previously an important and valued contribution.
It is with great regret unsatisfactory position.
that I have to report that Rob OLeary passed away in the Returning to performance in the past year, the consolidated summer.
He was a remarkable non-executive director and results show an increase in sales of 17% and in headline travelled despite great personal discomfort to participate earnings per share of 23%.
As a result of this good performance, in our deliberations through a long illness.
His profound the Board is recommending an increase in the dividend for the knowledge of the medical business and his simple humanity full year of 8.1% to 31.35p.
This means the final dividend will will be hard to replace.
It was a great pleasure to welcome Sir Kevin Tebbit to the There can be no doubt that Smiths operates in critical sectors Board.
His wide experience will be a considerable benefit.
where our products make a valuable difference.
The world The past two years have seen us progressing carefully faces many serious challenges, not least the threats being through a period of renewal of the senior executives in the made to security, and we are proud that Smiths provides Group.
It is a measure of the success of this succession much of the technology that helps make people safer.
Other planning that the changes have occurred with minimal equally compelling examples of the differences we make exist disruption to the business.
This year we welcomed Srini across our markets.
Smiths success in making this positive Seshadri as the new Group Managing Director of Smiths contribution falls to our employees and I would like to thank Medical and, more recently, we have promoted Paul Cox to them for their dedication, commitment and loyalty during the lead Smiths Specialty Engineering.
Einar Lindh left Smiths past year.
after overseeing the transition in the medical business and, The foundations of our Group are strong and our strategic after 28 years, he carries all our good wishes into retirement.
It is with confidence that I look forward to John Langston has succeeded Alan Thomson as Finance reporting further progress next year.
Johns finance and operations background prepares him well for the task ahead, and he leaves the Specialty Engineering business in very good shape.
Alan Thomson has retired from his full-time role, but I am delighted to report that he continues to assist the Group on special Donald Brydon projects.
His contribution to Smiths has been immense Chairman and is fully recognised by the very high regard in which he is held by his colleagues.
