Chairmans Statement It is with great pleasure that I welcome all new Southern Cross Healthcare shareholders following the Initial Public Offering of shares earlier this year.
William Colvin Chairman Introduction Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, exceptional It is with great pleasure that I welcome all new Southern Cross charges and charges for future minimum rental increases Adjusted Healthcare Southern Cross shareholders following the Initial EBITDA was 48.8m representing an increase of 67.1% compared Public Offering IPO of shares earlier this year.
The last to the prior year on an annualised basis.
The loss before taxation 12 months have seen the Company grow significantly to a position was 17.4m, reflecting the impact of the IFRS adjustment for where it is now the UKs leading provider of care home services charges for future minimum rental increases of 30.7m, exceptional for the elderly and also a major provider of specialist services for charges relating to the IPO which amounted to 3.1m, and the people with physical and or .
financing costs of the capital structure pre-IPO.
As the market leader, and primary consolidator in the UK care Basic loss per ordinary share was 9.4p after a UK Corporation home services sector, Southern Cross has benefited from the tax credit of 5.3m.
Adjusted earnings per share before charges growing demand for high-quality, value-for-money, long-term care for future minimum rental increases and exceptional charges and services across the UK.
The success of our strategy of acquiring the taxation impact thereof were 10.0p.
and developing modern, purpose-built care homes in areas of high demand is reflected in the financial results for the 52 weeks to Had the Company been listed for the whole of the 52 weeks ended 1 October 2006.
1 October 2006, the Board considers that it would have recommended a dividend of 4.8p per ordinary share.
Taking into account the Results and Dividends 82 days for which the Company was listed prior to the financial year Turnover for the 52 weeks ended 1 October 2006 increased by end, the Board is recommending a pro rata dividend of 1.1p per 75%, on an annualised basis, to 610.9m, primarily as a result of ordinary share.
Going forward the Company expects to grow the acquisition of Ashbourne Healthcare completed in November dividends from this level to reflect the growth prospects and cashflow 2005.
Average fees per occupied bed also increased during the year generation of the business, while maintaining an appropriate level by 8.0% and a number of individual new homes were acquired and of dividend cover.
developed from the Companys pipeline of growth opportunities.
4 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Management and Staff The Board remains confident that there will be a growing demand The Board, on behalf of all shareholders, would like to thank all for our services and remains firmly committed to ensuring that all the dedicated staff working in our homes and also those supporting our homes provide the best possible levels of care for all of our the homes, as well as the management team who oversee the valued clients.
Their hard work and commitment have enabled us to build Southern Cross to become market leader William Colvin in the sector.
Chairman Outlook Care home services are playing an increasingly important role in the overall healthcare provision across the UK.
The combination of an ageing population and the reduction in overall bed numbers within the NHS and the long-term care sector have resulted in the growing demand for quality care services.
Looking ahead to the next 12 months, we believe Southern Cross is well placed to achieve further progress in both revenue growth and profitability.
We have secured 300m of landlord funds to enable us to continue our acquisition plans and we have a significantly expanded development pipeline which will add a further 1,000 beds to our portfolio by December 2007.
At the same time, we shall continue our drive for growth in fee and occupancy rates, as well as maintaining tight cost control.
Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 5
