Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Chairmans Statement 1 POWERFUL COMMITMENT Sir Robert Smith Chairman Scottish and Southern Energys first cuts experienced by our electricity existing energy and  responsibility to its shareholders is to deliver network customers and another reduction businesses in the UK and confirm our sustained real growth in the dividend.
I am, in the number of complaints sent by our position as the broadest-based UK energy therefore, pleased to report that the Board energy supply customers for resolution company, with involvement in electricity is recommending a final dividend of 32.7p to energywatch.
It is also encouraging that generation, gas storage and gas and per share, making a full-year dividend of this customer-focused approach is being electricity distribution, contracting and supply.
I am also extended to Scotia Gas Networks SGN, pleased to report that we are on course in which we invested during 2005, where Commitment to deliver at least 4% real growth in the the number of customer complaints is In each of these activities, we depend on the dividend in 2007 and 2008, with sustained also improving.
people throughout SSE whose enthusiasm real growth thereafter.
As the company and skill is hugely impressive.
Ive heard a approaches the eighth anniversary of its Opportunities member of our customer service team sum formation, at the end of 2006, a decade The investment in SGN confirmed SSE as it up very well: Theres a culture of passion, of sustained real growth in the dividend the second largest distributor of electricity promises and commitments.
Thats an is coming within sight.
We are also the largest excellent and deserved tribute to the hard non-nuclear generator of electricity and the work done by people throughout the Focus largest generator from renewable sources organisation, which I endorse wholeheartedly.
This has been possible as a result of SSEs in the UK as well as being the third largest consistent and continuing focus on the supplier of electricity and gas.
At Hornsea, That culture is at the heart of everything four areas in which we can enhance and we have the biggest onshore gas storage that SSE aims to do.
The commitment is create value for shareholders: maintaining facility in the UK and we have one of the to colleagues, customers and shareholders.
and investing in our energy networks: countrys most successful electrical It means that we have great strengths to adding to our leading-edge generation contracting business.
This gives us an draw on as we continue to work towards portfolio: growing our energy supply excellent platform from which to expand our core objective: the delivery of sustained business: and developing our presence further in the second half of this decade, real growth in the dividend.
in businesses such as contracting, and we have the financial strength and the connections, gas storage and telecoms.
investment opportunities to do so.
We have, as a result, delivered another very good financial performance, with Investment adjusted profit before tax now 858.2m.
Over the next few years, we expect to enhance value by investing in assets in our energy Customers networks, electricity generation and gas This consistent focus is not simply financial: storage businesses.
During 2005 06 we as a utility and provider of services on which took important decisions to invest in fitting our customers depend, everyone in SSE flue gas desulphurisation equipment at believes it is essential to strive for excellence our coal-fired power stations and in building in everything we do.
I am, therefore, Scotlands first large-scale conventional particularly pleased that we have secured hydro electric station for 50 years.
These another reduction in the number of power and other investments will build on our
