Chairmans Message Gerald Corbett When I joined SSL as Chairman in August 2005 I was instantly struck by its potential.
In Durex, Scholl and our extensive portfolio of local brands, we have a unique combination of strong brand equity and good local market shares.
We have significant growth opportunities expanding into emerging markets, product development, brand extension, improved marketing and even acquisition, enabling us to flow additional revenue through our existing sales and distribution infrastructure.
We are now freed of the problems of the past, we have a strong balance sheet and an energetic and well led executive team able to focus on the task in hand.
Underlying sales grew 4.6 per cent driven by Durex, through continued expansion of the Play range and further strong growth in condom sales: and Scholl footcare, where the roll-out of Scholl Party Feet in Continental Europe combined with new product introductions produced an excellent result.
Sales from Durex and Scholl footcare both grew by around 10 per cent and as we hoped, the second half saw the stabilisation of Scholl footwear.
Sales of our locally owned brands were broadly the same as last year with the flat retail environment in the UK partially offset by good results from our Southern European Mister Baby brand.
Operating profit for the year was 49.
Our underlying operating profit margin has once again increased by more than one percentage point to 10.9 per cent 2005: 9.7 per cent.
Pre-tax profit of 35.7 million compares to 26.9 million last year.
Basic earnings per share on our continuing business increased by 35 per cent to 12.8 pence from 9.5 pence.
Underlying operational cash flow before restructuring was 40.6 million compared to 12.5 million last year.
Net debt at the year end was 91.5 million 2005: 88.2 million.
Dividends The Board is recommending an increased final dividend of 4.4 pence, 5 per cent ahead of last year.
This is the first increase since the dividend was rebased following completion of the restructuring programme in 2004.
The total dividend for the year of 6.4 pence is covered two times.
The final dividend will be paid on 7 September 2006 to shareholders on the register on 18 August 2006.
Outlook The new year has begun satisfactorily.
From our progress over the last two years and the strength of our brand portfolio we have set a new financial target for the Group to deliver annual double-digit growth in operating profit in each of the current and the next two years.
We believe this can be achieved through growth in brand contribution and control of overheads.
In order to maximise sales growth through supporting new product launches, we are spending more of our yearly advertising budget in the first half by some 10 million.
This will have the effect of reducing first half profit but increasing second half profit.
Overall, advertising and promotion expenditure is expected to remain at a similar proportion of sales as last year.
Gerald Corbett, Chairman 22 May 2006 6 7 SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Chairmans Message 2006
