Chairmans statement Stagecoach has achieved another strong set of results as we continue to progressive dividend growth.
The proposed final dividend is payable to deliver shareholder value through our successful organic growth strategy in shareholders on the register at 1 September 2006 and will be paid on 4 October 2006. our bus and rail operations in the UK and North America.
Stagecoach has made a promising start to the new financial year to 30 April We have produced further revenue growth in our continuing businesses and 2007 and the current trading of the Group remains in line with our enhanced our reputation for delivering high quality public transport services expectations.
We are confident of achieving our objectives for the year.
through market-leading innovation, effective marketing of our products and planning for the future through targeted investment.
At the heart of our strong performance this year have been our employees across all our operations.
Their personal commitment to first-class customer During the year ended 30 April 2006, we acquired additional bus operations service is crucial as we pursue our organic growth strategy.
I would once in the UK with the prospect of attracting even more passengers to our again like to thank all our employees for their continued hard work and services.
Our excellent rail performance, both operationally and financially, support.
has also put us in a strong position when competing for new franchises.
I would like to welcome to the Group, Sir George Mathewson, who has During the year, we completed the disposal of our New Zealand operations joined Stagecoach as a Non-Executive Director.
He has a formidable and on 23 June 2006, we agreed the conditional sale of our London bus business background, including substantial experience with major UK-listed business to Macquarie Bank Limited for 263.6m.
The London bus business companies.
has been a key part of the Groups success since 1994 and the sales price represents an excellent return for our shareholders.
The sale is subject to Graham Eccles retired as an Executive Director of the Group on 30 April regulatory approval and other closing conditions, and at the present time, 2006.
I am very grateful to Graham for his significant contribution to the we expect the sale to be completed within three months.
In UK Bus, we will Group and to the UK rail industry over many years.
continue to pursue our successful growth strategy outside London, where Russell Walls retires by rotation at the next Annual General Meeting due to we are leading our peer group in attracting new passengers to public be held in August 2006, and he has indicated that he does not intend to transport.
The Group has benefited significantly over the last six years Cost pressures, including fuel and insurance, remain a challenge for the from Russells skills and experience.
Russell is the Senior Independent NonGroup, and we are continuing to manage these as part of our overall cost Executive Director and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
We believe that we have achieved the correct balance of retaining and will determine his successor to each of these roles in due course.
growing our customer base, while maintaining a financially robust business.
Graham and Russell leave the Group with all our best wishes for the future.
The results for the year ended 30 April 2006 are the first full-year results to Our Group strategy is driven by innovation and investment, and we will be reported in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards continue to look for opportunities to increase shareholder value by growing IFRS and the comparative amounts for the year ended 30 April 2005 our bus and rail businesses in the UK and North America.
Operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional items was 156.6m 2005: 153.1m.
Earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional items were up 11.6% at 10.6p 2005: 9.5p, the fourth year of successive earnings growth following the substantial restructuring of the Group in 2002.
Given the Board of Directors confidence in the future prospects and financial strength of the Group, we are proposing a final dividend of 2.6p per share 2005: 2.3p, giving a total dividend for the year of 3.7p 2005: 3.3p.
This is an increase of 12.1% and based on continued strong, stable Robert Speirs cash flows and profits within the business, we will look to continue Chairman Exceptional items are defined in note 1 on page 42 page 2 | Stagecoach Group plc
