Name: Frida Haraldsson Position: Sales Training Consultant Birthplace: Trollhatton, Chairmans Statement Sweden Report & Accounts 006 Why I work for SThree: Endless opportunity and an exciting vibe.
This is now our second Annual Report expanding beyond our existing base Two Non-Executive Directors, Alicja as a listed Company.
During the year in the UK, the Netherlands, Belgium, Lesniak and Tony Ward, were appointed we have continued to build on the France, Germany, Ireland and the USA.
They add further excellent progress made in 005 strength and quality to the Board and I and the support we received from As always, there will be competitive welcome them to the Group.
institutional investors at flotation, and market challenges ahead of us.
Nevertheless we take confidence and to refine as well as further While our business will always from the Groups long track record of strengthen our strategy, business depend, to a degree, on the overall success to date and look forward to model and market position, while strength of the economy, we believe seeing the achievements of the last continuing to work hard to deliver our prospects for further growth and financial year acting as a platform for growth and positive returns for all success remain strong and we enter further substantial progress in the shareholders.
the new year with confidence.
While our IPO marked the start of a The Directors recommend a final new chapter for SThree, it did not dividend of 4.8p per share for the change our business focus and in year ended 30 November 006, to the year since we have continued be paid on 4 June 007, to those on to deliver strong, profitable growth.
Sir Anthony Cleaver the register as at 4 May 007.
This This focus has generated strong CHAIRMAN follows the interim dividend of.
per share declared earlier in the year We grew turnover and gross profits by and paid in September 006.
4.8% and 9.7%, respectively, and A detailed review of trading and results operating profit before exceptional is provided in the Chief Executive and items by 39.3% to 4.
0m: results Chief Financial Officers Reviews.
This which are in line with the Boards year, as well as providing greater detail expectations, reflecting the quality on Remuneration and Governance of the Company and its management issues, we have also included a team at all levels.
Our clear strategy focuses on The SThree business is built on an pursuing organic growth through absolute focus on delivering high continued development of the Groups quality and timely permanent and well-established UK Information, contract specialist staffing services Communication and Technology to our clients.
It remains therefore, ICT staffing business, while also first and foremost a people business increasing the Groups revenues and it is only as a direct result of the from other sectors and countries.
talent and dedication of our people Our business model will continue that we are able to continue to post to prioritise high quality over high such positive results.
As such, I would volume and seek to optimise the like to thank all of them again, not superior margins we consistently just for this year but also for their achieve as a consequence of this contribution during the twenty years approach.
Our multi-brand strategy since the business was established.
and highly diversified client base will, as ever, be crucial in achieving this On behalf of the Board, I would also goal and we believe that all current like to thank The Baroness Noakes, SThree businesses have excellent who retires at the forthcoming scope for further growth.
However, Annual General Meeting, for her as always, we will remain openoutstanding personal contribution minded with regard to the launch in helping to guide SThree through of new ventures, continuing to back IPO and helping shape the Group into home-grown entrepreneurial talent, what it is today.
Her contribution, utilising the established minorityparticularly on Audit Committee stakes model where appropriate, and matters, will be sorely missed.
SThree plc 4 5 Name: Jason Watson Position: Group Statutory Reporting Manager Overview of SThree Group Birthplace: Eastbourne, England Report & Accounts 006 Why I work for SThree: Achievements being recognised and rewarded.
SThree, founded in 986, is one SThree has a selective approach to privately owned businesses.
In all of the leading specialist staffing clients and focuses on high margin of our markets we are continually businesses in the UK, providing both opportunities, predominantly subject to both existing and new permanent and contract staff to a within the small to medium-sized competitors entering into the diverse, international client base enterprises SMEs market and, from markets in which we operate, both of well over 4,000 clients.
From its inception, the Group has avoided by geographic region and specialist its well-established position as a the high volume, low margin business activity.
The competitive threat is major player in the information and model in favour of a focus on high from both small start-up operations communications technology ICT quality business.
and large multi-nationals as the costs sector the Group is now broadening of entry into specialist recruitment the base of its operations by building can be relatively low, although these Principal risks facing the fast-growing businesses serving the costs have risen with the increased business banking and finance, accountancy, levels of compliance required from human resources, engineering and local regulators and clients.
Macro economic environment pharmaceuticals sectors.
The performance of the Group has Commercial relationships a relationship with the underlying Following the establishment of its The Group benefits from close growth of the economies of the first business, Computer Futures, commercial relationships with countries in which we operate.
Our in 986, the Group adopted a multikey clients, particularly in the SMEs strategy is to continue to grow the brand strategy.
SThree currently market, although the Group is not size of our international business operates separately managed dependent on any single key client.
in both financial terms and in and, in certain cases, competing geographic coverage in order to business brands, the four largest Technology systems reduce the Groups exposure or being Computer Futures, Huxley The Group is reliant on a number of dependence on any one specific Associates, Progressive and Pathway, technology systems in providing its economy.
A downturn in the ICT or and has 3 offices in the UK and services to clients.
These systems banking markets could, in particular, offices elsewhere in Europe, in are housed in various locations and adversely impact the Groups the Netherlands, Belgium, France, the business continues to review and business.
In addition, the enhance its ability to cope with a Group opened its first North American significant data or other loss.
The Competitive environment office, in New York, in 006. business is also reliant upon a In the United Kingdom and Ireland, number of important suppliers that The Group has developed its multithe markets for the provision provide critical information brand approach over a number of permanent and temporary technology infrastructure.
of years in order to, among other recruitment are highly competitive things, expand the Groups business, and fragmented.
In these more Regulatory environment access new markets, foster an developed markets, competitor In common with many other sectors, entrepreneurial culture among its risk manifests itself in increased the specialist recruitment industry employees and retain key personnel.
competition for clients and is now governed by an increased level The brands have evolved organically candidates and in pricing pressures.
of compliance: this varies from out of the Groups existing businesses.
In Continental Europe, the markets for country to country and market to Each brand operates independently, the provision of recruitment market.
In addition, our clients now but they share common services services are somewhat less require more complex levels of such as finance, information services, developed and the market place is compliance in their contractual human resources and legal.
The Group takes its Group had, 48 employees at are still in a development phase, responsibilities seriously, is year-end.
pricing pressure is less of a risk and committed to meeting all of its our strategy is to rapidly grow our regulatory responsibilities and businesses in these territories.
continues to strengthen its internal Competitors in our markets controls and processes with respect range from large multi-national to legal and contractual obligations.
organisations to small, boutique, SThree plc 6 5
