CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Results TATE & LYLE HAS HAD ANOTHER YEAR Tate & Lyle has had another good year with profit before tax, exceptional items OF STRONG PERFORMANCE DRIVEN and amortisation of 295 million 2005 SUBSTANTIALLY BY OUR VALUE 254 million representing a 16% improvement over the prior year.
There ADDED BUSINESSES was a positive exchange translation effect of 8 million.
The improvement was driven mainly by growth in SPLENDA Sucralose and strong performances from Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas and sugar trading.
The operating performance at the end of the year was particularly good, notably from Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas and sugar trading, with additional benefit from mark-to-market adjustments and certain one-off items.
Growth was delivered despite increased energy costs across the business, the adverse effect of the oversupply of sugar in the EU, and consequences arising from reform of the EU sugar regime.
Sales increased to 3,720 million 2005 3,339 million.
Diluted earnings per share before exceptional items and amortisation for the year to 31 March 2006 were up 11% at 41.7p 2005 37.4p.
After exceptional items and amortisation the diluted loss per share was 6.3p 2005 earnings of 30.6p.
The net charge for exceptional items before tax totalled 248 million 2005 45 million.
In our announcement of 29 March 2006 we stated that we would be reviewing the carrying value of our European assets affected by changes to the EU sugar regime.
The outcome of this review is the principal element of the total impairment charge of 272 million the details of which, including the effect on the future depreciation charge, are set out in the Operating and Financial Review.
This has been partially offset by a 24 million release of provisions relating to US healthcare liabilities following changes to the funding of these costs announced by the US government.
Profit before tax after exceptional items and amortisation was 42 million 2005 205 million.
After an increase in investment and capital expenditure to 344 million including significant expenditure on SPLENDA Sucralose, and an increase of 58 million 06 06 T Tate & ate & L Lyle Annual Report 2006 yle Annual Report 2006 reflecting the adoption of IAS39 on 1 April improvement in the Group Safety Index, this Outlook 2005, net debt increased by 387 million to year by 39.4% and that energy consumption This has been another strong financial 858 million 2005 471 million.
Interest per unit of production showed a useful performance from Tate & Lyle, driven cover was 9.9 times 2005 11.6 times.
reduction of 3.6%, beating our Group target substantially by our value added businesses of 3% per annum.
and benefiting from a good operating Dividend performance and certain one-off items Tate & Lyles UK occupational health In line with its stated dividend policy, the at the end of the year.
These results have programme has also been acknowledged Board proposes an increase of 0.6p 3.1% been achieved despite absorbing significantly as a model of excellence by the UK National in the total dividend for the year to 20.0p.
increased energy costs across the business.
The Department of Health This is covered 2.1 times by earnings In addition, our European operations were is interested in using our programme which before exceptional items and amortisation.
adversely affected by an oversupply of sugar includes health promotion activities, an The proposed final dividend of 14.1p in the EU market and other factors arising occupational health clinic, advice on healthy 2005 13.7p will be due and payable from the reform of the EU sugar regime.
eating and counselling services as an on 27 July 2006 to all shareholders on example of best practice to launch the In our announcement of 29 March 2006 the register at 30 June 2006.
Departments new initiative, Business we stated that we would be reviewing the Communities of Health.
carrying value of those of our European Directors assets affected by changes to the EU sugar As stated in last years Annual Report, Board Effectiveness regime.
The outcome of this review is the Allen Yurko retired from the Board on 28 July During the year, the Board once again principal element of the total impairment 2005 and Dr Barry Zoumas was appointed carried out a review of its effectiveness charge of 272 million, the details of which as a non-executive director from 1 May and that of its Committees led by myself.
are set out in the Operating and Financial 2005.
He has agreed to chair our newly The 2006 evaluation, based on one-to-one Review.
Fundamental options to mitigate formed Research Advisory Group, of which interviews with the directors, the Company the impact of the sugar regime are more details are set out in the Chief Secretary and the Group Human Resources being examined.
Director, followed a similar process to the Our strategy to grow the profit contribution Carole Piwnica will be retiring as a nonone held in 2005 and, as in the previous from value added products continues to executive director at the Annual General year, the 2006 evaluation concluded that be successful and we have set as our target Meeting on 19 July 2006, having served the Board and its Committees were for the current year an increase in profit on the Board for approaching ten years.
Recommendations, contribution of 30% from this activity.
In part, The Board thanks her for her commitment such as improvements to the format of our target derives from the exciting prospect to the Company and her considerable strategic papers provided to the Board and of new value added product facilities contribution to its strategic development.
the content of the agenda for the annual full including capacity for SPLENDA Sucralose day strategy review, have been implemented.
Robert Walker was appointed as a nonbeing completed and commissioned during A full session of the Board is planned for executive director from 1 January 2006. the year to 31 March 2007.
This time last July 2006 to consider other outputs of the He is currently Chairman of WH Smith year we said that we viewed the future with effectiveness review.
and brings to the Board an in-depth confidence.
The success of our value added knowledge of the food and beverage strategy makes it entirely appropriate to Strategy sector, having spent much of his earlier repeat that message.
Our strategy remains to increase the value career working for companies such as added component of our business, which Procter & Gamble and PepsiCo.
has grown substantially over recent years both in absolute profit terms and as a Corporate Social Responsibility proportion of the Groups total profit.
For Tate & Lyle, corporate social Growth continues to be driven by a good responsibility means applying our four performance from our global food core values safety, integrity, knowledge ingredients business, through innovative and innovation to the way we run our Sir David Lees marketing, and the successful expansion business.
This involves continuous progress Chairman of SPLENDA Sucralose manufacturing in achieving the highest standards of safety: 24 May 2006 capacity and sales.
considering the environmental impact of every aspect of what we do: and treating our This has in many respects been a year of employees, suppliers and the communities transition where one of our objectives has in which we work as long-term partners.
been to invest for growth.
We have made The Group continues to be a constituent significant progress towards the completion of FTSE4Good, the UK corporate social of several key investments to facilitate responsibility index.
It is pleasing to report that objective.
a third consecutive calendar year of Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 07
