Chairmans statement Throughout the group, I continue to find wonderfully dedicated professionals who have a passion for market information in all its forms and who are determined to deliver the highest quality work to our clients.
I have now completed my first year as your Chairman: it has The board will be further strengthened, with effect from been an eventful year for the company in many ways, some 12 April 2007, when Dawn Airey and Drummond Hall will join aspects being very positive and others less so.
Dawn is currently Managing Director of Channels and Services at Sky Television and in I have had the opportunity to visit many parts of the group April will take up the position of Chief Executive at media and, throughout the organisation, I continue to find wonderfully group, lostar.
She previously held a number of senior positions dedicated professionals who have a passion for market in British television.
Drummond is Senior Independent Director information in all its forms and who are determined to deliver at Mitchells & Butler plc, having recently stepped down from the highest quality work to our clients.
the role of Chief Executive of Dairy Crest plc.
They have This has also been David Lowdens first year as Chief specialised knowledge that is highly relevant to TNS media Executive of the group, during which he has built an excellent and consumer operations and significant business experience executive team.
At the same time, he has had to contend with that will be beneficial to the groups future development.
The market in the US has seen significant The group has been active in the efficient management of change in the past couple of years and our custom research shareholders funds, whilst ensuring that it is properly business there did not respond fast enough.
This, and other equipped to continue to expand both organically and through factors, led to that business delivering a poor performance acquisition.
The group achieves a high rate of cash conversion in 2006.
Significant changes have been made to local and used 34.8 million of this cash generation to buy back management and the business has been substantially 16.8 million of the companys shares in 2006. reorganised.
We are beginning to see the fruits of that work in 2007.
The vast majority of TNS activities performed well in 2006.
Nevertheless, adjusted earnings per share fell by 7.3 per cent, I wrote in my first report last year of the challenges and mainly as a consequence of the difficulties in the United opportunities facing the market information industry: client States.
The board has confidence in the actions taken in the globalisation, new technologies, industry consolidation and US to ensure recovery and in the continued progress of the media fragmentation.
These remain as relevant as ever in 2007 remainder of the group.
It is, therefore, recommending an and to them may be added the increasing power of the increase in the companys dividend of 15 per cent to procurement departments of many clients.
In the face of these, 4.6 pence, as a tangible way of expressing that confidence.
the group has defined clear and appropriate strategic goals, aimed at delivering a greater proportion of value-added The outlook for the market information industry remains services, while ensuring that we are able to provide a global positive.
The continued growth of emerging markets means offering to our key international clients.
David Lowden and the that it, like many others, is becoming increasingly global, executive team have identified and communicated the actions, with clients at the same time looking for more analysis and investments and cost efficiencies required to achieve these insight.
With its global presence, sector specialisation and goals and major steps were taken in 2006 to implement the research expertise, I believe TNS is well placed to benefit necessary actions.
During 2006, Mike Kirkham left the board after fourteen years of exceptional service and Sharon Studer also stood down, having chaired the remuneration committee during her three years as a non-executive director.
They both carry with them the boards good wishes for their futures.
Sharon has been succeeded by Alice Perkins as Chair of the Donald Brydon, Chairman remuneration committee.
Chairmans statement TNS annual report 2006 1
