Chairmans Statement We have delivered a robust performance in 2006, with strong growth in North America and the UK performing in line with expectations.
Norman Askew, Chairman In 2006 we: shareholders are once again being October 2003 following the acquisition Increased our home completions in the offered the opportunity to reinvest some of Wilson Connolly.
The company has UK and strengthened our order book: or all of their dividend under the benefited from his experience in the Grew home completions and profits Dividend Re-Investment Plan, details homebuilding industry and we wish in North America, as a result of our of which are contained in the 2007 him a long and happy retirement.
strategy of maximising forward sales AGM circular to shareholders.
during the buoyant market conditions Our people of 2005: Board changes The companys success is dependent Achieved another good profit increase As previously announced, Iain Napier upon the expertise and enthusiasm from our businesses in Spain &Gibraltar: retired from the Board on 31 December of its team members.
I would like to Increased equity shareholders 2006.
Following his arrival at Taylor take this opportunity to thank all of funds per share by 7.8 per cent Woodrow in early 2002, Iain oversaw my colleagues throughout the Group to 364.7 pence: our transition to a focused housebuilder, for their enterprise and hard work over Reduced our gearing to 18.6 per cent.
with the acquisition of Wilson Connolly the year.
and the disposal of our non-core Growing dividends through the cycle Investment and Commercial Property Thanks are also due to our customers, In line with our progressive dividend portfolios.
On behalf of the Board, trading partners, shareholders and policy, the Board recommends an I would like to extend our sincere other stakeholders in our business for increase in the final dividend for 2006 thanks for his leadership during a the continuing support that they give to 9.75 pence per share from 8.9 period of enormous change and wish to Taylor Woodrow.
This, together with the Iain every success in his new role interim dividend of 5.0 pence paid on as Chairman of Imperial Tobacco.
Shareholder information 1 November 2006, makes a total Full details of the facilities available to dividend for the year of 14.75 pence, Ian Smith, joined the Board as Chief shareholders can be found on pages 90 an increase of 10 per cent.
Executive on 2 January 2007, bringing and 91 of this Report and Accounts and with him extensive international at www.
Subject to confirmation at the Annual experience, along with a strong General Meeting AGM on 2 May 2007, background in strategy, in the logistics the dividend will be paid on 2 July 2007 and healthcare sectors.
I look forward to shareholders on the register at close to working with Ian to deliver further of business on 25 May 2007. success for Taylor Woodrow.
Norman Askew Chairman This dividend will be paid as a Graeme McCallum retired from the 19 February 2007 conventional cash dividend but Board in January 2007.
He joined us in 02 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006 Manfield Grange, two miles from the centre of Northampton, offers 79 new homes, ranging from one to five bedrooms, built in the grounds of the former Manfield Grange Childrens Hospital.
A listed building, this magnificent restoration provides modern homes and luxury apartments with original and historical features complemented by the latest in high-specification features and fittings.
Above: Manfield Grange, Northampton, England Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006 03 Featuring a variety of four and five bedroom family homes, River Heights is situated in the picturesque area of Steiner Ranch, Texas, and is located within walking distance of the town centre and is close to local schools.
Above: River Heights, Steiner Ranch, Austin, Texas, USA 04 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006
