02 telent Annual Report 2006 Chairmans statement Disposal of businesses to Ericsson We aim to position telent as a leading and the launch of telent The year to 31 March 2006 was a year of further significant change communications services business focused for the Group.
In January 2006, we substantially completed the on the telecommunications and enterprise disposal of our Telecommunications Equipment and International markets.
We believe our accumulated Services businesses to Ericsson, generating proceeds of 1.3 billion and a net profit on disposal of 752 million after fees and other knowledge of xed networks and integrated transaction-related costs.
Work is ongoing to complete legal communication systems, coupled with formalities associated with the sale of related shares and assets in a few overseas jurisdictions.
our significant UK eld force and project delivery capabilities, is a competitive The Marconi name was sold to Ericsson as part of this transaction.
Consequently, on 24 January 2006, the Company was renamed advantage.
Underpinned by robust safety telent plc.
and quality management, the business is On 17 March 2006, the Company declared a special dividend of 275p well positioned to exploit opportunities in per share returning 590 million to shareholders.
The Companys shares our chosen markets.
were subsequently consolidated on 27 March 2006 in the ratio of two-for-seven.
As a result of the Ericsson transaction, we reorganised our continuing UK and German services activities into one coherent business.
This business retained much of the deep technological expertise contained within Marconi but is able to offer solutions to its customers with complete independence from any particular equipment vendor.
Many of our customers see value in this type of relationship.
The business is structured into two operating segments, one working with telecommunication network operators Telco Services and the other focused on enterprise customers including Governments and utilities Enterprise Services.
The activities of these two segments are described in greater detail on pages 4 and 5.
UK Pension Plan In the UK, telent retained responsibility for the UK Pension Plan, which has around 64,000 members.
By contrast, telent currently employs around 2,100 people.
As part of the Ericsson transaction, and required by the Plan Trustee and Pensions Regulator, to protect the entitlements of UK Pension Plan members, 185 million of cash was injected into the UK Pension Plan, and an additional 490 million was put into an escrow arrangement for its potential benefit.
At 31 March 2006, the UK Pension Plan had a surplus of 6 million on an IAS 19 basis excluding the 490 million in escrow.
The Trustee has recently put in place inflation and interest rate hedging and, taking this into account, we announced on 2 August that as at 30 June 2006, the UK Pension Plan had an IAS 19 deficit of 102 million.
03 telent Annual Report 2006 The cash in the escrow, which is secured in favour of the UK Pension Both Mark Plato and Heather Green have been with the Group for a Plan, is available to meet any funding plan agreed between telent and number of years having joined in 1995 and 2001 respectively.
Mark has the Trustee to meet a deficit on an IAS 19 or Pension Protection Fund been Managing Director of telent, and previously of the services basis.
Cash can only be released from the escrow to telent if, in the business, since September 2002.
Heather was previously Group Financial future, the UK Pension Plan achieves a funding level of in excess of Controller and has a background in finance and investor relations within 105% on a buy-out basis.
the Group and prior to this at Alstom.
Their biographies can be found on page 11.
Offer for telent from Holmar Holdings Limited On 25 May 2006, the Boards of Holmar Holdings Limited a private These changes ensure that telent has the most appropriate team limited company indirectly owned by a private equity fund advised by in place to take the business forward over the longer-term as an Fortress Investment Group Holmar and telent announced that independent communications services company.
I would like to thank they had reached agreement in principle on the terms of a possible Mike and Pavi for their huge contributions in successfully restructuring recommended cash acquisition by Holmar of telent at 529.5p per share.
the balance sheet, completing the Ericsson transaction, securing the UK Pension Plan and putting telent in a strong position for the future.
On 20 June 2006, Holmar announced that it was proceeding with the I would also like to thank Kathleen for all her guidance, especially in acquisition of telent at 529.5p per share.
The Board believed that the relation to US markets.
offer from Holmar represented fair value to telent shareholders and recommended that they vote in favour of the transaction.
At the same time, I am delighted that Mark Plato and Heather Green have accepted the Boards invitation to take up the roles of Chief Subsequently, meetings of telents shareholders were convened Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer respectively.
I very much for 21 July 2006 to consider and vote on the resolutions required to look forward to working with both of them in the years to come.
approve the cash acquisition of telent by Holmar, through a scheme of arrangement the Scheme, which required approval from a Outlook majority of three-quarters of those shareholders voting.
We aim to position telent as a leading communications services business focused on the telecommunications and enterprise markets.
On 21 July 2006, we made a further announcement which explained We believe our accumulated knowledge of xed networks and that, in connection with the shareholders meetings convened for integrated communication systems, coupled with our significant 21 July 2006, over 40% of telents shares had been voted via proxies UK eld force and project delivery capabilities, is a competitive and over 99.9% of those proxies had been voted in favour of the advantage.
Underpinned by robust safety and quality management, Scheme.
However, Polygon Investment Partners LLP and Polygon the business is well positioned to exploit opportunities in our Investment Partners LP, the owners of approximately 14.7 million chosen markets.
shares or 23.9% of the issued share capital of telent, had indicated through their SEC lings and in conversation with the management Actions have been taken since the launch of telent, and are ongoing, of telent, that they intended to vote against the relevant resolutions.
to downsize the remaining cost base to a structure suitable for Consequently, the meetings on 21 July 2006 were adjourned to supporting the continuing business.
Further details are included 4 August 2006, to give those shareholders who had not yet voted in the Business and Financial review on pages 16 to 23. an opportunity to vote.
Approximately 75% of the revenues we anticipate for the current On 4 August 2006, we announced that, at the adjourned shareholder financial year will come through orders already booked at 31 March meetings held that day, the requisite majority of shareholders had 2006, or from existing frame contracts.
not voted in favour of the offer from Holmar.
Consequently the Our main contracts include: a four-year cable services frame contract Scheme lapsed.
with BT ending in June 2008: our Tube Lines upgrade and maintenance People contract continuing until 2018: a multi-year frame contract with One of our key strengths as a services business is our people and I Network Rail ending in 2009: our O2 Airwave GBNR contract, would like to thank them all for the terric effort that they have put for which the implementation element completes in 2007: our Toll in through what, for some, may have been an unsettling time and for Collect contract in Germany, which continues until 2010: and a new their continued loyalty.
installation & commissioning frame contract with Ericsson.
Changes to the Board We have experienced a significant increase in bidding activity for new On 11 August 2006, the Board announced that it had agreed with opportunities across all Enterprise sectors, particularly in emergency Mike Parton that he would step down as Chief Executive Officer from services and transportation since the launch of telent.
Subsequently, on 5 September 2006, we announced Your Board remains confident that the telent business has a committed that Mark Plato would assume the role of Chief Executive Officer with and highly skilled workforce that will continue to help a wide range of immediate effect and that Mike Parton would consequently step down customers to meet their business needs and achieve results by delivering from the Board but remain with telent until 31 October 2006.
We also service, commitment and value.
announced that Pavi Binning would step down from the Board and the role of Chief Financial Officer and that Heather Green would assume the role with immediate effect.
Pavi Binning will remain with telent until 30 November 2006 to ensure an orderly handover of responsibilities.
We further announced that Kathleen Flaherty had decided not to stand for reappointment and will, therefore, retire from the Board after the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 20 October 2006.
