Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 THINK QUALITY CHAIRMANS STATEMENT This has been a challenging year for the After 11 years, Andrew Liggett, Finance Director has decided to step home improvement market but I am down and will be leaving the Company with effect from 30 April 2007. pleased to report that in the face of tough Andy has been an important part of Topps growth as a quoted trading the Group has once again grown Company and I, along with the other members of the Board, wish to both its revenues and operating profits.
thank him for his significant contribution over the last 11 years.
All of us wish him well for the future.
FINANCIAL RESULTS Group revenue was 180.2m an increase PEOPLE of 3.9% on last year with like-for-like These results are testimony to the commitment of all our staff, those revenue for the period down 1.8%.
in the front line in-store and all our operational support team.
On Group operating profit before share buy back costs of 1.1million was behalf of the Board, I would like to thank them all for their continued 40.0million, an increase of 8.5% compared with last year.
I would also like to extend a warm welcome margins improved to 62.6% compared with 61.3% in 2005. to the staff who joined the Group in the period.
SHARE CAPITAL CONSOLIDATION AND RETURN OF CASH OUTLOOK Following a review of the Companys financing requirements and We are confident that our strategy for organic growth is sound.
given our robust balance sheet and strong record of cash conversion We strive to offer the best in range, quality and accessibility of our we announced in July a return of 122.4 million in cash to products coupled with outstanding customer service and we shareholders in conjunction with a share capital consolidation of 3 continually monitor our performance to ensure we are always one for 4 ordinary shares.
step ahead of the competition.
The return of cash, equating to 54 pence per ordinary share, was Looking ahead, we believe that we are in a strong position to approved by our shareholders on 31 July 2006. continue to expand our market share and we now have the potential to trade from over 400 stores UK wide.
We are confident that the DIVIDEND strength of the management team, our people and our strategy will In line with our stated dividend policy, the Board proposes an enable further growth of the business and deliver sustainable returns increase of 0.9p 9.5% in the total dividend for the year to 10.40p.
This is covered 1.41 times by earnings.
The proposed final dividend of 6.9p 2005: 6.00 pence will be paid on 31 January 2007 to all shareholders on the register as at 5 January Barry Bester 2007.
Chairman BOARD CHANGES As announced in April we strengthened our Executive Board by the appointment of Matthew Williams, our Chief Operating Officer, as a main Board Director.
I am delighted to welcome Matthew to the Board.
03 : Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Customer Store service locations : OUR SUCCESS IS BUILT ON FOUR KEY CORNERSTONES: Stock Store availability layout 04 : :
