70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:40 Page 10 CHAIRMANS ST A TEMENT For the year ended 31 December 2006 In 2006 we made considerable progress Our management teams worked total dividend of 37.4 pence, an in the development and performance of hard over the past two years in difficult increase of 10.0% on the previous year.
our business, with financial results conditions in the home improvement ahead of original expectations for the market and have delivered synergy and BOARD OF DIRECTORS year, further expansion of our branch buying gains in excess of those We added two new non-executive network and satisfactory integration of anticipated.
The Wickes acquisition has directors to our Board in 2006.
All this was enhanced earnings per share in 2006, Simon, with considerable experience as a achieved in trade and retail markets and we are pursuing additional chief executive, non-executive director that, whilst recovering in line with our opportunities to grow the Wickes and chairman, joined us in February.
We expectations, remained challenging for business and further enhance benefit from Andrews prior experience most of the year.
of our sector and his wide accumulation We have maintained our position of of experience on major public company RESULTS having the highest operating margin in boards.
Andrew is Chairman of the Our focus on maximising profits from both merchant and retail sectors, and Remuneration Committee.
Stephen our existing branch network during the four out of our six brands now have Carter, with senior executive experience difficult markets of 2005 and early 2006 best in class operating margins.
in marketing and communications, yielded benefits, and was mainly With improved operating profit joined us in April.
Stephen stepped down responsible for the increases reported in performance and a further priority to as planned as Chief Executive of Ofcom revenue, operating profit, profit before increase returns and cash generation, in September and is now CEO of a tax and reduction in debt.
These results we reduced our debt by 178m since financial public relations company and were driven by positive achievements in last year end.
Net debt is now some has already made a significant sales performance, trading margin, cost 249 million lower than the procontribution to the Boards deliberations.
forma position at the time of the We continued to expand our branch Wickes acquisition note 33.
EMPLOYEES network, albeit at a slower rate than in A combination of strong financial For any business to trade successfully in 2005, adding new branches to each markets and additional contributions by difficult markets it is important that the brand and adding a new business to our the Company has resulted in the net people who work in that business are portfolio.
We passed through the 1000 pension deficit being reduced to 56.6m committed to it success.
The results branch milestone in June 2006 and to at the year end from 99.9m at 31 achieved in 2006 are a testament to our commemorate this launched a major December 2005.
The scheme is now 86% workforce and the Board of Directors programme of community projects.
funded with the net deficit representing would like to place on record its thanks The integration of Wickes is now less than 2.5% of the Companys market for the dedication and commitment substantially and successfully complete, capitalisation at 31 December 2006. shown by all colleagues in Travis Perkins with a number of retail support over the past year.
functions now integrated with their DIVIDEND equivalent function in the trade The Group continues to be highly cash CORPORATE GOVERNANCE division to provide a new Group generative.
As a result of this and our Requirements and activity in capability.
Additional steps have been confidence in the future prospects of corporate governance continue apace.
taken to strengthen these functions the Group, the Board is recommending In 2006 significant new work was which now support all businesses in the a final dividend of 25.3 pence per share.
carried out in risk assessment and Group, to provide a platform to support Taken together with the interim management, remuneration, health further growth.
dividend of 12.1 pence, this represents a and safety and environment.
Our work 10 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:40 Page 11 CHAIRMANS ST A TEMENT we have maintained our position of having the highest operating margin in both merchant and retail sectors Garry Dunbar, Fork-lift Driver, Keyline, Hull Delivery from Travis Perkins, Bath in these areas was supported by Early sales performance in 2007 has share and returns to shareholders.
strengthened and newly integrated been encouraging, with like-for-like However, we remain vigilant to the risk functions for Business Risk Assurance, sales in our merchanting division for the that the current recovery may stall and Health and Safety and Environmental first two months ahead by 5.3% and that, as in 2005, we may need to act Management, established this year.
like-for-like sales for the first 8 weeks swiftly to reduce costs and curtail the pace with which we build our These larger group functions allow us trading in retail up by 5.0%.
to ensure we have sufficient resources Much of this positive market capabilities and network.
and expertise to deal with the performance has been propelled by a Our focus on driving stronger increasing challenges all companies healthy housing market.
Although rising performance from our like-for-like estate are likely to have to deal with in consumer confidence and spending has is paying off, and is making us a tougher future.
Further details of our more recently provided added impetus, competitor in each market in which we governance controls can be found particularly in retail, our prospects for trade.
Our expansion is continuing to under the corporate governance the second half of 2007 are sensitive to deliver the benefits of scale.
This section of this annual report.
the current uncertain outlook for approach means we are well positioned interest rates and the consequent to maintain our leadership, having the OUTLOOK impact on both new and secondary best business with the best operating Long term prospects for our markets housing markets.
margin, in each of our markets.
remain good and the gradual recovery Our planned development of the we expected and experienced in 2006 Groups businesses and support has, we believe, sufficient momentum functions assumes a continued to deliver good market growth in both recovery in both our markets, and we T. E. P. Stevenson trade and retail markets in the first are confident of capitalising on this Chairman half of 2007. growth to make further gains in market 5 March 2007 11
