Chairmans statement Tullow is a versatile and balanced oil and gas exploration and production group with a portfolio of quality assets managed by a team with excellent technical, commercial and financial skills.
Our strategy is clear and our objective is to consistently deliver value to shareholders.
A key part of our performance and growth has been our consistent drilling programme in 2007 which will test the major upside potential of this strategic ability to attract and retain great people Namibian asset.
Our portfolio of over 200 leads and prospects and our balanced In Asia, the regeneration of our portfolio approach to developing our assets allows us to allocate resources continued apace in 2006 and the foundations where they will be most effective were laid for an equally exciting 2007 programme.
In Bangladesh, first gas was In an industry that is constantly evolving, Tullow has developed a strong produced from the Tullow-operated Bangora track record of identifying opportunities and executing transactions project in May and this, together with the success of the appraisal drilling programme, led to a declaration of commerciality and Strong performance trends growing production, Tullow also participated a material upgrade to year end reserves.
During 2006, we invested close to 1 billion in in four successful exploration wells, including In Pakistan, ongoing development work growing the business, including 332 million the potentially significant K4 discovery in the will result in first gas being produced from on capital expenditure, 70% of which was Caister Murdoch System CMS Area.
These Chachar in the second quarter, while a invested in our production and development discoveries, along with the Thurne, Kelvin and two-well exploration programme on the assets.
The 30% increase in revenue and the Wissey projects already in progress, form the potentially significant Kohat Block will start Groups operating cash flow of 447 million basis of our future development programme.
Perhaps most encouraging, comfortably funded all our capital investment however, has been India, where seismic and a dividend 38% higher than that for 2005. acquisition undertaken during 2005 and 2006 has led to the delineation of a number of The spread and balance of our business 38% distinct targets in the CB-ON 1 licence in and assets limits our exposure, volatility and the Cambay Basin, which will be the subject increase in dividend per share.
risk in any single asset or territory, and also of a multi-well drilling campaign in 2007. allows us to put in place financing facilities In Africa, Tullow invested over 150 million that would not be available for a single-asset Carefully managed responsibilities during 2006, representing 45% of overall or single-region company.
Thus, we have Tullow recognises that its opportunities capital expenditure, and carried out a wide the flexibility to allocate capital to wherever come with associated responsibilities.
Our range of near-infrastructure and high-impact it will attract the best return at any time.
commitment to those responsibilities is fully exploration, infill drilling and development endorsed by the Board and clearly set out in activity.
Our production objectives were Excellent operational delivery our Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR Each of our three core areas demonstrated substantially achieved.
Infill drilling results Report and on our website.
Our operations were positive across all fields, and our major progress during 2006. must be safe, our activities transparent and Gabon output was in line with expectations.
our environmental impact carefully managed In the UK, gas production increased from On the development front, both the West and monitored.
In 2006, Tullow had no 130 to 172 mmscfd, enabling Tullow to Espoir and Okume fields were brought on significant environmental, health, safety take advantage of record gas prices in the stream as anticipated.
In exploration, while or security issues.
The Lost Time Incident first half of the year.
Effective operational the outcome of the programme in Gabon Frequency Ratio LTIFR was 0.81, well within management of the Schooner and Ketch was disappointing, results to date from our target of 1.0, despite a 65% increase to fields brought average uptime to 98% and Uganda have exceeded our most optimistic 6.1 million hours worked across the Group, maximum production to over 100 mmscfd.
expectations and point to the potential for a both onshore and offshore, during the year.
However, the overall outcome of the 2006 world-class new hydrocarbon province to be Furthermore, our responsibilities also include redevelopment programme resulted in a delivered by the 2007 and 2008 exploration working with communities in a sustainable 45 bcf reduction in reserves for these fields.
In 2006, Tullow spent US$1.5 million The performance of the other SNS producing progress was also achieved on the Kudu in funding social and community projects assets was positive and, in parallel with project in 2006, leading to a two-well appraisal 2 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Service vessel leaves the Horne & Wren platform in the UK SNS.
We are particularly In the UK gas market, following and with 100 people in an operational proud of our activities to date in Uganda unprecedented pricing in early 2006, the or technical capacity.
where, in addition to establishing local recent addition of much-needed pipeline Positive positioning and outlook agricultural, fishing and manufacturing capacity and impact of a comparatively mild The balance and diversity of Tullows business enterprises, our Lake Rescue support winter have combined to drive gas prices for allows us to adapt swiftly to opportunities as programme has already saved lives.
the first quarter of this year down to 2003 they arise and to tailor our investment plans levels.
Looking forward, the overall underlying Focused growth strategy to the changing circumstances of the industry.
supply and demand fundamentals, allied to The combination of our excellent operating the gradual convergence of UK and European Our production assets, along with our performance and a positive macro gas markets, means the outlook continues to development and exploration activities and environment has enabled Tullow to focus be positive.
The oil market has also retreated the Hardman business, leave Tullow with on the long-term growth and health of our from a mid-2006 high.
However, current and a high-quality, opportunity-rich portfolio business and portfolio, and invest accordingly.
forward pricing remains extremely attractive in each of its core areas.
Our business is The most obvious example of this during in historic terms, supporting Tullows overall healthy and growing and should remain 2006 was the 595 million acquisition of strategy of investing in the development so for the foreseeable future.
Hardman Resources Limited Hardman of long-life oil assets such as Okume in announced in September and completed Equatorial Guinea, Espoir in Cte dIvoire, in January 2007.
The Hardman acquisition Chinguetti in Mauritania and MBoundi in represented an outstanding strategic Congo Brazzaville and exploring in exciting opportunity for Tullow and is a clear territories such as Uganda and India.
demonstration of the substantial financial Pat Plunkett, Chairman and operational capability of our business The 595 million acquisition of Hardman and the skills of our team.
Interestingly, cost less than Tullows combined 2006 the acquisition of Hardman cost less than and projected 2007 capital expenditure.
Tullows combined capital expenditure for 2006 and projected 2007 expenditure, an Investing in people effective illustration of the scale the Group In 2006, we strengthened the Board with has achieved and the major opportunities the appointment of three new Directors.
present within our existing portfolio.
Our Paul McDade, the Groups Chief Operating strong cash flow and rigorous approach to Officer, was appointed to the Board in March, the management of financial risk allows us to while Angus McCoss, who joined Tullow implement our growth plans with confidence as General Manager Exploration in April while comfortably servicing net debt of over 2006, was appointed to the Board and 450 million following this acquisition.
as Exploration Director in December.
In June, David Williams joined as a A dynamic external environment non-executive Director.
The continued strength of oil and gas pricing has prompted a significant acceleration Our strong reputation enables us to of exploration, development and corporate recruit top people and, combined with the activity in the sector.
This rapid build up of development of internal talent, puts us in an activity has created pressure on the supply excellent position to capitalise on the exciting of people, rigs, oil field services and seismic opportunities available to Tullow.
At a vessels, leading to sharply increased costs.
time when our sector is increasingly Similarly, the strong cash flows being resource constrained, the Group is well generated by oil and gas companies have placed for the future with over 45% of increased competition for quality acreage our staff being under 45 years of age and assets including corporate deals.
4 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Oil prices $ Gas prices 80 180 50 45 160 60 40 140 35 120 $53 bbl 30 40 100 25 $43 bbl 80 20 $34 bbl 60 15 20 40 10 20 5 0 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Dated Brent Actual production mmscfd Tullow realised oil prices Unit operating costs p therm Realised gas prices Production facilities at the Bangora field in Bangladesh.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 5 production mmscfd Gas prices and operating cost p therm
