Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chairmans Overview Order book 17% growth 584m 2005: 501m Dr Julian Blogh, Chairman These record results reflect the continuing success of Ultras Ultra made excellent progress in 2006, strategy of gaining strong market positions through being a niche achieving strong growth in revenue and supplier of electronic systems, products and services in growing sectors within the defence and aerospace markets.
The Groups performance reected of Ultras financial performance is derived from the Groups broad increased contributions from its specialist mix of activities within its twenty businesses.
Ultras ability to activities in battlespace IT, airport IT systems combine its niche capabilities enables it to win contracts for complex integrated systems, often involving a number of different and underwater battlespace systems and Group businesses.
Increasingly, Ultra teams with international, equipment.
Contributions were made by world-class partners to access best of breed technology.
The the acquisitions completed in 2005 and the Group undertakes specialist system and sub-system design and integration, again often using the combined expertise of the two further small acquisitions made during Group businesses.
The Group has a reputation for successful 2006.
Several important contracts were programme execution, culminating in innovative solutions utilising differentiated technologies delivered on-time to its customers.
secured during 2006, including positions on Ultras spread of businesses across North America and the UK also new programmes that will support further enables it to address specific national requirements where a growth of the Group.
sovereign operational capability must be maintained.
The Groups structure of three divisions with individual businesses addressing specic niche areas under the control of empowered management teams enables it to operate in a exible and agile way.
Ultras businesses constantly pursue product and process innovation and this places Ultra in a strong position to provide and deliver differentiated products, services and solutions to meet customer requirements.
Consequently, the Group sustains leadership positions in niche markets where its technological innovation creates a clear competitive advantage.
Revenue at 377m grew by 10% with the Tactical & Sonar Systems division showing the strongest growth.
Operating profit increased by 13% over the previous years achievement to 57.5m.
This was despite the 4.8m negative impact of weaker exchange rates.
At constant currencies year-on-year operating profit growth would have been 22%.
Earnings per share at 58.4p increased by 15% reecting lower net bank interest charges and a slightly higher effective tax rate for 2006 than in the prior year.
The high quality of these earnings was underscored by good cash generation, reecting managements continuing focus on this important performance indicator.
The conversion of operating profit to operating cash ow in the year was 98%.
Over the last five years the Groups innovative solutions winning performance consistent delivery 02 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chairmans Overview Earnings per share Total dividend per share 15% growth 16% growth 58.4p 18.5p 2005: 50.7p 2005: 15.9p average cash conversion has been 110%.
Consequently, net debt Ultras performance in 2006 extends its long track record of at the year-end was just 7.2m.
The Board will be recommending a continuous progress and the Group enters 2007 with a record order final dividend of 12.6p per share, making a total for the year of book and a strong balance sheet.
Ultra has the funds to make 18.5p, a 16% increase over 2005. further acquisitions that will enhance and complement the Groups range of niche activities in growing market sectors.
The Group The acquisitions of Polyex Aerospace Ltd. and Winfrith Safety pursues good quality businesses that can be acquired at sensible Systems were completed in the year.
Polyex, now fully integrated prices and to which Ultras ownership will add value.
The record into Ultras Precision Air Systems business, supplies a broad range of order book of over 580m represents a good increase in the year innovative components and sub-systems for high integrity defence and provides Ultra with its customary level of earnings visibility.
Winfrith supplies specialist sensors and reects the Groups strong positions on existing platforms as well as associated cables for use within nuclear reactors.
The products have its success in winning positions on new programmes.
Despite the both civil and military applications and complement Ultras existing growth of Ultra, it remained the case that no single programme reactor control and instrumentation development activity.
Winfrith contributed more than 5% of sales in the year.
This underpinned is now part of the Groups Command & Control Systems business.
the resilience of the Groups performance.
In Ultras main defence markets worldwide, expenditure is increasing Ultra has a broad range of products and services and has a successful on the repair, upgrade and replacement of equipment used in track record of winning positions on a wide range of international current military operations.
This is continuing to exert pressure on programmes.
Combined with healthy market conditions, this gives defence budgets: however, the absolute level of defence the Board confidence in further progress in 2007. expenditure is still rising.
Electronic solutions to provide smarter equipment continue to attract a significant and rising proportion of Finally I would like to thank all Ultra employees for their hard work these budgets.
Expenditure is increasing on battlespace IT systems and continuing commitment, which have made such important and equipment to provide better situational awareness, target contributions to the success of the Group.
acquisition, command and control and the delivery of the required Dr Julian Blogh, Chairman military effects with a high degree of accuracy.
Funds are being spent on equipping and protecting modern armed forces to allow the rapid deployment of light, mobile troops anywhere in the world.
Ultras strategy has successfully positioned the Group to benefit from these trends.
In the civil markets, aerospace remains buoyant and healthy demand continues both for sales of original equipment and for aftermarket spares and repairs.
Development programmes for new aircraft types provide Ultra with opportunities to win positions for its innovative solutions.
The Groups decision to invest in the 787 programme is validated by Boeings achievement of 435 firm orders for the aircraft by the end of 2006.
The growth in passenger air travel is strong, especially in those areas of the world where rapid population growth is combined with rising disposable incomes.
This drives increasing demand for new infrastructure including airport IT systems.
see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 03
