Report of the Directors Chairmans report In 2006 we regained the initiative in the marketplace resulting in In addition to welcoming these new members to the Boards, top line growth of 3.8% and a stabilisation of our market shares.
we will be saying goodbye to two of the Directors.
Rudy retires after 39 years of distinguished service with Many initiatives such as One Unilever were accelerated and Unilever during which time he has successfully occupied a number executed with great skill and discipline.
In 1998 he joined the Boards as Strategy and Technology Director, being appointed Financial On behalf of the Boards I would like to thank Patrick and his Director, now Chief Financial officer, in 2000.
On behalf of the team, as well as all our 179 000 employees around the world, Boards I would like to acknowledge his outstanding career and for their hard work and commitment.
thank him for the significant contribution he has made to our business throughout that time.
Although economic activity has been favourable, in other business areas for example raw material prices the going has been tough.
Lynda retires as a Non-Executive Director Therefore the words of appreciation from the Boards are well after three terms of three years.
She has served as Chair of the deserved.
Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee and throughout her time on the Boards we have benefited from I would like to report back to you on a number of issues concerning her wise counsel and expert knowledge of developing markets.
the dual structure, Board composition and Board evaluation.
On your behalf I thank them both for their service.
Dual structure In 2005 three proposals were put forward to change Unilevers In addition, the Nomination Committee led by its Chairman David constitutional arrangements.
All were approved by shareholders Simon was given the task of searching for a new Chairman as my at the two Annual General Meetings AGMs which were held in successor.
We are delighted that Michael Treschow has agreed to May 2006. succeed me as the first independent Chairman of the Boards of Unilever, subject to his appointment as a Non-Executive Director As a result, we now have greater exibility to allocate assets at the AGMs.
Michael is a businessman with a formidable track between the two parent companies.
In addition, there is full record gained in some of the worlds most competitive consumer transparency between our share prices since there is one-to-one industries.
He has also proved himself an effective Chairman at equivalence in their economic interests in the Unilever Group.
both Ericsson and Electrolux, and we trust that his appointment Finally, our shareholders have the right to nominate candidates will be approved by shareholders.
When these changes are implemented we will have nalised All of this means we have simplied the relationship between a complete restructuring of our corporate governance our NV and PLC shares, and strengthened several elements of arrangements.
This change process was initiated in 2004 and it Unilevers corporate governance.
At the same time, the Group involved the elimination of Advisory Directors, the phase-out of continues to benefit from its dual structure.
the dual leadership system, the adoption of a one-tier board structure and the appointment of a fully independent Chairman I would like to remind you that the dual structure refers to the of the Boards.
We feel we will have Boards in place which legal framework of Unilever.
When it comes to the day-to-day will measure favourably against the highest corporate management of Unilevers operations the Group is run on the governance standards.
principle of one operating unit and as such the vast majority of employees are, quite properly, unaware of our legal structure.
Board evaluation During 2006 a full and thorough evaluation of how the Boards Board succession functioned was conducted by a specialist outside rm.
Taken as a During 2006 we continued our search to identify candidates for whole, the outcome was positive as it confirmed that the changes the Boards who would strengthen its expertise and independence.
we have made since 2004, the move from Advisory Directors to We are very pleased that Genevieve Berger, Narayana Murthy and Non-Executive Directors and the splitting of the Chairman and Hixonia Nyasulu have expressed their willingness to serve on Chief Executive roles, have strengthened our governance Unilevers Boards: they will be proposed as Non-Executive structure.
In addition, the amount of time spent on Unilever Directors at the AGMs in May 2007.
Genevieve is a Professor Board matters compares very favourably with general practice.
of Biophysics and Medical Imaging at Paris University VI and Chairman of the Advisory Board Health for the EU Commission These conclusions support our belief that all the alterations to for Research.
Narayana is co-founder and Chairman of Infosys our governance structure and proceedings have been beneficial Technologies Limited.
Hixonia is a Non-Executive Director of Sasol to Unilever overall and that we meet the very high standards Limited and Anglo Platinum and an Advisory Board Member of expected of a group of our size and complexity.
Their appointments will bring further diversity of background and experience to the Boards and we hope that their nominations will be approved by shareholders.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 3 Report of the Directors continued Chairmans report continued Conclusion I realise I am writing to you for the last time after 35 years of service with Unilever.
The changes within Unilever over this period have been truly transformational both in terms of product portfolio and geographical spread.
Our turnover in Western Europe has declined from 65% to 34% of Unilever sales.
The expansion has been picked up by the developing countries which represent over 40% of our turnover.
Moreover, 35 years ago 25% of Unilever sales were outside the fast moving consumer goods sector.
Spearheaded by disposals and acquisitions such as Chesebrough Ponds and Bestfoods, Unilever turnover is now focused on around 400 brands, all in consumer goods categories.
Especially spectacular has been the rise of turnover of our personal care business from 4% of sales in 1972 to 28% of sales today.
Perhaps the most impressive change since the early seventies is the step-up of the quality and strength of our brand portfolio.
We have come from a position of no brand achieving a turnover of over 1 billion, to todays position of twelve billion-euro brands, representing around 55% of Unilevers turnover.
All these changes together with the underpinning of our Vitality mission position our company favourably for future growth.
What has not changed over the last four decades is the way Unilever conducts its business: integrity first and foremost in all things we undertake together with a keen interest for the communities and environment in which we work.
It has been a privilege to serve in Unilever over the last 35 years.
Antony Burgmans Chairman 4 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006
