02 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Chairmans Statement Creating new value through vision, delivery and growth Performance in 2006 I am privileged to be writing to you following a year of spectacular growth in your company.
Vedantas market capitalisation now stands at over $7 billion compared with under $2 billion at the time of the IPO in December 2003.
Total shareholder returns TSR during the year ended 31 March 2006 were 204% with the Group achieving record EBITDA of over $1.1 billion.
Using the TSR measure, Vedantas 2006 returns were superior to all diversified metals and mining companies listed on the UK main market.
I firmly believe we are unique due to the strength of our project growth pipeline.
In our first phase of growth, the expanded Tuticorin copper smelter, the new zinc smelter at Chanderiya and the new aluminium smelter at Korba have been commissioned with capital costs and timeframes ahead of industry norms.
The next phase of our growth with investments of over $3 billion is I believe we have only just started to realise our well under way.
These aspects make full potential.
We have a clear strategy for growth Vedanta a creator of value and 2006 saw significant new value created.
and the strength of our pipeline makes us unique I also believe that Vedantas competitive in the industry.
advantage is its relentless focus on improving the efficiency of its operations.
"Volume growth, productivity gains and other continuous improvement measures will enable us K:96CI6 IHG 8DBE6G:9 ID DI :G J@""A HI:9 B C C 8DBE6C :H & 6eg a '%% & BVgX] '%% to achieve our vision of being amongst the lowest cost producers. '"
% Demand and Markets '%% Demand for metals continues to be robust.
Primary and secondary metal & % demand is especially supported by increased activity in the industrial and infrastructure sectors in emerging &%% markets and Asia will clearly be a driver of growth for metals in the short to % medium term.
% KZYVciV Adcb c MhigViV 6c ad 6bZg XVc G d I cid 6cid[V VhiV 7 E 7 aa idc India is an attractive destination for metal producers in terms of being a Source: DataStream Excludes Kazakhmys as it was listed for only part of the year natural resources hub, setting up VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 03 Aerial view of Korba II smelter capacities at attractive capital costs In India, we are investing in a new These are landmark projects not only and providing access to rapidly growing 170,000 tpa zinc smelter project at for Vedanta but also for the countries domestic and nearby Asian markets.
Chanderiya and also in the development in which we operate.
In addition to The Indian Government continues and construction of Indias largest commercial benefits from primary to maintain its policy of growth and aluminium asset with its associated and secondary economic activity, our liberalisation.
The recently announced 1,215 MW captive power plant in investments will bring development 2007 Union Budget promises a Jharsuguda, Orissa.
Upon completion, to several regional communities in continuation of policies to grow the these projects will service the rapidly India and Zambia on a previously economy and encourage inward increasing demand for these metals unforeseen scale.
investment, by increasing budgetary and strengthen our competitive allocations for infrastructure spending position in the global copper, zinc The efficiency with which our growth specifically in roads, ports, and aluminium businesses.
projects continue to be delivered at low telecommunications and urban costs of development, set against the infrastructure.
We expect these Closely aligned with our expansion backdrop of rapidly expanding growth measures to ensure continuing and plans is our exploration programme in industrial activity and infrastructure accelerating Indian demand growth for focused on delivering adequate investment in India and Asia, allows metals and the Group is well positioned resources that meet and sustain our us to benefit independently of the to play a leading part in this growth.
We have put in place a sustainable Growth exploration model by creating scaleable One of the most important aspects We continue to remain focused on our infrastructure and allocating of growth is the careful management vision of becoming a  resources.
I believe these of the Groups finances.
We manage annum producer of each of our key measures will yield good results.
our expansion programmes within metals and remain firmly on track to conservative gearing levels.
For this next phase of our growth, several major projects with a total investment of $3.1 billion were announced last year and are now being implemented.
We see a lot of promise in Zambia and believe that the copper industry will remain a major driver of its economy.
The copper belt once produced nearly 750,000 tpa of copper but this has since reduced significantly.
We foresee that with its rich copper resource, Zambia can regain its position as a major global producer of copper.
Vedanta is making a major contribution to the Zambian economy by developing the Konkola deep ore body, one of the richest in the world with over 215 million tonnes of resource at 3.8% grade, by way of an investment of $400 million.
Our investment in Zambia includes a further $280 million for a smelter expansion project which will increase our total smelting capacity to 400,000 tpa at KCM.
04 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Chairmans Statement continued We are on track to becoming the only company providing one million tonnes per annum in each of our three metals as well as achieving cost leadership.
We have already announced $3.1 billion of investments this year and Vedanta is very well positioned to realise further opportunities in India.
of $725 million in convertible bonds index LTIFR improving by 30% and uplifting.
In India, our involvement in February 2006 demonstrated our during the year.
In spite of these efforts, with micro-enterprise through the self ability to obtain efficient financing we experienced some fatalities at our help groups SHGs especially with that complements our expansion operations during the year.
Any loss women at Lanjigarh, Tuticorin and programme and optimises overall of life is not tolerable and we have our other locations has been a great financing costs of the business.
instituted guidelines and procedures success.
Over 3,600 women have to prevent the recurrence of such been trained for micro-enterprise Whilst mergers and acquisitions are not incidents.
management and are a part of over 180 the central platform of our growth, we SHGs.
These SHGs play an active role will evaluate inorganic opportunities Sustainable development for us also in the development of the communities.
that create compelling shareholder encompasses conservation of natural We continue to support education value.
Given our demonstrated strength resources like water, especially in arid for children through Bal Wadis, in the turn around of underperforming regions such as Rajasthan.
We have supplemented with midday meal assets, we will look at opportunities taken the utmost care in all our schemes and health checkups.
In our where we can add substantial value.
expansion projects in selecting energy state-of-the-art hospitals and clinics at efficient and environmentally friendly our various operating locations and Sustainable and Responsible technologies.
through mobile health camps conducted Development in the surrounding villages, we provide Sustainable development is at the very I am also pleased to report significant quality health care to over a quarter of heart of our business strategy.
Whilst we extensions in all parts of the Groups a million people.
are humbled by the vast impact of our social, health and safety and industry towards the basics of life, we environmental activities in Zambia.
With a conducive policy framework in also recognise the potential impact upon Our investment in a company-wide place and a robust implementation and the environment and on occupational community-based HIV immunisation governance structure, we remain hazards and safety for communities and programme and our sponsorship of committed to raising the quality of life habitats close to our operations.
soccer have been both unprecedented Our continued focus on safety has shown improvements, with the safety VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 05 and social well being of all the management continues to strengthen communities in which we operate.
our organisational culture and values through to grass-root levels.
Board and Management We have a Board that brings together Talent management remains a key a broad range of backgrounds and driver of performance across Vedanta.
Each Board member brings Our access to the substantial pool of an individual outlook, which has high quality professional talent, improved our collective decisionespecially in India, enables us to making process.
Given the increased consistently attract world-class scale of the Groups operations, the professionals.
We have created work of the several Board Committees attractive working environments with is an enormous task and I wish to thank highly competitive incentive the chairmen and members of these arrangements, which ensure that we committees for their contribution in the are amongst the most preferred year.
I also remain grateful for the employers in the regions in which we healthy and constructive direction and operate.
I am particularly pleased to support the Board continues to provide report that we have recently issued to our management team.
long-term incentive options to a large proportion of our employees In addition, specifically, I am pleased re-emphasising a collective that Mr Kuldip Kauras service contract commitment to the enhancement of with the Company which was due to shareholder value over the long-term.
expire on 30 June 2006 has been extended to 31 March 2008.
Outlook In the last 24 months, Vedanta has built People a strong reputation for creating lasting The successes that I have been able to shareholder value underpinned by report in this statement are due to the delivery and growth.
Looking ahead, we outstanding commitment and must progress the next phase of our contribution of our employees and I growth in a responsible manner wish to thank them on behalf of the commensurate with our position as a entire Board.
leading metals and mining Group while continuing to generate superior returns We are proud of the knowledge and for our shareholders.
In light of my intellectual capital that our young comments on demand and markets, I professional workforce brings to the remain confident that we are well on our organisation.
The challenging way to delivering on this.
assignments they are given at an early stage in their careers make them highly Anil Agarwal motivated, committed and enthusiastic.
Chairman Our hands-on participative style of 31 May 2006
