Chairmans Statement The early benets of the strategy, together with good volume growth, delivered results ahead of expectations for the year, despite the continued difficult trading conditions.
Results overview Strategic development I am pleased to report another year of progress in implementing We are making good progress in implementing our strategy, which our strategy.
The early benets of the strategy, together with comprises: reducing cost: implementing revenue management to good volume growth, delivered results ahead of expectations improve price, yield and utilisation: targeting our most profitable for the year, despite the continued difficult trading conditions.
customer groups: and tight control of eet.
A comprehensive review of the strategic initiatives undertaken during the year Total revenue was up 4.8% at 1,337 million.
Underlying profit is set out on pages 10 to 12 of the Business Review.
before tax was 38.9 million 2005: 37.8 million, with good volume growth and improved utilisation performance materially However, looking further ahead, the external environment has offset by the impact of weaker pricing and inationary cost been, and is expected to continue to be, more difficult than we pressures, particularly eet-related.
Underlying earnings per assumed two years ago and no longer supports the guidance share were 3.0 euro cents 2005: 3.4 euro cents.
we gave in 2005 regarding margin improvement.
The net exceptional charge before tax of 28.9 million was largely Employees and Directors due to overhead restructuring costs incurred in connection with On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank the Groups the project that commenced in late 2005.
Total profit before employees for their ongoing commitment, enthusiasm and tax, after also allowing for certain re-measurement items and professionalism.
The quality of our customer service and economic hedges, was therefore 10.7 million 2005: profit strength of our customer relationships will continue to be key before tax 20.1 million and total earnings per share were to our success and are a direct consequence of the quality 0.5 euro cents 2005: 1.5 euro cents.
Once again our employees commitment to our customers has been reected in the number of industry Dividends awards the Group won in 2006 for outstanding service.
In line with previous statements, the Board has not recommended payment of a dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 in I would also like to welcome Pierre Alain fide Smedt to view of the continued difficult market conditions.
The Boards the Board as non-executive Director, with effect from current intention remains to recommence the payment of dividends 1 February 2007.
His international career in vehicle when the financial and trading position of the Group allows.
manufacturing and related business will be particularly valuable and his appointment strengthens the overall Outlook mix of skills and experience on the Board.
Overall expectations for 2007 remain unchanged.
Volume growth trends are expected to continue at similar levels to those achieved in 2006.
The current planning assumption is that rate will be broadly at, although at this time, there is the usual limited visibility on pricing over the full year.
Fleet costs have risen above general ination, reecting continuing difficult market conditions.
The Group intends Alun Cathcart to mitigate this margin pressure by a further improvement Chairman in utilisation, driven by the revenue management initiatives, together with the benets from the overhead restructuring programme and the focus on cost reduction initiatives.
4 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
