CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2006 WAS A YEAR OF EXCELLENT PROGRESS IN THE EXECUTION OF THE STRATEGIC PLAN.
THE BOARD IS CONFIDENT THAT THE GROUP HAS CONSIDERABLE POTENTIAL TO CREATE FURTHER VALUE FOR ITS SHAREHOLDERS.
I am pleased to report the very considerable progress made Our continuing operations enjoy leading market by the Group in 2006.
Executive action, taken during the positions, offering our customers excellent technology, last two years and centred on our strategic objectives of quality and service based on a strong local presence in all profitability improvement and debt reduction, yielded a our main markets worldwide.
strong set of financial results.
Over the past three years the Groups risk profile has Significant restructuring has been undertaken in mature significantly improved and our exposure to market markets, while investment in new production capacity has cyclicality much reduced.
We supply consumable products, been channelled into emerging markets, with a particular not capital goods, and our main end-markets of global steel focus on higher-technology, higher-margin products.
The production and electronics are forecast to grow faster than programme to dispose of non-core businesses is now GDP over the next few years.
Over the past year we completed the sale of the Laminates and PVC Cements businesses from the Electronics division and the Ceramic Fibres, Carbon Blocks, Monofrax fused-cast refractories and US refractory bricks businesses from the Ceramics division.
Cookson Group plc { 10 } Annual Report 2006 Profitability Board and corporate governance All three divisions delivered good improvements in revenue After a period of significant change in personnel, the Board and trading profit and the Groups return on sales from and the Executive Committee have been unchanged since continuing operations improved by nearly one percentage my 2005 report.
I am confident that we have in place a point to 9.5%.
As a consequence, headline profit before tax sound and proven team with the skills, experience and rose 30% to 131 million and headline earnings per share strength of purpose to deliver further improvements in improved 27% to 46.6 pence.
The Board is responsible for overseeing the Companys Debt reduction strategy in addition to monitoring performance.
Through its The combination of strong free cash flow and proceeds own actions and those of the Board committees, the Board from our disposal programme resulted in year-end net debt continues to meet its commitment to high standards of reducing to 181 million, 112 million lower than a year corporate governance.
The Board seeks to implement these earlier.
The Group is now in a robust financial condition with standards in such a manner that they provide real benefit a strong balance sheet.
for shareholders, employees and customers.
Pensions Employees We continue to focus on addressing pension deficits.
I would again like to offer my sincere thanks to all our The total reported deficit in our defined benefit plans employees worldwide for their contributions to the Groups worldwide reduced by 70 million in the year to 155 million.
The deficit arises principally in our UK 82 million and US 57 million plans.
As reported last year, we agreed an Outlook accelerated top-up contribution schedule with the UK 2006 was a year of excellent progress in the execution of Trustee.
During 2006, with the Groups support, the Trustee the Strategic Plan.
The Board is confident that the Group has also implemented a hedging programme to significantly has considerable potential to create further value for its reduce the future volatility of the UK deficit arising from shareholders and I look forward to continued progress in changes in interest rates, inflation and equity market 2007 and beyond.
In the US we have recently frozen the principal defined benefit schemes and transferred the active members to defined contribution schemes.
For our UK and US schemes, in calculating the deficit we have assumed further improvements in life expectancy trends.
All these measures demonstrate our commitment to actively managing our pension arrangements to reduce both the size and future volatility of the deficit.
Robert Beeston Chairman Dividend Last year we returned to the dividend list with a final 13 March 2007 dividend in respect of 2005 of 5 pence paid in June 2006, the first payment since October 2001.
In respect of 2006, we paid an interim dividend of 3 pence in October 2006 and we are recommending a final dividend of 7 pence.
Cookson Group plc { 11 } Annual Report 2006
