Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DIPESH SHAH I am pleased to report that the Group has delivered a very good set Dividends of results.
Our regulated businesses in Northern Ireland have each We recommend a 5% increase in the final dividend to 26.61p per delivered strong performances while meeting the demands of their share which, together with the interim dividend of 10.28p, amounts price controls.
Viridian Power & Energy VP&E maintained high to a total of 36.89p for the year, a 4.9% increase on last year.
This availability from the Huntstown 1 plant, construction of Huntstown 2 is in line with our commitment to deliver real dividend growth across has started and remains on target for commissioning in autumn the current T&D regulatory period.
2007 and Energia continues to grow its supply position, particularly in the Republic of Ireland RoI.
Powerteam also increased its contribution to the Groups results during the year.
Board In December 2005, the Northern Ireland Authority for Energy John Biles, formerly Finance Director of FKI plc, was appointed as a Regulation NIAER published initial proposals for the next price non-executive director in August 2005.
In October 2005, he was control for the Transmission & Distribution T&D business which will appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In March 2006, be effective from April 2007 to March 2012.
The proposals reflect a Laurence MacKenzie, Managing Director Electricity Infrastructure, period of constructive dialogue with NIAER aimed at delivering a joined the Board as an executive director, having been a member of price control which strengthens efficiency incentives and gives a the Executive Committee since 2003.
Both are already making a balanced outcome for customers and shareholders.
We expect significant contribution to the Board.
NIAER to issue final proposals shortly.
We realised an exceptional gain on disposal of Sx3 of 108.9m.
The Employees 97.9m return of capital to shareholders, announced in conjunction I would like to highlight again the individual commitment and with the disposal of Sx3, was successfully completed.
The Groups continuing success is dependent on them.
Across the Group, they have continued to work Our strategy is strongly focused on our energy businesses in Ireland: hard, effectively and with dedication, while implementing significant Northern Ireland Electricity NIE - maximising the efficiency of change.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our our regulated assets, which remain the mainstay of our employees for their valued input throughout the past year.
business: and VP&E - growing a profitable integrated energy business in Looking Forward competitive markets across Ireland.
We place the delivery of strong operating performance at the heart of Our goal remains to deliver shareholder value through consistent our approach to the business, as demonstrated again by this years performance and sustainable dividend growth.
Companies across the Group are preparing for the challenge of the Single Electricity Market SEM, the new all-island wholesale market, in 2007.
We await the final T&D price control proposals Financial Results from NIAER.
VP&E is growing its customer base in anticipation of the commissioning of Huntstown 2.
The Groups annual results have been prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for the first time, with prior year comparatives restated.
Revenue from continuing operations increased from 835.4m to 976.8m due to increased revenue from NIE and VP&E.
Pro-forma operating profit from continuing operations based on Dipesh J. Shah regulated entitlement increased by 11% from 119.1m to 132.4m.
23 May 2006 Pro-forma earnings per share from continuing operations based on regulated entitlement and pre deferred tax increased by 24% to 68.2p 2005 - 55.0p, reflecting the increase in pro-forma operating profit, a lower net finance charge and a higher tax charge as well as the effect of the 9 for 10 share consolidation implemented with the return of capital.
In line with the treatment adopted in previous years and as further explained in the Financial Review, pro-forma operating profit and earnings per share exclude the effect of either overor under-recovery of NIEs regulated entitlement.
