VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 IFC-51 13 6 06 14:17 Page 02 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 02 2005 06 WAS ANOTHER RECORD YEAR FOR VT GROUP WITH TURNOVER INCLUDING JOINT VENTURES INCREASING BY 15% TO 847M 2005: 734M.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS IMPROVED BY 33% TO 55.5M 2005: 41.6M WITH THE CORRESPONDING EARNINGS PER SHARE ALSO IMPROVING BY 33% TO 24P 2005: 18P.
MICHAEL JEFFRIES CHAIRMAN The board recommends a final dividend of 7.75 pence Our support services business has performed well, per share giving a total dividend for the year of 10.75 growing both organically and through acquisition.
pence per share, an increase of 10.3% over last year.
We completed two acquisitions in the year in the Education and Skills division, underlining our strategy to The strong performance and progress reported by the grow this business.
Since the year end we have been group indicates the underlying strength of the company selected to progress the Greenwich Building Schools and the commitment of our employees.
This is a major step for VT Since taking over as chairman in July 2005, I have visited and offers us potential for further wins.
many parts of the group and met a number of able and Also after the year end we completed the acquisition of impressive individuals.
There is a clear understanding of four vehicle support services businesses from RAC plc the direction in which VT is headed and an awareness part of Aviva plc for a total cash consideration of 87m.
of the focus and effort needed to realise our growth Together, the businesses had a turnover of 140m for objectives.
As the group continues to grow and embrace the year ended 31 December 2005.
Profit before interest new challenges, it is important this focus is maintained.
and tax was 10.3m with a total order book in excess of The group has grown significantly over the last three 1.25 billion.
These businesses provide a strong strategic years.
We are now bidding for and winning increasingly fit with our existing portfolio.
large and more diverse contracts.
Internal skills are Our shipbuilding business performed strongly and good developing as expertise from across the group is required progress has been made on all key projects, including to deliver effective services to our customers.
This makes the Type 45 Destroyer, Offshore Patrol Vessel OPV for more streamlined working methods and common Helicopter and the Super Vita Fast Attack Craft for objectives, both of which are fundamental to our the Royal Hellenic Navy.
Our support services business has expanded significantly.
Revenues in our Education and Skills and Communication businesses have grown to approaching 100m each and in our US business to over $350m.
Our customers now include British Airways, the Metropolitan Police and several regional Fire Authorities.
VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 IFC-51 13 6 06 14:17 Page 03 KEY FIGURES 03 Sales 06 847 m 05 734 Profit before 06 55.5 tax continuing m 05 41.6 In April we were pleased to announce that VT has been Chris Cundy has been appointed as Commercial Director named preferred bidder for the supply of three OPVs with responsibility for steering the company through an to the Royal Navy of Oman.
This extends the long and intense negotiating period with a number of strategic successful relationship that we have had with Oman customers.
We thank Chris for his dedication and skill over the past 25 years.
This additional work, together during his eight years as Finance Director.
with our work on the Type 45 Destroyer and the future We have also strengthened the management teams in two aircraft carriers CVF will ensure that our shipbuilding of our key businesses.
Ken Smith has been appointed as division will be operating at a high level of activity for Chief Executive Officer of our US business and Simon several years to come.
Withey, previously Group Business Development Director, During the year VT was confirmed as a full member was appointed as Managing Director of VT Education of the Aircraft Carrier Alliance ACA.
the opportunity to work with the other members in We have ambitious plans within VT Group and these progressing the build of CVF for the Royal Navy.
appointments reflect our commitment to those plans.
Peter McIntosh, former Managing Director VT Shipbuilding, A strong management team is crucial to the future was seconded to the Alliance Management Team as success of the group and we are confident that these Chief Executive for this project.
Geoff Smith has been appointments, together with the existing management, appointed as Managing Director VT Shipbuilding during will achieve this.
Having spent more than 30 years I am delighted to be the Chairman of a group that has with the Dowty Group, where he was latterly Chief such dedicated people and clear vision for the future.
Executive, Geoffs background and experience is With these two key strengths, plus the recent achievements ideally suited to supporting our shipbuilding business in key areas of the business and the prospects outlined during this period.
within this report, there is every reason to remain confident Chris Rickards appointment as Finance Director was and optimistic about VTs continuing success.
He joins the board on 1 July 2006.
During the last five years Chris has been Finance Director for Meggitt plc and most recently The Weir Group.
