The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Chairmans Statement: It is particularly rewarding to report the successful execution of the Groups five year programme to transform the operational and financial performance of the Group.
In 2006, we saw double digit growth in revenue and profits and delivered our best operating year ever.
Financial highlights Group revenue from continuing operations increased 19% to 940.9m 2005: 789.4m.
Continued strong growth from our Engineering Products Division reflects the strength of the oil, power and mining markets and the first full year of contribution from Weir Gabbioneta which was acquired in the final quarter of 2005.
The Defence, Nuclear & Gas Division also benefited from buoyant conditions in the shipbuilding and naval sectors where Weir maintains significant market positions.
Operating profit before exceptional items from continuing operations at 87.7m 2005: 66.3m was 32% above 2005, with Group subsidiaries at 77.2m 2005: 57.1m and our joint ventures and associates contributing 10.5m against 9.2m in 2005.
Operating margins, excluding attributable profits from our joint ventures and associates, as a percentage of revenue increased to 8.2% of sales against 7.2% last year.
The benefits of the UK restructuring programmes and acquisition of Weir Gabbioneta in Engineering Products, together with a stronger performance from Defence, Nuclear & Gas offset lower margins from our Engineering Services Division.
While the Groups organic opportunities provide Group pre-tax profits before exceptional items from continuing operations good development prospects, our strong cash were up 40% to 87.1m 2005: 62.2m.
Net exceptional gains of 15.7m generation and largely ungeared balance sheet resulted in a reported profit before tax from continuing operations of 102.8m.
We recognised a 6.8m gain on the sale of the former Weir provide the full range of options to create Valves & Controls site in Huddersfield and a once off gain of 10.7m further growth.
on the agreement from the pension trustees to implement defined benefit changes to our main UK pension plan.
With an effective tax rate of 26% on attributable profits before exceptional items, earnings per share on the same basis amounted to 32.4p 2005: 23.5p.
Reported earnings per share, taking account of exceptional items and discontinued operations, was 39.4p, an increase of 213%.
Cash generation from operations improved significantly to 134.5m 2005: 71.3m reflecting the success of managements focus on improving working capital.
The year ended with net debt of 7.1m against 76.4m last year.
The continued strong cash generation capabilities of Group operations are clearly evident in these results.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 10.75p per share making a total distribution for the year of 14.5p 2005: 13.2p, a 10% increase on 2005.
2 Chairmans Statement Strategy & structure The Board It is particularly rewarding to celebrate the successful execution of our five As previously reported, Keith Cochrane joined as Group Finance Director year programme to transform the operational performance and financial on 3 July 2006 and has made a significant contribution since joining.
The achievements have been substantial: a realigned portfolio of businesses, a change in culture and a clearly defined roadmap for operational excellence.
In the year, we saw double digit growth in Corporate governance revenue and profits and delivered our best operating year ever.
I remain confident that at the Weir Group we have the culture and required The Engineering Products Division delivered dramatically improved results processes to protect effectively the interests of all of our stakeholders.
in 2006 and benefited from its portfolio realignment to the higher growth The Boards operational framework is underpinned by clearly defined oil, power and mining markets which represented more than 80% of strategies, vision and values which combine to create shareholder value revenue in the year.
The benefits from restructuring the underperforming through the effective use of our resources.
UK businesses were clearly evident in this years results with the two businesses contributing significantly to the divisions 2006 performance.
In 2006, the Group internal audit function was extended to complement our already robust external and peer group audits and self-certification In the Defence, Nuclear & Gas Division, the improvement has been programmes.
The increased rigour in our processes and active benchmarking impressive.
In Defence, our geographic expansion into Canada, Spain of financial best practice is already delivering benefits to the Group.
and Australia underpins the substantial progress in the year.
Our growing participation in the UK nuclear sector provides a further avenue for substantial growth.
At the same time the liquid gas business benefited Prospects from buoyant demand in gas ship orders while extending its market and customer base in the European and onshore storage sectors.
The Group finished 2006 in excellent financial condition, with a strong order book and continued buoyant outlook for our most important markets.
The The Engineering Services Division has grown considerably in recent years positive market conditions experienced in 2006 are expected to continue by expanding its position in Australia and North America and adding in 2007 and we expect the improving performance from the Engineering strategically important joint ventures in the Middle East.
With the major Services Division and operational developments elsewhere to deliver a restructuring of our Engineering Products Division largely behind us, our good level of progress in 2007. attention in 2006 turned to improving the performance of our Services activities in our more traditional markets.
Restructuring activities in the United States, the Middle East and the UK were undertaken in the year People and the division is now positioned for growth in margins and operational We have over 8,000 employees working for Weir in 35 countries.
I recognise performance in 2007 and beyond.
that it is our people who drive our success and define the culture of At the outset of the Groups transformation programme, we recognised excellence at Weir.
I am grateful for the contribution of employees at all the need to respond to the changing demographics of our most important levels of our organisation and thank them for their tremendous enthusiasm markets.
We laid down plans to expand our footprint in the higher growth and commitment throughout 2006.
They have all worked hard to improve emerging markets of the Former Soviet Union, Asia, South America and our processes and productivity and have achieved real progress in the year.
Today these markets represent in excess of 30% of Group Finally, I would like to thank our shareholders who have believed in the turnover and in 2007, we will make additional investments in new foundry Groups potential.
I remain confident in the Groups ability to make further operations in Brasil and the start-up of Minerals wholly-owned greenfield progress in the year ahead.
The key management focus for 2007 is to accelerate the execution of the Weir Production System throughout the Group and reap additional benefits from concentrating on Lean processes.
The collective operations of the Group made excellent progress during 2006 and the benefits are evident in this years results.
Improved working capital, reduced inventories and improved customer relationships were all delivered through a focused approach to achieving best practice.
Sir Robert Smith In 2006, the Groups track record of acquisitions has been further enhanced Chairman with the successful integration of Weir Gabbioneta and our newest joint 21 March 2007 venture in Saudi Arabia both making considerable contributions during the year.
While the Groups organic opportunities provide good development prospects, our strong cash generation and largely ungeared balance sheet provide the full range of options to create further growth.
