com 03 Chairmans statement Peter Hickson Chairman AWG produced an excellent strategic and operational percentage of turnover reduced from 39.2 per cent performance last year.
The strategic issues resolved to 37.8 per cent.
included the disposal of Morrison Construction, the continuing exit from legacy properties and further Gross capital expenditure for the year was 292 million, remaining international activities, and the settlement of which a significant part was delivered by our alliance of of the longstanding litigation with Sir Fraser Morrison.
six partner companies working in close co-operation with Anglian Water.
During the year, we successfully delivered Operationally, further efficiency improvements in Anglian our regulatory obligations for year one of the new fiveWater and Morrison, combined with a capital programme year asset management period.
of nearly 300 million, were delivered.
AWGs total operating profit from continuing operations rose 31 per One of the major challenges facing both water companies cent to 377.9 million.
Profit before tax was 108.8 million, and customers is water resources.
This is an increasingly compared with 32.4 million in the prior year, producing serious issue, particularly when set against the background a 177 per cent increase in earnings per share of 54.5 pence.
of climate change and the prevailing dry conditions throughout the critical winter period in much of the UK.
The board has proposed a final dividend of 36.0 pence per share, bringing the total dividend for the year to Anglian Waters region is the driest in the UK, with only 50.8 pence.
This will be an increase of two percentage two-thirds of the average rainfall of England and Wales.
points above the RPI index.
Against the background of Rainfall for the last winter period November to February improving performance across the group, the board has in our region was 65 per cent of the long-term average.
I am pleased to confirm that In spite of this shortfall, our water resources were the board is recommending an increase in the group maintained close to normal levels throughout the year, dividend per share by two per cent above the prevailing principally due to leakage control, winter pumping to rate of RPI for each year in the current regulatory period, recharge reservoirs and our relatively high proportion ending 2010. of metered customers.
Our reservoir levels are currently 93 per cent full, although ground water levels in parts of Anglian Waters financial performance showed further the drier area in the south of our region are below average improvement in 2005 6.
An 8.6 per cent increase in for the time of year.
We continue to monitor our water turnover, together with cost efficiencies, contributed resources closely.
to a 17.0 per cent increase in operating profit.
Service quality remained good during the year and Anglian Operating expenditure for the year excluding depreciation Water met the leakage targets set by Ofwat.
At 6 cubic increased by 4.7 per cent to 327.2 million, largely due to metres per kilometre of main per day, this was below the increased employment costs, much higher power costs, UK industry average of 11 cubic metres per kilometre of increases in rates, and the incremental running costs of main per day.
Drinking water quality remained excellent, new capital projects.
These increases were mitigated by and overall microbiological compliance remains at a high savings generated from the manpower reduction level.
We had our best bathing water results ever, programme at the start of the year, as well as other achieving 100 per cent compliance with mandatory efficiency initiatives.
Overall, operating expenditure as a standards for the seventh time in the past nine years.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review 04 The Morrison business showed further progress across Further progress was also made in the disposal of legacy all divisions during the year under review, having begun properties in the United Kingdom and Ireland, and the the year operating in three segments: support services closure or sale of overseas activities in five countries.
principally Utility Services and Facilities Services, Construction Services and the Project Investments During the year we settled the longstanding litigation business.
Following the sale of Construction Services and with Sir Fraser Morrison.
This had been a distraction Project Investments, which previously represented the part for the management team for some time, and achieving of the Morrison business with the highest inherent risk a satisfactory result has enabled us to put the matter profile and lowest margin, Morrison became a dedicated behind us.
These operational and strategic achievements could only Morrisons continuing operations built on the have come about as a result of focused and decisive improvements seen in the first year to deliver a management action.
The management team in AWG has strong performance in the second year of its business performed outstandingly during the year in addressing improvement programme.
Turnover increased 25.2 per difficult business issues across the company.
Many cent to 637.2 million, while operating profit before members of the team have less than two years service exceptional items increased by 14.1 million to 17.9 with the group and they have all contributed very million.
Overall operating profit margins from support effectively in the course of the year.
I would also like to services, measured on a traditional UK GAAP basis, pay tribute to all our employees for their continued increased to 3.0 per cent compared with 2.5 per cent dedication in this time of change.
At board level, Bill Cockburn and Sue Lyons stood down as Non-Executive Directors in January and March this year.
Turnover in Utility Services increased significantly to Both joined the board early in 2003 when the companys 405 million from 295 million.
This was as a result of position was less clear, and they provided invaluable both retaining and increasing work for the new regulatory support at that time.
I am grateful for their contribution period from existing utility clients, and winning work with to the board.
Roger Witcomb, who has sat on the board new or returning clients.
Operating profit also increased of Anglian Water as a Non-Executive Director for the last significantly to 12.7 million from 5.2 million.
four years, joined the board in April this year as Senior Independent Director.
Facilities Services turnover increased 28.2 per cent to 192.5 million, while operating profit more than doubled The year ahead will see Anglian Water continue to to 7.9 million.
Facilities Services has won a number of concentrate on delivering its regulatory obligations, significant contracts in the year, including social housing while seeking further operating and capital expenditure maintenance and Decent Homes work in Newcastle and efficiencies.
At an operational level, it will be focusing on Gateshead, together with a 10-year, 54 million repair customer service, maintaining sufficient water resources and maintenance contract in Redbridge, Essex.
Facilities and the other key aspects of its service.
Services now has an established presence in Scotland, the North East, the Midlands, London and Essex.
Morrison will focus on driving profitable growth and performance improvement from its support services At the year-end, Morrisons order book stood at businesses.
The key objective will be to realise optimal 1.42 billion compared with 1.18 billion at the half year.
AWG Property continued to develop new business AWG Property will drive the development and profitable within its core Scottish market.
In a successful year recycling of capital employed in its Scottish market, while for commercial development and investment activities, continuing to release cash from its remaining legacy a number of projects were completed, which produced properties.
an operating cash flow of 27 million.
Overall, with the boards commitment to its dividend Significant progress was made on the strategic front.
policy, we will continue to build value for our The sale of Morrison Construction, together with the shareholders.
Edinburgh-based PFI business, was an important move for AWG.
The sale enables us to focus on the lower risk, higher margin businesses, which are now delivering strong performance and growth.
Peter Hickson 30 May 2006 AWG Plc
