Chairmans Statement William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Chairmans Statement complete, is intended to provide an investigation of the future funding of 2006 has been a successful significant business benefits and give our the UK horseracing industry by an customers the convenience of betting independent committee under the year with the Group across our channels through a single chairmanship of Lord Donoughue, which realising the full-year account.
The importance of this concluded that there is no current benefits of the Stanley Retail programme is emphasised by the keen commercial alternative funding competition experienced in 2006 in the mechanism.
acquisition and benefiting interactive sector and the disadvantage Another independent committee also from good organic growth we are currently operating under due to under the chairmanship of Lord throughout the rest of the the age and inflexibility of our legacy Donoughue also concluded its technology platform.
Profit before investigation of the starting price 2006 has also been a busy period in the mechanism in 2006.
The changes made finance charges and field of regulation.
The Gambling have been controversial with a number of exceptional items was 19% Commission has continued to consult commentators criticising them as being higher than last year and widely with the betting and gaming detrimental to punters.
However, as they industry as they prepare detailed have widened the sample of the earnings per share conditions, codes, standards and guidance bookmaker prices included, we believe excluding exceptional items under the Gambling Act 2005 in time for that they are a fairer reflection of the increased by 24%.
To reflect the deadline imposed by DCMS of actual prices pertaining and will be seen September 2007 for the new regulatory to be beneficial for horse-racing in the this, the Board is proposing regime to become effective.
to increase total dividends welcome the establishment of the There have been two changes to the Gambling Commission as a strong and fair for the year by 19%.
In March, regulator who should ensure that the UK Simon Lane joined the Board as Group industry maintains its strong reputation Finance Director.
Simon brings a wealth of The period was boosted by the World Cup for probity and integrity.
We have been experience from the leisure and retail and the continued growth in FOBTs.
We heavily involved in detailed consultations sectors and has already made a significant also continued to maintain a tight control with the Gambling Commission with a impact.
In November, Tom Singer left the over costs.
In addition, our acquisition of view to ensuring that the regulations Board to pursue other interests.
I would Stanley Leisure plcs betting shops in the produced are fair and proportionate.
We like to thank Tom for the significant UK, Republic of Ireland, the Channel have concerns that some of the detailed contribution he has made to the business Islands and the Isle of Man has regulations are still not published in final since joining the Group in 2002, initially as substantially improved our competitive form and that some consultations are still Group Finance Director where he played position in the UK and given access to the ongoing at this late stage.
Consequently, an outstanding role in connection with Irish betting market.
The integration of the we are concerned about the time given to the flotation of the Group and more business into the existing William Hill the industry to implement the detailed recently as Chief Operating Officer estate was completed on schedule by the requirements in time for September assisting in the integration of the Stanley end of the first quarter of 2006.
We where technical changes to systems and Retail acquisition.
believe that the 13m of synergies and equipment are needed.
We shall continue other benefits promised at the time of the our discussions with the Gambling The Board is proposing a final dividend of acquisition have already been delivered, Commission to press for practical and 14.5 pence per share which combined with more gains to come.
with the interim dividend of 7.25 pence per share results in total dividends for the During 2006, we have also made There are also a number of provisions, year of 21.75 pence per share, a 19% significant progress in developing our which the Gambling Act is expected to increase on the total dividends paid in the international business.
We will shortly introduce, which should be beneficial to comparable period.
enter into joint venture agreements with the betting industry including longer Codere to exploit new opportunities in opening hours in the winter, the In the nine weeks to 27 February 2007, Spain and Italy.
Codere is a leading classification of FOBTs as gaming the Groups gross win has increased by Spanish gaming group which operates machines and the introduction in LBOs of 11% and costs remain under control.
At slot machines, bingo halls, sports betting 500 jackpot machines.
Other provisions this early stage of the year, the Board outlets, racetracks and casinos in Spain, including the removal of the demand remains comfortable with consensus Italy and Latin America.
We think that in criteria could also impact our estate expectations.
Codere we have found a partner with a although we believe that this may not be Finally, I would like formally to thank all similar culture and attitude to ourselves significant over the longer term.
our colleagues for their hard work in 2006 and we are confident that this partnership The Government has announced that it and wish them further success for 2007. has the potential to deliver long-term had decided to retain the Horserace value for both sets of shareholders.
Betting Levy Board and the associated We continue with our three-year Charles Scott horserace betting levy scheme for the programme to upgrade our core Chairman time being.
This follows the conclusion of bookmaking systems which, when 3
