Chairmans statement The strength of our customer relationships and the quality of our services have been, and will continue to be, key to our success.
David Malpas, Chairman On behalf of the Board I thank all The underlying strength of Our markets are fragmented, and that Wincanton will enjoy continuing the Groups employees, whose Wincantons trading performance there are opportunities for further success under his leadership.
enthusiasm, commitment and and another year of good cash flow consolidation through acquisition.
professionalism have produced generation have given the Board the In October 2005 we announced The Board also welcomes Jonson Cox another year of strong operational confidence to propose a full year the purchase of the principal French who has joined us as a non-executive and financial performance.
The dividend of 12.54p per share.
This logistics activities of Premium Director during the year and whose strength of our customer represents a 10.0 per cent increase Logistics Premium.
Premium contribution is much appreciated.
relationships and the quality of our on the dividend paid last year.
significantly strengthens our services have been, and will continue operational capabilities in the important Peter Brown left the Board in to be, key to our success and are a Including this dividend the Groups French market.
Our enlarged French February 2006, and I thank him for direct consequence of the quality of annualised rate of dividend increase business now offers national his contribution to the Group over our people.
since its demerger in May 2001 now coverage from some 30 sites, giving many years.
stands at 7.9 per cent per annum.
These a substantially stronger and broader Wincanton has reported another dividend increases, combined with a business base from which we will be Our markets remained challenging period of financial and strategic good share price performance, have able to serve both the French and and competitive in the year under progress for the year to 31 March generated a Total Shareholder Return cross-border requirements of our review.
High levels of new business 2006.
Group operating profit of of 90.8 per cent since demerger.
Other activity nonetheless again enabled 42.0m 2005 : 39.3m grew by represents, as at 31 March 2006, an potential acquisitions are under us to take market pressures and 6.9 per cent, profit before tax by 9.5 out-performance relative to the FTSEreview as a means of accelerating contract losses in our stride and per cent and earnings per share by 250 of 26.4 per cent.
either the expansion of our service still show good net profit progress.
17.8 per cent in each case stated offering or the further strengthening Annualised turnover from contract on an underlying basis which excludes In the five years since demerger, of our European presence.
wins and renewals totalled amortisation of acquired intangibles Wincanton has strengthened its approximately 385m compared and exceptionals.
Group operating position in the UK & Ireland and I take this opportunity of welcoming to last years 250m.
profit, including these items was established a platform for growth Graeme McFaull to his new role as 41.0m 2005 : 37.4m.
Cash flow across Continental Europe.
Graeme, who took Our operations in the UK & Ireland performance was again strong, with Groups full growth potential is yet over from Paul Bateman in reported underlying operating profit only a marginal increase in year-end to be realised, but solid progress is December 2005, previously led our of 37.8m, up 3.6 per cent on the net debt to 60.6m, in spite of a being made towards our goal of operations in the UK & Ireland previous year.
Fee pressure is evident near 38m outflow as a result of an leadership in European supply through a period of very significant in certain of the more mature areas of acquisition and a cash injection into chain services.
He has the our activities but we continue to see the Groups pension fund.
support of a highly experienced and opportunities for growth across our committed senior team and I am sure retail, manufacturing and industrial 4 Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 customer bases.
The market for performance of Continental Europe existing operations, Wincanton Underlying operating profit supply chain services in the UK & remains a key objective for us.
There has positioned itself as one of the Ireland has become more polarised in is a high degree of operational leading supply chain management recent years, and Wincanton, as one leverage in our asset base which, if companies in Europe.
We continue of the two leading operators, has volume growth can be accelerated, to see attractive potential, both 6.9% benefited from its greater scale and will have a positive effect upon organically and through acquisition, the loss of market share by smaller reported profit.
Management teams for Wincanton to consolidate and operators.
This trend is expected to have been strengthened in a number develop this position as a European Underlying earnings per share continue to be of benefit to the Group of countries, including the industry leader.
We have confidence in the future.
We also continue to recruitment of a new managing in the Groups ability to build further have confidence in the growth Director in Germany, and the new on the achievements of recent years.
potential of our portfolio of ancillary teams will be supported by higher 17.8% services, which includes consultancy, levels of investment in marketing and Sustaining growth momentum in the data records management, waste business development.
Raising the UK & Ireland and delivering more recycling and fleet maintenance.
brand awareness of Wincanton satisfactory levels of profitability in Full-year dividend across Continental Europe, improving Continental Europe will bring many Underlying operating profit in the performance of certain losschallenges in 2006 07.
Our objective Continental Europe grew by 7.1 per making activities and ensuring the is nonetheless for the new year to be cent, excluding our French acquisition, delivery of consistent service another period of progress towards 10.0% and by 50.0 per cent, to 4.2m, excellence across borders will be key realising our operational, financial and including our French acquisition.
We expect 2006 07 The progress in underlying profit The Continental European businesses to again confirm Wincantons ability was achieved in spite of the early remain fundamental to our strategy to generate value for shareholders termination in February 2005 of the and we are confident that, over time, by adding value for customers.
key customer contract managed by they will generate significant profit PGN, a jointly owned entity.
This and cash flow for the Group.
contract, which remains subject to arbitration proceedings, was an Our strategy of offering our customers important contributor to Continental national, regional and Pan-European European profitability in 2004 05. services is generating enhanced opportunities for growth.
As a David Malpas A more rapid and substantial consequence of successful acquisition Chairman improvement in the profit and the continuing organic growth of 7 June 2006 Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 5
