Chairmans statement The year under review developed much Our financial results for 2005 06 indicate the as indicated and produced the expected consequences of a year of great change and 61.5m disappointing financial result.
It did, however, some difficulty.
Whilst turnover was in line represent a period of great change and some with the previous year, at 12.1bn, our profits Profits were down in a difficult major achievements.
before tax and Safeway integration and year.
Profit before tax and conversion costs were down from 332.2m to The Safeway retail estate was completely Safeway integration and 61.5m.
Additionally, with Safeway integration investigated and decisions were made conversion costs was 61.5m and conversion at its peak in the year, the about the future of every store.
Cash flows pre tax costs of this activity increased from stores were converted and refitted to remained positive and the 139.2m to 374.4m.
We have written off the trade as Morrisons and most of the conversion programme has 103.2m goodwill created on the acquisition balance of stores were disposed of.
been well received by of Safeway.
This arose on the conversion to Distribution has been constantly under International Financial Reporting Standards customers.
review and many improvements have and the Board considers, in view of the already been made.
Plans for the final Groups financial performance and the Sales per square foot and shape of this function are being developed.
likelihood that profit recovery will take time, customer spend are both up that it is appropriate to write off this item.
Operational systems have been modified Despite a reducing number of stores turnover has been held level because and the Group now operates on one Despite the poor performance, our net debt customers have been spending single basis with a common product file.
reduced to 1.15bn, with proceeds from more with us: Extensive work has been carried out in Safeway store disposals contributing to the Sales per sq ft benchmarking the whole range of our own costs of converting the stores that we have label products, which has been extended retained.
The Board concluded that we and modified to meet present demands.
should keep our total dividend at the previous years level of 3.7p per share, meaning that Customer spend Problems with residual stocks identified a final dividend is proposed of 3.075p per from Safeway have all been dealt with share.
Whilst this is uncovered in the year, and will not recur.
it reflects the Boards confidence in future The retraining of some 90,000 Safeway earnings recovery.
510152025 staff has been ongoing throughout this We have been fortunate to secure the 2006 2005 period and great progress has been services of Brian Flanagan, Paul Manduca, made.
They bring with them their Susan Murray and Nigel Robertson as experience and expertise and represent Operating cash flows are still Non Executive Directors.
I am pleased to a valuable addition to our team.
The strong despite operating losses confirm that they have already contributed team building effort has been substantial Careful management of working capital has significantly to the work of the Board and and was only made possible by the resulted in a strong cash flow for the year: through their efforts on the various committees.
outstanding contribution of many existing Operating cash flow m Morrisons staff.
Other changes during the year included the appointment of Robert Stott as Market share of trade has now stabilised Chief Executive Officer in March and after a great many store disposals have David Jones, an existing Non Executive been made and forms a good platform Operating loss profit after Director, as Deputy Chairman.
integration costs and before tax m Richard Pennycook joined the company Morrisons has been transformed into a as Group Finance Director in October national operation and much has been with a brief to overhaul and strengthen the learned in the past 12 months.
He has -400 -200 200 400 been responsible for the co-ordination 2006 2005 of the Boards activities in developing an Optimisation Plan for profit recovery over the next three years.
2 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006 In the early development of this plan it became apparent that this programme would take some time to complete and was likely to extend beyond Robert Stotts retirement date.
100 The Board concluded that in this circumstance years of integrity in all our it would be prudent to commence the search dealings with suppliers large for a successor for him.
Egon Zehnder are and small, at home and abroad.
conducting the search and good progress is being made.
In the meantime, Robert remains totally committed to the business and the job in hand as he has been for all the 33 years I have been fortunate enough to know him.
I am grateful to all colleagues for their strenuous efforts in difficult circumstances.
In the interest of good team building, new colleagues from Safeway who accepted Winner third year running of Morrisons terms and conditions qualify for Availability Gold Award and profit share alongside their longer serving first time winner of Customer colleagues.
In addition, we are pleased to Service Gold Award.
announce that a new Save As You Earn scheme, open to all colleagues after a qualifying period, will be launched on Key Facts 27 March 2006.
The only major food retailer The Group made good progress during to own and operate fresh food the year in completing the Safeway manufacturing and processing conversion and integration.
remains highly competitive but I am confident that in our Optimisation Plan we have a clear Over 30 years experience route forward that will enable us to deliver of factory operations.
an improvement in like-for-like sales and 3,500 colleagues employed underlying trading performance in 2006 07. in manufacturing.
At the date of this report, the Office of Fair Most of the fresh fruit and Trading is considering a referral of the grocery vegetables that we sell we market to the Competition Commission.
Morrisons welcomes strong competition as being good for the consumer and good for business, and we have written to the OFT to suggest a number of ways in which the competitive landscape can be improved.
We believe this can be achieved without the cost that a full market reference would incur.
Sir Kenneth Morrison CBE Chairman Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006 3
