WO40006 R&A 2006 01-19 10 10 06 10:09 pm Page 07 Chairmans statement Staying ahead An international group committed to improving performance Whilst we continued our record of substantial organic The Board growth, especially in the US, we also recorded our The handover of Group Chief Executive responsibilities highest-ever spend on acquisitions in 2005 6.
Added from Charlie Banks to Chip Hornsby proceeded to to this, shortly before the financial year closed, plan, with Chip being succeeded by Frank Roach we agreed to buy, subject to competition approval, as Chief Executive, North America.
Frank joined the DT Group, the Nordic regions leading distributor of Board in December 2005 and has already made a building materials.
The Board is delighted with this significant contribution to our deliberations.
acquisition, particularly as it demonstrates our clear commitment to the European business while also I would like to thank Charlie Banks not only for delivering an excellent balance between our operations the efficient handover but also for the leadership, in North America and Europe.
experience and good humour he displayed throughout his five years as Group Chief Executive.
Charlie made There has been a marked shift in the characteristics a major contribution to the Group and during his of the Group in recent years.
Wolseley is now a time at the helm we witnessed a marked change genuinely international company, with leadership in management mindset to a more international from the corporate centre complemented by talented perspective.
We saw Group sales rise by 96.8% management throughout the European and North and the share price by 144%.
I, and the whole Board, American organisations, ably supported by high quality wish him every happiness in retirement.
teams in the operating companies.
Chip Hornsby has made an excellent start as Group Organisational culture has evolved to reflect the Chief Executive and I look forward to working closely Groups increasingly international position.
Today, with him in the coming years.
He spent the first three our managers across the world identify with the months of this calendar year building on his already Wolseley name.
They remain committed to improving solid knowledge of our European businesses and the the performance of their own operating companies, following three months acquainting himself with matters but they also recognise the opportunities available at the Corporate level.
As Chip makes clear elsewhere in this Report, We now, therefore, have a Group where the sum of Wolseley has delivered excellent performances the parts is truly greater than the individual components.
over many years but now it is time to encourage We have established significant leadership capabilities a step-change and to push forward to fully realise both centrally and regionally in areas such as IT, Wolseleys true potential.
Procurement, Human Resources, Mergers & Acquisitions and Strategy, supporting not only our In conclusion, I wish to thank our customers, ongoing businesses, but also increasing our capability suppliers, investors and debt providers for their to add value to acquisitions going forward.
unswerving support over the last year.
But of course the years achievements would not have been possible Further, two successful debt issues confirmed without the skills and unyielding commitment of Wolseleys status as a soundly financed, wellmore than 70,000 people and to each of them I respected international group.
In November 2005, extend our wholehearted thanks.
the Group completed the largest ever US$ Private Placement, followed by a bank syndication in May The Board looks ahead with confidence.
The proven 2006 which was heavily over-subscribed by Wolseleys strategy we have followed in recent times will continue, relationship banks.
sustaining our record of growth and business development.
We have achieved a great deal, but Dividend there remains much to do.
The Board is confident that With our earnings per share before intangibles rising Chip and his team will lead Wolseley to new and even 19.7% to 98.9 pence, the Board is recommending a greater heights.
final dividend of 19.55 pence, which represents a total dividend for the year of 29.4 pence.
This is an increase of 11.4% over the total dividend paid last year.
John W Whybrow Chairman Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Chairmans statement
