Chairmans Statement Gerald Corbett Chairman As for many high street retailers, 2005 was a difficult year for the When the Woolworths Group demerged from Kingsher plc Woolworths Group.
profit under IFRS from continuing operations in 2001, the management team inherited an underinvested and before tax and exceptional items fell from 54.9 million to overstocked business with a number of loss-making formats, 43.7 million.
Adjusted profit which is before tax, exceptional a high level of debt, poor systems and a store portfolio which was items, adjustment for xed rental uplifts and amortisation of almost entirely leasehold with upward only rent reviews.
Over the intangible assets arising on the creation of the 2entertain joint subsequent period our focus has been on operating improvement, venture fell from 68.0 million to 57.7million.
The IFRS accounting the detail of retail and reducing the debt.
However, the Group changes are explained in more detail in the Financial Review.
now faces a different set of challenges.
The retail environment has Basic earnings per share improved from a 0.6 pence loss deteriorated, price deation is endemic across all product groups, to 0.7 pence.
Adjusted earnings per share, which removes the and the business has to bear rising energy costs, wage costs and effect of exceptional items, adjustment for xed rental uplifts and rent levels.
Our strategy for these difficult times is to maintain our amortisation of intangible assets arising on the creation of the investment programme, tightly manage stock, margin and costs 2entertain joint venture, fell from 3.3 pence to 2.8 pence.
Cash and focus on cash generation.
generation was strong, however, and average net debt fell from In our retail businesses, adjusted profits from continuing 53 million to 37 million and net funds at the end of the year operations declined from 39.8 million to 17.1 million.
Like-for-like were 147.7 million compared with 115.5 million at last year-end.
sales performance which includes online and in-store orders, was We are recommending a final dividend of 1.34 pence per share, down 3.9 per cent.
This was in spite of a satisfactory performance making a full year dividend of 1.75 pence per share, an increase over the peak Christmas trading period when, over the six weeks of 6.1 per cent over last year.
It is the Groups cash ow which to 14 January 2006, like-for-like sales declined by only 0.8 per cent.
gives the Board the confidence that it can maintain its progressive Tough action on costs approximately 37 million was removed dividend policy going forwards, as well as sustaining capital from the cost base, improved stock management and higher investment in what is a difficult retail environment.
During the year gross margins limited the decline in profitability.
we made capital investments totalling 59.6 million, largely on store In spite of the fall in profitability, a number of positive refurbishment and IT development.
We now have 110 stores trading achievements can be listed.
Our refurbished 10 10 stores continued under the 10 10 format, accounting for over 20 per cent of our retail to perform ahead of the Mainchain.
We continued to restructure our space, and those stores continue to trade ahead of the rest of out-of-town store portfolio, rening the proposition in the remaining the Mainchain.
outlets as part of the move away from the big W format to Woolworths out-of-town.
We disposed of the loss-making MVC chain of entertainment stores.
The new distribution centre at Bedford opened successfully and further improvements were made to in-store product availability and shrinkage.
Our multichannel retail capability, combining online orders, from home and in-store, grew such that in its peak week it represented 4 per cent of retail sales.
We have sustained our capital investment programme and progressive dividend in a difficult retail environment.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 2 In-store Developments 5 5, 10 10, 20 20 and Phoenix Our Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing businesses made further good progress, with adjusted profits increasing by 14.9 per cent to 56.4 million.
EUK had another good year, winning further third-party business and improving its efficiencies.
Our 40 per cent owned music and video publishing business, 2entertain, a joint venture with BBC Worldwide, has continued its positive start.
The outlook for the next two years is difficult for both our Retailing and Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing divisions.
In our Retail business, although we are planning for the retail environment to remain depressed, we will build on last years success in our online retail activity.
We plan to refurbish another 100 stores and changes to our supply chain should enable a reduction in stock levels, improvement in margin and continued good cash ow.
But serious profit advance is unlikely to occur until the overall retail environment becomes easier.
EUK will suffer during 2006 07 from a reduced contribution from supplying Tescos entertainment products.
From April 2007, the contract to supply Tesco ceases.
The loss of the contract is disappointing but the pricing level required to keep the business The 10 10 stores are performing well entailed a level of profit and risk which was unacceptable.
To the and we are accelerating their roll out.
extent that the Tesco business is not replaced, it will lead to a further reduction in profitability and to a release of working capital 10 10 Refurbishment 10 10 is a high street store programme in 2007 08 but also require us to restructure EUKs operations.
with four elements, comprising: The 2entertain joint venture is now rmly established.
This range development, colleague training, year it will seek to leverage its scale and unique position in the refurbishment and relaunch.
market to build on its current success and profitability.
The product ranges and training put in During the year we made a number of changes to our Board.
place are focused on meeting our core Stephen East, previously Finance Director of the property group customers needs.
Rening the format is constant and pragmatic, calling for MEPC, joined as our Group Finance Director.
Steve Lewis, after an awareness of market developments four successful years as our Operations Director, was promoted at category level.
Lloyd Wigglesworth, Managing Director of We have reduced costs by retaining EUK for the last two years, was also promoted to the Group Board.
key features but value engineered the We welcomed two new Non-Executive Directors.
David Simons, proposition with no noticeable detriment currently Chairman of Littlewoods Shop Direct Group, joined in to customers.
He has a wealth of retail and financial experience going back a number of years.
Fru Hazlitt, currently Chief Executive at Virgin Radio and previously Managing Director of Yahoo UK & Ireland, joined in January.
Prue Leith, after five years of service, is stepping down from the Group Board following the Annual General Meeting.
She has made a significant contribution to our early life as a public company and we wish her well in the future.
Although the current environment is difficult, we have a unique and valuable brand in Woolworths.
We have leading market positions in our core product categories and good cash generation.
Clear Store Navigation Over the next two years these attributes will enable us to invest A key part of the whole refurbishment further in our business and restructure them in the light of the programme is helping our customers difficult times we are facing.
Our biggest asset, however, is to shop the stores more easily, steering them towards our hero ranges via our colleagues throughout the Group.
On behalf of the Board clearer in-store signage.
I would like to thank them all for their hard work and efforts during a difficult year.
The new conguration gives room for customers to move around new gondolas.
We change the ooring and lighting and incorporate new high level signage, all of which aids ambience and navigation.
Other Programmes Gerald Corbett In our smaller stores, the 5 5 programme is designed to integrate our Multichannel Chairman offer and intensify the sales space.
28 March 2006 20 20 involves space and category management in our out-of-town stores, giving them a bolder, less hangar-like feel.
The Phoenix initiative maximises the value of xtures reclaimed from the other refurbishment programmes, utilising them in smaller store upgrades.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 3
