Chairmans statement... to achieve excellence WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 04 People The work we are winning is We continue to place considerable emphasis on attracting and developing top quality people.
In an increasingly diverse company, of increasingly higher quality maintaining a culture of innovation and excellence requires an environment in which talented people can ourish this remains an and this continues to attract important objective for the Board.
During the year we made progress in this area, as demonstrated by the many awards won by the Group.
first class people to Atkins.
Once again, I would like to thank our colleagues throughout the Group for their great efforts in making last year another successful one.
Board of directors Struan Robertson retired as a director of the Company on 7 September 2005, after many years of valuable service.
On 6 October 2005 James Morley replaced Struan as Senior Overview Independent director.
On the same date Sir Peter Williams joined My first full year as Chairman of Atkins has seen the Group continue the Remuneration Committee, becoming its Chairman, and to make substantial progress.
The business performed well last year, Christopher Kemball joined the Audit Committee.
with normalised profit before taxation up by 16%.
Moreover, headcount including agency staff rose by over 1,000, providing a Dividend good platform for further growth.
The work we are winning is of The Board is recommending a final dividend of 11.5p, making the increasingly higher quality and this continues to attract first class total dividend for the year 16.0p 2005: 12.0p, an increase of 33%.
I am satisfied that the Groups strategic priorities This reects our continuing confidence in the prospects of the Group are sound and that the markets in which we operate are strong.
and represents a progression towards our stated policy of paying a dividend that is approximately 2.5 times covered by cash-backed Sadly the successes of last year have been overshadowed by the tragic normalised earnings per share.
events of 30 March 2006, when six Atkins employees and four of their friends or relatives were among the 58 who died in the Bahrain boat disaster.
Our thoughts remain with those affected.
Ed Wallis Results Chairman The business produced good results last year and we improved 22 June 2006 operating profit signicantly, through a combination of revenue growth and margin improvement.
In particular, the Design and Engineering Solutions and Management and Project Services segments grew substantially and our business in the Middle East has gone from strength to strength.
Visibility of earnings has continued to improve, with nearly two thirds of budgeted revenue for 2006 07 secured at the year-end.
The Groups results were adversely impacted by the performance of the Metronet supply chain, which reported a pre-tax loss of 4.2m, compared to a profit of 4.5m last year.
Metronet continues to receive considerable attention from senior management and we are determined, along with the other shareholders, to make the project succeed.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 05
