Babcock International Group PLC 02 Annual report and accounts 2006 Chairmans statement With a highly visible order book, of the order of three times this years turnover, Babcock is well placed to deliver strong growth in both turnover, earnings and shareholder value.
Babcock International Group PLC 03 Annual report and accounts 2006 The year ending March 2006 was another We shall continue discussions with other record year for Babcock with profit before tax, industry participants to investigate the before amortisation of acquired intangibles best structure to achieve the Ministrys and exceptional items, increasing by 25% requirements and maximise value for following a very strong performance in Babcock shareholders.
The Board does not the previous year.
This was achieved on an believe that a sale of Babcock, which was increase in turnover of 15% to 840 million a possibility raised by VT and BAE Systems, and resulted in a further increase of 19% is the way to achieve this.
in earnings per share on the same basis Foremost in our minds has been to 17.2p per share.
The Board are delivering returns to shareholders and recommending a final dividend of 4.25p 100 invested in Babcock on the 31 March per share giving a total dividend for the year 2001 was worth 391 on 31 March 2006, of 6.0p per share an increase of 50% on the compared to 131 had it been invested in the previous year.
This reflects the increased FTSE-All Share Index excluding investment earnings, our confidence in Babcocks future trusts.
This significant increase in shareholder prospects and our previous guidance that we value results from the implementation of the intended to reduce the cover progressively to above strategy and the Board believes that between three and two and a half times.
Babcock will continue to outperform its There was an equally strong performance peer group.
Such outstanding performance in cash conversion and the net debt at the requires high quality management and 31 March 2006 was only 38.2 million having our shareholders have been well served peaked at the time of the Peterhouse in this respect.
acquisition in June 2004 at 104.5 million.
The Report and Accounts shows our Our consistent strategy over the last compliance with the combined code.
In the five years has been to transform Babcock few cases where we do not comply fully with into a support services business in the more the combined code, we explain our reasoning.
In particular, we continue to refresh the Board We essentially manage other peoples assets with appropriate skills and new insights.
I am utilising our well-qualified human resources.
therefore pleased that Justin Crookenden, We now have a balanced customer base a former investment banker, has agreed to join of national and international blue chip the Board as an independent, non-executive businesses, including the Ministry of Defence, Director and having joined the Board during Network Rail, the major telecommunication the year he will offer himself for election at companies and National Grid, and we have an the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
outstanding growth in South Africa supplying Justin has already made a major contribution similar reputable companies.
to the Board, and we look forward to his The growth in turnover has been achieved continuing to do so.
by the careful and considered acquisition Whilst the short distraction of a possible of a number of businesses, which have in offer for Babcock was unhelpful, I believe that themselves grown organically under the it has caused a valuable reappraisal of the Babcock management.
Having fully integrated worth of the Babcock business.
With a highly the Peterhouse acquisition, we announced the visible order book, of the order of three times purchase of Alstec Group Limited in May 2006. this years turnover, Babcock is well placed We are confident that this business fits our to deliver strong growth in both turnover, criteria, both in terms of its skill base and earnings and shareholder value.
Such growth markets which it serves.
We anticipate that however depends on the hard work and it will be as successful as some of our earlier commitment of our entire workforce, acquisitions.
However, we have balanced and I am sure that you would wish me to thank some of these acquisitions with appropriate them for their contribution to an outstandingly disposals where those businesses did not fit successful year.
I look forward to a continuation our vision for Babcock.
of that commitment which will deliver further Babcock has been in discussion with growth in shareholder value.
industry participants and with the Ministry of Defence about various options for both submarine and surface ship support in relation to the restructuring of the UK maritime sector, and fully supports this initiative insofar as it Gordon Campbell Chairman is value adding for Babcocks shareholders.
With the declining market for surface ship refit Babcock has downsized its marine operation so that it now comprises less than 20% of the Babcock business.
However, we believe that the Rosyth asset will increase in value due to its strategic importance for the building and maintenance of the new aircraft carriers.
