Operating and Financial Review 3 Chairmans Statement Another strong set of results allows us to increase dividends, once again.
Bob Scott Chairman I am pleased to welcome you to the In the US, we maintained our rapid growth, selling to our customers.
I would like to take Yell Group plc Annual Report for the both through growth of our existing markets this opportunity, on behalf of the Board, to financial year ended 31 March 2006 and through acquisitions.
In July we thank them for their hard work, commitment a special year in which our US Yellow Book completed the acquisition of TransWestern and achievements during the year.
directories celebrated 75 years, and our Publishing, expanding our footprint to 46 UK Yellow Pages directories 40 years.
This consolidates our position as a I am pleased to welcome Richard Hooper to US we now represent almost 60% of the national directory provider and takes our total Yell as a new non-executive director.
Richard independent classified directories sector, number of US directories to 835. brings a wealth of knowledge from the and globally we are the third largest private and public sectors, and is widely directory publisher.
Alongside the financial growth of our recognised for his substantial experience in business, we have continued to develop our the communications industry.
I am sure he will In May 2006, we launched an offer to integrated Governance and Responsibility make a very valuable contribution to the purchase Telefnica Publicidad e Informacin, programme.
Notable milestones include the continued success of our business.
S. A. TPI the leading Spanish telephone launch of the Yell Group Code of Ethics and, directory provider.
This acquisition, once in a time of growing concern for the In November we announced an interim closed, will give us a foothold in mainland environment, the publication of our climate dividend of 5.1 pence per share.
I am pleased Europe and South America substantial and change policy.
to announce that the Board is recommending complementary extensions to Yells existing a final dividend of 10.2 pence per share.
Our UK business became one of only 24 UK will bring the total dividend for the year to companies to be awarded Investors in People 15.3 pence per share, a 21% increase over This has been another year of achievement Champion status and in the US, Yellow Book the previous year.
across all areas of our business.
Group was once again voted one of the top 50 revenue grew 26% to 1,621 million, and companies to sell for.
Both achievements Our Annual General Meeting will be held on adjusted EBITDA grew 28% to 503 million.
exemplify the excellence of our approach to 20 July 2006 at 11 am.
At the end of this Operating cash flow increased by 29% to people management and development.
report you will find the Notice of AGM which 447 million and our adjusted diluted gives full details of the meeting and the earnings per share increased by 25% to 32.8 In January 2006, we were acknowledged as resolutions on which I ask you to vote.
one of the worlds most sustainable businesses forward to meeting as many of you as through inclusion in the Global 100 compiled possible at the meeting.
Our UK business continued to grow, driven by Innovest and Morgan Stanley.
In March primarily by Yell.
Although our UK Yellow 2006 we were also included in the Pages directories are subject to regulatory FTSE4Good index.
undertakings, we continued to grow printed product revenues, testimony to the value our The success of the Yell Group is attributable printed products deliver both to our to the talent of our people, and we now have Bob Scott advertisers and our users.
more than 11,500 people across the UK and Chairman US, 7,800 of whom are directly involved with I am disappointed to note that the Competition Commission has delayed its inquiry into classified advertising services and is not expected to report until the autumn, compared to an original date of June 2006.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 4 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006
