Chairmans letter Operating and financial review Chairmans letter 2006: a successful year for BAE Systems Good operational performance and effective implementation of a well-defined, soundly based strategy are combining to deliver real performance.
Dick Olver Chairman 4 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 Good operational performance and effective we have looked hard at the composition of the Group in Saudi Arabia.
Our policies implementation of a well-defined, soundly of the Board to ensure it continues to for conducting ethical business are clear based strategy are combining to deliver provide the most effective leadership and unambiguous, with established real performance.
The focus of the Groups strategy in recent BAE Systems has a Board with a wealth The underlying UK company law provisions years has seen a drive to improve returns of collective experience.
That experience concerning narrative reporting have changed and eliminate excessive risk in the UKincludes not just defence and aerospace since our last annual report.
The matters based operations, alongside the expansion domain knowledge but brings learning from required to be reported as part of the new of the Groups presence in the US.
This other international contracting businesses business review requirements are dealt with twin approach is transforming the Groups and finance backgrounds.
In addition to the on pages 2 to 40 of this report and cover performance in the UK market and has three new non-executive directors appointed the Groups activities during the year and established BAE Systems as one of the in 2005, we welcomed Sir Nigel Rudd to likely future developments.
Best practice major US defence companies.
Michael in narrative reporting will continue to evolve Lester and Mark Ronald retired from the and we will strive to remain at the forefront Notable achievements in 2006 included Board on 31 December 2006.
Both have of developments in this area.
the resolution of the approach to funding the made major contributions to the Group deficit on the Groups pension schemes, the The Groups corporate responsibility and this industry, throughout long careers.
completion of the sale of our 20% interest in performance is summarised on pages 35 Airbus and good progress towards securing At the start of 2007 I was pleased to to 40 and also detailed in an important further significant business in Saudi Arabia.
welcome to the Board Walt Havenstein, as separately published report.
Like all high Underlying these individual achievements Chief Operating Officer, with responsibility for performance companies, our policies has been a broad-based improvement in our US-led operations, and Ian King, as are kept constantly under review, and performance across the Group.
Chief Operating Officer, with responsibility for we are committed to take action wherever the Rest of World, including UK, businesses.
necessary to maintain the highest standard In addition to continuing to pursue the of corporate governance.
development of the Group in its two largest In February we agreed retirement dates for defence and aerospace markets, the UK Sue Birley and Ulrich Cartellieri.
They have The Board is recommending an increased and the US, the Groups strategy recognises afforded the Group great service through final dividend of 6.9p per share, making opportunities in the other home markets their contribution to both the Board and its a total of 11.3p for the year.
At this level, in which BAE Systems has a local presence committees.
The Group has benefited from having taken account of the sale of Airbus, and capability: Australia, Saudi Arabia, their wise counsel and we thank them for this.
the annual dividend is covered 2.1 times South Africa and Sweden.
by underlying earnings from continuing The Board now comprises approximately operations 2005 1.8 times.
Subject to Alongside the development of the Group 60% non-executive directors.
in these six home markets, BAE Systems shareholder approval at the 2007 Annual The changes in the composition of the General Meeting, the dividend will be paid will continue to nurture a high performance Board have enabled us to strengthen the culture.
The delivery of continuous on 1 June 2007 to holders of ordinary Board committee s that provide oversight to shares registered on 20 April 2007. performance improvement remains key to executive remuneration, succession planning, the twin objectives of delivering cost-effective audit and corporate responsibility.
capability to our customers and maximising returns for our shareholders.
BAE Systems has a highly skilled and dedicated workforce.
Our people have The Groups strategy is reviewed regularly as demonstrated that they can rise to the part of the Groups annual business planning challenge of delivering performance in process.
This review tests the continued relevance of the current strategy.
The a challenging technological industry and I am grateful to them for their contribution adaptations made to the strategy are set out on page 11 and reflect the progress to the Groups progress.
Dick Olver made over the past 12 months.
In December 2006, a decision was reached Chairman With the transition of the Group from by the Serious Fraud Office to conclude recovery to sustained performance growth, 21 February 2007 its investigation related to the activities Dividend pence per share 02 9.2 03 9.2 04 9.5 05 10.3 06 11.3 www.
