Chairmans statement The Company in 2006 Performance I am very pleased to report another year of good progress for Balfour Beatty In 2006, our pre-tax profits before exceptional items and amortisation of plc.
We have, once again, improved our profits and earnings, grown our intangible assets were up 13% at 152m 2005: 134m.
Adjusted earnings forward order book, generated strong cash flows, enhanced the strength per ordinary share before exceptional items and amortisation were also up of our balance sheet and improved our management of non-financial matters.
Basic earnings per share stood at 21.2p 2005: 24.9p.
There were a number of exceptional items, the largest of which We remain highly selective about what we take on.
We are proud of our was a non-cash asset write-down taken at the half-year, resulting in a net first-class project management, the quality of our engineering judgements exceptional charge after tax of 25m 2005: 4m profit.
and our attention to detail across the range of our activities.
Pre-tax profit for the year after exceptional items and amortisation of We have continued to pay close attention to the quality of the processes intangible assets amounted to 125m 2005: 141m.
and systems which underpin the Groups work on a day-to-day basis.
Our graduate intake has increased.
Our risk management processes have The Board recommends a final dividend of 5.2p per ordinary share, making been further refined.
Our safety and environmental management systems a total dividend for the year of 9.1p 2005: 8.1p, an increase of 12%.
And we have further embedded Operating cash flow was, once again, strong and in line with profits.
Year-end our corporate principles, business conduct guidelines and codes of practice net cash stood at 305m 2005: 315m, despite acquisition expenditure of across the Group.
80m, and before taking account of the consolidation of 21m non-recourse In 2005, we were voted the 20th most admired company in the UK.
It was net debt held in PPP subsidiaries 2005: 14m.
extremely gratifying to discover that, in the 2006 Management Today survey, The year-end order book increased by 20% to 9.1bn 2005: 7.6bn, with over our position had risen to sixth and we had consolidated our position of 1.0bn of further work at preferred bidder stage.
leadership in the construction sector.
We were also pleased to be awarded the accolade of being the best corporate social responsibility practitioner in the construction sector in the annual Quality in Construction awards.
Strategy The Chief Executive and the Board committed much time and attention to a major strategic review in 2005, the output of which was reported in last years annual report.
In 2006, we have made good progress in pursuing the strategic priorities that we identified in that review.
The Board reviewed and where necessary, updated the strategy in December 2006.
Ian Tyler covers the actions we have taken in UK infrastructure contracting, upstream professional services, our capital investment business and in developing our business outside the UK in his review over the following pages of this report.
04 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our business The Board People Two new non-executive Directors were appointed to the Board with effect Balfour Beatty is a leader in most of the markets which it serves.
Mike Donovan was most recently Chief Operating Officer leadership not only offers the opportunity of superior financial returns, but also of Marconi plc, with previous senior management experience at British helps attract the best people at every level of our organisation.
We cannot, Aerospace, Vickers and the Rover Group.
Stephen Howard was most recently however, afford to be complacent and we are constantly seeking new and Group Chief Executive of Novar plc, having had a long and successful career better ways to recruit and retain the best people and to offer them interesting with Cookson Group plc.
and rewarding jobs within the Group.
Jim Cohen, who has been an executive Director since 2000, retired from the In 2006, we launched a new campaign for the recruitment of graduates and Board with effect from 18 February 2007.
He has played a leading role in overhauled our general recruitment practices.
2007 will see our first Groupdeveloping the Groups capital investment and international rail businesses wide employee attitude and opinion survey which will enable us to respond and left with our sincere gratitude and best wishes, as did Chalmers Carr, with greater sensitivity to employee needs and preferences.
who was appointed a non-executive Director in 2003 and retired from the I am sure shareholders will wish to join me in thanking all Balfour Beatty Board on 31 August 2006. people for their hard work and achievements in 2006.
Safety and environment Outlook The Groups accident frequency rate was reduced by a further 24% during We have record order books and a number of preferred bidder positions on 2006, continuing the positive trend of recent years.
The safety of our people major projects, and our markets are generally healthy and continue to offer and those whom our business affects remains our highest priority.
also made good progress in managing our environmental impacts, including our relative contribution to global warming and managing and recycling We have also made good progress in pursuing the strategic priorities which our waste.
we set out last year and have substantially added to our earning power as a result, which will serve to underpin future growth.
We believe that we will be able to make further good progress in 2007.
Sir David John KCMG Chairman We have made good progress in pursuing the strategic priorities which we set out last year and have substantially added to our earning power as a result.
05 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006
