I CAN REPORT THAT THE COMPANY HAS PERFORMED WELL DURING THE YEAR, PRODUCING STRONG GROWTH IN SHAREHOLDER VALUE.
Planegg, Munich 8 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts THIS IS THE ELEVENTH CONSECUTIVE YEAR THAT OUR NAV PER SHARE HAS INCREASED.
INTRODUCTION Since flotation the group has comfortably outperformed both the FTSE all share and FTSE real estate indices.
The graph Once again I can report that the Company has performed well below, independently sourced by Datastream, includes during the year producing strong growth in shareholder value.
conventional dividend payments but excludes the positive The main driver for this has been the increase in net asset impact of capital distributions by CLS through tender offer values.
Our adjusted net asset value per share has buy-backs.
increased from 606.9 pence by 35.8 per cent to 824.4 pence.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN The generally buoyant European property market has since floatation based on share price contributed to the growth in real estate values in each of our operating regions during 2006 and it is worth noting that this CLS Holdings Tot Return Ind is the eleventh consecutive year that our NAV per share has FTSE Real Estate Tot Return Ind 400 increased.
During that period it has shown an average FTSE All Share Tot Return Ind growth rate of 18.2 per cent compound per annum.
Statutory NAV per share, including full provision for deferred 300 tax of 150.4 million, increased from 441.9 pence by 39.7 per cent to 617.3 pence.
200 Profit before taxation increased from 84.7 million by 108.5 per cent to 176.6 million including a fair value increase in property assets of 162.1 million, approximately one third of 100 which related to our joint venture interests in the London Bridge Quarter.
0 PERFORMANCE FOR INVESTORS 2006 Total return to shareholders Source: Datastream One of the primary indicators we use to measure performance is the total return to shareholders, which Distributions measures the growth in NAV per share and distributions During 2006 we distributed 52.5 million to shareholders by made per share.
way of tender offer buy-backs, equating to 66.9 pence per TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS RETURN AS A PERCENTAGE OF NAV share.
Included within this amount was a special distribution following the sale of our interest in Solna Business Park.
% 45 BUSINESS REVIEW 2006 40 UK The last year has seen a continuing compression of 35 yields with prime London yields falling to around 4 per cent, 30 driven by continued investor demand for property as an 25 asset class, relatively low interest rates and growing 20 occupier demand for good quality space.
Increased interest 15 rates towards the end of 2006 may alleviate further Percent return on distributions 10 significant compression and we therefore anticipate yields per share 5 remaining relatively stable over the coming year.
Percent return 0 on NAV per share 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 The total return to CLS investors in 2006 was 46.9 per cent and the average over the last five years was 23.3 per cent.
9 Dec-01 June Dec-02 June Dec-03 June Dec-04 June Dec-05 June Dec-06 CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts Given the current investing environment, we have concentrated GERMANY At the beginning of the year we set ourselves a on adding value to the assets we own rather than acquiring target of building a portfolio of 200 million of high-yielding, new, highly priced stock.
During the year we completed the good quality office buildings.
We are well on the way to major refurbishment of Great West House, Brentford and are achieving that goal and by 31 December 2006 owned 14 in the process of letting vacant floors in that building.
We are properties valued at 135.2 million.
Since the year end we also on programme and budget to complete the 10 million have acquired two further properties at a cost of 34.2 million.
refurbishment programme at Spring Gardens in the second As we have seen elsewhere, the investing market has become quarter of 2007.
When it is complete, the property will have very competitive and yields have been driven down.
We have been extended by a further 2,503 sq m 27,000 sq ft to just not compromised our purchasing strategy and have not under 18,580 sq m 200,000 sq ft and let for 20 years to the bought properties where we regard prices to be unviable.
Home Office at an average rent of 31.50 per sq ft.
The rate of acquisition has therefore slowed, however we are still very active in this area and will continue to build We have made significant further progress at the Shard, the portfolio where we determine value can be accrued.
London Bridge in which we have a one third interest.
Having signed a pre-letting of 17,651 sq m 190,000 sq ft We have also established an office in Hamburg from which with TfL Transport for London, nearly 50 per cent of the our local professional team operates to manage our assets proposed new building is now pre-let.
The arrangement and build the portfolio.
of interim development funding and agreement with SWEDEN We sold two major Swedish property portfolios  for vacant possession of Southwark during the year, taking advantage of the high demand for Towers, which currently occupies the site, will enable property.
demolition works to commence towards the end of 2007.
The first sale took place in February 2006 comprising a The resolution to grant planning permission for a fine new portfolio of 1,280 apartments and 42,608 sq m 458,644 sq ft Renzo Piano designed 39,950 sq m 430,000 sq ft office of commercial and retail space located at Lvgrdet, near building adjacent to the Shard was passed earlier in the Gothenburg.
We sold the portfolio to a major local landlord year, which paves the way for further redevelopment of the specialising in local residential estates.
During our four year London Bridge Quarter.
period of ownership their value had increased by 10.5 FRANCE The French property investment market has also million against a cost of 29.4 million, of which the initial seen major yield compression in 2006 with prime yields in equity investment was 3.0 million.
central Paris falling to approximately 4.25 per cent with the In August 2006, we completed the corporate sale of our six same basic fundamentals driving the market as in the UK.
properties at Solna Business Park, Stockholm which valued The record demand for property investment is fuelled by the properties at 267 million.
This was the successful significant money flows from domestic, US and German culmination of a seven year project to create a vibrant office, investors.
The letting market saw significant activity with hotel and retail business park from a tired and run-down approximately 2.9 million sq m 31.2 million sq ft of space industrial estate.
The development, which won both taken-up in the Paris region, an increase of 30 per cent over environmental and design awards, has generated added the previous year.
value in excess of 65 million after taking account of original Set against this backdrop we have found it difficult to purchase purchase and refurbishment costs.
new properties without compromising our investment criteria.
We did however take advantage of the active investment market to sell the vacant building, Le 41, in La Dfense, Paris for 15.3 million having purchased it in 1998 for 7.4 million.
Our French portfolio has performed extremely well over the years and in 2006 generated 12.1 million profit from operations and 35.3 million from increased valuations.
Active asset management and close relationships with tenants have resulted in a year end vacancy rate of just 2.1 per cent by area, compared to 6.2 per cent the previous year.
10 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Le Sirius, Paris UK 56.0% 2005 43.9% France 27.8% 2005 27.5% Germany 11.8% 2005 1.2% Sweden 4.3% 2005 27.4% Portfolio value by location New London Bridge House, London 11 CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts WE LOOK TO PROFITABLY EXPAND OUR OPERATIONS IN OUR CURRENT MARKETS AND EXPLORE NEW OPPORTUNITIES WHERE WE SEE THE POTENTIAL FOR ADDED VALUE.
EQUITY INVESTMENTS We completed two sales during the We will continue to look at East European markets for year.
In January 2006 we sold the assets and business of the opportunities for potential value.
Such investments are second of our two cable investments, WightCable North currently likely to be on the basis of holding indirect Limited at a loss of 2.1 million and in August 2006 we sold interests in commercial property through participation the majority of our stake in Keronite PLC, which booked a in property funds or listed companies with high calibre profit of 3.7 million.
In April 2006 we purchased the balance of shares in ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES We see the development of Lunarworks AB, a very successful Swedish youth community environmentally safe and energy efficient buildings as not website.
Our entire investment cost 17.0 million and I am only socially responsible but also commercially beneficial.
pleased to note that in the seven months we have owned We have continued to incorporate environmentally effective the company it has contributed a profit to the Group of features in our buildings.
Our development at Solna 0.6 million.
Business Park incorporated a geothermal heating and We also purchased a 17 per cent stake in the AIM listed cooling system for one of the buildings, cutting its heating Bulgarian Land Development PLC for 4.3 million in March and cooling costs by 30 per cent.
We were also accredited 2006 and we are pleased to note that it has made good the P-Mark building specification equivalent to BREEM in progress during its first nine months.
The company develops the UK, which focuses on the working environment, fresh residential and commercial property opportunities in air circulation and quality, sound proofing and illumination.
Bulgaria which joined the EU in January 2007.
Construction We are also incorporating a raft of energy saving designs of its first residential project of 199 villas and apartments into The Shard and New London Bridge House.
on the Black Sea coast commenced in February 2007 and These features give us an advantage in letting, as tenants is already over 35 per cent pre-sold.
We have conditionally will benefit from higher quality properties, lower agreed to increase our stake to 29 percent on a new occupational running costs, and their employees will have fundraising by the company.
PROSPECTS We are well placed to continue building our We have raised awareness within the company and have European portfolio through the acquisition of new assets applied to Westminster Council to utilise our low energy and enhancement of the existing portfolio.
screen at One Leicester Square to make the public more In the UK we are actively assessing the potential added aware of environmental issues.
value in redeveloping a number of sites that we currently These initiatives are a small beginning, however we are own and will be focusing hard on ensuring that the committed to contributing time and resources to reduce the development of the London Bridge Quarter proceeds in line carbon footprint of our business.
with the programme and the budget.
TENDER OFFER We have substantial cash reserves and Our German investment programme will continue with a have demonstrated consistently strong performance over view to investing a further 80 million to 100 million as the years.
As there is still a 13.6 per cent discount between long as we can find appropriately priced good quality assets.
NAV per share and share price, we therefore propose to We will continue to buy further office properties in France recommend a tender offer buy-back of 1 in 41 shares at and throughout the Group we will work closely with current 750 pence per share.
This, together with the interim tender and potential tenants to maintain low levels of vacant space offer special distribution, will result in a total distribution for in each of our operating areas.
the year of 69.9 pence per share, an increase of 194.9 per cent over the previous year.
12 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued BrainLAB, Munich CONCLUSION After an exceptionally good year we are well Finally I would also like to thank our shareholders, our aware of the challenges ahead of us.
In particular, seeing bankers and our tenants, for their continued involvement such large developments as the Shard and New London and support.
Bridge House through to a successful commercial conclusion will be a high priority.
We look to profitably expand our operations in our current markets and explore new opportunities where we see the potential for added value.
The ongoing enthusiasm, dedication and commitment of Sten Mortstedt our staff have been key components in our success and Executive Chairman on behalf of the Board I would like to thank them for their 28 March 2007 commitment.
