Chairmans Statement Property Market and Portfolio For the third year in succession, total returns from the commercial property market, as measured by the Investment Property Databank IPD All Monthly Valued Funds, were in their high teens.
The market benefited from continuing strong levels of investment demand from institutions, overseas buyers and private individuals, resulting in yield compression across the main property sectors of Retail, Office and Industrial.
The best performing of those was the Office sector where total returns for the year exceeded 20 per cent.
The Central London market has been especially strong with valuations being driven upwards by significant yield compression and rental growth.
The valuation of the Companys property portfolio increased to 1.23 billion during the year, representing an ungeared increase of 17.8 per cent and a total return of 23.3 per cent.
This compares favourably to the equivalent returns from the IPD All Monthly Valued Funds of 12.4 per cent and 18.1 per cent.
The most notable increase came from Cassini House, St Jamess Street, London which increased in value by 39.0 per cent to 81.6 million.
The valuation of this Peter Niven Chairman property has benefited significantly from strong rental growth within the Central London market: the effective rent increasing from 59.50 to 75 per sq.
ft. during the I am delighted to be reporting the Companys results for year.
its first full accounting year since launch in March 2005.
The largest direct property in the portfolio, the St During this time the Company has continued to perform Christophers Place Estate, London, also benefited from strongly with a net asset value total return for the year strong rental growth following a number of successful ended 31 December 2006 of 26.0 per cent.
rent reviews during the year.
Its valuation increased by 17.7 per cent to 123.9 million, which represented 10.1 The net asset value at the end of the year was 141.5p per cent of the portfolio as at 31 December 2006. per share and the share price was 131.0p.
Since launch, the share price has increased by 31.0 per cent There was also a significant contribution from Newbury and shareholders have benefited from a further 9.3 per Retail Park, which increased by 20.3 per cent to 83.2 cent of the issue price in the form of dividends declared million.
As I reported at the interim stage, this property up to 31 December 2006. has the benefit of an Open A1 food consent and the Company has contracted a letting to Borders Books on There continued to be a good level of demand for the the final 10,000 sq.
ft. within the recently completed Companys shares during the year reflecting its extension to the park which remains fully let with attractive dividend yield and quality property portfolio.
important rent reviews due this year.
The Companys peer group of Guernsey registered property investment companies comprised ten The Company acquired one property during the year, at companies as at 31 December 2006 with an aggregate 44 James Street, London, for 975,000, which is an market capitalisation of 3.4 billion.
With total assets of integral property within the St Christophers Place 1.3 billion as at 31 December 2006, and a market Estate.
One property, Blocks A, D, E, F, G & H at the capitalisation of 963 million, the Company is the largest International Business Centre, Sunbury, was sold in company within that group.
December for 23.3 million net of rental guarantees, representing a premium of 11.3 per cent to the The Company is also a constituent of the FTSE 250 valuation as at 30 September 2006.
Index and the FTSE Real Estate Sector.
The FTSE Real Estate Sector comprises not only the peer group The Companys indirect holdings in both the Industrial companies but also those property companies which Property Investment Fund and The Mall LP continued to have recently converted into UK Real Estate Investment be an important part of the portfolio where these funds Trusts REITs.
While the introduction of REITs in the increased in value by 17.9 per cent during the year and UK has broadened the opportunities open to real estate accounted for 14.8 per cent of the portfolio at the year investors, the Board believes the Companys structure end.
Since then, the Company has disposed of a small remains attractive.
In particular, the Companys dividend portion 749,264 units of its holding in The Mall LP for yield is significantly higher than that generally available 1.9 million, which represented a small premium of 0.6 from a UK REIT.
per cent to the valuation as at 31 December 2006.
2 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Dividends comply with the provisions of the UKLA Listing Rules.
First, second and third interim dividends, each of 1.5p As a company incorporated in Guernsey, it is not required to comply with all the reporting requirements per share, were paid on 28 July and 27 October 2006, that apply to companies incorporated in the UK.
The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 1.5p per share However, the Board has decided to include within the which will be paid on 27 April 2007 to shareholders on Annual Report additional information which it feels is the register on 30 March 2007.
This brings the total required to bring the reporting into line with what would dividend for the year to 6.0p per share, which is be expected from a UK incorporated investment unchanged from that set at the time of the Companys company and which it feels are best practice launch in March 2005. disclosures.
The principal additional disclosures are a Business Review and a Statement of Corporate Share Buy Backs Governance, which explains how the Company follows The Board continues to believe it is important to have the recommendations of the Combined Code.
These the ability to buy back shares.
The Company will statements are contained within the Directors Report therefore seek to renew its share buy back authority at on pages 11 to 17. the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Subject to the As with other UK listed companies, the accounts have passing of resolution 7 at the Annual General Meeting, been prepared in accordance with International Financial any shares bought back may be cancelled or held in Reporting Standards.
The accounts and supporting treasury for subsequent re-issue.
The Companys notes can be found on pages 20 to 34. proposed treasury share guidelines are contained within the Report of the Directors on page 17.
At the time of the Companys launch its was stated that Dividend Reinvestment Plan the Directors intended to use the share buy back To enable shareholders to reinvest their dividends in authority to purchase shares subject to the income and additional shares of the Company, the Board has cash flow requirements of the Company if the share decided to introduce a dividend reinvestment plan.
price was more than five per cent below the published Separate information on the plan is enclosed with the net asset value for a continuous period of 20 dealing Annual Report and within Shareholder Information on days or more.
To ensure a fair comparison, the page 36.
Directors believe that such discount should be calculated by adjusting the published net asset value for any quarterly dividends for which the share price has Outlook gone ex-dividend.
On this basis, although the discount With IPD data showing all property initial yields at 4.6 has, on occasions this year exceeded five per cent, it per cent compared with a five year swap rate of 5.4 per has not done so continuously for 20 dealing days.
cent the prospect of any further all property yield At the time of the launch it was also stated that, in the compression is remote and further rises in UK interest event of the discount to the published net asset value rates could put valuations under pressure.
That said, being more than five per cent for 90 dealing days or the climate for rental growth remains favourable and this more, the Directors would convene an Extraordinary should help support valuation levels.
General Meeting to be held within three months to The Managers in-house estimates for 2007 are for total consider an ordinary resolution for the continuation of returns of between 9 and 10 per cent which, aside from the Company.
Again, this condition has not yet been the Office sector, they expect will be largely income met to date.
Total returns will be enhanced by successful asset management initiatives and, with its quality Borrowings portfolio and robust cashflows, the Board believes the As a result of the continuing rise in the value of the Company is well positioned to make further good property portfolio, the level of gearing as at progress in the year ahead.
This compares to 21.0 per cent as at 31 December 2005 and 24.4 per cent at launch.
The Companys borrowings are represented by 230 million Secured Bonds due 2017 which have been assigned an Aaa rating by Moodys Investors Services.
The Bonds carry interest at a fixed rate of 5.23 per cent per annum.
More information about the Bonds is contained within note 14 to the accounts.
PeterNiven Accounts and Annual Report Chairman The Companys primary stock exchange listing is on the 9March2007 London Stock Exchange and it is therefore required to Annual Report and Accounts 2006 3
