Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 02 Chairmans statement With the commencement of The Walbrook Project, London EC4, a significant step towards the active realisation programme for the Groups major development projects has taken place.
This has been made possible as a consequence of the radical steps that I announced in March of last year, to dramatically reduce the Groups borrowings, increase cash reserves and strengthen our Board along with the executive management team.
This process of reorientation has enabled us to move into new arenas including luxury residential and mixed use development in Central London.
With the London market remaining strong we are well placed to reap the rewards of these endeavours.
I would like to turn to our financial results for the year ended June 2006 which are the first full-year results for the Group to be prepared under OUR PROCESS OF International Financial Reporting REORIENTATION HAS Standards.
Profit before tax and exceptional items was 9.3 million ENABLED US TO MOVE 2005: loss of 4.7 million.
Exceptional items of 16.2 million were incurred during the year which primarily relate to fixed rate loan and Andrew Rosenfeld swap break costs, relating to both Chairman the disposal of the Bankside Estate and refinancing of the loan to enable The Walbrook to be developed.
After incorporating the exceptional costs and the tax credit, the profit for the year for the Group was 1.7 million 2005: loss of 20.4 million.
Turning now to our main projects, the redevelopment of The Walbrook, a 455,000 sq.
ft. headquarter office building in the heart of the City of London represents a major opportunity for the Group to enhance its asset base and construct what will be a major landmark office building, Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 03 which has been carefully pieced A key milestone during the year In addition to the core projects in together over a number of years was entering into an agreement with order to diversify our activities into culminating in the securing of vacant The Whitgift Foundation, a major new markets the Group entered possession at the beginning of 2005 landowner in central Croydon, for a into two smaller joint ventures in through the conclusion of a lease new 250 year head lease which will Glasgow and Edinburgh with high surrender from Barclays Bank.
ensure a mutuality of interests through calibre partners.
This development which is scheduled the realignment of our respective The Minerva team has made for completion in 2009 has been landholdings.
It is anticipated that the significant progress over the last designed by world renowned decision of the public enquiry will be 12 months and is now committed architects Foster and Partners.
released during the early part of 2007. to a very clear development based The design lends itself to a range In November 2005 we acquired strategy.
With the commencement of of leasing options ranging from The Odeon Cinema site in High Street The Walbrook Project the Group has single to multi-tenanted occupation.
Kensington where the Group plans signalled that it is now entering a new With the City of London office market to develop a scheme of luxury phase in its evolution, focused on strengthening significantly we are apartments.
We are working closely delivering shareholder value through confident of a successful outcome.
with our partners Northacre plc the development of its projects.
Against the improving market on the design for the new project With the London market continuing conditions in the City we have taken and we are optimistic that planning to be high on the list of international the decision to focus upon the will be forthcoming.
investors and occupiers this should development of the 530,000 sq.
ft. be a period of sustained growth for In February 2006, again in joint venture headquarter office development at the Group.
with Northacre plc, we announced St. Botolphs House, London EC3.
the conditional acquisition of As stated in our Interims, the Board This building, designed by Grimshaw, 7589 Lancaster Gate, London W2.
has determined that dividends has a similar design philosophy to that This transaction became unconditional will be paid from the realisation of our of The Walbrook, capable of being in July 2006.
The project currently has projects and accordingly no dividend leased to a single tenant or a range planning consent for 139 residential will be paid for this year in line with of diversified occupiers.
The Group units and we are currently embarking this strategy.
is currently at a detailed stage of upon a detailed redesign of the discussion in respect of construction I am pleased to confirm that at the development so as to create a range finance and has procured funding to forthcoming Annual General Meeting of luxury homes that will attract enable the demolition of the existing in November, Oliver Whitehead, purchasers from around the world.
subject to your approval, will take The construction of the new Since the end of our financial year up the appointment of non-executive development will be subject to a we exchanged contracts for the Chairman, having joined the Board modest level of pre-leasing in order acquisition of the Ram Brewery site in July of this year.
He brings with to avoid concentration of risk in the in Wandsworth SW18.
In contrast to him many years of experience City market.
High Street Kensington and Lancaster from several senior roles within Gate this is a significant mixed use the construction industry.
The Park Place project in Croydon project which will draw upon our skills has seen significant activity principally As this is my last Chairmans in the residential, office and retail surrounding the compulsory purchase Statement I would like to thank those arenas.
It is an opportunity that will public inquiry which took place earlier at Minerva who have worked closely play to the Groups strengths as it this year, along with a growing with me in taking a Company with an requires a detailed understanding of relationship with Lend Lease with initial share capital of 70,000 to one the planning and construction process whom we entered into a development which today has net assets of around along with the ability to embrace a agreement in 2005 for the realisation 500 million.
diverse range of interests shared by of Park Place.
