02 Chairmans statement Results I am pleased to report on a fourteenth successive year of record results: a year in which we have not only produced a strong trading and revaluation performance but have also made significant additions to the hopper and good progress in marshalling future projects.
Profits before tax increased by 17% to 96.9m 2005: 82.9m, earnings per share grew by 11% to 61.6p 2005: 55.4p and net assets per share increased by 20% to 323p 2005: 268p.
Our key performance measurement of total pre-tax return on average shareholders equity was 27.5% 2005: 28.5%.
Dividend Your board is recommending a final dividend of 6.8p 2005: 5.9p per ordinary share, making a total distribution for the year of 10.2p 2005: 8.8p, an increase of 16%.
This final dividend will be paid on 4th May 2007 to shareholders on the register on 13th April 2007. International Financial Reporting Standards I am pleased to report on IFRS As advised in the Interim Report, our results are now presented in a fourteenth successive a very different format from that to which you have been year of record results accustomed.
This arises from the introduction of IFRS, the principal effects of which, apart from purely presentational ones, are that revaluations are shown on the face of the income statement and that the deferred tax provision on revaluations is included in both the income statement and the balance sheet.
The substance of the business is not affected by the introduction of IFRS.
However, bringing revaluations on to the income statement may make future reported results more variable.
The revaluations reflect pure market movements in addition to those which have arisen from our own efforts and to that extent are less within our control.
In the recent past, we have benefited in our revaluations from a strong market but a flat or weak market would not give us such a benefit.
Historically, this would have been seen only in our balance sheet but it is now recognised in the income statement.
03 Strategy Your companys strategy remains unaltered.
We are regeneration We recognise that our projects have a considerable impact on the areas specialists, operating through a network of six regional offices, with in which they are located.
We genuinely believe that our projects improve four particular specialisations: town centre regeneration, partnering those areas but, as is the nature of most projects, the outcome is a industry in its restructuring, brownfield land renewal, and heritage balance between economic viability and community aspirations.
Much of the programme is carried out with partners community, environmental and social responsibility section we provide from both the public and private sectors.
a number of examples of how we are working to achieve that balance.
We are not a sectoral specialist.
We have the skills to serve the full Directors and employees range of market sectors: distribution, industrial, leisure, office, The continued run of record results and the good prospects for the residential and retail.
Our real skill is in the process of taking future could not have been achieved without a committed and highly challenging regeneration opportunities and seeing them through competent team at all levels in the organisation.
My thanks go to everyone for the efforts they have put in to achieving yet another to the completion of a successful built development, whatever the successful year.
mix of uses the opportunity deserves.
The company continues to benefit from a strong board.
The The key to the strategy is the continued acquisition of well-located executive team is supported by committed non-executives who are opportunities to top up the hopper.
In this year, we have acquired a not afraid to question and challenge.
good number of opportunities, two of which are particularly noteworthy, namely our participation with Vinci PLC in Project I am delighted that Steve Burke, our construction director, has been MoDEL, a rationalization of part of the Ministry of Defence estate in appointed to the board.
Steve joined us in November 1995 and, London, and our selection by West Lancashire District Council and recruiting an excellent team of construction managers, lifted our delivery English Partnerships to be their preferred partner for the redevelopment of Skelmersdale Town Centre.
His contribution has been a major factor in our winning a number of the major schemes where he has been able to give These two schemes demonstrate just how far your company has confidence to our customers and partners.
come in the twenty years of its existence as a property operation.
Prospects We are now able to put ourselves forward in competition for the On the back of our marshalling programme, we move into the present most challenging regeneration projects and be selected.
year with a strong, if demanding, target.
The present year has started well, but the results will be more second half orientated than in the We remain differentiated from many of our peers by our past.
Overall, I would expect it to be a year of continued progress and determination to grow through realised profits rather than just we remain on track to meet our corporate financial target of doubling revaluations and to obtain both the realised profits and the net asset value per share every five years.
revaluations by actually adding value ourselves rather than by relying on market movement.
The latter is obviously a very pleasant addition Anthony Glossop when it is available but we do not see it as a reliable feature on which Chairman to build the business.
12th February 2007 Governance We have always sought to manage our affairs to the highest standards of integrity and business competence and your board takes proper cognisance of corporate governance initiatives.
Any departures, however minor, will be for good reasons in the spirit of the regulations and will be fully and openly explained.
co. uk The company focuses on four areas: North West 01 Glasgow Hillington Springburn 07 Preston Town centre regeneration Channel Way 08 Blackburn Many centres that were developed during Medipark the 1960s and 1970s now require 09 Accrington substantial refurbishment and updating to Junction 7 Business Park meet the demands of the contemporary 10 Skelmersdale shopper, to accommodate new trends in Town Centre town centre living, and to bring back into 11 Wigan these centres community and business Enterprise Park uses.
St. Modwen has substantial 12 Manchester experience in revitalising town centres, Wythenshawe and is currently engaged on a number of Trafford Park such schemes, including major projects 13 Liverpool at Edmonton Green, Farnborough, East Lancs Road Skelmerdale and Wembley.
Great Homer Street 14 Widnes Economic Development Zone Town Centre Partnering industry Restructuring of traditional industries has left numerous former employment complexes potentially available for Midlands redevelopment.
St. Modwen has established joint ventures with 17 Derby companies such as Alstom, Corus, Hilton Depot Goodyear and Ford to undertake the 18 Stafford Lichfield Road redevelopment of such sites, often St. Leonards through innovative sale and leaseback arrangements which provide the 19 Burton-upon-Trent Barton Business Park required flexibility for the landowner.
20 Wolverhampton Goodyear 21 Telford Brockton Business Park Brownfield renewal 22 Walsall St. Matthews Quarter St. Modwen is one of the UKs leading 23 Dudley experts in the large-scale renewal of Castle Hill brownfield land.
The company has huge 24 Birmingham experience in the remediation, Washwood Heath remodelling, infrastructuring and Quinton Business Park redevelopment of such sites, having 25 Longbridge reclaimed hundreds of acres of 26 Rugby brownfield land for both residential and Mill Road commercial use.
There is currently well Newbold Road over 1,000 acres of land in the hopper in 27 Worcester the process of such development, Shrub Hill Industrial Estate including the massive Llanwern former 28 Stratford-upon-Avon steelworks and Avonmouth former zinc Long Marston smelter sites.
Restoring Heritage The company has applied similar skills to a number of heritage, leisure-related projects.
In these projects, an enabling South West commercial development finances an otherwise non-viable heritage restoration 29 Gloucester scheme.
Two such schemes currently Quedgeley Industrial Estates being undertaken are: the 100 million 30 Newport, Gwent transformation of Trentham Gardens at Llanwern Stoke-on-Trent into a major leisure and 31 Dursley, Glos commercial visitor attraction: and a Littlecombe Village similar project at Dudley in the West 32 Avonmouth, Bristol Midlands, which will incorporate the Access 18 existing zoo and medieval castle into a 33 Taunton new visitor attraction.
Trading Estate 05 Regional offices 01 Motorways and other principal routes Yorkshire 02 Darlington Whessoe Road 03 Guisley Netherfield Road 04 Hull Melton Park 05 Doncaster Worcester Avenue 06 Lincoln 02 Rushton Works North Staffordshire 15 Stoke-on-Trent Festival Park Trentham Gardens Trentham Lakes 16 Stone Meaford Power Station Leeds 03 London and South East 04 08 34 Cranfield 07 09 Technology Park 10 11 35 Bedford 05 Thurleigh Airfield 12 Manchester Town Centre 13 36 Milton Keynes Stratford Road 14 37 Hatfield 06 Town Centre 38 Mill Hill Inglis Barracks 39 Stanmore 15 RAF Bentley Priory 40 Eastcote Stoke-on-Trent RAF Eastcote 16 17 41 West Ruislip 18 RAF West Ruslip 19 42 Uxbridge 21 20 RAF Uxbridge 22 43 Thurrock 24 South Ockendon 23 Birmingham 44 London 25 Catford Edmonton Green 26 Elephant & Castle 27 28 Hounslow 34 Leegate Centre 36 35 Newham Wembley Central 45 Woking 29 The Planets 46 Basingstoke The Malls 31 37 47 Farnborough Town Centre 38 39 48 Surrey 30 40 London 46 Henley Industrial Estate 41 43 44 32 45 42 49 Yalding Bristol Syngenta 48 46 50 Bognor Regis 47 49 Town Centre 51 Eastleigh Campbell Road 52 Poole Discovery Court 51 33 50 52
