CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I WANT TO THANK OUR EXECUTIVE TEAM FOR THEIR STRONG AND EFFECTIVE LEADERSHIP AND ALL OUR EMPLOYEES FOR THEIR INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTIONS TO WHAT HAS BEEN ACHIEVED OVER THE PAST YEAR.
OVERVIEW AND OUTLOOK UK COAL made a great deal of progress during 2006 in its mining, property and power generation businesses.
This is reected in the increase in our reported profits, the strengthening of our balance sheet, and the development of our strategy to secure considerable sustained value creation on behalf of all our stakeholders.
The nature of our mining and property operations, the environments in which they operate and their prospects are all clearly very different.
We are more than alert to this and have put in place the different strategies needed to optimise their value.
In mining, we are focused on accessing and mining reserves only where there is a clear prospect of creating substantial value over time.
This has led to a reduction in the number of deep mines in operation as well as creating an improvement in operating profitability and a sounder basis for developing the business in future.
We continue to face challenges, particularly in deep mining and there will continue to be unpredictability.
These features should not be underestimated, and I report on them below.
But we have put in place the steps to best deal with these challenges so enabling us to secure the value we see.
In parallel, we have confirmed the very large store of potential which we can realise and build upon in our property business.
We have put in place a strong property management team and we have presented our strategy and the actions we are taking to realise our property value.
This has been well received by the market, and progress to date is highly satisfactory.
We estimate that the value of our land with the benefit of the permissions is considerably greater than the reported value in our accounts, since the latter represents the value of our land and property in their current usage.
OVERALL, DURING 2006, UK COAL HAS PUT IN PLACE A FAR STRONGER PLATFORM FOR FUTURE VALUE CREATION.
2007 WILL SEE THE EXECUTION OF OUR STRATEGY GO A GREAT DEAL FURTHER, AND WE FACE THE CURRENT FINANCIAL YEAR WITH CONFIDENCE.
FINANCIAL RESULTS The Groups progress is reected by the headline financial results.
Recognising the increasing importance of property to the Group, we have adopted the convention of reporting changes in the value of a wider range of our property interests through the income statement.
On this basis, overall operating profit before Exceptional Items increased to 47.8m, compared to 7.4m for 2005 restated, and profit for the year was 17.5m compared to a 2005 loss of 32.9m restated.
The impact of the change in reporting improved the results by 47.8m in 2006 and by 29.3m in the restated 2005 results.
We have also signicantly strengthened our balance sheet.
We took advantage of the sharply positive re-rating of our business by the stock market to strengthen our capital position through a share placing which raised 29.1m.
We have recognised deferred tax assets for the first time, and we have included a greater number of our investment properties at open market value.
As a result, net assets are up by 63%, and net assets per share are up by 54% against their restated 2005 levels.
07. indd 4 12 3 07 18:50:23 As required by accounting rules, the financial statements report our investment properties at current fair values.
With the benefit of the planning permissions and development plans we already have in hand, however, we believe this understates its potential value by a factor of well over two times.
On pensions, we have made good progress in reducing the deficit in our dened benefit schemes which are closed to new members.
The deficit has been reduced by 22.3m to 95.7m.
This reects the investment performance of the pension fund assets and additional contributions paid by the Company of 6.1m.
In addition, we have recognised a deferred tax asset of 35.7m, which is available to offset against our scheme obligations in future years.
We have managed our cash carefully, whilst continuing to invest signicantly in our businesses and meet the costs of continuing rationalisation.
As a result, our net debt has risen to 51.8m, compared to 43.3m in 2005: while our net debt to equity ratio has improved to 21% from 29%.
BOARD During the year, we have strengthened our Board further on both the executive and non-executive side.
We are delighted to have welcomed Jon Lloyd, who joined us last July as Chief Executive of our property business and brings with him a wealth of property development and management experience.
We are also delighted to have welcomed Mike Toms, who joined as a non-executive director last May, bringing the considerable experience he has gained as a Town Planner and Economist and from his senior roles and Board position over the past 25 years with BAA plc.
The Board takes seriously the proper corporate governance of the Group and follows the rules and guidelines set out in the Combined Code.
Full details are contained within the Corporate Governance report.
DIVIDEND The Group wishes to conserve cash to invest in our property and mining businesses in order to drive shareholder value, preserve financial exibility and continue to reduce overall risk.
For these reasons, the Board is again not recommending the payment of a final dividend.
We will keep this under review: but future dividends will be dependent on our overall performance.
PROPERTY The mining origins of UK COAL mean we own a very large land estate, totalling some 47,500 acres.
The majority of this land is in agricultural use and is likely to stay so for the foreseeable future.
This land is actively managed to yield a valuable rental income, asset growth and capital profits from selective disposal.
A minority of our land is occupied by our current mining and power generation businesses, and a further small portion is held available for possible future mining.
Within our total land estate, however, there is a significant acreage which is well-suited for development over the short, medium and longer term.
To date, only a very limited amount of this land has been developed.
DURING LAST YEAR, WE TOOK IMPORTANT STEPS TO PROGRESSIVELY REALISE THE FULL VALUE OF OUR LAND.
07. indd 5 12 3 07 18:50:24 PROPERTY continued We appointed Jon Lloyd, a highly experienced property professional, to the new Board position of Chief Executive, Property and, under his aegis, completed a strategic review, which we presented in November.
This identied some 2,650 acres of currently browneld sites, which are well-sited and afford excellent prospects for development into a mix of business park, residential, distribution, community park and other usage between now and 2012.
We have outlined our strategy for developing this land, and we are pursuing the necessary planning permissions and forging appropriate property development alliances.
With the benefit of the permissions we are seeking and proposing for this core land estate, we estimate its value by 2012 to be of the order of 800m at 2006 prices, with further potential development profit uplift beyond this.
The gap between this and the reported valuation of the land in its current usage indicates something of the scale of value creation which we believe is accessible over the medium term.
Later in this Annual Report, we give details of the principal planning permissions and development areas currently in hand.
We shall rene, and doubtless add to, these plans as the opportunities evolve.
MINING Our mining business continues to operate in a difficult market and continues to be subject to unpredictable risk.
OVERALL, DEMAND FOR COAL IS STRONG.
IN THE UK, COAL RECENTLY OVERTOOK GAS AS A SOURCE OF ELECTRICITY POWER GENERATION WITH A SHARE OF AROUND 41%.
REFLECTING WORLDWIDE DEMAND, THE INTERNATIONAL PRICE OF COAL INCREASED BY 28% OVER THE COURSE OF LAST YEAR.
This is a positive backcloth: but, as we have reported over the years, we are not able to access world coal prices because of the structure of contracts entered into many years ago.
This means that the coal we supply to customers is typically signicantly cheaper than the prices they pay for imported coal, which clearly reduces the tonnage of coal that is economic for UK COAL to produce.
In its recent statements, the Government has made clear that it does not intend to intervene to alter this position or maximise the use of coal mined in this country.
Our strategy for our mining businesses, therefore, is framed by the selling prices we can achieve, the production economics of our mines and the geological and other factors characterising each mine.
We will invest to access our existing and future coal reserves only where mining can be achieved economically and with risk and reward shared appropriately.
We will progressively fide-risk our mining business, mindful of the financial liabilities attached to it, while managing our businesses as independently as possible.
07. indd 6 12 3 07 18:50:25 DEEP MINING Reecting this strategy, we mothballed Harworth and closed our Rossington deep mine last year, focusing production on our remaining five deep mines.
The closures involved making a number of redundancies from our mining workforce, a decision only taken after all other avenues were investigated.
We made exhaustive attempts to achieve economic future production from alternative coal seams by achieving prices for our contracted output comparable to international market prices: but these attempts were not successful.
Our Maltby Colliery was badly impacted in the third quarter by a major roof fall, contributing to a third quarter 1.3 million tonne production shortfall across several mines, which equated to some 44m of reduced revenues.
Maltby recovered to full production late in the year and, during February 2007, we sold our Maltby operations to Hargreaves Services plc with a transfer of operational assets and liabilities, together with the workforce.
Hargreaves is the second largest customer for Maltby, and the benets to it of owning Maltbys metallurgical coal production and reserves should improve the future security and employment at the mine.
The consideration of 21.5m results in a profit on disposal of some 13m, and the disposal will benefit our profit and cash ow during the current financial year.
WE INCREASED TOTAL DEEP MINE PRODUCTION IN THE YEAR AT OUR ONGOING MINES BY 9% TO 8.2 MILLION TONNES AND PRODUCED COAL PROFITABLY BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS OVER THREE OF THE FOUR QUARTERS LAST YEAR.
Total operating losses before Exceptional Items reduced to 29.0m from 46.4m in 2005.
Exceptional costs were also lower at 24.2m, compared to 32.0m in 2005.
They arose mainly from ceasing operations at two mines, offset by income received from the last year of the Coal Investment Aid scheme of 7.9m, compared to 14.6m in 2005.
After Exceptional Items, deep mining losses were significantly improved compared to the 2005 level of 78.4m, but were still substantial at 53.2m, underscoring the reasons for our mining strategy.
Safety is always our primary concern.
A significant amount of our mining investment is devoted to improving safety, and management spends considerable time reviewing and training on safety practices.
Despite all our efforts on prevention, accidents can occur.
I deeply regret to report the loss of two valued and experienced members of our workforce in separate accidents last year and the loss of a further life at our Daw Mill deep mine in January this year.
We have extended our deepest condolences to the families and are seeking any lessons to be learned from these events.
The Health and Safety Executive has confirmed that the accidents were not caused by lack of appropriate safety investments or procedures.
The Health and Safety Executives review of Daw Mill, being undertaken with our full assistance, has inevitably led to a reduction in coal production.
This will be reected in the first half results for 2007.
07. indd 7 12 3 07 18:50:26 SURFACE MINING Surface mining output was 0.6 million tonnes in 2006, compared to 1.0 million tonnes in 2005, since we were only able to operate one active site for most of the year.
However, we increased our low cost coal reserve base pipeline by 7% to 14.0 million tonnes 2005: 13.1 million tonnes, as a result of applications approved or planned for submission in 2007.
This enables us to mine three new sites this year, which will signicantly improve production potential.
The planning environment for new surface mined coal continues to be difficult.
Progress however has been made in accessing this low cost reserve base by presenting well planned and environmentally sensitive schemes to the local communities and planning authorities, pointing out the benets of this form of coal production.
In many instances, the restoration during and after mining of industrial dereliction is an intrinsic part of the planning proposal, and formerly browneld sites are restored to other uses benefiting the community as a whole.
As an alternative to building our own surface mining production, we explored the possibility of selling an established network of current and prospective surface mines located in North East England.
After careful consideration, however, the Board did not consider the offers received represented adequate value and that the Group would benefit from continuing to develop the full potential of these assets.
POWER GENERATION Harworth Power continued to grow its business and profitability with a 15% increase in power generation yielding 40% of this divisions income growth excluding Emissions Trading credits, whilst also developing further capacity.
The acquisition of a new PEDL Petroleum Exploration Development Licence area in 2006 will secure continued generation at Stillingeet, North Yorkshire in 2007.
UK ENERGY POLICY An important element of the environment in which we operate is the Governments energy policy.
The DTIs Energy Review was published in July 2006, following extensive public consultation on the Governments goals.
These goals focused on reducing CO emissions, maintaining secure energy supplies, promoting competitive 2 markets, and pursuing energy affordable for all.
The review covered all the circumstances surrounding UK energy policy, including the role of domestically mined coal in the energy mix.
We actively engaged in the review process.
This has involved working with Government ofcials, MPs, community leaders and other stakeholders to strongly represent the case for a long-term, healthy and competitive coal industry in the UK.
We demonstrated the benets of optimising exploitation of the UKs indigenous coal reserves and their contribution to diversity of supply and price stability in coal markets.
We showed the ability to meet customers needs for quality and economic supply of coal and to provide them with a hedge against price volatility.
Both of these capabilities would also enable the UK to defer the expensive investment in port and rail capacity otherwise required for imported coal.
This cost is not factored into the pricing of coal contracts.
We have also presented the ways we could better full our social obligations within a healthier UK coal industry.
I am sorry to report, however, that, while the Energy Review underscored the important long-term contribution of coal-red generation and the aims of optimising the use of economic domestic coal reserves, it did not deliver any concrete assistance to enable UK COAL to expand its contribution to these objectives through securing contract terms which enable adequate returns on our existing investments or on the long-term investments needed to allow new mining operations.
It did convene a Coal Forum, which we have joined, and we naturally continue to lobby the Government and work hard with Government, customers and suppliers to help secure the long-term future of domestic coal production.
