Chairmans statement Performing for our shareholders, ourcustomers and ourpeople Roger Lewis It gives me great pleasure to report these strong results which Chairman show the successful execution of the long-term business model we have created in recent years.
This model, which we believe is unique in our sector, is ideally suited to Berkeley.
It enables us both to secure future returns and to maximise shorter-term opportunities, aligning the interests of all our stakeholders, and so directly benefiting our shareholders, our people and our customers.
Strategy From builder to community creator Berkeley has moved on from its traditional house-building heritage and has become a premier urban renaissance business, taking neglected land and transforming it into attractive places which people choose as a destination for work, for pleasure, and for making their home.
This strategy is built on Berkeleys strengths.
These begin with an unrivalled landbank and include both a pioneering, visionary approach to land development and an unrelenting attention to detail.
This has defined Berkeleys natural size as one that allows senior management to add value across the board and encourage innovation.
In terms of financial performance, Berkeley concentrates on optimising value for its shareholders, producing balanced results that generate cashflow and maintain its land bank, as opposed to concentrating solely on the income statement.
The Royal Arsenal, London Berkeley Homes 2 www.
co. uk Financial Results At 30th April 2006, Berkeley had net cash balances of 220.6 On 30th June 2006, Berkeley was delighted to announce million April 2005 : net debt of 255.1 million after generating a pre-tax profit of 165.1 million for its continuing business for 475.7 million of cashflow in the year 246.0 million from the year ended 30th April 2006.
This is 9.7 million more than the continuing Group and 229.7 million from Crosby.
the 155.4 million reported for the same period last year an increase of 6.2%.
These results have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the Group The 80.8 million profit from discontinued operations relates having published its restatement of financial information for to the Crosby Group, which was sold to Lend Lease on the year ended 30th April 2005 on 26th October 2005.
The profit comprises two elements Crosbys 1.1 million post-tax trading profit prior to disposal and the The Board 79.7 million profit from the disposal itself.
In the year to 30th During the year, Berkeley was fortunate to have had a April 2005, Crosbys post-tax trading profit was 24.9 million.
balanced, experienced and stable Board to ensure good governance while pursuing the strategic objective of creating Basic earnings per share total 168.4 pence, an increase of long-term shareholder value.
The Board has remained 44.9% on the 116.2 pence reported for the same period last unchanged over this period, save for the addition of Michael year.
Basic earnings per share for continuing operations are Tanner who was appointed on 1st September 2005 as 101.1 pence compared to 95.3 pence last time an increase a Non-Executive Director.
Most recently a Divisional Managing of 6.1%.
Discontinued earnings per share have increased Director of George Wimpey, Michael has over 34 years of from 20.9 pence to 67.3 pence.
experience in the building and construction industry with both Tarmac and George Wimpey, and we are delighted to Over the year, total equity has increased by 215.8 million welcome him.
to 837.2 million April 2005 : 621.4 million with net assets per share rising by 34.6% from 518 pence to 697 pence.
The Board comprises a Chairman, four Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
Return on capital employed for the period, excluding the profit on disposal of Crosby, was 24.0% compared to 22.0% last time.
Chairmans statement continued Sustainability Berkeleys management philosophy is to devolve operational Berkeley is not an ordinary developer.
We dont just build responsibility and accountability to autonomous management homes, we create communities.
We dont only have a vision teams, leaving the Group to focus on its strategic vision.
That passion for our work, structure allows our management teams to create their own that attention to detail to deliver it on the ground is, we believe, working environment while still benefiting from the experience unusual.
Its also how weve found a way of combining our of the wider Group.
It has created a unique sense of purpose duty to our shareholders with the nations policies for for the people in each business and empowered them to sustainable development.
For many, there may seem to be succeed, so building a highly talented and loyal workforce.
a conflict between the two but not for us, as we believe that It has also enabled the Group management to concentrate on what Berkeley creates is inherently for the benefit of the driving each business forward while encouraging the climate community, and a commitment to delivering the detail of this of innovation that is vital to success in the regeneration arena.
vision is now embedded at every level within our company.
It is always pleasing to be recognised externally for our This year sees the publication of our fifth sustainability report, peoples performance and Berkeley has received numerous which is also available online at www.
co. uk, and awards in the year, a number of which are set out in our more information on how we assess our environmental and fifth Sustainability Report which will be published alongside social impacts is contained in this report on pages 22 to 25. our Annual Report.
There are two that warrant particular attention.
Berkeley came joint first in the WWF Insight People Investment Sustainability Survey, while Gunwharf Quays in As befits a company with our history, Berkeley is a caring Portsmouth received one of only six Crystal Awards from but demanding employer that believes in setting stretching BURA the British Urban Regeneration Association for being targets for its people.
As these results show, our people have the best of the best of its previous winners.
Both of these responded by producing another exceptional performance in recognise the significant contribution of Berkeley and its an increasingly complex business.
I would like to take this people to the built environment.
opportunity to acknowledge their immense contribution and thank each and every one of them.
Scheme of Arrangement customers aspirations and the housing policy imperatives The Scheme of Arrangement and The Berkeley Group of our principal markets.
Our strategy is to be at the forefront Holdings plc reduction of capital were approved by of our industry, to embrace change and make it happen, shareholders on 17th September 2004 and by the Court and we are confident our knowledge will continue to give us at the end of October 2004.
The Scheme of Arrangement a competitive advantage.
created a Berkeley Unit comprising one ordinary share and four redeemable B shares.
The 2004 B shares were Berkeley remains on target to deliver the 2006 B Share redeemed on 3rd December 2004 for 5 a share at payment of 2 per share at the beginning of January 2007 a cost to Berkeley of 604.1 million.
The redemption of the and 12 in total by January 2011.
We are also well on the three remaining B shares is scheduled for January 2007, way to creating a strong, sustainable and meaningful January 2009 and January 2011 for amounts of 2, ongoing business with a highly entrepreneurial and talented 2 and 3 a share respectively, subject to the necessary management team focussed on the long term.
Board approvals and the terms set out in the Scheme of Arrangement shareholder circular.
We are looking forward to the year ahead with confidence.
Under the Scheme of Arrangement the intention is that all returns to shareholders will be by way of payments made on the B Shares.
As a result, no dividend is recommended at the year-end.
Roger Lewis Current Trading and Prospects Chairman We believe Berkeley is in an excellent position to continue to perform well in the medium term.
Our business structure is simpler and more focused than ever before, we have a formidable land bank which we know how to optimise, and we are creating product that is attuned both to our Ropetackle, West Sussex Berkeley Homes
