04 3i Report and accounts 2006 Chairmans statement A strong position in a buoyant market enabled the Group to deliver a return of 831 million for the year.
In addition, good progress has been made towards achieving our vision.
Another year of strong cash flow enables us to make further substantial returns of capital to shareholders.
Baroness Hogg Chairman 10 May 2006 3i Report and accounts 2006 Chairmans statement 05 3i entered the financial year with strong momentum and buoyant I would also like to thank Danny Rosenkranz, who is Chairman of market conditions, which continued throughout the period.
the Remuneration Committee and has been on the Board for six Our market position enabled the Group to take advantage of years.
Danny has agreed to stand for re-election for a further these factors and to deliver a return of 831 million for the year year to support Sir Robert Smith, who will be taking on the to 31 March 2006.
This was substantially up from 501 million chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee in August.
last year and represented a return of 22.5% on opening Underpinning this years performance is a high level of staff shareholders funds.
A survey of our staff during the year, conducted Having invested in and developed companies of strategic value by Ipsos MORI, showed high commitment, and that 3is level of to others, 3i was well placed to sell into receptive markets.
staff engagement exceeded that of many other leading Realisations totalled 2.2 billion and were made at a profit of companies.
This commitment also characterises our approach to corporate The Board is recommending a final ordinary dividend of 9.7p, responsibility.
For a company like 3i, our direct impact on the making a total ordinary dividend for the year of 15.2p, up 4.1% community and the environment will be much less significant on last year.
Meanwhile, the 500 million return of capital than that of the companies in which we invest.
We nevertheless approved by shareholders at our Extraordinary General Meeting are refining measurement of our own impact, while continuing last year has essentially been completed.
The Board intends to to review our standards for these issues in portfolio selection return a further 700 million to shareholders by way of a bonus and management.
issue of listed B shares, which is currently expected to take place I would like to thank all our staff for their skill, effort and in July.
Resolutions relating to the return of capital proposals will teamwork in achieving these good results and also pay tribute be put to shareholders at an EGM.
to the management teams and the advisers of our portfolio High quality new investment is a key driver of future value.
Despite remaining highly selective, we were able to increase So, in summary, this has been a good year for 3i shareholders, investment by 47% to 1.1 billion, drawing on our in-depth with the Group taking advantage of favourable market sector knowledge and local relationships in a range of different conditions, delivering a high level of return on shareholders markets.
The international proportion of our investment rose in funds, growing investment levels and improving the strategic the year to 63% and our widening international reach is position of the business.
In developing our strategy we will illustrated by the fact that over half of our assets are now continue to combine ambition with rigour in pursuit of value outside the UK.
In Asia we established teams in Shanghai and Mumbai during the year, and made ground-breaking investments in both China and India.
3is Growth Capital business has also recently entered the US market and, in addition, our Infrastructure team is now in place and has made a number of investments.
We have been planning for some time to establish an Advisory Board for our business in Germany.
I am delighted to report that Dr Peter Mihatsch, who has been on the Group Board since 2004, has agreed to become Chairman of this new Advisory Board.
However, as he would then no longer be categorised as an independent non-executive Director, this means he will be stepping off the 3i Group Board at the end of July.
I would like to thank him for the contribution he has made as well as the still greater one he will be making to 3i in the future.
