Chairmans statement I am pleased to report on a highly Results and dividend successful year for Aberdeen Asset The financial results for the year to 30 September 2006 include the UK element Management in 2006. of the DeAM businesses for the full year and the Philadelphia element for the 10 month period from 1 December 2005.
The The Groups focus has been on integrating Groups underlying profit, which we define as the businesses acquired from Deutsche profit before taxation, exceptional items and Asset Management DeAM in 2005 and amortisation of intangible assets, was 79.0 continuing to generate substantial levels of million compared to 24.8 million in 2005. net new business.
Our success in both these This represents underlying earnings per areas is reected in record profits.
share, on a diluted basis, of 8.83p, an increase of 92% on last year adjusted for the effects The integration of the DeAM businesses is of the rights issue in September 2005. well advanced and we remain on track to After accounting for exceptional items complete this exercise, which involves and amortisation, we report a pre-tax profit migration of all back ofce administration of 53.8 million, compared to 31.6 million functions to our third party administrator, in 2005. by 31 March 2007.
The DeAM businesses have already proved to be an excellent t The Board is recommending a final dividend of and we are delighted with the manner in 2.4p per share making a total payment for the which all staff have worked to deliver a year of 4.4p per share, an increase of 46.7% on successful operation.
Client retention in the the total payment for 2005 of 3.0p per share London and Philadelphia xed income adjusted for the effects of the rights issue.
businesses was in excess of 95%, which is a very creditable achievement on the part of Financials the respective teams.
Retention of equity Revenue has increased by 93% to 302.1 and multi-asset clients has also exceeded million.
A significant element of this increase our initial expectations, with approximately arises from the addition of the DeAM 50% of assets and revenues retained at businesses but the net new business inows 30 June 2006.
As a result, the contingent across the Groups activities have also been a deferred consideration for this element of the major factor in this improvement.
Operating business was crystallised at 24.6 million.
expenses have risen at a lower rate, with the The Groups assets under management at result that the Groups operating profit before 30 September 2006 totalled 73.2 billion.
exceptional items and amortisation has We attracted a record 5.0 billion of net new increased by 132% to 81.3 million.
Operating business during the year as a whole and have margin has also improved across the Group, continued to achieve strong new business with the investment management division inows since the year-end.
We are particularly delivering an increase in the underlying margin pleased that this new business generation from 26.5% to 29.4% and the property division has occurred across a broad spread of the improving from 13.0% to 16.9%.
The balance sheet was strengthened considerably by the rights issue proceeds which were used to finance the DeAM acquisition and we also issued, in July 2006, US$125 million of subordinated debt which is treated as tier 2 capital for regulatory purposes and thus adds additional exibility to our capital structure.
The Groups net interest cost has also been substantially reduced, from 10.2 million in 2005 to only 2.2 million in 2006, as a result of these issues.
2 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 consideration of 3.6 million as this business New business no longer tted the Groups strategy.
We have continued to deliver superior investment performance across a wide range Business development of asset classes and this is reected in strong Formative to the Groups success is the inows of new business.
Net new business consistent delivery of strong investment won during the year, including mandates performance and it is pleasing to note awarded but not funded at the year-end, that this has been achieved across all our totalled 6.0 billion, of which 5.0 billion was investment disciplines.
included in assets under management AUM at the year-end, as follows: In equities we have continued to see strong Funded Yet to Total new demand from institutional investors for our in period fund awards m m m Asian and global emerging markets products, with the latter seeing notable interest from Open-end funds 1,030 1,030 US investors.
We launched a new closed Segregated end fund, the Aberdeen Asian Income Fund, to account mandates 2,882 573 3,455 take advantage of the growing level of Closed-end funds 18 23 41 dividend payments in the Asia Pacic markets and, more recently, we were appointed to Total investment management division 3,930 596 4,526 manage a UK investment trust, the Aberdeen All Asia Investment Trust.
Equally strong Property division 1,053 414 1,467 performance in our global equity and UK Group total 4,983 1,010 5,993 equity products has been key to the higher than expected retention of DeAM equity and multi-asset clients and we have also seen encouraging levels of new business in these disciplines.
We have continued to deliver superior As a result of the continuing expansion of our investment performance across a wide Asia Pacic operations, reecting the very range of asset classes and this is reected strong ows of new business into the area, we have recently opened a research ofce in in strong inows of new business.
Tokyo which we expect in due course to convert to a full service ofce.
We have also opened an institutional business development New mandates totalling a further ofce in Luxembourg to act as the hub for 1.5 billion have been won since the yearservicing our growing number of European end and the funding of these will happen clients and we continue to invest in our over the next few months.
product development and client servicing capability in the US.
Corporate activity We completed the US element of the DeAM acquisition in December 2005 the UK element having been completed on the final day of the 2005 financial year.
We sold our investment in New Star Asset Management for cash consideration of 14.6 million, generating a gain of 8.6 million and we received further deferred consideration totalling 7.8 million from disposals made in previous years.
We also sold our UK private client business, based in Aberdeen and Glasgow, to Brewin Dolphin for a cash Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 3 Chairmans statement continued The Group now has significant scale Outlook across asset classes and we see excellent The Group now has significant scale in xed income and in equities as well as a strong opportunities to grow from this base.
There are excellent opportunities to grow from this base across all divisions and to achieve significant The addition of the DeAM US businesses synergies once the integration process is has provided the opportunity to transfer the complete.
With the economic climate management of our US equity portfolios from seemingly set fair, we look forward to the the UK to our Philadelphia ofce, consistent future with confidence.
with our policy of locating our teams close On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank to the markets in which they invest.
all of our staff for their loyalty and their In xed income, new business ows have continued hard work and also our clients and exceeded expectations with mandate wins in shareholders for their continued support.
core-plus products, an area where we are I would also like to thank all my colleagues on seeing increasing demand.
Another important the Board for their incisive contributions development has been in liability driven throughout the year.
investment LDI where we have been awarded mandates by UK, European and US clients.
Some of these wins have been via the range of pooled funds which we launched during the year to enable us to offer an LDI capability to a wider range of investors.
Charles Irby Chairman Our property management division, headquartered in Stockholm, continues to expand its operations with a wider presence in Continental Europe and the successful launch during 2006 of a number of new funds, including the first, and largest, European fund of funds, Pan-Nordic and European balanced funds, and a first closing of an Asian fund of property funds.
In the UK we are in the process of taking over the last remaining oor of our Cheapside building where we will now be the sole occupants.
We have also taken additional space in Aberdeen and are currently planning an ofce move for our Edinburgh business.
4 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
