CHAIRMANS STATEMENT REVIEW OF 2006 PERFORMANCE Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc ASCoT achieved a total return of 26.3% for the year to 31 December 2006, which compares with a total return of 28.0% from the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies, your Companys investment benchmark.
ASCoT has therefore under-performed its benchmark for the year.
Larger companies, as represented by the FTSE All-Share Index, registered a total return of 16.8%.
Many commentators had forecast that the stockmarket returns from larger companies would surpass smaller companies in 2006, which clearly has not been the case.
As in each of the last two Annual Reports, your Board and Managers are cautious about extrapolating recent years significant returns.
This is the fourth consecutive year of small companies out-performing larger companies and of outstanding absolute returns.
This four year run has produced compound annual total returns for ASCoT of 29.2%, for the investment benchmark of 29.6%, and for larger companies of 18.1%.
By comparison, the previous three years of this millennium to the end of 2002 witnessed a much better relative performance from ASCoT when its compound annual returns were plus 4.0%, the benchmarks were minus 12.3%, and larger companies were minus 14.2%.
Taken together, the seven years to the end of 2006 would seem to suggest that ASCoTs relative performance is better when stockmarkets are less buoyant.
This ts well, intuitively, with your Managers value investment style, though they are reluctant to concede this correlation.
GEARING It is worth emphasising that ASCoTs policy has always been to remain as near to fully invested as possible and our caution has not and will not alter that policy.
With the benefit of hindsight, ASCoT might have gone beyond being fully invested and made use of debt facilities: to have employed gearing during the last four years would have enhanced returns to Shareholders.
However, our continuing cautious stance means that we do not envisage gearing ASCoT currently.
This position is regularly reviewed by your Board and Managers.
DIVIDENDS Your Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of 9.15p, which produces total dividends for the year of 13.40p representing an increase of 13.1% on the total for the previous year.
Subject to Shareholders approval, the final dividend of 9.15p per share will be paid on 7 March 2007 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 February 2007.
ASCoT operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan: the relevant documentation is available from Aberforth Partners LLP on request, or from their website www.
co. uk, for those Shareholders who wish to participate in the plan and are not already doing so.
Your Board believes this 13.1% increase in dividends is an excellent performance and reects the overall health of ASCoTs portfolio.
Indeed, to the extent that dividend growth drives share price performance over time, there is no doubt that some of the stockmarkets recent strength has been fundamentally supported by dividend growth, itself a function of good earnings performance and strong cash ow.
However, in addition, the stockmarkets rating of that dividend stream has risen i. e. the yield has fallen.
While dividend growth may continue to be attractive for some time, it is harder to envisage the rise in capital values continuing to exceed dividend growth.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE: BUSINESS REVIEW During 2005, the Companies Act 1985 was amended to introduce the requirement for companies to incorporate a business review within the Directors Report.
The review, which can be found on pages 22 to 25, provides further analysis of ASCoTs business, its performance during the year, principal risks and key performance indicators.
8 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT SHARE BUY BACK AUTHORITY AND TREASURY SHARES At the Annual General Meeting in March 2006, the authority to purchase up to 14.99% of ASCoTs Ordinary Shares was renewed.
No Shares were purchased during the year.
Your Board will be seeking a renewal of this authority at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 1 March 2007.
Your Board has established, and keeps under careful review, the circumstances under which such authority may be utilised.
Should these arise, ASCoT will seek to purchase Ordinary Shares and it is your Boards current policy to cancel, rather than hold in treasury, any such shares.
SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK There will, sooner or later, be more testing stockmarket conditions than those ASCoT has enjoyed these last four years.
I noted last year that cheap and abundant debt is causing asset prices to rise and fuelling M&A activity and I believe I could do worse than repeat this, whilst adding that this cannot go on forever.
Eventually, valuations rise to a level that prohibits debt funded M&A and it seems very likely we are nearer that point than we were last year.
Whilst this may read as lacking conviction, it reects the facts that economic conditions remain reasonable, M&A activity seems to be unabated, and therefore returns could well continue to surprise on the upside for sometime yet.
Whatever emerges, your Board is confident that your Managers experience and consistency of approach will stand your Company in good stead in the long term.
