6 C h A I R M A N S S tAt e M e N t Chairmans statement 2006 was a year when we not only to our shareholders a higher quality, continued to develop our direct lower risk profit stream by providing a this year we will UK private motor business but material level of protection against the also moved forward significantly cycle.
The extension in December 2006 distribute in total our outlined strategy to identify to the end of 2014 of our long-term 9.
7m, 47% up profitable opportunities that exploit co-insurance agreement with Munich the knowledge, skills, and resources Re therefore represents a significant on 2005 attaching to that core business.
milestone in the development of our Alastair Lyons CBE business.
Confused, our intelligent automated car insurance shopper, handled an The new agreement is both more amazing 9 million quotes contributing flexible and, for 2010 onwards, 23m to pre-tax profits, up from 9m potentially materially more profitable.
We estimate that Confused The progressive reduction in the now accounts for approaching 30% of share of our underwriting committed the on-line UK private motor market.
to Munich Re makes it possible for At the end of October, as planned, Admiral, should we so choose, to keep we launched Balumba, our on-line for our own account a larger share of Spanish motor insurer, the first leg of the premium written, this increasing our overseas expansion, and plans are progressively to as much as 60% by already well developed to launch in 2011.
Munich Re has been a fantastic Germany towards the end of this year.
partner and we look forward to a long and mutually beneficial relationship in With the 2006 motor market remaining the years to come.
We are also pleased in the poor part of the cycle we set to deepen our reinsurance relationships ourselves modest growth ambitions, with Swiss Re and Partner Re, with finishing the year with 1.3 million whom we entered into quota-share insured vehicles, 13% up on December contracts at the same time.
However, continuing strong ancillary income, tight control of We have maintained our approach of expenses, and the contribution from considering dividends in two parts.
Confused allowed pre-tax profits to The first element, being the normal move 23% ahead to 147m despite dividend, is based on a 45% pay-out underwriting profits being behind last ratio.
The second element - the special year on a 6% growth in total premiums.
dividend - derives from our principle of returning to shareholders available Proportional support by Munich surpluses, calculated as the Groups net Re and other leading reinsurers has assets less three specific elements - its underpinned Admirals strategy since required solvency: cover against any the Groups formation in late 1999. specific expansion plans, being at this It has allowed us to combine rapid year-end 5m in respect of overseas: growth with strong cash generation and a prudent margin - currently 25m and significant dividend payments.
addition, it has helped us to deliver A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 7 This year we will distribute in total our Approved Scheme.
The Executive been Group Managing Director of the 93.7m, 47% up on 2005, in part Share Scheme is based on growth in international advertising agency Leagas reflecting the release of 13.5m of the earnings per share over three years and Delaney since 2002 and brings us 23.5m funds previously held at Lloyds.
will, therefore, first vest after the 2007 extensive marketing experience gained We are retaining the balance whilst we financial year.
Our being placed, for the during her 11 years with that Company.
see how the cycle develops during 2007. seventh consecutive year, amongst the Lucy is the management columnist at We will then decide the level of growth Sunday Times Top 100 Companies To the Financial Times, with whom she has appropriate for 2008 and whether or not Work For in the UK is testament to the been for the last twenty years.
to take back 5% of the underwriting risk strength of Admirals relationship with at the end of this year during which we its employees.
Our strategy remains clear and are only carrying 22.5% ourselves.
straightforward to continue to The Company is also closely involved grow our share of the UK direct Going forward we would anticipate with the communities within which our private motor market, maximising the maintaining this approach to dividend staff live and work.
We encourage them value derived from each customer distribution.
We will be looking to add to be associated with the local projects relationship, whilst also identifying subordinated debt to our available that are important to both them and profitable opportunities, in particular solvency capital so that we have the their families, and during 2006 provided our expansion overseas, to exploit capacity in future years to increase, financial support to 109 such projects.
the knowledge, skills and resources should it be appropriate, the share of Admiral also sponsored a number of attaching to our core business.
We look our motor book that we underwrite high profile local events within South forward to continuing consistently to ourselves without materially restricting Wales, more details of which will create value for all our shareholders.
our ability to return trading surpluses to be found in the report on corporate shareholders in the form of dividends.
This also describes the steps we take to minimise the impact Our total dividends for the year at of our operations on the environment.
36.1p per share 24.0p final : 12.1p interim represent a yield of 3.6% In September last year we said based on the closing share price on goodbye to Andrew Probert who had Alastair Lyons 1 March 2007.
Admirals share price been the Groups Finance Director Chairman has again sustained material growth for fourteen years, over which period over the last year, the business being he made an enormous contribution valued at 2.7Bn on 1 March 2007, 76% to our successful growth, taking the higher than a year previous.
We led Company through both management the FTSE350 as the Company with the buy-out and flotation.
His clear greatest percentage gain in share price thinking, straightforwardness, energy during 2006.
Taking dividends and share and consistent good humour will be appreciation together, we achieved much missed.
His place on our Board a 151% total return for shareholders has been taken by Kevin Chidwick who Alastair Lyons Chairman during 2006, itself part of an overall joined Admiral in September 2005 318% since flotation in September 2004. as Deputy Finance Director, having previously been Finance Director of Alignment of the interests of our Engage Mutual.
I am delighted that staff and our shareholders is one of Kevin is already making his clear mark our core principles.
Our Approved on our Board deliberations.
and Executive Share Schemes are designed to strengthen that alignment In my report last year I advised that over time.
We are delighted that Gillian Wilmot would step down as a strong out-performance against our Non-executive Director at the 2005 plan during 2006 resulted in eligible AGM.
In September we welcomed two employees realising the maximum new Non-executives, Margaret Johnson award of 3,000 free shares under and Lucy Kellaway.
