Business review 2 Chairmans statement BG Group has continued to build its business within the broad strategic framework of bringing competitively priced gas to markets.
Sir Robert Wilson Chairman It is a pleasure to report that, in 2006, of proved gas supply worldwide, based BG Group once again delivered an on current consumption rates, with outstanding set of results.
The Groups potentially much more in the still-to-nd and still-to-develop categories.
Gas is also exploration and production volumes rose by 19%, and profits from our LNG business convenient to use and, as the cleanest hydrocarbon, it offers important almost doubled.
The Groups full year total operating profit increased by 30% environmental advantages.
These inherent strengths have been enhanced to 3.1 billion and earnings per share in recent years by technological advances.
The full year dividend In particular, the growth of LNG has will be increased by 20%.
As I stated transformed the international gas market, last year, we aim to continue to increase enabling the development of previously the dividend in line with underlying stranded gas discoveries and a reduction earnings growth.
LNG, combined with new interBUSINESS CONTEXT regional gas pipelines, means that only The energy industry has often been a the most remote or geologically complex cause of intense international attention gas resources are now unable to access and so it is today.
I should add, though, that interconnected issues which lie behind this involves a highly capital intensive this concern: doubts about the ability of chain of investments.
the industry to replace reserves: growing BG Group, as an integrated gas company, signs of resource nationalism in some with expertise throughout the gas chain, producing countries and considerable has continued to build its business geopolitical uncertainty in others: within the broad strategic framework concerns in energy deficient economies of bringing competitively-priced gas to BUSINESS REVIEW including most of the Western world as high value markets.
BG Groups Business Review is set well as China and India about security of out on pages 2 to 44 of this report.
supply: and prices, which have been both STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK Company law requires the Board high and volatile.
Added to all this, there When I wrote to you last year, I said that, of Directors to produce a Business is, of course, the debate about global as our plans for growth in the next few Review, in which we provide a fair climate change and the role of years are already largely in place, we review of the business of the Group hydrocarbon fuels as a cause.
would focus increasingly on growth and a description of the principal opportunities for the next decade.
I am These challenges are largely beyond risks and uncertainties it faces.
pleased to report that this effort was very the control of private companies but Particular care should be taken successful during 2006.
We now have an the uncertainties they generate place a when assessing elements of this exciting portfolio of exploration and premium on resilient businesses with Business Review that relate to development prospects in a wide range strategies which are capable of responding future developments and the of countries and geological settings.
These to a wide range of different circumstances.
principal risks and uncertainties are discussed more fully in the Chief That is what we are trying to create in facing the Group.
While the Board Executives Statement.
Some of these are BG Group.
has made every effort to identify, in OECD countries, and others are spread disclose and explain such matters, Natural gas has become a central part of across a number of developing countries.
we cannot predict all events or Having captured these opportunities, the global energy mix and I am sure it will circumstances that will actually remain so for decades to come.
In part, emphasis now will be placed on advancing affect the Group in the future.
this is because there is an abundance of these ventures through exploration activity gas reserves: there remain over 60 years and project commercialisation.
BUSINESS REVIEW 3 Total operating profit 3 103m 2005 2 389m Dividend per share 7.20p 2005 6.00p Earnings 1 640m 2005 1 354m Towards the end of the year, the Company this matter are contained in the Directors announced the investment report significant events subsequent to of some 400 million to acquire two 31 December 2006 page 56. gas-red power plants in north-east USA We recognise the impact of fossil fuels on the acquisition of Dighton completed the environment and strive to exceed local in 2006 and the acquisition of Lake Road or regional compliance requirements where completed in the first quarter of 2007. these fall short of international best practice, These are focused investments designed both in the efficient development and use to maximise the returns we are achieving of natural resources, and in our own from our gas chain interests downstream emissions targets.
of the re-gasication terminals and are expected to generate economic returns It is often the case that gas is located in consistent with returns available in BG sensitive parts of the world.
Building long Groups other business segments.
term partnerships with governments and communities is critical to our business GOVERNANCE AND CORPORATE philosophy.
Whilst our purpose is to RESPONSIBILITY generate profit, we aim to do this in a Companies that prosper economically way which supports sustainable economic over the long-term are companies that and social development in our host operate responsibly: at BG Group we are communities.
As I have travelled to committed to the highest standards of BG Group businesses throughout the governance and corporate responsibility.
world, I have seen for myself some of these Our Business Principles set out our core community-based projects in action.
We strive to The annual Chairmans Awards are an maintain the greatest integrity in our opportunity for the Company to recognise conduct and in all aspects of interaction and celebrate this aspect of our business with host governments, our partners, with amongst others.
local communities, the environment and, In closing, I would like to say that 2006 of course, our colleagues within BG Group.
has been an outstanding year for our You may be aware of an investigation Company, driven by the expertise, vision announced by Italian authorities in February and talent of the people in BG Group.
2007 into allegations of improper conduct I pay tribute to their hard work and during the period October 1999 to March commitment to the highest operating 2003 associated with the authorisation standards that have laid the foundations process for the planned Liqueed Natural for our success.
Gas LNG regasication terminal at Brindisi, Italy.
Such allegations are unprecedented for BG Group.
We do not tolerate corruption in any form.
We therefore take these allegations extremely seriously and, Sir Robert Wilson although no charges have been brought, Chairman we instigated an independent internal investigation conducted by Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, a New York law rm, reporting to the Audit Committee.
Further details of See presentation of non-GAAP measures, page 152.
