Business Review Chairmans Statement We met all our strategic targets, delivered franchise growth and created shareholder value.
It is my privilege and pleasure to report that We will ensure that the Board continues to Sir Derek Higgs Alliance & Leicester once again had a successful comprise a balanced group of experienced Chairman year in 2006.
It was my first full year as Chairman directors, well equipped to bring relevant and it was never dull.
insight and understanding to the issues that matter to the Company and your investment as Above all else, we met all our strategic targets, shareholders.
Information on directors can delivered franchise growth and created be found on pages 30 to 31. shareholder value.
We also saw clearly that our ambition to grow revenue by building the Information about how the Board gives leadership UKs leading direct bank, supported by a national to the Company starts on page 34 under Corporate retail branch network, was being achieved.
Governance, and details of how the Company In our Commercial Bank too, we more than met delivers responsible business practices in the our targets and are on course with our aim to community, the workplace, the marketplace and create the leading bank for businesses.
the environment can be found on pages 25 to 28 under Corporate Responsibility.
All this was achieved despite the distractions of press speculation in the summer about a At the end of 2006 the Board arranged for an possible bid for Alliance & Leicester.
A perennial independent external review of the Board chestnut maybe, but this time accompanied by an and its Committees, by Dr. Tracy Long of announcement from Credit Agricole that we were Boardroom Review.
The review included a written along with others a potential target.
Whilst questionnaire: individual meetings with directors: that quickly went away without any proposal ever and Board observation, and the results were being made to us, we would have preferred to presented by Dr. Long to our Board at the focus wholly and solely on growing the business beginning of 2007.
The review was positive about in shareholders interests.
the high level of trust and confidence between members of the Board and the effectiveness of its It is a tribute to Richard Pym, his management leadership of the Company.
As one would hope team and all our staff that during this period they from such a learning process, a number of not only dealt calmly with the pressures created suggestions for change and improvement were by the press but got on, to great effect, with made which we will implement during this year.
delivering results today and building for the future.
As Richard describes in his report, during Alliance & Leicesters business is built on our the year we made a number of important people, our products and the way we engage decisions which will have a far-reaching effect with our customers.
Our staff are friendly, on the shape of the business in future years.
enthusiastic and capable and our products are good value, simple and straightforward.
Our Richard has informed the Board of his wish to reputation with customers for the way we deal step down as Chief Executive and we respect that with their needs and help them has been earned decision.
He has led the Company over the past 54.1 by hard work and dedication.
51.5 5 years with distinction and to great effect.
48.3 Although Richard has put together a first class We have every reason to be confident about the management team, it is true, even if trite, that continued success of Alliance & Leicester.
he will be a hard act to follow.
Sir Derek Higgs Turning to other changes to the Board, Michael Chairman Allen retired at the end of 2006 and we thank him for his wise counsel and insightful contribution to the Group as a non-executive Director over a total of 11 years.
Peter Barton, our Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, retires in 2007 after nine years of distinguished service and we 04 05 06 will shortly appoint two new non-executive Dividends per Share pence directors to our Board.
4 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2006
