2 Chairmans statement The discount at which your Companys Performance and Outlook I am pleased to report shares trade relative to net asset value The results for the last year reflect the that this has been a has narrowed from 15.5% at the start of strong performance across the the period to 13.7% as at the year end.
successful year for your portfolio.
The net asset We continued to build upon the strength Total Expense Ratio TER of our dedicated in-house investment value increased 24.6%, We continue to maintain a prudent team with the opening of our Hong approach to costs, but, as we explained the share price Kong office earlier in the year.
We have last year, we are continuing to invest in already seen the benefit of this increased 27.3% and, our staff and to upgrade and update our investment in the improved systems.
This has resulted in an on a total return basis, performance of our capital managed increase in total expenses, but the out of Hong Kong and therefore in your Companys shares growth in our capital has meant that the increased returns for shareholders.
We total expense ratio for the year to 31 are looking at ways to develop an Asian returned 30.6%.
January 2006 remained at 0.32% asset management business based The Directors around this team.
The considerable investment in systems will support the investment process.
recommend payment of During periods when stock markets Modern research, execution and perform very strongly, historically we a final dividend of 37p performance information systems are have lagged the market because of critical in helping to reduce operational minimal gearing and our focus on risk per share, which makes risk in the investment process as well management.
Over the last year we a total dividend for the as to recruit and retain top quality staff.
geared modestly, ending the year with gearing of 2.7% of net assets, and have year of 73.5p per share, The investment in staff and systems will remained very focussed on risk, but I be concentrated over the short to an increase of 1.75p per am pleased to report that we have been medium term horizons and the able to increase returns and share.
This is the 39th directors remain committed to ensuring outperform.
The re-alignment of the that your Companys expense ratio consecutive year of an portfolios onto a geographic basis, remains in the bottom quartile relative coupled with the formal asset allocation increase in dividend.
process through the Asset, Liability and The company has a staff and cost Income Committee ALICo, has sharing arrangement with The Second sharpened our ability to achieve these Alliance Trust PLC which benefits both results without diminishing our companies and without which the cautious approach to risk.
From left to right: Lesley Knox, Chairman Meadow House, Dundee One International Finance Centre, Hong Kong Alliance Trust Savings, London 3 Company would not be able to maintain the year we visited Bristol, Dunblane Deards will also be standing for its very low expense ratio.
and Brands Hatch as well as re-election.
participating in meetings run by the Alan Young, who has been in the AITC.
We enjoy the feedback and Alliance Trusts Savings Company since 1986 and a director dialogue we have during these meetings since 1992, will be retiring in We have also, together with the Second and we encourage you to join us at one September 2006.
Although this is six Alliance Trust, continued to invest in of the forums planned for the coming months away I should like to take this Alliance Trust Savings.
Details of these will be published opportunity to thank him for his has been made to undertake a major on our website.
contribution to the Company and to the overhaul of its systems to meet board.
His will be a hard act to follow customers demands and to acquire Constitutional and Board Matters and we will be announcing his Wolanski & Co. Trustees Limited, a successor in due course.
The William Berry, who had been a director acquisition brings additional expertise since 1994, retired at the close of the We last reviewed our board fees some and customers, as well as a new set of 2005 AGM.
I should like to thank three years ago and, having taken relationships with intermediaries.
William for his service to the Company independent advice on the appropriate Alliance Trust Savings is very well during his time in office and express structure and level of such fees, the positioned to develop into one of the appreciation of his commitment to, and resolutions at the AGM include a leading providers of retail investment deep knowledge of, the Company.
proposed new maximum aggregate services and self-select investment Latterly, William was the Senior amount of fees.
dealing services, and to become the Independent Director and on his leading provider of self-invested retirement the board elected William Annual General Meeting personal pensions.
Alliance Trust Jack, who joined the board in 2000, to In view of the steadily increasing Savings has the potential to be a source fill that role.
numbers of attendees, this year the of long term earnings growth which will Under our constitution, we are required AGM is being held at the Apex Hotel, enhance returns for shareholders and to have a majority of non-executive Dundee.
As always, I look forward to we are continually seeking out ways to directors on the board and I am pleased seeing many of you at the AGM and to operate and grow the business more to inform you that following Williams hearing your views about the Company.
retirement Clare Salmon was appointed a director.
She brings wide experience Events of both marketing and financial services.
Her appointment falls to be Our Investor Forums are an important approved by shareholders at the Annual feature in communicating in person General Meeting on 10 May 2006, at with our shareholders and we remain which Christopher Masters and David committed to this programme.
