Chairmans statement Amlin delivered an outstanding financial performance Return on equity is a key measure for our business in 2006 with pre-tax profits up 83.6% at 342.7 and I am particularly pleased that our 2006 ROE million and earnings per share up 46.9% at 50.4p.
of 34% was a record for Amlin and increases our This result is influenced by the low level of natural five year weighted average ROE to 27.9%.
catastrophes in 2006 which was in stark contrast Total shareholder return for 2006 was 35.7%, and to the previous two years.
However, we were well over the last five years has been 378%, one of the placed, having formed Amlin Bermuda, to grow highest returns of a non-life insurer worldwide over our catastrophe income into very buoyant market that period.
This was achieved while managing our downside risk through fundamental changes in the reinsurance markets.
Current trading and prospects Board Roger Taylor Trading conditions remain good in most of The Board welcomed Sir Mark Wrightson as Chairman our business areas, although we anticipate a new non-executive Director in March 2006. increasing competition and, in our UK commercial and airline insurance areas, Lord Stewartby, my former Deputy Chairman conditions have already become very competitive.
and the Senior non-executive Director, retired from Amlin at our AGM in May 2006.
He first There has been an increased divergence became involved with our business through between our classes of business in their cyclical a subsidiary in 1993 and was Deputy patterns in 2006.
This could well enhance our Chairman of Amlin from its formation in 1998. cross cycle fortunes as, with Amlins excellent We have benefited enormously from his diversity of risk, there is an increased ability to contribution throughout this period and allocate capital between classes according to thank him for his service to the Company.
Nigel Buchanan has taken on his responsibilities With a record net unearned premium reserve as the Senior non-executive Director.
of 507.8 million and still buoyant conditions in many classes of business, 2007 holds out At our AGM in May 2007 one of our US directors, Dividend and balance sheet prospects of being another excellent year.
Tom Kemp, will be retiring.
Tom was originally a management director of Murray Lawrence and has served this The Board proposes a final ordinary dividend Governance Company since its formation in 1998.
The of 7.8p per share and an additional special The Board of Amlin is committed to the highest Company has consistently received valuable dividend of 8.0p per share.
This makes ordinary standards of corporate governance.
It also insights to its trading, particularly in the United dividends for 2006, including the interim already seeks to ensure that the Company is managed States, from where 49% of our premium originates, paid, of 12.0p per share 2005: 10.2p per share within risk guidelines established by the Board and we owe a great deal to him for his contribution.
and a total dividend for 2006 of 20.0p per share.
and that the strategy as proposed by the These payments materially exceed our Executive is appropriate for the continued The Amlin team commitment to pay at least 30% of earnings delivery of growth in shareholder value.
2006 has been a very successful year as we for 2006. produced another set of record results and In a climate where governance arrangements are completed the first year of trading in our new We will keep under review the appropriate level under increased scrutiny, Amlin has adopted a company in Bermuda.
I would like to thank of capital for the future needs of the Group transparent approach to its reporting which both Charles Philipps, his executive team and all our mindful of the Companys potential to enhance increases accountability and, we intend, will employees for their skill, effort and teamwork.
long term shareholder returns through active result in increased confidence in the Company.
The strong cash I was pleased that in 2006 we won our second generation of the business, together with the Building Public Trust Award for telling it how cyclical nature of the non-life insurance industry, it is in our Annual Report, this time for our means that Amlin may return significant capital People reporting.
to shareholders over the coming years.
The amount will depend on major event loss Following the closure of the 2003 Lloyds year experience and strategic considerations.
of account in 2006, which was the last year Roger Taylor of account on which independent capital Chairman Both the final and special dividends are to be participated on Syndicate 2001, we decided to paid on 30 May 2007, subject to shareholder increase the alignment of membership of the approval at the Annual General Meeting to be Amlin plc and Amlin Underwriting Ltd boards.
held on 24 May 2007, in respect of shares on This has resulted in greater efficiency as well as the register on 30 March 2007.
The Companys providing the Board with another level of depth dividend reinvestment plan is available to of reporting on its principal trading business.
shareholders in respect of both dividends.
8 Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 Powering on.
Amlin plc Amlin plc Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 Annual Report 2006 Annual Report 2006 9 9 9
