Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 6 Chairmans statement Dear Shareholder, As I come to the end of my first year as chairman of Aviva, I am delighted to be able to report on a thriving business.
We have made progress towards our stated aim of providing prosperity and peace of mind for our customers.
Our record financial results are proof that we are in the right markets, at the right time, and are providing the products and services that our customers want.
During the year, we completed the purchase of AmerUs in the US, giving us greater access to the worlds largest savings and capital market.
Our challenge is now to integrate and grow this business quickly and to demonstrate the value that we believe it brings to our Group.
We also completed major new bancassurance partnerships in Ireland with Allied Irish Banks and in India with Centurion Bank of Punjab.
Already, we are seeing strong performances from both partnerships.
In March, we approached the board of Prudential plc with a proposal to merge our respective companies on an agreed basis.
The proposal set out the significant commercial benefits and value-creation potential of the merger.
The board of Prudential plc declined to enter into discussions with us and the proposal was consequently withdrawn.
External view Across the world, the need for individuals to provide adequately for their retirement is being recognised as an increasingly important issue.
The situation is particularly severe in Western countries where an ageing population is placing a greater strain on national purses and we are shortly to see the retirement of the baby boomer generation.
Additionally, people in rapidly developing countries such as China and India are starting to pick up the savings habit.
These conditions present a sizeable opportunity for us, and we are fully committed to working with customers, governments, the insurance industry and regulatory bodies to provide innovative and practical solutions.
Richard Harvey In January 2007, Richard Harvey announced his intention to retire as our group chief executive and to move on to other charitable and business challenges.
Richard is a class act by anyones standards.
He has led the Group through numerous challenges and merger activity with professionalism, skill, and foresight.
He has made a lasting impression on Aviva and on the wider international insurance industry.
I wish him an enjoyable and relaxing break when he leaves us in July, and great success with whatever he chooses to do next.
Furthermore, I am delighted that Andrew Moss, our group finance director has agreed to succeed Richard.
Andrew has an extensive knowledge of the insurance industry and a strong track record in international financial services.
I am looking forward to working with him as he leads Aviva through its next phase of growth.
Legal reforms I have recently been involved with the development of the Companies Act 2006 and its progress through Parliament in the UK.
The Bill is one of the largest ever to be passed and is a significant step towards a far-reaching reform of UK company law.
It clarifies the requirements being placed on public companies and pushes them to consider further their internal governance and their social and economic impacts.
I strongly support the reforms and am certain that Aviva is in excellent shape to handle the upcoming changes.
Dividend I am pleased to announce that our recommended final ordinary dividend is 19.18 pence per share, bringing the total dividend for the year to 30.00 pence, an increase of 10% against last year 2005: 27.27 pence.
This increase reflects our intention to increase the dividend on a basis judged prudent, while retaining capital to support future business growth, using dividend cover on an IFRS operating earnings after tax basis in the 1.5 to 2.0 times range as a guide.
Board developments During 2006, we held the first meetings of the newly formed risk and regulatory committee and corporate social responsibility committee.
The board remains committed to maintaining the highest levels of governance and compliance particularly in light of the increasing demands in this area.
We are also keenly aware of the need to develop our business to be sustainable and responsive to the needs of customers, staff and the wider community.
Both committees will provide clear leadership and give the board oversight of the work we are Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 7 doing in these areas.
In September, we met in India, and combined the meeting with visits to some of our key sites there and in Sri Lanka.
It is important that, as a board, we speak directly to people in our business, and see first-hand the exciting developments that are going on.
This particular visit gave us a valuable insight into one of the fastest-growing insurance markets in the world, and the excellent work being performed by our people.
Employees I would like to thank our employees for their hard work and commitment in helping to deliver an excellent set of results.
This admirable performance comes against the backdrop of the reduction in the number of UK staff we announced as part of our cost-efficiency programme.
During 2006, we made progress in aligning the remuneration of our senior management with the needs of employees and customers.
For the first time this year, an element of senior management pay and bonuses will be dependent on employee engagement and customer satisfaction measures, helping to acknowledge that the longer term performance of Aviva depends on motivated staff and satisfied customers.
It was very pleasing to see that Aviva has been recognised as one of the top 50 best places for women to work in the UK, according to The Times.
Particularly satisfying for me was that we were the only company to be named in each of the assessed categories, emphasising our progressive approach.
Recognition We have earned awards in a large number of our businesses across Europe, Asia and North America.
The recognition has come in areas such as product innovation, sustainability, fund performance, diversity, customer satisfaction, media campaigns and many more.
The sheer breadth of this recognition demonstrates to me that across the group we are performing to a high level and pushing ourselves to be the best.
Outlook We are in a great position and our businesses around the world are performing strongly.
We have a diverse geographic spread and multiple product types and distribution channels in our core markets.
This balance, particularly the split between long-term savings and general insurance, is a significant advantage as it allows us to be flexible and to fund organic growth internally.
When allied to the external market environment and the increasing need for higher retirement savings, it is clear that we have a significant opportunity ahead of us.
2006 has been a year of considerable progress and I fully expect these positive trends to continue through 2007.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Chairman Left to right: Andrew Moss Group finance director Richard Harvey Group chief executive Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Chairman
