The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2006 3 Chairmans Statement Richard Brewster Directors Review Portfolio Review I am delighted to be able to report excellent results, with the net asset value per share 2-3 Objectives and Performance 10 Managers Review rising 20.4% over the year to 31 October 2006.
In addition, the robust improvement in 4-5 Directors and Management 11 Portfolio Structure 6-7 Chairmans Statement 12-13 United Kingdom the revenue generated by the portfolio has allowed us to declare a total dividend 8 Highlights of the Year 14-15 Europe increase of 14.9% over the previous year.
This overall performance illustrates the merits 9 Growth in Net Asset Value and Share Price 16-17 North America of careful stock picking and sensible asset allocation.
18-19 Japan Performance Interest rates have steadily risen in both Europe and the UK, which is not typically a good environment for share prices.
Following solid equity returns in 2005, there was a feeling that investment performance would be more muted in 2006.
However, However, the return of inflation, moderate in the overall economy despite a wobble in late spring, returns have comfortably exceeded but rampant in the energy sectors, has helped push revenue the previous year.
The breadth of the Companys performance is of growth upwards for many companies.
Margins have continued to rise as the growth in revenues has not been tempered by cost particular note, with every geographical portfolio exceeding its relevant benchmark and the greatest out performance arising from growth, especially wages which have been held down by labour our two largest exposures, the UK and Europe.
The seeds for this migration from Eastern Europe towards the West.
This effect has performance were sown the previous year when the portfolio was been especially noticeable in the UK, which in addition has been experiencing a boom in mergers and acquisitions.
The lack of slimmed down and given a more concentrated focus.
political intervention and a plentiful supply of cheap debt have In addition to stock picking, the asset allocation was a major funded a record number of takeovers of both large and small contribution to the overall performance.
The significant number of recent private equity fund maintain the high exposure to the UK and Europe was raisings points to another active year to come, which should rewarded, as was the level of gearing through the year.
The favour our stock picking with its concentration on cash gearing at the start of the year was 9% but finished the year generative, undervalued companies.
at 4% as we repaid all of our bank borrowing facilities, leaving only the Companys debentures as outstanding debt.
The Japan is a constant reminder that no road to economic recovery is reduction in gearing was partly a function of the high level of short nor without many twists and turns.
We felt a year ago that cash bids for some of our holdings but principally an the Japanese stock market was overbought and had reduced our investment decision based upon rising valuations in many exposure, although we maintained an optimistic view of the equity markets.
While not being overly bearish, the recent countrys economic recovery.
Subsequent performance can at best sharp run upwards in share prices through our year end only be described as dull and investor confidence never returned allowed us to take profits in certain positions and await better after the downturn in May.
Whilst there is solid growth in wages, opportunities in the coming year to reinvest when we can see employment and asset prices, unfortunately consumer confidence with greater clarity the peak in the US interest rate cycle.
is low and domestic consumption shows little signs of recovery.
With the Japanese yen falling to an eight year low against sterling, As value investors we have clear price targets that reflect our view we have been tempted into backing a contrarian call on Japan of the fair value of our investments, and currently we are and have recently been slowly building back positions.
A sharp maintaining the discipline of reducing holdings that are exceeding reversal in the popularity of foreign investors borrowing yen could our target prices.
Certain sectors such as mining and utilities have occur at any point, creating a rally in the currency, but we need moved to levels where we struggle to justify the prices being paid more sustained evidence of increasing domestic consumption in by investors and we have been making sales to reduce our order to have more conviction to increase our investment.
Over the course of the year a review of our gearing led us to repurchase and cancel the 1.3m issue of 4% perpetual Our performance in Asia and the emerging markets has been debenture stock at par value.
Our remaining debentures trade at satisfactory, despite having chosen to avoid the more speculative markets in Eastern Europe and India.
We have found valuations a substantial premium to par value and would entail dilution to NAV for shareholders if repaid.
It is not our intention to do so in there to be too rich and view the risk reward of these markets to current market conditions.
The US market has performed better in the 4 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2006 second half of the year but returns in sterling have disappointed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as the US dollar fell to 14 year lows.
Such depreciation in the This set of annual accounts is the first to be produced under the currency should help US industry be more competitive but the new IFRS.
The two major changes relate to the investments effects of interest rates rising from 1% to 5.25% overshadow the being valued at bid or selling prices, as opposed to mid economy.
Consumer spending has yet to be affected but sales of prices and only recognising interim dividends on a paid basis.
cars and new homes have collapsed and it is a concern that the Neither of these changes affects the operation or the Federal Reserve may have been too aggressive in its response to management of the Companys assets.
The Notes to the inflationary pressures.
Accounts include a reconciliation of the figures for the comparative periods to those reported previously.
The investment Revenue and Dividends community has had some time now to adjust to the impact of This year the Companys revenue return per ordinary share has IFRS reporting and as the above changes were adopted for the grown by 11.7% to 10.13p, the third straight year that year on interim accounts, we do not expect there to be any impact on year growth has exceeded 10%.
Dividend growth has exceeded the markets valuation of the Company.
10% in many of the regions we invest in while there has been a noticeable increase in special dividends.
These special dividends Outlook have arisen from two distinct types of company.
First, cyclical Our investment style has always been about making long-term businesses such as energy and insurance companies have adopted investments, seeking a sound valuation and usually receiving a dividend process whereby they pay a small basic dividend and in dividends to underpin all our holdings.
This follows the principles good years a special dividend.
Secondly, the mining sector is laid out by Benjamin Graham, the founding father of value experiencing a significant increase in cash flow based upon higher investing, who made the distinction between investment and commodity prices.
If reinvestment opportunities are few, these speculation, the latter requiring a greater fool to pay an evermining companies are returning the cash flow direct to higher valuation in order to make a profit.
We try to adhere to shareholders.
Overall, we expect both these trends for special this distinction and this is evidenced by the low turnover and dividends to continue in future.
long holding periods for our investments, reflecting a long term outlook rather than speculating on shorter term returns.
Given the Companys healthy revenue reserves and the sharp improvement in earnings this year, we feel in a strong position to I highlighted earlier the importance of maintaining discipline in increase the dividend to our shareholders.
We are declaring a terms of reducing positions and this is equally important when fourth interim dividend of 2.52p, making a total of 9.48p, an considering new investments.
We are not forecasting a serious increase of 14.9% for the year.
This is substantially above the fall in markets but we are becoming more cautious on the 10% forecast we made a year ago.
The impact of a weaker US valuation front, as to justify investment in certain markets requires dollar and the current lower level of gearing temper our forecast extremely high appraisals of future profit growth.
Emerging for the dividends in the current year: however we still anticipate market economies are taking on the feeling of a new gold rush further growth in 2007.
At this early stage of the year we are and fortunes will be made and lost in fairly short order.
forecasting a minimum rise in the total dividend per share of 6%.
The ten percent correction in markets during the spring of 2006 Annual General Meeting shows how quickly positive sentiment can drain away and that The AGM this year will be held at the Institute of Chartered markets are inherently less liquid than many think.
With net Accountants Hall on Thursday 1 March 2007 at 12 noon.
The assets having risen by 50% in a little over two years, it seems a notice of the meeting and a map showing the location appears on prudent stance to reduce our gearing and await a more confident pages 57 and 58.
As usual our manager, Alex Crooke, will be global economic picture before increasing exposure to equities.
making a presentation and all shareholders are welcome to attend.
The same issues that investors have been trying to grapple with persist: a weak US dollar, consumer indebtedness and strong Changes to the Investment Management Contract money supply leading to asset inflation.
Some clarity on these As I mentioned in my interim report to shareholders, the Board issues should occur during the coming year and we can then take has conducted a review of the Companys investment investment decisions to benefit our portfolio.
In the meantime, management contract with Henderson Global Investors.
In simple we feel a degree of confidence in our current investments as we terms the new contract includes a reduced basic annual fee while expect the level of takeovers combined with corporate share introducing a potential fee based on investment performance and buybacks to underpin share prices in Europe and the UK.
We also a shorter notice period for termination of the contract.
The continue to seek out suitable new investments, constantly Board believes that these changes are in the best interests of questioning how those investments can create value for our shareholders, as they will make remuneration of the manager shareholders.
more dependent on the performance of the Company in terms of net asset value and share price.
The details of the new contract are set out on page 21.
I am delighted to report that following the strong performance this year, the arrangement has got off to a flying start and the manager has achieved the maximum fee, Richard Brewster, Chairman which is capped at 0.5% of gross assets.
