Operating review Chairmans statement 1 Delivering growth An excellent year with total shareholder return of 25% Marcus Agius Chairman Barclays PLC arclays had an excellent 2006.
Profit before tax rose by 35%, On the non-executive side, Fulvio Conti joined the Board as previously with outstanding performances from Barclays Capital and reported.
Fulvio is Chief Executive Officer of Enel SpA, the Italian energy Barclays Global Investors.
Of particular note is the continued group.
Sir David Arculus retired from the Board after serving for nine turnaround in UK Retail Banking, which this year delivered years.
Bob Steel resigned as a Director, following his appointment as very strong growth along with UK Business Banking.
We also Under Secretary of the Treasury of the United States of America.
B saw a very strong performance from Absa in its first full year Finally, Chris Lucas will be joining the Group and the Board on contribution and are ahead of plan in delivering the income and cost 1st April 2007 as Group Finance Director.
Chris was previously with synergies from the acquisition.
 and has worked across financial services for Profit before tax at Barclaycard decreased as good income growth was most of his career.
He will succeed Naguib Kheraj who will be leaving offset by higher impairment charges and increased costs from the the Board on 31st March 2007.
Naguib has made an outstanding continued development of the international businesses.
We started to contribution to Barclays, for which we are most grateful.
We wish him see in the second half of 2006 the benefit of the actions taken to address well for the future.
the deterioration in the UK consumer credit environment.
Responsible banking The Group declared a final dividend for the year of 20.5p per share, A key objective of the Board is for Barclays to be a leader in the area making a total payment for the year of 31p, an increase of 17%.
2006 saw significant progress towards We delivered a total shareholder return share price appreciation this objective.
plus reinvested dividend payments of 25% for the year.
We continued to give high priority to financial inclusion and improving The strong performance for the year is a tribute to the immense access to banking services and affordable credit.
The number of UK contribution made by my predecessor, Matthew Barrett, initially as Cash Card accounts designed for low income and vulnerable people Chief Executive and subsequently as Chairman.
Profit before tax increased by 22% to 464,000, while Absa remains the leading bank increased from 2.5bn to 7.1bn during his time with the Group and provider of Mzansi basic bank accounts and launched an innovative Barclays would not be in the strong position it is today without his new service to help beneficiaries of social grants.
I look forward to working with the Board and the executive In terms of environmental management, Barclays UK operations are team to build on this platform and continue to take Barclays forward.
Our involvement in the Business Leaders Initiative Corporate governance on Human Rights continues and we retain membership of the Dow As Chairman, it is my responsibility to ensure that the highest Jones Sustainability and FTSE4Good ethical indices.
We achieved standards of corporate governance are in place and I am committed third position in the Business in the Community Corporate to maintaining Barclays strong reputation in this area.
2006 saw a number of Board changes.
On the executive side, Frits Full details are contained in our eighth Corporate Responsibility report, Seegers joined Barclays as a Director and Chief Executive of Global Retail and at www.
and Commercial Banking in July.
Gary Hoffman, who was Chairman of UK Banking and of Barclaycard, was appointed as Group Vice Chairman.
He is accountable for a range of issues, including corporate responsibility, public policy and equality and diversity.
David Roberts, previously Chief Executive of International Retail and Commercial Marcus Agius Banking, left Barclays at the end of the year.
I would like to thank David for his significant contribution to the Group.
Chairman Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 7
