Chairmans Statement The majority of the return for the year occurred in the first six months and the Company outperformed the benchmark index by 0.5 per cent over this period.
However, during the second half of the year there was an increase in market volatility as investors became increasingly concerned about the deteriorating outlook for growth and inflation.
In the US, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates eight times during the year.
On a more positive note, mergers and acquisitions activity remained strong and investors have continued to benefit from strong growth in both ordinary dividends and special dividends paid by companies.
The Board is disappointed with the poor stock selection this year and has been assured that the Managers are addressing this issue.
In particular, the Board has been advised that the Managers are W R E Thomson Chairman looking to strengthen their UK team.
It is hoped this will result in improved performance in this important I am pleased to report another year of growth in the part of the overall portfolio.
Companys net asset value per share for the year The following table provides a breakdown of the ended 30 September 2006.
The net asset value estimated contributions to the net asset value total total return, with net dividends reinvested, was return for the year.
10.9 per cent, but perhaps more importantly the Company is now in a position to be able to start to grow its dividend for the first time since 2001.
As Attribution of Return explained in more detail below, the Board is proposing a dividend increase of 3.0 per cent in Market benchmark return 13.2% respect of the year, which maintains a premium yield Stock selection above other comparable investment trusts.
UK equities 1.7 The Companys net asset value total return of Overseas equities 0.7 10.9 per cent compares with a return of 13.2 per Regional asset allocation 0.0 cent from the composite benchmark index of 75 per Corporate bonds 0.5 cent FTSE All-Share Index and 25 per cent FTSE Gearing 0.8 World ex UK Index.
Despite the underperformance Share buy backs 0.4 during the year, the Company is still ahead of its Expenses 0.6 benchmark for the three year period ended 30 September 2006 with a net asset value total British Assets Trust total return 10.9% return of 61.6 per cent which compares to a return of 60.5 per cent from the composite index.
Although gearing and share buy backs helped The Companys share price total return for the year performance, this was more than offset by was 9.2 per cent with the discount ending the year underperformance against local stockmarket indices, at 10.5 per cent.
There were no significant asset particularly in the UK and Japan.
allocation changes during the year.
2 British Assets Trust plc Gearing 2007, thereby achieving its stated aim of having a At the end of the year the Companys gearing net of progressive dividend policy.
cash was 20.3 per cent, which compares to Share Buy Backs 19.9 per cent as at 30 September 2005.
The level of The Company continued to buy back shares for gearing is represented by 13.6 per cent in equities cancellation during the year.
14,800,000 Ordinary and 6.7 per cent in corporate bonds.
More detailed Shares, equivalent to 4.6 per cent of the shares in information about the Companys borrowings is issue as at 30 September 2005, were bought back provided in note 12 to the accounts.
for a total consideration of 19.4 million.
These buy Earnings and Dividends backs enhanced the net asset value by 0.65p per The Companys revenue earnings for the year were share and, as stated above, provided a benefit to 6.3p per Ordinary Share 2005 4.8p.
A first interim the revenue account by reducing the number of dividend of 1.304p per Ordinary Share was paid on shares on which dividends are payable 7 April 2006 and second and third interim dividends, The Company will seek to renew its share buy back of 1.33p per Ordinary Share each, were paid on authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Over the past two years the Company has benefited Board Composition from strong dividend growth from its investee As previously reported, Mr James Long was companies, particularly in the UK, and from the appointed a Director on 1 May 2006.
The Board has receipt of special dividends.
The revenue account already benefited from his significant skills and has also benefited from the effect of share buy experience.
backs, which reduce the number of shares on Accounting Standards which the Companys own dividend is payable.
As reported at the interim stage, recent changes to Having not increased the rate of dividend since UK accounting standards require the Companys 2001, the Board announced an increase of 2.0 per investments to be valued at bid prices and not cent in the second and third interim dividends middle market prices as had previously been the earlier in the year.
The Board has reviewed the case.
In addition, dividends paid by the Company revenue outcome for the year and recommends a are only recognised in the accounts when paid to final dividend of 1.522p per Ordinary Share in shareholders.
The third interim and final dividends, respect of the year ended 30 September 2006, which are payable after the end of the year are, payable on 5 January 2007 to shareholders on the therefore, not provided for in these accounts.
This brings the total Comparative figures in respect of these changes dividend in respect of the year to 5.486p per have been adjusted accordingly in the accounts.
Ordinary Share, an increase of 3.0 per cent from the previous year.
Annual General Meeting The Board is cognisant of the Companys higher The Annual General Meeting will be held at than average dividend yield, which it regards as one 11.45 am on Wednesday 20 December 2006 at the of the key attractions for shareholders.
As at offices of F&C Asset Management plc, 80 George 30 September 2006 the dividend yield was 4.1 per Street, Edinburgh, and will be followed by a cent, which was some 24 per cent higher than the presentation from the Managers.
This is a good average of the AIC Global Growth & Income Sector.
opportunity for shareholders to meet the Directors Subject to any unforeseen circumstances, the Board and Managers and we would therefore encourage would hope to be able to increase the dividend you to attend.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting again in respect of the year ending 30 September can be found on pages 51 and 52.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 3 Chairmans Statement continued Shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting are encouraged to complete and submit their proxy forms, or voting cards for those who hold shares through the F&C Asset Management plc retail plans, which are enclosed with the Annual Report.
Outlook Against a backdrop of slowing global growth it is likely to be more difficult for equities to make substantial gains in the months ahead.
However, dividend growth is likely to remain strong and mergers and acquisitions activity and buybacks should continue to provide some support for markets.
WREThomson Chairman 17November2006 4 British Assets Trust plc
