British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Chairmans Statement The past year has been another good one for your Company and for the value of your investments.
Our net asset value per share increased by 14.3% compared with an increase of 12.1% in our benchmark, the Datastream Global Growth Investment Trust Index, 8.7% in the MSCI World Index and 14.7% in the FTSE All Share Index, all on a total return basis.
Over 3 years the net asset value total return per share has grown by 104.1% At the interim stage, we indicated our caution about market valuations and decided to bank some of the profits from well performing investments where we believed upsides were limited and the investment was trading closer to fair value.
The market shakeIain Samuel Robertson CBE Chairman out in May allowed us to use some of the liquidity to go back into the market for shares which we felt were again standing at discounts to valuation.
Market levels are now close to their years high and we have again been taking some profits, leading to a higher level of liquidity available for investment at the year end.
Our shares Our income levels have remained strong as a combination of increasing dividends from our invested companies and income from our liquidity work their way straight have been through to our bottom line.
As Shareholders know, we are obliged to pay a minimum of 85% of our net income to Shareholders by way of dividend if we are to retain our trading all-important investment trust status.
In recent years the higher yields from our gilt investments have persuaded us to pay part of the dividend as a special dividend to at a premium reflect the possibility that, were we to become fully invested in equities again, yields throughout on our portfolio might fall, leading to a possible reduction in our total dividends in future.
On this basis we are this year again recommending a special dividend of 1.0p the year 2005: 1.4p per share.
In addition, your Directors, taking into account the favourable prospects for the longer term growth of dividends on our investments and the fact that our opening revenue reserves were strong are recommending a final dividend of 3.2p per share 2005: 1.6p which, together with the interim dividend of 0.8p 2005: 0.6p brings the total ordinary and special dividends for the year to 5.0p, an increase of 39% on last years total of 3.6p.
These are our first full year accounts to be prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards.
The move to bid pricing resulted in a reduction in the value of our investments of some 2p per share.
Other than this and the requirement to show this years final and special dividends in next years accounts which I am unconvinced adds to the clarity of our figures there is little in the adoption of IFRS to bring to Shareholders attention.
However, the additional work, particularly on the transitional figures, has imposed considerable extra effort on our administrators, Phoenix Administration, our auditors and our audit committee and I am grateful to them all for rising to the challenge.
Your Board has been strengthened this year with the appointment of Steve Bates who brings wide industry experience to our deliberations.
As Chairman I feel we have the balance of the Board about right.
All members make thoughtful and often incisive 4 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 contributions to our discussions and I am grateful to them for the time and effort which they put into our meetings.
The annual evaluation of our Board and its committees has very much supported my view.
I very much hope that Shareholders will support the election of Steve Bates to the Board for the first time, together with the re-election of Strone Macpherson who retires this year in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
In addition, having served for over ten years I am also standing for re-election.
The Board does not believe that in an Investment Trust where experience of the investment cycle is essential to the Boards deliberations, length of service of itself should disqualify a Director.
We do recognize the need, however, to refresh the Board periodically.
John Pennink has again performed excellently in the management of your Companys investment portfolio.
He has good touch, a deep understanding of what drives markets and a singular focus on finding value in markets which are ever better researched.
Consequently we had no hesitation in renewing our management contract with Asset Value Investors.
1,000 invested when John took over full time management of the portfolio four years ago would now be worth 2,912 while your dividends have increased from 1.70p per share to 5.0p per share enough said.
I commend the Investment Managers Review for your reading.
As Chairman I believe your Boards primary focus should be on the Companys investments and investment performance and so it is.
Your Board also looks at wider areas of risk and reviews the policies on areas such as gearing, hedging and management of share premium or discount at least annually and more frequently if appropriate.
Our shares have been trading at a premium throughout the year and we have considered whether to issue new shares into this market strength.
Given our high levels of liquidity and the difficulty in finding new under-valued investments which meet our investment philosophy we decided not to undertake such issuance at the moment, but it remains open to us in the future.
We also believe that the see-through discount on our equity portfolio is in excess of 10% which more than compensates for the premium on the shares.
Your Board is also very conscious of its obligation to ensure that there are proper control systems in place to safeguard your funds.
We have reviewed these systems and the performance of our service providers and consider that there are robust controls in place.
There is further detail later in the Report.
For the future we are remaining cautious.
Interest rate tightening takes time to work its way through to the real economy and we at least are not clear that the full effects have yet been seen in the US and UK economies, or that policymakers objectives have been met.
The recent softening in the oil price is welcome both as a stimulus and in easing inflationary pressures.
However, we believe that our investment philosophy of seeking out under-valued investments remains valid and we shall continue to invest in line with that philosophy as opportunities arise.
Our marketing over the past three years has been targeted towards increasing our individual Shareholder base and I am delighted that private Shareholders now account for over 50% of the ownership of the Company.
The Directors would like to invite all Shareholders to a buffet lunch after the AGM.
If you would like to attend please reply on the enclosed card.
I look forward to renewing my acquaintance with many of you then and to welcoming some of our many new Shareholders to the meeting.
Iain Samuel Robertson CBE Chairman 13 November 2006 5
