06 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 Chairmans statement Peter Buckley Another successful year Results had fallen during the previous year from Our third year as an investment trust 21% to 11%, but I am pleased that this company has seen a continuation of the has not been the case.
Whilst narrower strong growth shown in the first two.
Our discounts are not out of keeping with other total shareholder return over five and ten investment trusts with good track records, years has outpaced our benchmark of the the recent market volatility has seen our FTSE All-Share Total Return index by 152% and discount widen again and is a salutary 179% respectively and both these measures reminder that our share price is not within show a further worthwhile advance on the our control.
We believe that our long established investment strategy Dividend of taking sizeable stakes, though usually For the thirty-ninth year in succession, we minority ones, in promising listed and are pleased to increase our annual dividend unlisted companies at sensible prices, and by recommending a final dividend for the working closely with proven managements year of 20.5 pence per share.
This will bring to achieve their goals over a longer term, the total dividend for the year to 29.6 pence differentiates us from most other investment representing an increase of 5% and costing companies and has been a key contributor to 18.8m.
Elective special dividend Share price In 2004, we paid an elective special Our share price during the year has risen dividend to help resolve shareholder issues from 13.67 to 19.80, driven principally by within The Cayzer Trust Company, our an increase in net assets per share of 34%, largest shareholder, which were affecting but also helped by the further reduction our stability and long term investment in the discount of our share price to the approach.
I am happy to say that these underlying net asset value per share.
This matters are now fully behind us.
In March reduced over the year from 11% to 4% and this year, we were pleased to announce at times moved to a nil discount or very proposals for another elective special small premium.
Last year I cautioned that dividend to celebrate a long period of it would prove challenging to maintain a good investment performance and to continued reduction in this discount, which enable shareholders, if they so choose, Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 07 the company.
This offer is expected to be the economies of India and beyond, where voted on by its shareholders by early July higher rates of growth seem more likely.
and, if approved, will result in cash proceeds for Caledonia of $237m, supplementing Staff earlier realisation proceeds of $159m.
I would like to pay a fulsome tribute to all our staff for their efforts throughout the Economic and political background year on behalf of shareholders.
They do The recent market downturn has not come battle with an ever growing jungle of as such a surprise to us for we had been legislation much of which is of questionable puzzled by the apparent strength of the value.
On the accounting front, the task UK and US economies following the very of dealing with the new IFRS rules has significant rise in oil and commodity prices been time consuming and expensive and have recently been holding significant and the increasing requirements for more levels of liquidity.
Our instincts are to detailed and ever lengthier reporting seem remain cautious as there are signs of to be losing the respect of many senior inflation creeping in, which is leading to professionals and running the danger that higher interest rates.
The US deficit remains shareholders will find it increasingly difficult worryingly high and UK government to identify the key issues.
On the wider spending continues to rise with seemingly front, the concept of responsibility is losing little improvement from services delivered out to the cult of blaming others and this and an almost daily dose of burdensome regrettably seems to be increasingly the and costly legislation to hinder our focus of the growing army of regulators efficiency in world markets.
In particular, who seek comfort from the number of the imposition of draconian measures on boxes ticked.
All of this adds to the pressure private sector pension funds through the on our hard worked staff.
I thank them all to participate in our resultant strong cash Pensions Regulator which, combined with for the tremendous contribution which position.
The special dividend is intended to the earlier and mindless removal of the they have made.
distribute around 128m depending, inter tax credit for pension funds, has wantonly alia, on the level of take up and the value of wrecked a jewel in this countrys essential Outlook our net assets at the strike date.
The supreme irony We have been fortunate to enjoy a long scheduled on or about 13 July.
The options of what amounts to an irresponsible run of good performance, but market offered to shareholders are summarised on demolition of private sector pension highs have recently suffered an unsurprising page 19 of these financial statements and a provision is the fact that the Government check.
We are not immune from these circular setting out the detailed terms of the has utterly failed to curb the excesses in market downturns, but our long held elective special dividend was posted to public sector pensions.
This will inevitably investment strategy described in my shareholders on 31 May.
rebound in higher taxes to fund the opening paragraph is less susceptible to consequent financial black hole, which the market cycle.
Therefore we believe that Portfolio now exceeds the National Debt.
Hopefully our continuing strong deal flow, coupled The year under review has seen considerable the electorate of this country will wake with our investment philosophy, will activity within our portfolio and highlights up to the shortcomings of this Government continue to stand us in good stead.
are shown in the Chief Executives so devoid of competence or integrity, statement and the pages following.
Markets before more harm is done.
moved strongly upwards during the year At the time of writing last year, we which was good for realisations.
These were on the eve of referenda in France and totalled 307m, of which Paladin Resources, Holland on the topic of the proposed new the independent oil exploration company, European constitution.
Thankfully they was our largest, yielding proceeds of returned a firm Non but this gave a Peter Buckley 108m.
Higher market prices suggested welcome excuse to the Government in Chairman a less favourable climate for making new Britain to duck the issue.
Seemingly this investments, but we have nevertheless message from the people of Europe has committed 155m to new and follow on gone unheeded by the politicians who investments on sensible terms, with a seem to be turning a blind eye to the continuing healthy flow of proposals to continued scheming for new constitutions review.
Since the end of the year, Kerzner and legislation in Brussels to the ultimate International has announced that it has detriment of the economies across Europe.
agreed to an offer from an investment We shall continue to pay some attention to group led by its management to purchase
