CHAIRMANS STATEMENT PERFORMANCE ACQUISITIONS NORMAN BROADHURST It gives me great pleasure, in my first year During the year, a number of acquisition Chairman as Chairman, to report another strong opportunities arose for the group, performance by the group in 2006. profit particularly for our debt recovery before tax increased by 14.9% to 132.2 division, The Lewis Group.
million and earnings per share increased by 14.0% to 28.01p.
In July 2006, The Lewis Group purchased an unsecured debt portfolio of 52.2 million DIVIDEND from a third party credit provider for The Board is recommending an increased 8.0 million and, in December 2006, final dividend of 11.85p per share, payable acquired and committed to acquire further on 15 May 2007, compared to 10.65p paid debt portfolios from a UK credit card last year.
This, together with the interim provider for a total investment over three dividend of 5.65p per share, gives a total years of around 65 million.
dividend for the year of 17.50p, an increase of 11.5% over the previous year.
Following publication on 30 January 2007 of London Scottish Bank plcs preliminary As an alternative to receiving the cash results for the year ended 31 October 2006, dividend, shareholders in the United and the completion of due diligence, Cattles Kingdom, excluding the Channel Islands, announced on 22 February 2007 its will again be offered the opportunity to withdrawal from discussions concerning a have their dividends re-invested in the possible offer for that company.
The Board companys shares through participation of Cattles concluded that it was not in the in our Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
best interests of its shareholders for it to continue those discussions and related legal SHARE PLACING and due diligence fees of 1.2 million have The groups strategy continues to be been charged in the year.
focused on controlled growth and careful management of credit quality in the REGULATION non-standard consumer finance market.
This Annual Report and Financial The groups significant investment in Statements includes an Operating and bespoke customer selection technology, Financial Review on pages 9 to 34 which together with close customer relationship meets current best practice guidelines of the management delivered through our national Accounting Standards Boards Reporting network of local branches, has enabled Standard: Operating and Financial Review.
Cattles to deliver double digit profit and earnings per share growth over many years, The sale and distribution of the groups while at the same time maintaining stable mortgages and insurance products are credit quality.
regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
All relevant customer facing The Board has assessed carefully the groups employees of the groups consumer credit future nancing requirements in light of division, Welcome Financial Services, expected continuing strong growth over the undertake prescribed training and medium-term, and has concluded that the accreditation to ensure that the required company should seek to raise additional standards of customer care and compliance equity capital finance through an underwritten are maintained.
Cattles fully embraces the share placing of 32,978,986 ordinary shares FSAs principles of Treating Customers Fairly.
The net proceeds will be used to finance future organic growth and to The Competition Commission Final renance debt portfolios purchased during Remedies paper on its inquiry into the the second half of 2006. home collected credit market was issued in November 2006.
The Commission regards The Board expects that the placing will be data sharing and greater comparability and earnings enhancing from the current financial transparency of the terms of trade of home year onwards.
This statement should not collected credit providers to be important be interpreted to mean that future earnings in providing a more competitive market.
per share will necessarily be higher than We support the Commissions findings and historical earnings per share.
Further details its proposed remedies.
Implementation of of the placing, which will be undertaken these will not have a material impact on by Citigroup Global Markets U. K. Equity the groups results.
Limited and HSBC Bank plc, are set out in a separate announcement.
06 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 The Office of Fair Trading has completed We have a strong compliance its Market Study into the sale of Payment culture and fully embrace the Protection Insurance PPI and referred it to the Competition Commission in February FSAs principles of Treating 2007.
The resulting inquiry is required to Customers Fairly report within a two-year statutory period.
The sale of PPI has been regulated by the FSA since 14 January 2005, and continues to contribute around 11% of the groups annual revenues.
The Consumer Credit Amendment Bill, amending the 1974 Consumer Credit Act, received final enactment in April 2006.
We continue to be engaged with government and legislators in the debate on better and less regulation.
As a responsible lender, Cattles fully supports the positive actions being taken to strengthen existing legislation and regulation in the consumer finance market.
PEOPLE The continued success of the group depends very much on the commitment and energy of our people.
We continue to invest in the training and personal development of our Our continued success depends on the staff so as to build on the groups strong commitment and energy of our people.
I am particularly pleased that our employees satisfaction and pride in working for the group continues to rise.
On behalf of the Board, I thank them all for their support and important contribution in delivering another successful year.
OUTLOOK I am very pleased with the groups performance in 2006.
The Board remains focused on our strategy of delivering controlled growth while maintaining stable credit quality in the non-standard consumer finance market.
I rmly believe the group continues to have significant opportunities in its chosen markets.
The group has made a good start to the year and we look forward to making further progress in 2007.
NORMAN BROADHURST Chairman 15 March 2007 We continue to invest in the training and development of our staff.
07 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 GROUP KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PROFIT BEFORE TAX CONSUMER CREDIT RETURN ON RECEIVABLES 2005: 115.1m 2005: 7.1% 132.2m 7.2% LOAN LOSS RATIO COST INCOME RATIO 2005: 9.2% 2005: 30.1% 7.4% 29.7% DIRECT REPAYMENT CUSTOMERS FUNDING HEADROOM 2005: 358,000 2005: 274m 409,000 336m 08 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006
