City of London report 13 9 06 09:22 Page 3 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2006 3 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to be able to report a second successive year of double digit share price total return and a third successive year of double digit net asset value total return.
The income received by the Company has grown and this has not only allowed us to increase the dividend by 8.6% but also to forecast a minimum increase of 8.1% for the year 2006 7.
Economic growth was Simon fide Zoete strong globally, led by the US and emerging markets such as China.
The UK economy was more subdued but the housing market improved from the end Directors Review of 2005.
Many UK quoted companies benefited from an international orientation with, for example, 2-3 Objectives and Performance Portfolio Review several of the worlds largest mining companies having their primary listing on the London Stock 4-5 Directors and Management 10 Managers Review Exchange.
Takeovers continued to be a feature given the UKs particularly open system for corporate 6-7 Chairmans Statement 11 Portfolio Structure control.
In addition, the valuation of UK equities relative to bond yields was, in general, supportive for 8 Highlights of the Year 12-13 United Kingdom private equity bids.
9 Growth in Net Asset Value and Share Price 14-15 Europe Performance or postal dealing service for the itshenderson products, with cheaper dealing costs, has recently started.
Because we recognise the need to achieve a good and rising level of income for our shareholders, there is some bias in the portfolio Outlook towards the higher yielding stocks.
This can mean that the capital Although the significant element of UK stockmarket profits that is performance of the portfolio can fall behind the market averages accounted for by the banking and resources sectors could be at times when the lower yielding stocks outperform.
This has considered to be near a cyclical peak, it is encouraging for investors been the position in 2005 6.
City of Londons net asset value total to benefit from strong dividend growth from companies in these return was 18.5% compared with a 21.9% return on our new sectors.
Overall, UK company profits should continue to experience benchmark, the FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped.
Over the steady growth from the domestic economy and also should benefit longer term, however, the Board is confident that this benchmark from overseas economic growth, in particular the recovery in provides the right incentive to the Manager to achieve the best Europe.
In addition, it seems likely that there will continue to be performance consistent with our objective to provide shareholders takeovers of UK companies, given the UKs open system of with growth in capital and income.
corporate control and the current levels of bond and equity yields.
Earnings and Dividends The main risk is that interest rates could rise more than is Revenue return per share was 10.18p, an increase of 14.6% currently expected by the market because this would adversely reflecting another strong year for UK dividend growth.
A fourth impact the UK consumer as well as hindering takeovers due to interim dividend of 2.40p was paid on 31 August 2006, making a the likely rise in bond yields.
In addition, further strength in total for the year of 9.36p, an increase of 8.6% over the previous sterling could cause difficulties for those companies with overseas year.
This is the fortieth consecutive year that City of London has profits, especially those that export from the UK.
A further factor increased its dividends.
is geopolitical risk and its influence on the oil price and consumer The minimum quarterly dividend for the year ahead will be 2.53p, confidence.
an increase of 8.1% on an annual basis.
The quarterly rate will Overall, we feel that the good performance from UK equities can next be considered when the third interim dividend is declared in continue given current valuations and the outlook for growth in March 2007, by which time the Board will be able to assess profits and dividends for UK companies.
The combination of better the trend in income performance of the portfolio.
dividend yield and growth from UK companies is particularly attractive for investors.
Expenses The investment management fee and other non interest expenses The Board were around 0.44% of the Companys average assets for the We are delighted that Anita Frew will be joining the Board from year.
This has fallen from 0.74% last year as no performance fee 1 October 2006.
After a career in fund management and was paid to our Investment Manager, Henderson Global Investors.
marketing services, Anita is now a non-executive director of a The fee rate remains very competitive with other equity savings range of quoted companies.
Annual General Meeting Savings Shareholders are invited to the Annual General Meeting on Friday City of London sets out to be an attractive and straight forward 20 October 2006 at 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA.
The long-term savings vehicle for private investors.
As well as meeting will start at 3 pm and will include a presentation from the investing directly, shares can be purchased through the Portfolio Manager.
Tea and light refreshments will be provided.
itshenderson products the Share Plan and ISA or the Alliance Trust Savings including for pensions.
A new internet, telephone Simon fide Zoete 5 September 2006
