Chairmans Statement In 2006 Collins Stewart had its best year of trading since formation The year 2006 saw the re-admission to OSullivan, Group FD of Zurich Financial We have declared a first final dividend for listing of the original Collins Stewart Services and Iain Napier, Non-executive the year of 5p per share, paya le on 7 June usiness.
It was first floated on the main Chairman of Imperial To acco, as Non- 2007 to shareholders other than those market of the London Stock Exchange in executive directors.
who received shares on the acquisition of Octo er 2000.
Following the acquisition Hawkpoint on the register on 8 May 2007. of Tullett, an inter-dealer roker, in 2003, The over-riding principle ehind our dividend In 2006 Collins Stewart had its est year and su sequently Pre on in 2004, Collins of trading since formation, with pro forma policy is that we will only retain earnings Stewart ecame part of a much igger, revenues and operating profits efore when we expect to generate a ove average diversified usiness.
To manage the returns for shareholders.
exceptional income at a record high of regulatory capital of oth usinesses and 85m and 56m respectively.
ena le Tullett Pre on to return su stantial Collins Stewart has had a good start in its amounts of capital to shareholders, Collins newly re-listed form.
I elieve the usiness is As one of the key features of the group Stewart was demerged from Tullett Pre on well placed to move into the next stage of its reorganisation prior to demerger, the US in Decem er 2006.
Over the period from its Equities usiness which was previously development.
original flotation to demerger the Collins managed within the inter-dealer roking Stewart Tullett group achieved a total division of Collins Stewart Tullett was Terry Smith shareholder return of 2 6.3% compared transferred to Collins Stewart.
% for the FTSE mid 250 index and have 70 rokers in New York and see this 27 March 2007 39.4% for the FTSE General Financials Index.
usiness as an important stepping stone We will continue to seek to generate a ove in our strategy to develop a significant average returns for our shareholders in our usiness with distri ution capa ilities in newly re-admitted form.
In anticipation of the demerger, Collins Three days after the demerger, Collins Stewart appointed a new management Stewart completed the acquisition of the team in May 2006.
Two of our former Hawkpoint corporate advisory usiness.
This Collins Stewart Tullett plc Non-executive represents our first important initiative to directors also agreed to join us on the Board roaden our service to clients.
Hawkpoint to provide continuity and experience.
Since has an outstanding reputation for quality demerger we have een pleased to welcome and independent corporate advice: and we to our oard Paul Baines, the CEO of look forward to working with the Hawkpoint Hawkpoint, as an Executive director, Patrick team in future.
8 Collins Stewart plc Over the period from its original flotation to demerger, the Collins Stewart Tullett group achieved a total shareholder return of 216.3% compared with 102.1% for the FTSE mid-250 index We now have 70 brokers in New York Annual Report & Accounts 2006 9
