qxp 12 3 07 15:50 Page 3 Bodycote wins the Manchester Evening News Business of the Year Award Bodycote won the premier award in the large business category organised by the UK North West daily newspaper and sponsored by Barclays Bank, Greater Manchester Chamber of Commerce, Hammonds law firm and .
Entrepreneurial skills exhibited throughout Bodycote and highly regarded customer service were particularly praised.
At a glance 2006 Revenue Bodycote Thermal Processing 558.6m Operating 184 plants in 21 countries: an unrivalled strategically located network, experienced in supporting large multi-national customers and their supply chains, as well as local niche specialists 144.7 and providing a vital link in the manufacturing process for the automotive, aerospace, construction, power generation, electronics, consumer products and general engineering industries.
Heat Treatments and Metal Joining Vacuum and sealed quench and induction heat treatment, carburising, carbonitriding, gas and plasma nitriding, nickel, copper, silver and gold brazing, hardening, tempering, kolsterising, low 38.9 HIP pressure carburising and electron beam welding.
Expanding in Eastern Europe, Asia and other 375.0 HT developing economies and developing low pressure carburising technology in Europe and the USA.
Hot Isostatic Pressing Applying the unique product enhancement and novel material production benefits of this advanced technology to an increasing number of customers in precision foundry, power generation, aerospace, automotive, medical, precision tooling, and electronic engineering.
Managing the western worlds largest HIP capacity at 11 locations across 6 countries.
Developing the Densal process and other new materials and manufacturing techniques by collaborative projects with market-leading OEMs.
Surface Engineering Improving the performance, durability and appearance of components and tools by the application of functional and decorative coatings utilising sherardizing, mechanical cladding, plasma spray, organic, 2005 Revenue anodizing, HVOF and specialist ceramic coatings processes.
470.9m 86.5 Bodycote Testing Offering a fully accredited group of 107 testing laboratories in 18 countries for producers and other users, serving international customers and providing a beneficial outsource option for advanced businesses.
Measuring, inspecting and certifying the quality and reliability of materials 35.2 HIP and products for many clients in the fields of civil engineering, food and household goods, pharmaceutical, energy and transportation.
Bodycote Testing also provides services to protect the environment and workplace.
Consultancy, expert witness and advisory services are also 349.2 HT provided.
Materials Testing Engineering and Technology Testing ferrous and non-ferrous alloys, building products, composites and plastics, oils wear and high voltage applying mechanical, metallurgical, physical, radiographic and chemical methods.
Also providing advanced airframe and engine testing for component integration as well as oilfield, erosion testing, automotive engine development and production testing.
Bodycote MTET delivers advanced solutions in a cost effective outsource environment.
Thermal Processing Heat Treatment HT Health Sciences Environmental Hot Isostatic Pressing HIP Testing, evaluation, research and development for food, pharmaceutical and consumer products.
Also the sampling and testing for hazardous materials including asbestos, eco-toxicity, stack emission Testing sampling and testing of soils and water.
Bodycote HSE brings scientific measurement to facilitate environmental studies and management, and supports a multi-national client base in a highly regulated laboratory environment.
Measurement Solutions Offering complete services within metrology and measurement of instrumentation for the electronic, telecom, medical, electrical and mechanical engineering industries.
Bodycote Measurement Solutions provides a complete and cost effective service with the aim of enabling customers to reduce test and measurement costs and focus upon their core business.
com audiocast Bodycote continually improves the website offerings for both customers and investors.
The most recent is the addition of an audio webcast of Bodycotes 2006 results presentation in the Investor Relation section of the website.
We invite you to view and to listen by visiting www.
com audiocast Cover images: Bee and pollinated flower symbolise the symbiotic partnership between Bodycote and its customers.
