Chairmans statement Just before I took over as Chairman in September 2003, our decision to sell was shown to be the right one when Reckitt Benckiser agreed to pay one of my first duties was to interview Richard Baker for the 1.9bn, exceeding market expectations.
I knew immediately that he was the We returned 1.4bn to shareholders through right person to lead Boots into a new era.
And since then, a special dividend: and around 100m was absorbed by the costs of the deal and tax.
The Richard has consistently proved my judgment correct remaining 400m was kept in the business: and, of this, we paid 85m into our pension fund, an never more so than over the last year, when he and his team important step in terms of our ability to provide have shown outstanding commitment and vision in moving for the future of our people.
Boots forward, with highly encouraging results.
The remainder is being and will be spent on a range of investment programmes both in Boots A year of major developments The disposal of BHI achieved excellent value and in the enlarged group.
Last year, I spoke of us being on a journey for shareholders.
Nearly three quarters of the that would transform virtually every aspect of money received has been returned to them, A profitable sale and leaseback transaction our business.
So I am pleased to report that, and the rest will be invested in the business, In July 2005, we completed the sale and a year on, we are clearly beginning to see the as described below.
leaseback of 312 of our stores.
These were benefits of the changes we have made, as the mainly freehold High Street stores in smaller performance of our core Health and Beauty With so much corporate activity, as well as towns, and we received 298m for them, business starts to reflect both our investment very challenging market conditions, the results generating a profit of 150m significantly in it and our clear strategic focus.
presented in this report are a very pleasing more than we expected.
testament to the dedication and expertise of During the year, as we progressed on this our management team, and all our people.
This money has enabled us to reduce our journey, two very significant developments took borrowings: and our decision to raise capital place: the announcement of our proposed Results and shareholder return by this means does not in any way affect our merger with Alliance UniChem and the Boots The Chemists BTC traded well, despite commitment to these stores, many of which completion of the disposal of Boots a consumer downturn compounded by rising will be refurbished during 2006 07.
costs and regulatory deflation in our core dispensing business.
Building our team We believe that the merger presents an The last year has been a significant one in outstanding opportunity for Boots to become In line with our predictions, like-for-like sales terms of strengthening our leadership team.
a major international pharmacy-led Health and held steady, as we delivered our fourth In October, Jim Smart was appointed chief Beauty group.
We have made no secret of our successive record Christmas.
Rising inflationary financial officer, filling the vacancy created by ambition to grow our Healthcare business, and costs were cancelled out by major efficiency the departure of Howard Dodd last year.
Jim to internationalise the Boots brand.
And gross margins were also joined Boots in 2003 after 15 years in a variety forces with a highly successful company that broadly stable, thanks largely to better buying.
of senior roles at Abbey National, since when possesses strengths and strategic aims he has proved a valuable asset to the board.
complementary to our own, we will bring the BHI: a successful sale achievement of that ambition within our grasp.
We believed BHI was a very strong business Ian Filby stepped up to the executive as Beauty This truly is a merger of equals.
which would do better outside the group: and and Lifestyle Director, bringing with him a huge range of experience in many frontline areas of 2 Annual report 2006 AR6934 Boots Annual Report 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off Sir Nigel with Sarah, the store manager of Sedley Place, Oxford Street, London.
our business acquired since he joined Boots 1.9% back in 1981.
Two further appointments to increase in revenue from the executive were our new marketing director continuing operations Andrew Brent and Mike Cutt who joined us as HR Director.
Most recently, chief marketing officer for Burger King, Andrew is already making a major impact on the quality of our brand communications.
And Mike, who joined us from Kingfisher, has made a great start on 1.9bn revitalising our key people programmes.
received from the sale of BHI Among our non-executive directors, Jan Bennink stepped down from the board after four years.
We thank him for his very valuable contribution.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR : integral to our strategy 2 million Another important milestone for Boots in new Advantage Card 2005 06 was the production of our first full holders recruited in CSR report.
Ever since the days of our founder, the year John Boot, and especially his son, Jesse, Boots has been a business with a strong sense of responsibility not just to our shareholders, but to everyone affected in any way by our activities.
But, until recently, we have been a little reticent A future of opportunity continue to build on the work we have done about reporting on our many achievements in 85m Looking ahead, I feel great confidence and over the last few years and to pursue our this area.
So I am very pleased that we are now paid into our optimism.
The merger will allow Boots The strategy, the future for Boots looks very gaining overdue recognition as one of the UKs pension fund Chemists to play to its strengths, and to healthy indeed.
capitalise on those of our new partner, Alliance UniChem.
Both at home and overseas, the And I would like to make one further point on opportunities for the new business and for this subject, which is that for Boots, CSR is not the Boots brand are truly exciting.
an optional extra, but an integral part of our strategy: anything we do which strengthens But rest assured, we will not be deflected from the trust in which Boots is held is good for our quest to build a better Boots.
contrary, the successful sale of BHI will allow us to devote the necessary resources to Sir Nigel Rudd Whats more, we have never been in any doubt tackling the remaining issues within our Chairman that the benefits of doing business responsibly businesses, and to continue to raise our game.
I am thinking, for example, Our achievements in 2005 06 point the way of the significant savings we are now beginning forward.
And I firmly believe that, provided we to enjoy as a result of our ongoing efforts to become more energy-efficient.
Annual report 2006 3 AR6934 Boots Annual Report 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off
