Chairmans Statement THE UK EQUITY MARKET If the final dividend is approved, total payments for the In my Interim Report, I discussed the strong year to 31 March 2006 will be 15.25 pence per share performance of the UK equity market in the six months 16.0% higher than in the previous year.
The scale of to 30 September 2005.
After a set-back in late autumn, the increase this year is such that despite the two flat growth in the FTSE All-Share Index the Index was years, growth over the three year period ending 31 resumed and continued steadily to the Companys March 2006 is substantially more than the 8.42% year-end on 31 March.
Over the year as a whole, the increase in UK inflation in this time hence the Index capital only grew by 24%.
This strong Companys income objective has been achieved not performance was due largely to strong corporate cash only this year, but also over the past three years as a flow and increasing dividend payments, merger activity whole.
The Board sees no present reason why the and by the Indexs relatively heavy weighting in oil and Companys dividend objective should not be met or mining stocks in a period of rising commodity prices.
exceeded in the current financial year.
INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE SHARE PRICE The Companys objectives are the achievement of The Companys share price increased by 30.3% in the capital growth at a higher rate than the Index and year under review an increase significantly greater than dividend growth above the rate of UK inflation.
the rise of 24.0% in the relevant Index.
This outperformance represents a reduction between 31 CAPITAL PERFORMANCE March 2005 and 2006 from 15.9% to 11.7% debt Net Asset Value NAV with debt at market value, marked to market in the discount of share price to NAV.
increased by 24% over the year Part, at least, of this reduction precisely the growth in the reflects demand from personal benchmark Index.
Capital savers in a period of greater The Companys income objective has returns with debt at par, and optimism in financial markets.
been achieved not only this year but over total returns, were also the Seeking to increase this the past three years as a whole.
same as that of the relevant demand, the Company and its benchmark.
Manager continue actively to promote the benefits of the Over a longer time period returns have been Company to potential investors.
The Board also believes substantially better than the Index.
NAV has increased that it is important to be able to buy back shares for in the three years to 31 March 2006 by 93.4% and cancellation in appropriate circumstances.
Power to do 81.1%, with debt at market value and par respectively.
so will again be sought at the Annual General Meeting.
This compares to growth of 75.6% in the benchmark During the year under review, the Company bought Index in the same period.
back 5.5 million shares this enhanced the NAV for remaining shareholders by 0.44%.
INCOME PERFORMANCE Shareholders will be aware that the Board did not feel PORTFOLIO STRUCTURE able to recommend an increase in dividend in either of The Companys portfolio continues to be allocated by the last two financial years, whilst payments were not Fidelity to three portfolio managers.
There has, as covered by earnings.
This year, a small increase was already stated, been some change of emphasis paid at the interim stage, when I reported that the towards securities with above average yields and to Company was benefiting from increased dividend those seen likely to achieve strong dividend growth.
payments from its underlying investment portfolio.
The The Board does not believe that this change will Companys income growth has continued in the prejudice future capital performance.
October to March period, principally from increased dividend receipts, but to a small extent too from a I reported in my statement last year that the Board and slight increase in the bias towards income in the Manager had agreed that the amount of the Managers portfolio emphasis.
The result is that the Companys borrowings to be invested in the equity Companys earnings have increased year-on-year by market should be in the range 90130 million.
An 23.6%, and dividend cover has moved from deficit into average of about 110m was utilised during the year, surplus.
Accordingly, the Board recommends, for contributing 1.3 percentage points to the growth in shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, NAV.
Towards the end of the year, the utilisation limit that the final dividend be increased by 21.2%, to 10.85 was raised: at the year-end 140m of the Debentures pence per share 2005: 8.95 pence per share.
The final was invested in equities.
dividend will be paid on 21 July 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 16 June the The Board has continued carefully to monitor the ex-dividend date will be 14 June 2006. position of the two Debenture Stocks.
We remain of Page 4 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2006 Chairmans Statement the view that redemption at current prices is not in the PROSPECTS interest of shareholders of a long term equity fund The UK equity market has delivered excellent returns such as that of your Company.
to investors over the past three years.
A strong economy, domestically in the UK and elsewhere, has THE BOARD produced an environment favourable to the corporate I informed shareholders at the interim stage of the sector: investors have benefited particularly from appointment of Jim Pettigrew substantial dividend increases to the Board.
The outlook is now less benign and My colleagues and I are sorry markets have become much The Companys share price increased by that Ian Inglis has decided not more volatile, reminding us of 30.3% in the year under review an to stand for re-election at the the risks which can accompany increase significantly greater than the rise Annual General Meeting.
History demonstrates of 24.0% in the relevant index.
who had a distinguished the long-term benefits of career as a senior corporate investment in equities and lawyer in Edinburgh, was many commentators are appointed a Director in 1997.
He has made a major agreed that the UK equity market, where prospects contribution to the work of the Board, particularly as remain good for further profit and dividend growth, Chairman of the Audit Committee, and his legal does not appear expensive relative to alternative background has been of particular benefit to your savings vehicles.
Company in dealing with increasingly complex corporate governance requirements.
We shall all miss Your Board believes that The Edinburgh Investment his wise counsel and I would like to thank Ian on behalf Trust plc provides a valuable core holding for long of shareholders for all he has done on their behalf.
Jim term investors in the UK equity market, providing Pettigrew, a Chartered Accountant with substantial growing income whilst increasing capital values, in real experience as finance director of a major listed terms.
We remain confident in your Companys ability financial services company, will be appointed to chair to fulfil this role.
the Audit Committee with effect from 19 July 2006.
Scott Dobbie Chairman 5 June 2006 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2006 Page 5
