Chairmans Statement The Company continues to meet the objective of tracking shown in the period of payment rather than in the the performance of the S&P 500 Composite Index.
This change has increased the NAV as at months to 31 January 2006, the net asset value per share 31 January 2005 from 518.26p to 521.31p.
NAV rose by 15.2% to 600.46p compared to an increase of 15.0% in the index in sterling terms.
The Companys share Marketing price rose by 17.5% over the year to 570.0p at 31 January Your Board continues to promote the Company through 2006, which represented a discount of 5.1% to the net asset the Managers marketing initiative which provides a value including undistributed revenue for the period.
At the series of savings schemes through which savers can start of the financial year, the share price was standing at a invest in Edinburgh US Tracker Trust in a low cost and discount of 7.0%.
The Company bought back 1,242,000 convenient manner.
The Company contributed 26,000 shares for cancellation during the year enhancing the NAV to this initiative during the past year.
Up to date for continuing shareholders by 0.46p.
information about the Company is available on the Companys website on www.
US equity markets made little progress until the final quarter of the year.
Corporate profits were ahead of expectations Corporate Governance but investors remained cautious about the impact of both The Board reviews annually the performance of the higher oil prices and higher interest rates on economic Manager, the Chairman and the Board as a whole.
The Federal Reserve continued to increase short Board has assessed the performance of the Manager, the term interest rates to combat inflation pressures and by the investment process and risk controls.
The portfolio has end of the year the Fed Funds Rate had been raised to 4.5%.
tracked closely the performance of the index and the The US economy however has managed to withstand these discount at which the Companys shares trade relative to potential impediments to growth and at the start of a new the net asset value has reduced over the past year.
The year appears to be gaining some momentum.
Board has reviewed the terms of the management agreement during the year and believes that the Over the financial year, the US dollar sterling exchange rate continuing appointment of the Manager, on the terms rose from $1.89 to $1.78 which translated the rise of 8.4% agreed, is in the interests of shareholders.
in the S&P 500 Composite Index in US currency to 15.0% in sterling terms.
Annual General Meeting The Companys articles of association require The revenue return per share over the year rose by 21.3% to shareholders to vote on the continuation of the Company 6.26p benefiting from dividend increases from underlying at every Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, a investments and the recovery in the US dollar.
Your board is resolution to this effect will be proposed as Special recommending a final dividend of 3.70p which will take total Business at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 dividends for the year to 6.00p, an increase of 18.8% over May 2006.
If this resolution is not passed, a resolution to last year.
liquidate the Company will be proposed later this year.
Liquidation would result in a disposal of the Companys The financial statements, and the net asset value per share shares for taxation purposes and therefore shareholders figures quoted above, have been prepared in accordance should consider carefully whether they wish the with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK Company to be wound up.
There will be another GAAP.
The new Financial Reporting Standards, issued as opportunity to consider the future of the Company at the part of the programme to converge UK GAAP with same time next year.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, were applicable for the accounting period ended 31 January 2006 Since the investment objective of the Company was and the financial statements for the twelve months ended revised in June 1997, the capital performance has 31 January 2005 have also been restated.
The main change matched that of the index.
The annualised returns for the arising from these revisions to UK GAAP, in relation to the Companys net asset values per share for the period 31 Companys financial statements, is that dividends to July 1997 to 31 January 2006 were 2.87% per annum shareholders declared after the balance sheet date are now compared to an annualised return of 2.52% per annum 8 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc for the index.
I believe that our investment performance, an extension of these facilities will be put to shareholders aided by low management and administration costs, as at the Annual General Meeting.
evidenced by the total expense ratio of 0.28%, underlines the attractions of the index tracking approach to investors.
The size of the economy and stock market, the mobility Your Board therefore strongly recommends all shareholders of the nations labour force and the countrys to vote in favour of the resolution.
entrepreneurial culture have enabled a large number of US companies to emerge as world leaders in many The directors are also seeking shareholder approval to renew industries.
Edinburgh US Tracker Trust provides the authority to issue new shares for cash, to meet investor shareholders with a broadly diversified portfolio which demand provided the subscription price is not below the net covers the top 500 listed companies in the United States.
Your Board also has the authority to purchase the Companys shares for cancellation were the Sir Angus Grossart shares to trade persistently on a discount in excess of the 16 March 2006 Chairman levels reached in recent years.
Special resolutions proposing Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc 9
