Chairmans Statement I have pleasure in presenting the annual report of Fidelity Performance over one year, five years and since launch to European Values PLC for the year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 on a total return basis 2006.
However, at the time of writing this report, everything is overshadowed by the sudden and tragic NAV Share price FTSE World Europe death of Johan Bjrkman.
Johan was a delightful and ex UK Index charming man and a totally professional colleague.
One year 17.5% 8.6% 19.5% He had a fine sense of judgement, and of humour, and was always a constructive and challenging Director.
We shall miss him both from a professional and a personal point of view.
Source: Fidelity and Datastream Past performance is not a guide to future returns PERFORMANCE Continental European equities delivered another year of strong returns during 2006, despite experiencing a correction in May and June.
Stock markets were buoyed DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT by takeover activity, strong corporate results and We will be active in issuing shares at a premium and positive economic data.
Concerns about the direction of buying back shares at a discount: a continuation of energy prices and rising interest rates globally did little practice since launch.
The purpose of this is to reduce to halt the progression of market movements.
During share price volatility and over the last six months a the review period, the net asset value NAV per share number of share buybacks have been made.
of the Company returned 17.5%, underperforming the benchmark FTSE World Europe ex UK Index, which DIVIDEND returned 19.5%.
Although the absolute return was It is the Boards policy to pay out earnings in full but strong, performance was slightly disappointing relative it has no control over earnings and will not influence to the Index.
This was primarily due to holdings in the the Manager in any way to determine these.
oil & gas sector, as well as a lack of exposure to financials at the start of the year.
Overall, the portfolios Your Board has decided to recommend a final dividend gearing had a positive impact on the total return of the of 5.25 pence per share for the year ending 31 NAV.
The shares ended the year trading at a discount of December 2006 2005: 2.50 pence.
This dividend 5.7% to the underlying asset value per share.
All figures will be payable on 22 May 2007 to shareholders on are in sterling and are on a total return basis.
A detailed the register at close of business on 23 March 2007 review of the performance of the portfolio is provided ex-dividend date 21 March 2007.
The Board believes in the Managers Review.
very strongly in increasing total return income and capital on investment for shareholders.
GEARING A total of ?90 million in loans ?50m and ?40m from DIRECTORATE The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and National Australia This year all of the Companys Directors retire and, Bank Limited respectively matured on 29 December being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
After careful consideration of the options available As detailed in the biographies on pages 14 and 15 the loans were repaid using the funds drawn down on the Directors have a wide range of appropriate skills 29 December 2006 from ?80m of new loan facilities and experience to make up a balanced Board for your entered into on 20 December 2006 comprising a ?65m Company.
Mr Simpson and I are subject to annual re- 4.38% fixed interest rate loan with Barclays Bank PLC election due to our tenure on the Board exceeding and ?15m of a ?25m revolving credit facility with Lloyds nine years and Mr Fraser is subject to annual reTSB Bank plc together with an amount of cash already election under the Listing Rules due to his employment held.
The Board is responsible for the level of gearing relationship with the Manager.
This relationship with in the Company and continues to review it on a regular a senior member of the Companys Manager who basis.
As at the date of this Statement, the Companys assumes the responsibility of being a Director of the level of net gearing was 12.8% and the Board will Company is considered important.
All Directors with ensure that in normal circumstances net gearing is the exception of Mr Fraser are totally independent below 20%.
It is estimated that gearing enhanced the and this provides an appropriate balance.
Pursuant NAV by 3.6 per cent over the year.
The Board continues to the Companys Articles of Association, if there are to believe that gearing will continue to benefit fewer than three Directors eligible to retire by rotation, shareholders in the long term.
Therefore Mr Duckworth is subject Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Page 3 Chairmans Statement to re-election this year.
Although the Board recognises AUDITORS the importance of continuity provided by longer During the year a review of audit services was carried serving Directors, it also recognises the need for out and a change of Auditors was agreed.
The retained refreshment from time to time and, prior to the death Auditors of the Company resigned and the Board of Mr Bjrkman, the Board had already commenced appointed RSM Robson Rhodes LLP to fill the casual the process of recruiting an additional Director.
Board now believes that we should recruit a further Director and details will be announced in due course.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Each year the Board reviews Directors fees in the light The Board has considered the proposal for the reof increases in workload and the risks of being a nonelection of all of the Directors and recommends to executive director.
Fees paid by companies in its peer shareholders that they vote in favour of the proposals.
group and elsewhere in the industry are considered.
Due to Mr Simpsons and my tenure on the Board With effect from 1 January 2007 my fee has been exceeding nine years our fellow Directors have met in increased to 25,000 pa 2006: 24,000, the Chairman our absence and considered our eligibility for re-election.
of the Audit Committees to 20,000 pa 2006: 18,000 In my case, they considered that my experience, my and that of the other Directors to 17,000 pa 2006: independence of mind and the manner in which I have 16,000.
The total payable is within the 150,000 filled the role of Chairman over the last five years have maximum aggregate laid down in the Companys been beneficial to the Company and they confirmed that Articles of Association.
they wish me to continue as Chairman.
In Mr Simpsons case his investment experience and Chairmanship of the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Companys Audit Committee have remained extremely The Annual General Meeting of the Company is due valuable.
The Board is recommending that Mr Simpson to take place on 18 May 2007 at midday at Fidelitys and I be re-elected as Directors at the forthcoming offices at 25 Cannon Street.
Full details of the meeting Annual General Meeting.
are given on pages 53 and 54 and I look forward to meeting you then.
MANAGEMENT FEES The Board recognises the importance of ensuring BUSINESS REVIEW that the terms of the Management Agreement are fair, Shareholders will note a restructuring and expansion competitive and reasonable for shareholders.
In the of the contents of this years Annual Report due to course of its consideration of the Management changes in regulatory requirements.
The main changes Agreement the Board has come to the conclusion are the addition of a Business Review forming part of that the introduction of performance related fees the Directors Report and the listing of the Companys would be in the interests of shareholders and, complete portfolio as at 31 December 2006.
My view accordingly, the independent Directors are in is that the Annual Report is now too lengthy and most negotiations with the Manager.
Details of the newly of the detail of the Business Review is not of interest or negotiated performance fees will be announced use to the majority of shareholders.
Therefore an attempt shortly and will take effect from 1 January 2007. has been made to pull together the key issues and any contentious matters in the Chairmans Statement and CONTINUATION VOTE the Managers Review so that only the most assiduous In accordance with the Articles of Association of the of shareholders need read the extra detail.
I would like Company, an ordinary resolution that the Company shareholders to convey their thoughts on this approach continue as an investment trust for a further two years to me to see if it is favoured or whether a different will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General approach would be preferred.
In view of the Companys excellent performance record a NAV increase of 1,287.4% since launch compared to an increase in the benchmark Index of 428.7%, your Board recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
A further continuation vote will take place at the Annual General Meeting in 2009.
Page 4 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Chairmans Statement VAT ON MANAGEMENT FEES At the time of writing this Statement, we have just been made aware of the European Advocate Generals views, which were generally supportive of the Association of Investment Companies in its claim that Her Majestys Revenue and Customs has been incorrect in requiring investment trusts domiciled in the UK to pay VAT on their management fees.
While the final judgement on the JPMorgan Claverhouse AIC test case from the European Court of Justice is not due until June, it is encouraging to see such progress.
If the case is ultimately successful, it will result in a substantial reduction in your Companys overall running costs.
OUTLOOK As you will see in the Managers Review, our Manager believes that markets continue to present good value opportunities.
For our part we believe that stock selection based on in-depth company analysis will continue to be the key in outperforming the Index over the coming years.
Robert Walther Chairman 1 March 2007 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Page 5
