Dennis Stevenson Chairman Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Colleague development Capital discipline 4 Avid readers of company reports, myself additional contributions from our developing Your board included, have to develop an ability to international business, is right for this Sir Brian Ivory retires from the Board at speed read to the bit which tells you whether, stage of HBOSs journey.
The results this years AGM after serving nine years as a shareholder, your lot has improved.
being achieved point to the importance on the Board of Bank of Scotland and, of continuity of strategy and the clear twin from 2001, HBOS plc.
Sir Brian has given This year we attempt to break that mould focus on top line revenue growth coupled outstanding service to HBOS in a number and to provide facts and opinions, sans spin.
of ways but I would like to pay particular In this we are encouraged and to a degree tribute to the extraordinary energy and obliged, to improve our annual reporting Shareholder feedback skill he has exercised as Chairman of the by the requirements of the Business Review Each year we commission an independent HBOS Remuneration Committee since its arising from a European Directive.
In this audit of UK and International investor formation in 2001: during this time he has years Annual Report therefore, we detail opinion.
This is not sanitised and is delivered worked tirelessly to ensure that the Groups the results and discuss our performance direct to the Board.
Investor comments remuneration policies are fair, transparent and and prospects in the context of the risks on strategy, performance, management align the interests of management with those and uncertainties in 2006 and those we and prospects are received on a non of shareholders.
David Shearer has also face in the coming year.
We have also set attributable basis.
They provide a fascinating decided to stand down from the Board at this out in greater detail than ever before our insight into what investors think of us, years AGM to ensure that no con icts arise approach to Corporate Responsibility.
helping guide our support and challenge in the future between his position as a This re ects the real understanding to the Executive team.
Non-executive Director of HBOS and his that our business will only prosper if we other business interests.
David joined the seek to serve the interests of all our key Investor opinion in 2006 was encouraging.
Board in 2004 and during this time has also stakeholders.
Shareholders, customers, First there was a clear understanding and served on the Audit Committee, bringing suppliers, colleagues and society in general endorsement of our strategy.
Our primary considerable expertise to the work of the all require HBOS to be responsible, forward focus on UK growth supplemented by Committee.
I would like to express the thinking and prepared to be measured careful, organic expansion internationally, appreciation of the Board to both Sir Brian against pre-determined standards.
looks to be very acceptable to our and David for their contribution to the affairs shareholders, if not racy enough for some of HBOS plc.
Even for those for whom faster The returns for shareholders have improved growth is always preferable to capital This year we welcome Richard Cousins to the in 2006, with the HBOS share price closing repatriation, there is no sense in which Board as a Non-executive Director.
Richard the year at 11.32, 14% ahead for the year, shareholders expect us to rush to grow brings a wealth of experience in a number outperforming both the banks index and the inorganically.
Management gets the thumbs of sectors and is currently Chief Executive FTSE 100.
Underlying earnings per share up for managing the business well with of Compass Group plc.
have increased by 16% and the proposed cost control and capital discipline singled dividend per share by 15%.
These results are out as areas of particular merit.
Loud and 2007 good but each year arguably they are tougher clear however, comes the message that Our shareholders tell us that our cautious to achieve.
In 2006 we have seen some of investors want to see and meet with the new approach to growth in 2006 had their support the competitor banks improve their operating management team following Andy Hornbys and that they expect us to judge the time for performance and this being re ected in their appointment as Chief Executive.
Our a faster pace with sustainable returns as our improving share price, even if on occasion communications programme for 2007 will guide.
In 2007 we do see an opportunity for a obscured by bid speculation.
We do not seek to address that requirement by giving marginally faster pace of growth consistent with take for granted increasing returns for our greater access to divisional management the maintenance of returns at our target level.
shareholders as an automatic consequence teams as well as the Chief Executive and The balance of capital allocation for growth and of effort.
We fully expect to have to work Finance Director.
share buybacks therefore edges in favour of harder than ever so as to achieve relative additional organic growth with a consequent share price recognition.
Regulation lower buyback amount in prospect.
The year has seen signi cant regulatory Management and strategy attention and a broader external agenda In the following pages you will nd a 2006 was the year of management transition than in previous years.
Regulatory enquiries management team con dent in their as Andy Hornby succeeded James Crosby and reviews abound with the Of ce of Fair ability to continue to achieve good returns as Chief Executive.
Jo Dawson and Benny Trading, the Competition Commission, for shareholders.
As ever, management Higgins joined the Board in May as Chief Her Majestys Treasury and the Financial alone cannot achieve the desired greater Executive Insurance & Investment and Chief Services Authority all consuming time and performance without the strength of the Executive Retail respectively.
In the main these have the wholly colleagues around the Group.
The Board been no need to make grand statements benign aim of eradicating unfair practices is delighted to see the formal recognition about new strategic directions.
As the and increasing the transparency in pricing and reporting of our focus on colleague Chief Executive details in his review, the of products and services for customers.
The development in the Chief Executives strategy is unchanged and continues to law of unintended consequences is however statement.
Unashamedly we want our entire deliver value for our customers and our lurking in the wings with a real need to ensure team to be the best there is in banking.
The Board is con dent that that financial exclusion, less competition and this strategy, primarily driven by capturing higher barriers to entry are not the end result Dennis Stevenson the growth opportunities in the UK with of changes to pricing and cost recovery.
Chairman 5 Contents Who we are 8 Strategy Overview HBOS is a diversi ed financial services group with powerful brands, strong distribution and a substantial customer base.
Were the 10 Operating Review UKs largest provider of mortgages and savings: together with 14 Financial Review signi cant and growing market shares in key retail, corporate, 25 Five Year Summary international, treasury and insurance and investment markets.
Divisional Reviews Retail 26 Retail Provides financial services to over 23 million customers through a broad 36 Corporate distribution base ranging from branches and intermediaries to direct mail, 44 Insurance & Investment telephone and internet services.
Retails range of multi-branded products includes personal and business banking services providing mortgages, savings, bank 54 International accounts, personal loans and credit cards.
68 Treasury & Asset Management 75 Corporate Responsibility Corporate 81 Risk Management Provides innovative products and services to UK businesses, typically those with turnover in excess of 1m, in markets where we have proven knowledge and real expertise.
The division comprises a number of relationship banking and specialist lending teams with considerable experience, committed to understanding customers needs and empowered to make decisions quickly.
Insurance & Investment Manufactures and distributes a range of life, pensions, investment and general insurance products.
The division uses a multi-channel, multi-brand operating model to maximise both distribution reach, product and pricing exibility.
Whilst low cost access to the large HBOS Retail customer base is a core strength, the division also enjoys strong 3rd party distribution relationships with partners and intermediaries.
International Comprises three distinct businesses.
HBOS Australia provides retail, corporate, insurance and investment products.
In Ireland, Bank of Scotland Ireland focuses on providing banking solutions to business banking customers and is committed to becoming a full service retail bank in 2007.
Europe & North America combines the Groups corporate, retail and investment businesses in those areas.
Treasury & Asset Management Comprises the Groups treasury business and the asset management businesses of Insight Investment and Invista Real Estate Management.
In addition to the provision of products and services to 3rd party customers, the division supports the Group through the provision of Group funding and the management of Business policyholder assets on behalf of the Insurance & Investment division.
Review Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Colleague development Capital discipline 6
