Chairmans Statement Charles Gregson The Groups profit before tax, amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items was 204.3 million for the year to 31 March 2006 compared with 176.7 million for the previous year.
It is with great pleasure that we Profit before tax on a statutory basis present the 2006 annual results.
was 193.0 million, an increase of The Group continues to deliver 26.2 million.
strong growth in earnings, has made significant progress in executing its These results are the first full-year strategy, possesses a very strong results we have produced in management team and has extended accordance with International Financial further its market leading position.
Reporting Standards IFRS and are fully described in the Operating and The Groups profit before tax, Financial Review OFR.
While the amortisation and impairment of format of the presentation of the intangibles arising on consolidation IFRS Financial Statements may be and exceptional items was unfamiliar, the changes in 204.3 million for the year to presentation have no impact on the 31 March 2006 compared with cash and economic performance of 176.7 million for the previous year.
the business or its strategic Net assets at 31 March 2006 were direction.
4 ICAP plc Annual Report 2006 The Groups lead regulator, the UK David Gelber will be completing These results reflect a strongly Financial Services Authority FSA, will his year as a non-executive director performing business.
It wasnt easy, implement the EU Capital at the Annual General Meeting.
given the challenges and the stiff Requirements Directive CRD on We have continued to benefit from his competition we face in the market.
The CRD will create knowledge and broad experience of It was achieved with contributions a modern capital framework for the business since he retired from from every segment of the business companies across the EU.
After his role as Group Chief Operating and was the result of dedicated extensive discussions with the FSA Officer a year ago.
He has made a teamwork at every level in the we believe that, following some tremendous contribution to the business.
For that I thank every single changes to two of our smaller business that is now ICAP, having member of staff, the management businesses, ICAP will comply with the been involved with the Intercapital team and my fellow directors.
requirements of the new directive.
He became the Chief Operating Officer of Intercapital ICAP continues to be a highly cash plc, following the Exco Intercapital generative business which has merger in 1999.
He will continue to Charles Gregson allowed us to invest in the work as a consultant with the Group.
Chairman development of the business and has enabled the Group to maintain a Our Group Finance Director, Jim progressive approach to the dividend Pettigrew, has decided, after seven paid to shareholders: the directors years in this role, to pursue his recommend a final dividend of 7.5p career outside ICAP.
His commitment per share to be paid on 25 August to ICAPs success has been 2006 to shareholders on the register outstanding and I am sure that his on 28 July 2006 making a total move to a new challenge will be dividend of 10.0p per share for the equally successful.
We announced in May 2005 Group on 2 June 2006. that, in the normal course of events, future interim dividends will be The board has agreed to appoint calculated at 30% of the previous Matthew Lester as Group Finance years full-year dividend.
Director after a full and thorough search process.
We hope he will be All businesses are expected to take available to join the Group within six their social responsibilities seriously: months.
Mark Yallop, ICAPs Chief some do so as a part of their Operating Officer, will take over the operations, others actively seek ways Group Finance Directors to give something back to society.
responsibilities until Matthew Lester Our Charity Day has been a part of is available to take up his position.
ICAPs culture for 13 years, raising an incredible global total of We believe the key to long-term value 5.2 million in December 2005 up is growth: growth in customer from 4.2 million the previous year revenue: growth in earnings: this as a result of the outstanding will allow us to generate superior support of our staff and customers.
returns on capital for our shareholders.
This is a wonderful achievement and Our current results and the over 70 charities have benefited acquisition of EBS will provide us from the money raised in our offices with a solid base for future growth.
Since Charity Day To succeed, we need to constantly began, the total raised by ICAP staff adapt to changing markets.
and customers is over 26 million.
Annual Report 2006 ICAP plc 5 AD 6 ICAP plc Annual Report 2006 APTIVE Annual Report 2006 ICAP plc 7
