indd Proof: 09 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 18 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 04 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 nuclear is a safe, economic, reliable Chairmans statement and proven large-scale source of low sir Adrian Montague CBE carbon electricity and an important contributor to achieving the uKs climate change and security of supply objectives.
BE confident delivering the substantial planned investment the Company has achieved a in the current year and beyond.
We have seen significant improvement in financial underlying improvements in all key metrics, performance through the year however it will take time before the full benefits reflecting the completion of the of the investment come through.
restructuring and the benefit of rising electricity prices in part offset We announced last september an extension to the life of our Dungeness B power station by output below our original plan.
for 10 years and we will seek further life extensions of all our nuclear power stations We have seen rapidly changing energy markets where technically and economically feasible.
leading to a significant increase in uK power prices over the year.
British Energy has safety and environmental performance has benefited from these price rises.
however, the continued to improve and both nuclear electricity market has been highly volatile reportable Events and nuclear lost time requiring us to remain focused on risk Accidents are at their lowest levels for five years.
management and to maintain financial stability.
safety and environmental performance will remain fundamental priorities of the Company.
We continue to make progress towards our goal of becoming a world class nuclear the uK is entering a period where new operator.
Many of the changes previously generation capacity will be required to sustain announced have been completed.
the growth in the economy and replace the output reorganisation of our generation and trading from anticipated retirement of power stations.
businesses is progressing well and is improving the government is considering the policy performance across a number of areas.
We framework needed to deliver secure, reliable completed 283m of investment in plant this and affordable energy for the uK as well as year, an excellent achievement as part of our meeting its climate change objectives.
in April continuing programme to improve the reliability 2006, British Energy submitted its response of our power stations.
We will continue to to the Energy review consultation, advocating increase staff numbers to support this work, a balanced mix of generation technologies integrating the changes into a continuous including the use of nuclear.
We will continue improvement regime.
our focus is now on British EnErgy group plc 05 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 Another trend lay beneath this team.
if they have a problem, safety positive story: of the 19 ltAs so do we.
occurring since last April, 13 the total number of of them involved our contractor British Energy therefore lost time Accidents partners rather than British embarked on a programme ltAs has fallen by Energy staff.
to audit the health and safety 54% over the last management system of our peter Webster, British Energys leading contractor partners, two years.
safety and regulation Director, and help them achieve the comments: it would be all too standards we expect of easy just to shrug and wait for ourselves.
Major work such the contractors to get their as outages now incorporate house in order.
We dont work industrial safety observations, that way.
We view safety as a and our supply chain is leading collective responsibility, and our an ltA reduction process with contractors are part of our principal contractors.
A sAFEty BriEFing At EggBorough to contribute to this debate.
nuclear is a stake in British Energy.
this is in accordance our focus is now on safe, economic, reliable and proven largewith the nuclear liabilities Funds right to delivering the substantial scale source of low carbon electricity and convert their Cash sweep payment into planned investment in the an important contributor to achieving the shares in British Energy.
We welcome the uKs climate change and security of supply governments statement of intention and current year and beyond.
British Energy can continue to believe it reflects the operational progress We have seen underlying make a major contribution to the uKs British Energy is making and its improved improvements in all key energy needs, contributing to economic financial prospects.
growth in the uK as a whole.
metrics, however it will once again, i would like to thank all British take time before the full i would like to welcome Bob Davies who joins Energys staff who have worked hard to benefits of the investment the Board as a non-Executive Director.
Bob achieve the results we have recorded this year.
was Chief Executive of Arriva plc, the uK they have made great progress in delivering come through.
transport services group, until April 2006. the goals of the Company and are to be Before that, he was Chief Executive of East congratulated but we still have work to do Midlands Electricity plc.
As is our usual to achieve world class nuclear operations.
practice, Bob will be standing for election at our AgM later this summer.
in addition We have much to achieve.
the improvement our Chief Executive Bill Coley, sir robert programme will take time to complete.
i am Walmsley, one of our independent nonconfident that we will succeed and that British Executive Directors and i will be standing Energy has a bright future.
UK Electricity Production by Technology Source: Dukes, 2004 i am pleased to report that the Company gained entry to the FtsE 100 list of leading Gas 39.7% Coal 33.6% companies on 26 January 2006, reflecting Sir Adrian Montague CBE Nuclear 20.4% our significance to the uK economy.
Chairman Other renewables 2.0% Hydro 1.3% the government announced in March 2006 Oil 1.3% Other 1.3% that it intends at some point to sell part of its Wind 0.5%
