Chairmans statement John Manser I take great pleasure in reporting an outstanding performance for the fourteen months to 31 March 2006.
Pre-tax profits have increased by 72% annualised to 190m as a result of record gains on investments and another period of strong growth in core income.
As a result of the considerable growth in We achieved record gains on investments the mezzanine market last year we were for the period of 145m which were more able to grow the loan book despite a than double last year.
138m of these more selective approach to investment.
gains were received in cash with the The loan book increased by 21% in the balance being the change in the market period to 1.5bn.
We are particularly value of certain unrealised warrants.
pleased with this achievement when considered against the high levels of After provisions, derivatives and the repayments and refinancings at 55%.
Medium Term Incentive Scheme, preWe have maintained our leadership in tax profits increased to 190m, an an increasingly competitive market.
This performance has resulted from our extensive local network of experienced Dividends professional investors throughout The Board is recommending a final Europe generating unprecedented dividend of 42p net per share to be paid deal flow.
Our long-term approach, on 28 July 2006 which, with the interim flexible financing solutions, permanent dividend of 14p net per share, brings the capital and the quality of our people total for the period to 56p net per share, have together combined to deliver an annualised increase of 20% over last this performance.
years dividend reflecting the strength of performance of both core income and We continue to make advances in the net gains on investments.
Dividend fund management business with two cover is 3.2 times post tax earnings.
new funds, a ?400m Eurocredit Opportunities I Fund and a $500m Asia Our objective remains to provide Pacific Mezzanine Fund, being raised double digit dividend growth following during the financial period.
Funds under continued growth in core income.
The dividend will be paid to shareholders These accounts have been prepared on the register on the 7 July 2006. under IFRS for the first time and are for a fourteen month period.
Accordingly, The portfolio all references to increases over last We had another strong period of new year have been annualised to make lending which resulted in our loan book comparisons more meaningful.
growing by 21% over the period to 1.5bn, a new record.
During the However, the company took advantage period we arranged or provided a under IFRS of restating last years total of 899m in 37 new loans and numbers excluding the effects of IAS 32 investments.
So comparisons to last year are our balance sheet 409m in 2005 and not on a like for like basis.
287m taken by fund management clients 283m in 2005 with the balance Results being syndicated to third parties.
Core income, which is defined as net interest and fee income less related Included in these figures is 88m which operating expenses, grew to 106m, we invested in the equity of 22 companies, an increase of 22%.
4 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Core income, which We had another is net interest and strong period of fee income less new lending which operating expenses, resulted in our loan grew to 106.3m, book growing by an annualised 21% to 1.5 bn, increase of 22%.
The UK and France continue to be enable ICG to benefit from future As default rates remained low, the most active markets for new opportunities in the mezzanine market.
competition for mezzanine loans investments although this year there At 31 March 2006, we had unutilised intensified with a significant number of were encouraging signs of greater facilities of 470m available for future hedge funds and CDOs entering the activity in other parts of Continental investment.
market attracted by the high yielding Europe, most notably Scandinavia and nature of mezzanine investment.
We also made our first The gearing ratio remains prudent at competitive activity led to increases in investment in central Europe in the 2:1, with outstanding borrowings at the leverage and therefore risk.
We now see leading Polish cable TV operator.
end of the financial period of 981m.
an imbalance between risk and reward with little margin for safety in a number Loan repayment levels were particularly Fund management of transactions.
The pressure on high at 335m, 27% of the opening The Mezzanine Fund 2003 has now borrowers, however, has been reducing, loan book, as private equity sponsors invested approximately 70% of the in part due to the trend to replace sought to realise investments in a available ?1.5bn.
We are pleased with amortising loans with loans with a fixed buoyant market for exits.
These the quality of the investment portfolio in repayment date, thus deferring the sponsors also took advantage of strong terms of geography, sector diversity and repayment requirements and improving debt markets to re-leverage existing credit quality.
Our Mezzanine Fund 1998 cash flows.
In these market conditions, companies at a lower cost and to achieved its hurdle rate for investors ICG has continued to be highly selective realise equity value.
Consequently, a and has started to make carried interest in its investment and has therefore further 358m of ICGs portfolio was distributions.
Mezzanine Fund 2000 is experienced a reduced share of what refinanced with ICG broadly maintaining also performing well.
has become a much bigger market.
These transactions have had the effect of raising the risk profile We are also pleased to have raised the The Asia Pacific mezzanine market of our portfolio by replacing lower first dedicated mezzanine fund for the The Asia Pacific buyout market geared and, generally, higher margin Asia Pacific market at $500m, of which continues to develop with increased deal deals with higher geared, lower margin ICG will co-invest 40%.
opportunities being generated both in deals.
These refinancings have tended the mid-cap and larger buyout markets.
to be from our better performing and In November, we raised Eurocredit A number of European and American highest quality borrowers.
Opportunities I Plc, a fund which invests private equity sponsors are moving into in a diversified portfolio of subthe region and local equity funds have Our portfolio performed well during the investment grade loans and bonds with been actively fundraising.
We are period leading to net provisions of an initial size of e400m.
This fund has a therefore in a strong position to capitalise 27m which equates to less than 2% of flexible financing structure to enable it to on these existing ICG relationships the loan book.
We also took advantage take advantage of the volatility in notwithstanding the emergence of new of the developing secondary market for European credit markets and maximise mezzanine and hedge funds.
mezzanine assets to sell a number of returns across the credit cycle.
The fund our underperforming loans: this has had is open-ended and a further ?275m has We remain optimistic about the growth the effect of considerably improving the been raised since the end of March.
potential of the buyout market and quality of our portfolio.
consequently the opportunities for The CDOs and Leveraged Loan funds mezzanine investment.
At the end of March, the mezzanine continue to perform well although, portfolio comprised loans to 88 in this benign economic environment, Offices, management and staff companies.
It continues to be welland with default levels at record lows, In November 2005, we announced the diversified and is spread over 25 differentiation between good and creation of a management committee industries and 15 countries.
The top poor fund manager performance can comprising the most senior executives 20 companies measured by original be difficult.
The management committee cost amounted to 667m of the loan is responsible for formulating strategy book and are performing satisfactorily.
The European mezzanine market and product and pricing policies.
2005 was a buoyant year for the Funding European mezzanine market with As part of our commitment to the In April 2005, we took advantage of investment levels reaching ?9bn, a 75% wider community, we have introduced the attractive borrowing conditions in increase on 2004.
This mezzanine a corporate and social responsibility the debt markets and raised a new market growth has been driven by the programme.
This programme has 845m revolving credit facility, replacing strong leveraged buyout market in centred around employees being all existing bank facilities and providing which private equity sponsors raised involved in various activities for the an additional 473m of facilities to record funds of ?72bn during the year.
benefit of local charitable organisations.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC 5 3 Chairmans Portfolio by country Europe Asia Pacific statement 11 1 Belgium 11m Singapore 1m Continued 2 Denmark 27m South Korea 18m 2 3 Finland 10m 4 France 518m 13 9 8 5 Germany 136m 1 5 6 6 Luxembourg 21m 4 7 Italy 32m 12 8 Netherlands 118m 9 Poland 21m 7 10 Spain 20m 10 11 Sweden 110m 12 Switzerland 33m 13 UK 418m ICGs success depends on the quality of in increasingly large amounts, to remain grade loan and bond portfolios on behalf its people and I would like to take this the most flexible and preferred form of of a number of third parties and anticipate opportunity, on your behalf, to thank subordinated debt.
that there will continue to be similar all of the team for their outstanding opportunities to capitalise on our contribution to this periods performance.
Despite competitive conditions, we experience and to diversify our product expect to see good investment range and client base.
The Board opportunities both for the balance sheet In February 2006, we were pleased to and the fund management businesses Debt markets, like most other capital announce the appointment of Justin due to our advantages of having skilled markets, have historically been cyclical Dowley as a non-executive director of executives with long-term relationships in and we believe they will continue to be the company and he was appointed local markets and a long-term approach so.
In the medium-term we anticipate independent Chairman of the Audit to investment.
Our strong credit culture that the coincidence of higher default Committee in May 2006.
Justin is a will ensure that, in a market of increased rates, driven by high levels of LBO Partner in Tricorn Partners LLP and was risk, investment will be focused on leverage with limited cushion for error, formerly Head of Investment Banking and quality business opportunities that offer a and the short-term time horizons of M&A at Merrill Lynch Europe.
The Board reasonable balance of risk and return.
some of the new entrants to the market will benefit from his extensive senior We will not forego credit quality and will, at some stage, take the heat out management expertise and his breadth longer-term returns for the sake of of the mezzanine market.
Given the of knowledge of financial services.
In the current trading mentality of some of the new year we have to date invested 116m on market participants we expect a We are also pleased to announce the our balance sheet in six transactions.
reversal in the market conditions to lead appointment of Philip Keller as Finance to increased volatility.
He is currently the Finance With regard to repayments and should provide interesting opportunities Director of ERM, a leading environmental refinancings, we anticipate that these for long-term investors such as ICG.
consultancy firm and qualified as a will experience some slowdown as the chartered accountant in 1990.
He will majority of private equity investors In the mean time, we expect buyout join the Board in September.
have already taken advantage of the markets to continue to grow, fed by aggressive debt markets to re-leverage record levels of private equity funding John Curtis, our Chief Financial Officer portfolio companies.
Future and fuelled by high levels of liquidity in and Company Secretary, will retire later recapitalisations will therefore depend the current debt markets.
I would like to thank John for more upon strong financial performance to lead to further growth in demand for his hard work and enormous contribution by companies rather than a further mezzanine and opportunities for ICG to ICG since its foundation in 1989. increase in leverage levels.
Repayments which, along with continued momentum so far this year amount to 39m.
from last year, leads us to be confident Corporate identity for prospects in our core income and During the period, we commissioned Notwithstanding the increased level of the future of our business.
international research among our leverage and risk in the mezzanine clients.
The detailed findings have market we are very pleased with the helped us focus even closer on the overall quality and performance of our issues and qualities that count.
have now developed a new website which will incorporate a secure extranet Gains on investments in the last two for fund investors and have also years have reached record levels as a John Manser redesigned our logo.
consequence of the companies that Chairman deferred exits in 2002 and 2003.
14 June 2006 Prospects Although we expect continued strong In the short-term we anticipate further gains from the portfolio, we do not growth in the leveraged loan and anticipate that future gains will reach mezzanine markets, as private equity these exceptional levels.
houses focus on investing the newly raised funds.
Competition amongst Fund management income is also private equity sponsors is unlikely to expected to demonstrate good growth on abate and so prices will continue to be the basis of both funds raised during the high, leading investors to optimise last period and the opportunity to raise financing structures in order to protect further funds this year.
We are currently in returns.
We expect mezzanine, available discussions to manage sub-investment 6 Intermediate Capital Group PLC
