Chairmans Statement In stills we benefited from the health and well-being trend, though our under-representation in some of the fastest growing sectors, such as water, meant that we did not perform as well as the market.
However, we have moved quickly to establish our new water brands with Fruit Shoot H20, our new kids water brand, reaching number one in its category within eight weeks of launch.
The highly successful J20 range has been extended by the introduction of limited edition flavours, and the UKs leading squash brand, Robinsons, is benefiting from increased distribution and the switch from carbonates.
Our carbonates business did not escape the market trends but we successfully combated a major competitor product launch.
The relationship with Pepsi, whose franchise in the GB market we have held for many years, is increasingly close, with the growth of the Pepsi brands remaining our key shared priority.
This year has begun positively although it is still early days.
Activity in the early weeks of the year, ahead of the important Christmas selling period, is usually subdued and this year is no The year ended 1 October 2006 was a challenging one exception.
We intend to update shareholders on Christmas for the UK soft drinks industry but the pattern of long term trading at the time of the AGM in January.
Looking ahead to the growth continued with total volumes 2.9 per cent higher.
full year, our results will benefit from the cost reductions While the stills market benefited from an acceleration in implemented last year.
Our product development programme is the trend towards health and well-being and achieved good on track and we expect the second half of the year to benefit gains, carbonates suffered and volumes were down.
top of these secular movements came considerable weather-related volatility in the important summer selling Our new Board has settled in well and I would like to thank period.
May and August were atypically wet months but my colleagues for their contribution over the past year.
More July saw record temperatures.
importantly, on behalf of the Board, I wish to extend our gratitude to our many colleagues throughout the Company The carbonates market in the UK fell away sharply after whose tenacity and hard work are a major asset as we move Christmas 2005 and, with the exception of brief periods at the business forward.
the time of the World Cup and in July, tracked below the corresponding periods figures.
The reduction was particularly marked in Britvics second quarter.
In sharp contrast, the stills market consistently outperformed the previous year.
Against this difficult market background, Britvic achieved solid results.
Management action to combat the changing environment Gerald Corbett included reducing costs, improving efficiency and focusing on Chairman maintaining selling prices.
These measures particularly benefited the second half and the profit shortfall in the first half was made up by the year end.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 7p which together with the interim dividend of 3p makes a total of 10p for the year.
Management action to combat the changing environment included reducing costs, improving efficiency and focusing on maintaining selling prices.
Gerald Corbett, Chairman 8 8 Britvic plc Annual Report 2006
