Chairmans Statement Jeremy Paulson-Ellis CHAIRMAN Investment Performance introduction of new financial reporting standards in 2005 there have been a number of amendments The strong performance of the Japanese economy this year to the accounting policies of the Company.
over the latter months of 2005 and the early part The main difference to prior years is the valuation of 2006 continued into the second half of your of investments at fair value, which in this case Companys financial year.
However, rather means bid price instead of last trade price.
You will disappointingly, this strength was not reflected in notice that the move from bid price to mid price has either the performance of the main Japanese necessitated the adjustment of the Companys markets, or the returns generated for return on net assets.
This is in line with investment shareholders.
Over the year to 30th September trust practice.
There is also a revised layout for the 2006 your Company produced a total return on net Income Statement previously called the Statement assets of 2.0%, underperforming the total return of of Total Return on page 30 and a new primary our benchmark, the TOPIX Index, of 4.8%.
The statement, the Reconciliation of Movements in return to shareholders was a negative 3.2% as the Shareholders Funds shown on page 31. discount on the shares widened from 3.1% to 7.7% at the end of the financial year.
Board of Directors Revenue and Dividends During the year, the Board carried out an evaluation of the Directors, the Chairman, the Boards Net revenue after taxation for the year was operations and its Committees.
Three Directors are 6,692,000 2005: 5,112,000 and earnings per seeking election or re-election at this years Annual share were 3.60p 2005: 2.75p.
In accordance with the Companys notice that the change in accounting policy made Articles of Association, Alan Barber, who was in 2003 regarding the allocation of the Companys appointed to the Board on 9th February 2006, expenses, together with the strong growth in retires and seeks election.
The Director retiring by investment income witnessed in recent years, has rotation is David Pearson, who being eligible, offers meant that the revenue reserve deficit that the himself for re-election.
In addition, I, having served Company had built up over the course of its as a Director for in excess of nine years, therefore existence has been substantially reduced.
In the also retire and will seek re-election.
The Board does absence of any unforeseen circumstances, and as not believe that length of service in itself should long as normal market conditions prevail, it disqualify a Director from seeking re-election and, appears likely that the Company will be in a in proposing my re-election, it has taken into position to pay a dividend in respect of the current account the ongoing requirements of the Combined financial year to September 2007.
I will update Code, including the need to refresh the Board and shareholders as to the possible quantum of such a its Committees.
Both Alan and David have proved dividend in my interim statement.
invaluable in the Boards deliberations and I have Accounting Standards no hesitation in recommending their election and re Shareholders may be aware that following the election respectively.
2 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese Investment Manager If you have any detailed or technical questions, it would be helpful if you could raise these in advance The Companys objective is to provide shareholders of the meeting with the Company Secretary at with capital growth from a portfolio of investments Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
Your Board has reviewed Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM are the capabilities of the Investment Manager in order encouraged to use their proxy votes.
to assess whether JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited remains the most appropriate manager Prospects of the Companys assets.
Japan benefited from three years of strong stock market gains from 2003 to 2005, but in 2006 its Authority to Repurchase the Companys Shares performance has been much weaker.
This has now At last years AGM, shareholders granted the left the stock market looking more reasonably valued Directors authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of again trading on broadly comparable valuations to the companys shares for cancellation.
Whilst the the United States equity market and by historical Company only repurchased 0.15% of the Companys comparison a more modest premium to European issued share capital 280,000 shares for markets despite a much lower cost of capital for cancellation during the year, the Directors believe companies in Japan.
The listed corporate sector from that the power to buyback shares is of benefit to which the manager has to choose investments is shareholders.
It is therefore proposed that the delivering a higher return-on-equity for shareholders authority be renewed for a further period.
than at any time in the post-war period, and the companies are also implementing both higher Change of Company Name dividend pay-outs and share buy-backs to enhance In the light of the change of our Managers name shareholder returns.
Overall, this gives a relatively from J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK benign background in which to invest in Japanese Limited to JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited equities, particularly if earnings growth can be on 3rd May 2005, your Board considers that there maintained.
There will though be challenges over the next year coming from a variety of sources: the are advantages to changing the Companys name to global economy which is adjusting to a slower path of JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
The Board growth than in the last three years, consumption in will therefore propose a resolution to change the Japan which has yet to respond to tighter labour Companys name at the forthcoming Annual General markets as companies hold down wages and, as your Meeting.
None of the costs relating to this change manager highlights in his report, from the will fall on shareholders.
demographic changes now affecting the Japanese Annual General Meeting population.
In 2006 geo-political problems in the middle east and elsewhere have been much more This years Annual General Meeting will be held at The frequent and it seems this trend may continue for the Library, JPMorgans offices, 60 Victoria Embankment, foreseeable future.
However, the Board remains London, EC4Y 0JP on Tuesday 19th December 2006 at confident that out of the significant and growing - 2.00 p. m. As in previous years, in addition to the universe of listed Japanese companies, there are formal part of the meeting, there will be a many that are creating shareholder value which can presentation from the Investment Managers who will be included in a portfolio dedicated to investing in answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
Japan, thus hopefully providing most satisfactory There will also be an opportunity to meet the Board, returns to shareholders for the future.
the Investment Managers and representatives of JPMorgan after the meeting.
I look forward to Jeremy Paulson-Ellis welcoming as many of you as possible to this Chairman 15th November 2006 meeting.
