Chairmans Statement Andrew Murison CHAIRMAN By all yardsticks it has been a satisfactory year for report.
You will note from the analysis of relative your Company.
The total return to shareholders return, which measures the contribution that each the appreciation in share price assuming component of total return makes to overall reinvestment of dividends was 45.6%.
The performance, that the selection effect the net change in net assets was 40%.
The return from effect of investing in individual stocks that our benchmark, the FTSE World Europe ex UK outperform the benchmark index was the most index was 35.5%, lagging the total return to you significant contributor.
This corroborates the fact by 10.1 percentage points.
The discount of share that your Company is not an index tracker and is price to net asset value with debt valued at par important because funds perceived as such are fell to 8.9%, from 13.3% a year earlier.
likely to find that their rating will suffer, as measured by their relative discount to net asset Your Company has also performed well against value compared to peer group trusts.
competing peer group trusts those trusts which invest in a similar universe of companies while As your Board has frequently reiterated, however, adopting the same relatively low risk profile.
The it does not regard one years performance as the average total return performance of this segment key criteria of success for an investment trust.
was 94% over 3 years and 32% over five years, Unlike open-ended investment companies lagging that of your Company by 8% and 2% OEICS and unit trusts, where instant liquidity respectively.
The average European unit trust for shareholders and unit holders can be under-performed your Company by 6% over both advantageous in the short run but inimical to time periods.
The ratio that measures performance performance in the long run, since they are forced against risk shows your Company being the second to invest at the top of markets and dis-invest at the best risk-adjusted performer of the eight bottom, closed-end funds have, in our view, investment trusts that invest in Continental another and greater advantage.
This is the ability Europe.
to borrow and thus gear up returns on the fixed number of shares in issue.
While the fixed capital Our investment manager, Stephen Macklow-Smith, may inhibit liquidity in the short run, your Board explains the components of the return in his 2 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European believes that gearing is a distinct advantage for Moreover, investors over these periods have investors who are interested in the long run.
So we achieved a positive absolute return despite the do not aim specifically for short-term performance.
We require our managers to achieve consistent While the Investment Managers have been busy out-performance of the benchmark and a rising over the year securing this performance, your share price over the long term, defined as rolling Board has kept its collective nose to the periods of three years and longer and, in truth, we grindstone on the critical strategic issues.
As I regard three years as verging on the short term.
explained in my first report to you two years ago, Your Company measures well against these longthere are six critical issues that attract our closest term performance yardsticks.
The table below scrutiny: shows the extent to which, in each of the last the continuing relevance of our investment goal, seven threeand five-year periods which ended and the best route to achieve it: this financial year, the net asset value has performance trends and competitive positions in outperformed the market.
Overall, your Company our industry: has out-performed the benchmark index by an controlling risk: average of 2.4% and 2.0% each year, respectively.
setting the appropriate level and cost of gearing: oversight of all processes in pursuit of low costs March March March March March MarchMarch and best practices: 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 20052006 management of the discount.
%% %%% % % 3 year NAV Discount management has been a particular value added 1 concern of the Board this year.
The narrowing annualised 2.8 2.3 4.2 1.1 2.3 1.9 1.9 discount has been a factor in the rising share price 5 year NAV value added and your Board is naturally concerned that it 1 annualised 1.9 1.7 1.7 2.1 3.8 1.2 1.8 should protect shareholders gains as much as lies 1 NAV out-performance relative to benchmark.
The discount has narrowed from Source: Fundamental Data JPMAM.
18% two years ago to 7.2% at the time of writing.
These figures are with debt taken at its par value.
JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 3 Chairmans Statement continued With debt valued at its market price the discount is offer to buy back from shareholders a substantial now approximately 5% - very close to break-up percentage of outstanding shares every year on a value lower than NAV because of break-up costs.
set date at an agreed discount, thus tending to peg The three main issues discussed by your Board the discount to around the buy-back level even have been whether discount volatility matters: between the annual buy-back dates.
With whether there is a desirable absolute level of shareholders thus assured of always being able to discount or a range within which the discount sell their shares at that discount within the near should, if possible, be confined assuming future, discount volatility is dampened and the volatility does matter : and whether a discount range of discount is confined.
management policy can ever be effective in violent But will such a policy be effective in limiting the bear markets when the long-term virtues of discount in violent bear markets when all the world investment are lost in the fog of bearish short-term is a seller?
We will not know the answer for certain psychology.
until the next one, but a possible outcome can be These questions were not, of course, confined only envisioned.
Short-term shareholders will accept to your Board.
That other trusts boards have been the tender offer for their stock at the protected asking themselves the same questions is evident discount as asset values fall.
Over a long-lasting from the discount control mechanisms that many enough bear market, or if the size of the tender have put in place.
It is clear how some trusts have offer is large enough, a trust could self-liquidate.
answered the first two questions posed.
Yes, In other words, the discount management policy volatility matters.
Yes, discounts should be could be so effective that it destroys the Company.
confined to a range within single figures.
Thus they But would that matter?
and their shareholders have agreed that they will Shareholder democracy rules.
If shareholders want 4 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European to sell out then the Company has no mandate to impractical barons.
Your Board continues to have remain in business.
Even if liquidation does not this policy under close review, however, and in occur it is highly likely that trusts capital will rise this, as in all matters, it will always act with the and fall each year, in line with short-term best interests of all shareholders at heart.
Dealing costs and expense ratios will I mentioned last year that the change in the rise but, in compensation, over time it is possible accounting policy to attribute 70% of operating that short-term investors will more frequently costs to capital in line with accounting standards accept the tender offers, so that a growing and the great majority of investment trusts - rather proportion of the shareholder base will have the than 100% to revenue, as previously, would have a long-term focus that is the natural constituency of material effect on the level of the dividend this investment trusts.
This semi-open structure may be year, since an amount equal to 70% of these costs the future for the investment trust industry and would now be available for distribution.
I am your Board will watch these developments closely.
pleased that this policy, together with a 25% In the meantime you will be aware of the discount increase in income from investments this year, control policy that your Board announced last July.
results in a recommended dividend of 17.5p, up Your Company will seek to buy-back shares in the from 2.6p last year.
Shareholders who are less market from time to time sufficient to keep the concerned about the level of dividend, being more discount at or below 10%, while reserving the right interested in capital return, can avail themselves of to take account of extra-ordinary market the dividend re-investment plan.
In other words, in violently-downward them to compound future capital returns on their markets it will deploy the wisdom of Cnut rather re-invested dividends.
than that of his ingratiating but somewhat JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 5 Chairmans Statement continued In conclusion I assure you that your Board continues enthusiastically to pursue its strategies to provide you with consistent long-term returns at an acceptable level of risk.
It looks to the future confident that the Investment Managers will continue to deliver these returns, adroitly deploying their stock-selection processes in a European market that continues to offer moneymaking opportunities for all our shareholders.
Andrew Murison Chairman 5th June 2006 6 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European
