Chairmans Statement Hamish Leslie Melville CHAIRMAN the Board during the year, he will stand for rePerformance election at the forthcoming AGM.
It was a positive year for small and mid sized stocks in the UK and I am very pleased to report The Directors retiring by rotation are Nicholas another year of outperformance for the Company.
Both have been The Companys total return on net assets i. e. with Directors for more than ten years and, in net income reinvested was 32.9%, which accordance with the Boards policy, must therefore compares with a return of 28.8% on the same stand for re-election annually.
It is the intention of basis from the Companys benchmark index, the both Directors to stand down from the Board at the FTSE All-Share excluding FTSE 100 constituents conclusion of the 2007 AGM.
The Company benefited Share Repurchases from the Investment Managers asset allocation At last years Annual General Meeting shareholders and stock selection in the second half of 2005 and gave the Directors authority to repurchase up to this was amplified by being geared in the rising 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares for market.
The total return to shareholders was cancellation.
During the year, a total of 2,906,000 38.8%, which reflected the narrowing during the shares were repurchased for cancellation at a total year of the share price discount to net asset value cost of 26.8m excluding the shares repurchased from 14.5% to 9.3% with debt at fair value.
It is pursuant to the Britannic Smaller Companies very pleasing to report that excluding gearing, the transaction.
Since the year end, a further investment managers have now outperformed their 2,185,649 shares have been repurchased at a cost benchmark index for six consecutive years.
The Board has recently taken a more Earnings and Dividends active approach towards share repurchases in Earnings per share increased by 19.3% for the year, order to enhance the net asset value and minimise from 18.27p to 21.79p.
The Company has paid the absolute level and volatility of the discount on three interim dividends of 4.25p per ordinary the Companys shares.
To date the repurchases share, and the Directors have declared a fourth have added approximately 1.2 pence to the net quarterly dividend of 9.00p.
This gives a total asset value per share and the discount, with debt dividend of 21.75p for the year and represents an at fair value, has ranged between 12.1% and 8.5% increase of approximately 10.1%.
in the period from 15th December to 4th April Board of Directors 2006.
Charles Peel was appointed a Director on 1st The Board is therefore proposing that the authority October 2005.
He was a founding director of Peel be renewed at the forthcoming Annual General Hunt and Co. Limited and brings a wealth of Meeting, as it remains an effective mechanism by experience to the Board.
Having been appointed to which to achieve the aims set out above.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile 1 Chairmans Statement continued meeting will be followed by a buffet lunch which Manager and Management Fee will give shareholders an opportunity to meet the The Board has reviewed the investment Board, the Investment Managers and management, company secretarial and marketing representatives of JPMorgan.
I look forward to services provided to the Company by JPMorgan seeing as many of you as possible at the meeting.
Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
In the opinion of the Directors, the continuing Please submit in writing any detailed questions appointment of JPMAM for the provision of these that you wish to raise at the AGM to the Company services is in the interests of shareholders as a Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, whole.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM in person are encouraged to use With effect from 1st February 2006, the basis on their proxy votes.
which the management fee is calculated has altered from 0.4% of the Company assets less Outlook current liabilities to 0.5% of the Companys market The Board believes that UK small and mid cap capitalisation.
This change in the fee basis results companies remain good value.
With sustained in JPMAM being paid on the Companys market strength from the UK economy, continuing value and JPMAM is therefore incentivised to corporate activity and the Investment Managers minimise the discount of the Companys share consistent investment process, we are confident price to net asset value through various means, that the Company will continue to prosper.
As a consequence, the Company will no longer contribute towards Hamish Leslie Melville JPMAMs marketing budget.
The Board of Directors Chairman 11th April 2006 believe that this arrangement aligns more closely the interests of the Company, its shareholders and JPMAM.
Annual General Meeting The Companys one hundred and twentieth Annual General Meeting will be held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Wednesday 24th May 2006 at 12.00 noon.
In addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from the Investment Managers who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
