Kensington Group plc Business and operational review Annual report and accounts 2006 05 John Maltby Group Chief Executive 29 January 2007 Kensington Group plc Business and operational review Annual report and accounts 2006 06 Business and operational review continued Kensington Group Development in 2006 Review of the Kensington Expertise In 1995, Kensington Mortgages became a 2006 has been a year of further investment Group Businesses pioneer of the specialist mortgage market when and development for Kensington.
The Kensington Group comprises: it introduced a new way of lending to people Kensington Mortgages KM a leading UK with adverse credit.
In 1996, Kensington Group In response to the competitive challenges specialist lender recognised for establishing established the blueprint for  facing the core UK business, Kensington has the UK non-conforming mortgage market.
non-conforming mortgage origination in the UK taken steps to reinforce its position in the when it securitised its first loan portfolio of 67m.
UK and develop new income streams in Kensington Personal Loans KPL And in 2006, Kensington Mortgages became the attractive markets.
launched during 2006 to offer second first-ever lender to be honoured with The Queens charge mortgages primarily through Award for Enterprise.
These three examples, and many more in between, are demonstrative of Kensington Mortgages KM has successfully KM distribution relationships.
the sheer breadth of experience and expertise launched a pilot of specialist prime first that are integral to the ongoing success of the charge mortgages prime Buy to Let and TML Financial Solutions TML a whollyKensington Group.
prime Self Certified mortgages and has owned subsidiary of Kensington that included specialist prime mortgages in provides direct-to-consumer distribution By continuing to look for new innovations recent whole loan sales.
In November 2006 for the products of Kensington and and opportunities, Kensington has harnessed this incremental, capital efficient business selected other lenders.
This business its experience proactively to help the business generated over 50m of new business will leave the Group in 2007. move forward from a foundation of expertise.
completions and is on track to be rolled out more widely in 2007.
Money Partners MPL a UK specialist lender offering first and second charge Kensington Personal Loans KPL has mortgage products for non-conforming successfully completed its initial second borrowers.
Kensington has a majority charge loans, is extending into new shareholding of 57.5% in MPL and KM intermediary partners and is expected has exclusive rights to purchase and to make a positive contribution to manage all the first and second charge Kensingtons earnings from 2007. mortgages originated by MPL.
Queens Award for In November 2006, Kensington increased Start Mortgages Start the leading Enterprise in Innovation its equity stake in Money Partners Holdings specialist lender in the Republic of Ireland.
KM was awarded the 2006 Queens Award Limited MPL by 37.5% to 57.5% to Kensington has a majority shareholding for Enterprise in Innovation, in recognition increase Kensingtons share of the fee of 65% in Start, with an option to purchase of establishing the non-conforming mortgage market in the UK.
Start Mortgages Start has accelerated Bluestep Bostadsln AB Bluestep its growth programme and broadened a new specialist lender in Sweden.
its products and distribution sources.
Kensington has a minority shareholding This business is expected to contribute of 15% in Bluestep.
materially to Kensingtons earnings growth from 2007.
In April 2006, Kensington acquired a minority stake in Bluestep Bostadsln AB Bluestep, the only non-conforming lender in Sweden providing Kensington with an entry into this attractive, underdeveloped market.
This business is now operating profitably and showing encouraging growth.
