Chairmans Statement Continued profitable growth In 2006, Legal & General achieved both record new business and record operating profits.
Our total UK market share for the year exceeded 11% for the first time.
These are the achievements of a strong and successful company.
Sir Rob Margetts Chairman Legal & General continued to make strength and integrity drive value for customers and shareholders alike.
excellent progress in 2006, achieving record new business, operating profits Our business is principally in the UK, and and market share.
Your Company our long term focus on this core market has has performed well and achieved proved well-founded.
In 2006, a positive significant operational successes, economic backdrop and increasing public extending its already strong franchise awareness of savings and pensions contributed in the UK market.
to strong growth in new business, as did the continuing stimulus from the A-day changes Today, we provide financial products to over to pensions.
Our main overseas businesses, in 5.7 million customers.
We have a total market the United States, France and the Netherlands, share of over 20% of the UK individual performed steadily during the year.
protection market, and with equity We balance both production and distribution.
investments of around 3.8% of the FTSE 100 Our product portfolio is managed to recognise Index, we are one of the largest single the different characteristics of protection, investors in UK plc.
Our role as a financial annuity and savings businesses, and our product provider and a manager of long term wide product range reflects the variety of savings and pension assets is underpinned by opportunity in the market and our own our commitment to corporate and social preferences for flexibility and spreading risk.
responsibility, and to our 9,700 employees.
Our multi-channel distribution encompasses Strategic Continuity business partners, Independent Financial Legal & General has a clear strategy which Advisers IFAs and direct sales.
This reduces has consistently delivered results.
Customer the risk of over-dependence on any single service, value for money products, strong route to market, building flexibility and multi-channel distribution and excellent resilience into our business model.
Many of administration all underscored by financial our business partners are household names in 4 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 2006 Highlights Dividend and Shareholder Return of the Audit Committee and his contribution In 2006, Legal & General delivered a Total to the affairs of the Company.
will stand down from the Board at the AGM, and we would also like to thank her for her EEV Operating profit The Board remains committed to a contribution over the last seven years.
In July 2006 we increased the interim dividend by 5.5%.
We Shareholder Communications now recommend an increase of 5.0% to the Most shareholders would like a more focused, final dividend, making a full year increase shorter, report from companies in which they of 5.1%.
Our recommendation is based on invest.
This year we are providing a Summary a thorough review of the Companys financial Financial Statement SFS as an alternative to our normal Annual Report and Accounts strength and current investment market 42% ARA.
Unless you have specifically requested conditions, taking account of the capital the full ARA, you will be receiving the SFS.
required to support future investment and Worldwide Both will be available on the Groups website: new business.
In future, In November 2006, we announced the initial we expect to make more use of e-commerce conclusions of our capital and cash flow for reporting.
We will inform you of our plans review.
These included a commitment to later this year.
review our capital position on a regular basis, In line with new Companies Acts Narrative and have indicated that we will return excess Reporting requirements, we now detail our capital to shareholders where appropriate.
financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs, 5.1% Management Strength on page 51, and provide a description of the This year was Tim Breedons first as Group principal risks and uncertainties, on page 27.
The performance of the These relate closely to the Companys strategy Growth in full year dividend business under his leadership has fully and the objectives set for executive directors.
justified the Boards confidence in appointing Outlook him.
The transition has been seamless, and Your Company is well positioned for the Tim has brought to the role his own qualities future.
We envisage continuing economic of intellectual rigour and commitment to growth in the UK for the coming year, which UK financial services, and we are committed continuous improvement.
will in turn drive business growth across our to the development of new distribution models During 2006, we implemented a core product lines.
We see a continuing A-day and online solutions.
We were delighted to be realignment programme to improve focus effect, and increased customer awareness of the chosen as a strategic partner by the Nationwide on specific businesses and create end-to-end need to save and invest for longer retirements.
Building Society in early 2007, and are responsibility for product development, This stands to benefit both our consumer looking forward to working closely with delivery and administration within business and institutional businesses.
Our ongoing them, as with all of our other partners.
The with-profits business now has its commitment to strong and balanced Excellent administration is strategically own distinct management structure.
I am distribution will enable us to access customers important to your Company.
Many of our proud of the way staff at all levels of the increasingly effectively, while also continuing customers hold long term products and rely business responded to this challenge while to position ourselves for technological and on our service as much as on our product and continuing to win and execute record market evolution.
We continue to invest volumes of profitable new business.
Our In a competitive market environment, the significantly in new technology and our employees and our culture are two of our strategic continuity of our business model Customer Experience Programme.
I would like to thank all our and the strength and capability of management, staff.
Their commitment to teamwork and Financial Highlights staff and our established culture, enable us to customer focus are core strengths that run Worldwide new business grew by 42% to focus on operational delivery.
We are confident through all our business.
1,842M on an Annual Premium Equivalent we will deliver further shareholder value in 2007.
APE basis, a new record for Legal & General.
Board Changes New business growth was accompanied by Rudy Markham joined the Board as an increases in profits.
EEV Operating Profit, independent non-executive director in rose by 13% to 1,233m in 2006.
As Chief Financial Officer of Unilever PLC, he brings extensive business Legal & Generals strong balance sheet enables and financial experience.
Barrie Morgans us to prosper, even in difficult trading conditions.
Financial strength remains a stepped down from the Board on 18 May key strategic differentiator for distribution 2006, having served with distinction for nine Sir Rob Margetts partners and customers alike.
We thank him for his able Chairmanship Chairman www.
