Chairmans statement I am very pleased to report that the team at Burren has continued to build on the success of earlier years and has delivered excellent results during 2006, increasing production, profits and reserves.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 10.0p per share, giving a total dividend for 2006 of 14.0p per share, an Keith Henry Chairman increase of 17% compared with 2005.
During 2006 the oil & gas industry enjoyed In March 2007 Burren entered into an agreement During the year we also recruited a number of another year of increased prices, and Burrens with Eni to purchase an additional 5.5% interest senior managers and staff to strengthen the average realised price rose by 24% to US$59.2 bbl.
in the MBoundi field and 2% interest in the team so as to better manage our increasing This rise impacted Burrens share of gross Kouilou exploration licence in Congo, subject to exploration portfolio in Egypt, Yemen, Oman production.
Although our working interest the completion of the purchase of these assets and India.
production rose, as a result of having recovered by Eni from Maurel & Prom.
This is a sign of the our historic expenditure on the Groups two main confidence that Burren has in the long-term I joined Burren as a Non-Executive Director in producing fields our entitlement production fell, value of these assets.
March 2005 and I took over from Brian Lavers and consequently revenues increased by a as Chairman at the AGM in 2006.
During my more modest 7% to US$416 million.
However Burren was listed on the London Stock period with the Company I have been very our strict cost control enabled us to increase net Exchange at the end of 2003 and the Groups impressed by the professionalism, enthusiasm profits by 13% to US$249 million.
Our operating achievements over the past three years have and dedication of the executives and staff.
cash flow was very strong, up by 17% to been considerable.
The management team at On behalf of the Board and our shareholders US$324 million, improving our year-end cash Burren has two key objectives: to develop our I would like to thank all our employees for position to US$202 million, with no debt.
existing reserves safely and cost effectively their efforts and for making 2006 another and to look for attractive growth opportunities.
At year-end the Group had built up a In 2003 our average production was 10,200 significant underlift position of over 490,000 bopd as compared with over 34,000 bopd in Burren has a history and culture of being barrels, the value of which has not been 2006, and our revenue has increased fivefold innovative, both technically in the field and in reflected in 2006 profits.
Were this underlift to over that three year period.
Since being listed developing new ventures.
It is the skills of our have been converted into sales at the end of three years ago, Burren has developed into a employees, and the Burren culture, which will 2006 it would have added US$28.4 million to significant and well established independent enable us to face future challenges and to revenues and US$21.2 million to gross profit.
oil & gas company, with proven capabilities continue our success in 2007. and track record.
We are determined to build The long-term future of Burren is dependent on that track record and create sustainable on our ability to maximise the recovery and shareholder value.
production from our existing reserves and to continue to find and develop new oil & gas Finian OSullivan has been instrumental in fields.
To that end we increased our capital establishing Burren and in leading the Group Keith Henry expenditure during the year to US$211 million, through its embryonic years.
In September, Chairman with an extensive exploration programme, the Board appointed Finian as President to and expanded the provision of water-injection take full advantage of his undoubted business facilities, both in Turkmenistan and Congo.
In development skills by allowing him to focus Turkmenistan, where we are the operator, we on pursuing new opportunities for the Group.
added 15 million bbls of proven and probable Atul Gupta, who is highly experienced in the reserves of oil, more than replacing Burrens industry and was previously Chief Operating total production during the year.
Officer, was appointed Chief Executive.
03 Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
