CHAIRMANS STATEMENT THE FUNDAMENTAL STRENGTHS OF THE EXCHANGES BUSINESS HAVE PRODUCED AN EXCELLENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.
THIS HAS UNDERPINNED THE BOARDS DECISIONS IN RELATION TO THE UNSOLICITED OFFERS RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR We have delivered another year of very strong growth in our primary and secondary markets.
Over the last three years the number of IPOs and the growth in order book trading volumes have outperformed other major exchanges.
The quality of this performance underlines the success of the Exchanges strategy and demonstrates our ability to capitalise on our unique strategic position.
Through the power of our global brand and our position at the heart of the City of London, with its effective and trusted regulatory environment and governance regime, we have attracted companies of all sizes from all corners of the world.
It is clear that London has become the international listing venue of choice, outstripping every other global equity market by a large margin.
It is also clear that, as well as experiencing strong market conditions, equity markets are undergoing a period of profound change that we are helping to drive.
The development of complex trading strategies, coupled with a step change in technological innovation, places a premium on increased market efficiency and lower transaction costs.
As a result of investing in next generation technology and by focusing on customer service, product innovation and competitive pricing we have been rewarded with the highest order book trading volume growth of the major exchanges, extending Londons advantage over other equity markets.
With revenue up by 19 per cent and adjusted earnings per share rising by 55 per cent, the Board remains confident about the Exchanges future growth prospects.
That confidence has enabled us to return more than 20 per cent of our market capitalisation to shareholders in under two years.
In February the Board announced a capital return of approximately 510 million.
The return represents a significant move towards a more efficient capital structure putting the Exchange at the forefront of good capital management in the exchange sector, while still leaving us the ability to invest for the future.
Recognising the strong cash generation of the business, we also announced our intention to implement an ongoing share buyback programme of up to 50 million per annum.
4 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006 In addition to the capital return, the Board resolved to pay a second interim dividend, in lieu of a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006, of 8.0 pence per share.
This takes the full year dividend to 12.0 pence per share, a 71 per cent increase on the full dividend for the previous year.
The strong ongoing performance of the business was reflected in the Boards response to a number of unsolicited offers we received for the Exchange during the year.
It was immediately clear to us that the offer from a consortium led by Macquarie Bank was far below the value of the Company.
It disregarded our unique strategic position, ignored the quality and value of our franchise and incorrectly claimed that we have low growth prospects.
The Board had no hesitation in recommending that shareholders reject it.
Similarly, the Board was very clear that the pre-conditional offer of 950p per share from NASDAQ did not begin to reflect the growth prospects of the business or the value arising from its unique strategic position.
Following the proposals for a possible combination received by the Exchange in the previous financial year, the UK Competition Commission conducted a thorough review of the structure of the industry.
Our belief has always been that the success and innovation of the London equity market depends in large part on its open and competitive characteristics.
We were very pleased that this was endorsed by the Competition Commission, which reported in November 2005.
It made clear that our business model, with its separate ownership of clearing and settlement from equity trading, is in the best interests of the market.
We have long argued that this is the optimum model and is one of the reasons why London is the pre-eminent place to trade equities and raise capital in Europe.
We hope that these considerations will now be at the centre of changes across all European equity markets, making cross border trading in equities more open and efficient, so reducing companies cost of capital across the EU.
The Board is confident that the growth prospects of the business are built on very firm foundations.
A structural shift in trading patterns, driven by new technology, is producing record trading volumes.
Looking ahead, this, combined with our ability to attract international listings to London, should help deliver further strong growth for the London Stock Exchange.
We remain focussed on driving the business forward, while continuing to explore options to create additional value for shareholders and customers.
CHRIS GIBSON-SMITH Chairman 5 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006
