Chairmans Statement Man Group continued to make good Corporately, we have continued to strengthen progress in the financial year ended our governance, risk management capabilities, 31 March 2006.
Total profit before tax was and liquidity and have continued to optimise up 17% to $1.2 billion and up 51% before tax the Groups capital structure.
As signalled last and exceptional items.
Strong performance year, we have also undertaken a major review in both Asset Management and Brokerage of our Corporate Responsibility policies, divisions have again enabled us to achieve resulting in the creation of a revised, our key financial targets by delivering integrated worldwide programme and significant growth in underlying earnings enhanced reporting systems.
Shortly, we will per share, up 18%, and a high post-tax be publishing for the first time a separate return on equity of 33%.
Corporate Responsibility Report in print and on the web.
Given these results, and our strong capital position, we have continued our practice of So overall this has been a challenging and returning cash to shareholders through our successful year for the Group, and I would progressive dividend policy and by our share like to thank Stanley Fink, our Chief repurchase programme.
The Board proposes Executive, his very able executive team, and a final dividend of 54.6 cents, for a total all our staff worldwide for their contribution to dividend for the year of 85.8 cents, and an this success and the value it has created for increase of 30%, and we repurchased 8.5 all our stakeholders.
million shares during the year.
Shareholders have enjoyed a total return of 84% for the Once again I would also like to express year to 31 March 2006, and a compound my thanks to our non-executive directors, total return of 27% per annum over the last whose counsel, commitment and contribution five years.
continues to be very valuable.
During the year there were a number of Board and Given the rise in the Companys share price, senior management changes.
At Board level, we consider that it would be beneficial if the Stephen Nesbitt retired at the AGM in July, current Ordinary Share Capital was subdivided.
as indicated in last years report, and Chris Shareholder approval will be sought at the Chambers left the Group on 31 August 2006 Annual General Meeting to sub-divide 2005.
John Morrison has succeeded Chris each Ordinary Share of 18 US cents into as Chief Executive of Man Investments, 6 Ordinary Shares of 3 US cents each.
bringing with him much leadership, If approved shareholders will maintain the experience and energy, and in November, same percentage interest in the issued share Peter Clarke was appointed Deputy Group capital as before and rights attaching to the Chief Executive and Finance Director Ordinary Shares will remain unaffected.
Full reflecting his significant contribution across details of the proposal appear as an Appendix the business.
We wish both John and Peter to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
every success in these roles.
In Asset Management, Man Investments Looking forward, the Board is confident about products delivered solid returns to our the Groups prospects for the current year.
investors and outperformed their benchmarks, Investment management performance has underpinning our asset gathering initiatives, been positive over the first two months, with particularly in the second half of the financial a strong April providing both substantial year.
This momentum culminated in our performance fee income and an excellent record breaking global private investor ongoing backdrop for sustained momentum offering of Man IP 220 over the year-end, in asset gathering.
Funds under management which raised $2.3 billion.
Funds under are currently estimated to be around management were $50 billion at 31 March $54 billion.
In Brokerage the year has also 2006, up from $43 billion last year-end, and started well.
The integration of Refco is strong investment results from all our core substantially complete and the acquired managers delivered substantial performance activities are performing ahead of expectations.
Active markets are continuing to generate good levels of business.
In Brokerage, Man Financial has produced another year of excellent results which saw strong organic growth despite the significant demands and potential distraction of integrating the Refco business acquired in November 2005.
Pre-tax profits excluding Refco were up 20% to $177 million, and with the integration of that business substantially Harvey McGrath complete we look forward to a much Chairman enhanced contribution from the division in the current year.
6 Man Group plc Annual Report 2006 Chairmans Statement Harvey McGrath 7 Man Group plc Annual Report 2006 8 Man Group plc Annual Report 2006
