11448 R&A 2006 front 1 27 3 07 13:44 Page 10 10 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Statements Maintaining a strong position in a fast moving Chairmans and highly competitive sector is a tough and demanding challenge for any company.
However, the signing into US law of the Unlawful statement Internet Gambling Enforcement Act UIGEA in October 2006 resulted in a seismic shift in the structure of the online gaming industry as well as an immediate and substantial impact Last year saw on PartyGamings business performance.
The full implications represented one of the toughest challenges faced by our management the Group deliver team, one that they addressed quickly and, as ever, with consummate professionalism.
against all of Whilst we were never complacent, we were the operational both surprised and disappointed by the legislative change in the US.
The Board of PartyGaming believes that regulation is the best way forward objectives that for online gaming, which already has millions of customers around the world.
Customers should were outlined at always come first and so too should the protection of their interests through proper and appropriate the time of the IPO.
This includes customer security, probity and responsible gaming: none of which are optional extras: they are must-haves.
However, there was no time to dwell on what might have been.
Instead our focus has been on securing the Groups future revenue streams which now come exclusively from customers outside the US.
This annual report provides details on the Groups strategy in this new world and is focused on the performance and prospects for our Continuing operations.
Michael Jackson Chairman 11448 R&A 2006 front 1 27 3 07 13:44 Page 11 11 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Statements Despite the impact of the UIGEA, last year saw Despite the structural and management changes, the Group deliver against all of the operational 2006 was still a year of substantial progress: we objectives that were outlined at the time of the introduced a fully integrated and Party-branded IPO.
Our achievements were acknowledged by platform with shared wallet technology, and our peers who voted us Operator of the Year we launched PartyCasino, PartyGammon and in eGamings industry awards for 2006.
All of our PartyBingo as well as multi-lingual versions of achievements were made possible by excellent our client software.
We also announced four leadership, management and outstanding acquisitions, three of which helped to consolidate professional commitment and drive from our our position in online casino and online poker whilst employees, many of whom suffered the the other took us into sports betting.
The acquisition consequences of the legislative changes in of Gamebookers, a non-US facing sports betting the US that resulted in a 41% reduction in the total business, was soon followed by the launch of workforce.
We wish all of our former employees PartyBets on the fully-integrated platform.
every success for the future and thank them for their endeavours that have put PartyGaming at Dividends the forefront of online gaming.
Following the decision to shut down activities to customers in the US and the consequent Since his arrival in April 2006, Mitch Garber has restructuring of the business during the fourth been instrumental in accelerating PartyGamings quarter of 2006, the Board believed that it was expansion outside of the US and has led and inappropriate to pay an interim dividend.
While the overseen numerous developments and successes.
business has shown a healthy recovery since the These include three acquisitions and the launch passing of the UIGEA, the Board believes that it of a number of new products.
The speed with would be imprudent to recommend the payment which the business reorganised and was put of a final dividend for the 2006 financial year.
back on a level footing in the aftermath of the UIGEA is a testament to his leadership and business Outlook acumen and also to the strength and depth of When recounting PartyGamings achievements for his management team that I believe is the best 2006, I would like to reiterate my comment in last in the industry.
years annual report that this business moves at a During the year, two of PartyGamings founders, rapid pace, constantly adapting to changes and Anurag Dikshit and Vikrant Bhargava, took the opportunities within the marketplace.
The same most difficult decision any entrepreneur can take holds true today and in a short space of time we by relinquishing executive responsibilities and have already built a substantial business outside stepping down from the Board.
Brian Larcombe, of the US, one that has grown strongly in 2006.
Nigel Kenny and Janos Libor, all of whom made Whilst we are only a few months into the year, substantial contributions to PartyGamings the Group has made an encouraging start to development, also stepped down from the Board 2007 and your Board remains confident about at the end of 2006.
We thank them for their efforts making further progress this year.
and wish them the best of luck for the future.
