CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement being the management fee and loan interest and other funds which seek to match their Performance are charged to the Revenue Account.
liabilities with xed interest investments.
Net Performance in the year to 30 April 2006 gearing at 30 April 2006 with borrowings was good: net asset value per share, with Investment Activity at fair value amounted to 9.3%.
borrowings at fair value, rose by 46.7%.
At the start of the period under review we The increase in the share price was greater Discount, buybacks and buyback were relatively cautious about the outlook at 57.2% due to a narrowing of the policy and Monks was ungeared.
Over the same period the FTSE more optimistic as the year progressed and During the year the discount narrowed from World Index expressed in sterling terms rose reduced the cash position.
Some increases 15.3% to 9.3% borrowings at fair value.
In April the share price reached were made to the Emerging Markets and total of nearly 4m shares were repurchased an all time high and at the end of the year European portfolios but the bulk of the at discounts ranging from 12.2% to 14.1% was 290.0p.
increase in equities during the first part of which increased net asset value by 0.8%.
The main factors behind the performance the year was in Japanese stocks.
Since buyback powers were first granted in last year were the continuing exposure to 1999, 100.6m shares have been bought In the second half of the year additional overseas quoted oil and gas shares, notably back and cancelled.
This represents 25.9% borrowings of 16.6bn, equivalent to about those with extensive production interests: the of the issued share capital at the start of that 80m, were taken out at an interest rate timely increase in the size of the Japanese period.
The Board will continue to buy back of 1.4%, repayable in 2010.
Given the portfolio: and the positive contribution made shares if suitable opportunities appear.
recovery in the Japanese economy it seems by gearing.
Overall asset allocation was unlikely that these low rates will persist good as was stock selection.
The Board and Managers and this seemed to present a favourable Sir Charles Nunneley retired as Chairman opportunity to borrow.
Further equity Earnings and Dividend at the AGM in 2005 having served as purchases were made, notably of Japanese Earnings per share were 2.20p compared a Director for 28 years, of which he was property companies.
The increase can Chairman for 9 years.
His extensive was made in a specially constructed Credit largely be explained by the increase in experience, sound judgement and sense Suisse 0% Swap Rate Linked Note 2013. dividends received from our investments.
of fair dealing were of great value to the The redemption value of this note is linked The Board is recommending a final dividend Company.
If long rates rise, of 1.40p compared to 1.20p last year.
If so will the price of the note.
We consider Richard Burns retired as manager of Monks approved, this will give a total dividend of that long rates are anomalously low in the and joint senior partner of Baillie Gifford 1.90p which is 11.8% higher than last years UK partly because of demand from pension in April this year.
The Board is very grateful total of 1.70p.
All costs the two main items Past performance is no guarantee of future performance.
4 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT to Richard who showed considerable air cases market indices stood at or near new AGM when managing our investments during what record levels.
Index levels tell only part of I hope shareholders will come to the Annual were fairly turbulent times in markets.
We the story, however, and within markets the General Meeting which will be held on look forward to working with his successor, largest companies by market capitalisation, 1 August at 11am at the RSA, 8 John Gerald Smith.
He joined Baillie Gifford in which dominate the indices, had performed Adam Street, London.
Our manager will 1987 and has been a partner for the past poorly while smaller companies had give a presentation and there will be an 8 years.
As a result, opportunity to ask questions.
the shares of small and medium sized Accounting standards companies traded at premium valuations relative to those of large companies.
While In the year under review, Monks has had this may be justi ed in individual cases, it to comply with a number of new Financial seems reasonable to suppose that starting Reporting Standards which were introduced from this point this premium is more likely to as part of the UK convergence programme James Ferguson erode than increase.
with International Financial Reporting 9 June 2006 Standards.
The main changes relate to the As a consequence of the divergence of accounting treatment of dividends and the performance within markets and several valuation of investments.
Investments are years of decent growth in earnings and now valued at bid prices rather than mid dividends, at the start of the current year prices.
It used to be possible to see from the the overall rating of stockmarkets appeared revenue account the earnings for a period reasonable.
When assessing the prospects and the amount of dividend both paid and for the coming years, however, it is proposed from these earnings with the important to take into account that this was consequential transfer into or out of revenue mainly a result of the relatively low ratings reserve.
This presentation of the gures is not of large companies, whose longer term permitted now.
The result for shareholders is prospects in most cases would not justify that it is more dif cult to see readily what is higher valuations, and that ratings of other happening.
Further information can be found companies were in many cases signi cantly in the notes to the accounts.
Given this starting point, it seems likely that markets are unlikely to Outlook deliver the same level of returns in the current Over the last three years stockmarkets year as in the last, and capital gains will around the world have recovered the probably have to come largely from asset ground lost since the previous peak, and allocation and stock selection rather than at the end of the Companys year in many from a general rise in markets.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 5
