Chairmans Statement Performance was a potentially useful way to enhance the trusts Performance in the year to 30 June 2006 was almost attractiveness.
in line with the FTSE-All Share Index, producing a Net Asset Value total return of 19.5% compared Dividends with the return from the Index of 19.7%.
As a result Interim dividends were paid on 18 January 2006, 13 Murray Incomes Net Asset Value Total Return April 2006 and 14 July 2006 each at the rate of 4.7p ranked 7 out of 24 within the AITC UK Growth and per Ordinary share.
The performance of both Murray The Directors propose a final dividend payment of Income and the investment trust sector continued to 7.5p, payable on 31 October 2006 to Shareholders compare well with that of similar open-ended funds.
on the register on 29 September 2006, making total This was the third year of substantial gains for dividends for the year of 21.6p.
This represents an Murray Income following returns of 23.6% and increase of 12.8% and reflects the very strong 18.7% in the two previous years as confidence in growth that we have seen in dividends from our equity markets returned to investors.
Taken together, investments in the last year.
this represents 20.6% compounded annual growth in the Companys Net Asset Value in the past three Dividend growth remains strong in the UK equity years, assuming dividend reinvestment.
Over the market and the Directors have therefore decided to same period the Companys share price compounded increase the rate at which interim dividends will be at 19.9% per annum.
For the five year period to 30 paid to 5p per share, an increase of 6.4% over the June 2006, Net Asset Value and share price previous year.
The rate of the final dividend will be performance compounded at 5.8% and 7.7% decided when the results for the year are known.
respectively, a creditable performance in light of the However, the Directors anticipate that total poor market environment during the early part of dividends for next year will not be less than those this decade.
Share Buybacks and Treasury Shares Outlook In my statement last year I discussed the need for We have seen three very good years for equity liquidity in the Companys shares and the reasons returns and it is likely that the expansion of why we were proposing the introduction of Treasury corporate profit margins that has been the main Shares and seeking to take the power to re-issue propellant for these market returns has largely run its them at a discount.
The relevant resolutions were course.
Central banks worldwide are now more passed at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition concerned about inflation and willing to take some Shareholders approved the renewal of the authority risks with economic growth in order to control it.
permitting the Company to repurchase its Ordinary Despite these influences, the outlook for the shares.
Since that date, we have bought 1,213,000 companies quoted on the London Stock Exchange shares into Treasury.
However, the combination of a and forming part of our benchmark index, several of significantly narrower discount and strong demand whom are domiciled overseas or operate largely for the shares that would have led to re-issuance has overseas, remains benign and the rating of the not occurred.
The powers to buy into Treasury and to market is undemanding both absolutely and re-issue at either a discount or a premium have to be compared to alternative investments.
In addition the renewed each year.
Soundings with our major yield of the market and anticipated dividend growth shareholders have revealed a shift in the weight of provide support.
We therefore remain optimistic opinion against re-issuance at a discount such that it about the long term return potential of our portfolio.
is clear that renewal would be rejected and we will therefore not be seeking the power to issue shares out of treasury at a discount at the AGM.
I find this Patrick Gifford disappointing since there was considerable 8 September 2006 Chairman protection against dilution and still believe that this 10 Murray Income Trust PLC
