Chairmans Statement Background of business on 20 April 2007, which is equivalent in Net 2006 proved to be another eventful year for global Asset Value to the recommended final dividend for the financial markets.
The predominant economic influences year just ended.
were rising interest rates in the United States and the continuation of debt financed growth.
At times economic Following the changes agreed at last years AGM, with trends confused equity markets with oscillating periods of effect from 31 December 2006, the Board will announce strength and weakness reflecting mixed signals of its interim dividends quarterly expected to be in April, July underlying growth and inflation.
Stubbornly high oil prices and October.
At the same time that each interim negatively impacted overall spending power as fuel costs dividend is paid, there will be a bonus issue of B Ordinary and utility bills rose sharply.
Eventually such cost increases shares calculated by reference to the net asset value of the put upward pressure on inflation, causing interest rates to B Ordinary shares in accordance with the Articles of move higher.
Despite the mood of caution, equity markets Association of the Company.
recorded above average gains, spurred on by strong corporate profit growth and record levels of merger and Investment Trusts as a Savings Vehicle acquisition activity.
The net result was the fourth As we enter our centenary year the Trust was founded in consecutive year of double digit returns for most global December 1907 as the Scottish Western Investment equity markets in sterling terms.
Given the difficult Company it is interesting to reflect on how well the macro-economic backdrop that prevailed these were Investment Trust sector has served its shareholders over creditable financial returns.
Despite a number of difficult periods for the economy and stock market the resilience of the traditional Performance Investment Trust structure has enabled the sector to fulfil The total return on Net Asset Value was 13.8%, its role of providing good professional management at a significantly ahead of the return on the benchmark index cost considerably less than that charged by other of 9.2%, whilst the share price total return of 13.3% commingled vehicles.
The closed end nature of an reflected a slight increase over the year in the level of Investment Trust means that the Manager does not have discount at which the shares trade in the stock market.
to be concerned with flows of money into and out of the The Investment Managers Report contains an attribution Trust which might distort policy.
Gearing in the capital analysis which provides detailed analysis of all factors structure is also a significant plus factor in rising markets affecting net asset performance.
The key positive although Boards have to be alert to the adverse affect of influences were significant overweight positions in Asia ex gearing in falling markets and manage the gearing Japan and Latin America.
The large underweighting in the accordingly.
The discount to underlying assets at which United States contributed positively to relative outthe shares trade does fluctuate but the ability to buy back performance, whilst strong stock selection in Emerging shares allows Boards to influence the discount to a greater Markets enhanced capital returns.
extent than before and also, if used, enhances the asset value for those remaining shareholders whenever the Dividends purchases are made below asset value.
I am pleased to report that revenue generation from the Companys portfolio has remained strong over the year In this years Annual Report we have included at page 11 a and your Board is recommending a final dividend of 7.6p graph comparing the performance of the Investment Trust which, subject to the approval of shareholders at the sector as a whole against the Unit Trust sector for the last Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 18 May 2007 to five years.
In this graph the Investment Trust sector shows shareholders on the register on 20 April 2007.
Against this background, it is surprising that the account the three interim dividends of 3.8p, the total Investment Trust sector has received so much less dividend for the year will amount to 19.0p an increase of attention from investors and financial advisers than Unit 9.8%.
B Ordinary shares will receive a capitalisation in B Trusts.
In my view, the Investment Trust sector should be Ordinary shares on 18 May 2007 amounting to 1.15043 the preferred vehicle for anyone considering long term Ordinary shares for every hundred shares held at the close diversified investment opportunities.
12 Murray International Trust PLC Centenary Year use of electronic communications but the Company To celebrate the Trusts centenary year your Board has currently only intends to use electronic means where commissioned a booklet on the Trust and its history.
It will shareholders have positively elected to receive be professionally written with the cost being met from the communications in such manner.
We will distribute copies to all current shareholders when one of the regular mailings is made.
The Board will be proposing special resolutions to facilitate electronic communications and to approve the Circular amendment to the Articles dealing with Directors Accompanying the Annual Report and Accounts indemnities.
Further details of the proposed changes can shareholders will receive a circular which incorporates the be found in the accompanying circular to shareholders.
Notice of Annual General Meeting and the resolutions to be proposed.
In addition to the usual business and in Outlook common with a number of other companies, the Directors Looking forward, it is not difficult to construct a are proposing to amend the Articles of Association of the pessimistic case for Global Equity markets given the Company to reflect recent changes to the Companies Acts economic uncertainty that currently prevails and the widening the permitted scope of an indemnity which may recent long run of good market performance.
We are be granted by a company to its directors and officers.
This cautious about the prospect for growth in North America proposed widening of the indemnity powers given to and Europe and feel that high inflation might bring Directors reflects the more litigious nature of society and additional difficulties.
Both the US and UK markets face the need for directors of companies to receive limited tough challenges, but rapidly improving economic protection in respect of the role which they perform.
fundamentals in Asia and Emerging markets, areas where we are very well represented, can go a long way to picking The new Companies Act 2006 also allows the Trust to deal up the slack in global growth.
At the corporate level, the directly with shareholders by electronic means.
In emergence of high quality, global growth companies particular the changes will enable the Trust to make located increasingly in developing markets provides plenty greater use of electronic mail and websites when of opportunity for broad-based international investment.
communicating Company information, including distributing annual reports and accounts and sending out J F H Trott 27 February 2007 Chairman notices of meeting.
Your Board is keen to encourage the Murray International Trust PLC 13
