CHAirmANS STATemeNT Corporate Overview The iPO of Cairn india was the largest iPO to date in the indian The last year has been momentous for Cairn as it set about primary equity markets, and Cairn india currently has a market creating an autonomous business in india Cairn india and capitalisation in excess of $5 billion, ranking it the fourth a separate company Capricorn based in edinburgh and largest oil and gas company in india.
The iPO attracted a more focused on exploration.
Cairn energy PLC continues number of high quality investors including PeTrONAS, to be the parent company of each of these businesses.
which holds 10% thereby signifying investor confidence in the indian equity story, the regulatory environment and the The flotation and listing of Cairn india on the Bombay Stock capital markets.
Cairn india is committed to continuing exchange and the National Stock exchange of india was investment in india and is very much focused on creating successfully completed on 9 January 2007 raising a total shareholder value by developing its world class resource of $1.98bn and leaving Cairn with a holding of 69% in Cairn base in rajasthan and seeking to continue Cairns track india.
From the funds raised, approximately $940m is being record of exploration success.
returned to existing Cairn shareholders, representing 3 per share.
A further $600m has been retained to fund ongoing As previously announced, all of the assets not transferred working capital requirements in Cairn india.
The balance of to Cairn india in the iPO those in Bangladesh, Nepal and around $300m, after transaction fees and debt repayment, certain exploration interests in northern india have been is being retained by Cairn and is therefore available for brought under Capricorn, which is currently a wholly owned potential investment in new business opportunities.
The balance of proceeds raised in the iPO, which are not being returned to shareholders, have been retained to support the growth of Capricorn, with the aim of creating further value for shareholders in the future.
The Group continues to be well placed financially with a strong balance sheet, positive operating cash flows, an $850m syndicated revolving credit facility, and cash generated from the flotation of the indian business to drive forward the rajasthan development and pursue opportunities in other business areas.
INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING IPO OF CAIRN INDIA LIMITED SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETED.
TRADING COMMENCED IN JANUARY 2007: RETURN OF CASH TO CAIRN ENERGY PLC SHAREHOLDERS TO BE COMPLETED IN APRIL 2007.
Staff The iPO was completed in less than 10 months from inception to execution, and the manner in which Cairns staff dealt with not only the restructuring of the business, but also the additional workload of this complex transaction is a testament to their dedication and efficiency.
in recognition of the fact that a significant part of Cairn indias future operations will be focused on rajasthan, a new indian headquarters has been established at Gurgaon, on the outskirts of Delhi.
Cairns original indian headquarters in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, has now closed.
This has necessitated the relocation of a number of Cairn staff and their families, and i would like to thank them for their ongoing support.
Cairn energy PLC and Capricorn will continue to be run from edinburgh with operational offices in Dhaka and Chittagong.
in addition, Cairn has recently opened an office in Kathmandu to support its proposed operational activities in Nepal.
The Cairn Board held two meetings in india during 2006, and heard at first hand about the support work carried out in rajasthan during the floods that affected the region in 2006. we also continued our numerous community programmes in all of our operational areas across South Asia.
Outlook The restructuring of Cairns activities into two separate businesses means that each is now positioned more effectively to pursue their respective strategies.
Cairn india will focus on delivering the very significant future cash flows associated with production from the rajasthan discoveries, while also maximising new investment REVENUE opportunities in the rapidly growing indian market.
$000 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 in parallel with this, and by using its established exploration and transaction expertise, Capricorn will continue to follow a strategy of seeking to add shareholder value through material growth.
Norman murray Chairman 27 march 2007 $600m iPO PrOCeeDS reTAiNeD By CAirN iNDiA $850m LOAN FACiLiTy FOr rAJASTHAN DeVeLOPmeNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 5
