CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dr M W Ridley I am delighted to announce that 2006 has been another excellent ECONOMIC AND MARKET BACKGROUND year for Northern Rock.
Our strategy of using growth, cost Even though the Bank of England Base Rate has been rising, it efficiency and credit quality to reward both shareholders and remains relatively low by historic standards.
Long term unemployment customers continues to run well.
remains low and we continue to see stable levels of economic We reached all of our strategic goals and grew both assets and growth.
We expect house price inflation to moderate, and we profits to record levels.
We increased lending by 23% taking us continue to see little prospect of a severe house price correction, to the position of fifth largest UK mortgage lender by stock.
given that mortgages remain comparatively affordable.
Our assets increased by almost 24% to pass 100 billion Our core market is the mortgage market.
In 2006, the gross and we recorded underlying profit growth of over 19% - well market was larger than originally predicted at about within our newly upgraded strategic range.
This year, we expect the market to be above this executive team on another impressive performance in an intensely and in 2008, to be a little higher again, reflecting house price competitive market.
Support for the housing market remains strong, with Whilst we continue to grow rapidly, we have also continued to increasing demand for property in the UK from first time buyers, invest in the business.
Our Head Office in Gosforth continues immigrant labour, university leavers and a falling average to expand, several new branches have opened around the country household size.
This is combined with a restricted supply of and development of our new office complex at Rainton Bridge, new housing completions.
The remortgage market also remains near Sunderland, is underway.
Looking wider, our new online savings buoyant as customers seek to refinance at the end of their operation in Denmark was launched in February 2007, with a teaser period.
2 ALIVE AND KICKING Another years sponsorship of Newcastle United FC has significantly raised our profile in both the UK and Europe.
3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In this years report, we have included an expanded Community Northern Rock appointed Merrill Lynch to act as joint corporate and Environmental Report covering the progress we have made broker to the Company from January 2007.
They will work alongside as a socially responsible company and I would refer you to that our existing broker Hoare Govett.
We believe that a joint broker for further detail.
We are proud of the fact that in rewarding arrangement is now appropriate and that the combined strength of shareholders and customers, we also benefit employees and the Hoare Govett and Merrill Lynch will provide the support we need to communities in which they live.
continue the successful development of the Company.
I am however, pleased to report briefly our continued charitable work.
We hosted another Corporate Governance day in London in In 2006, Northern Rock was ranked the third most charitable FTSE November 2006, presenting our approach and core values to 100 company, because of its donation of 5% of pre-tax profits to our major shareholders.
In 2006, this totalled 31.4 million, allowing the Foundation to continue its excellent TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY work in the North-East and Cumbria.
Since our flotation in I remarked last year that consumer confidence is of great importance 1997, the Foundation has received a total of 175 million.
I am also to our business and we remain committed to fair and decent pleased to note that staff fund-raising, which is doubly matched treatment of our customers.
Our resolute and unique commitment by the Foundation, exceeded 2 million - another notable landmark.
to offer existing customers the same mortgage deals as new customers, when they wish to remortgage with us, is a prime CORPORATE GOVERNANCE example.
We believe this rewards loyalty and remains in the best Group Finance Director Bob Bennett retired from the Board on interests of both the customer and the business.
31 January 2007, and was replaced by Dave Jones, previously Deputy Finance Director of the Company.
Bob Bennett gave many Further comment in this area is also included in the Community and years of distinguished service to Northern Rock.
He helped lead a Environmental Report.
very successful flotation in 1997 and create a clear strategy for DIVIDEND the future based on growth, efficiency and credit quality.
I thank Your Board is recommending a final dividend of 25.3 pence per share, Bob for his contribution over the years.
giving a total dividend per share of 36.2 pence - an increase of 20.3%.
Replacing him involved a search of the market for the best external CONCLUSION talent, who were compared with the best of our home grown We have once again grown the Company strongly in 2006.
Executives and I am delighted that Dave Jones emerged successfully Our strategy does not change: we remain committed to efficiency from this search.
In his appointment, we are able to ensure continuity and cost control as we target growth in high quality assets.
We will in the development of Northern Rock.
Dave joined Northern Rock continue to offer our customers transparent, competitive products plc in February 1997 and was appointed Deputy Finance Director and provide good returns to our shareholders.
We fund this in December 2000. growth through retail savings, wholesale deposits, covered bonds and securitisation.
I pay tribute to all the employees of Northern Rock who contributed to this success in 2006.
ROCK STARS We sponsored The All Star Cup celebrity golf tournament over the August Bank Holiday weekend at Celtic Manor, South Wales.
It was watched by 4.5 million people on ITV.
