Chairmans statement Board Warren Clewlow retired at the Annual General Meeting in May 2006, while Wiseman Nkuhlu left us at the end of October 2006 to take on a potentially conflicting chairmanship.
We are grateful to both of them for their substantial contributions to the Board.
Meanwhile we have been delighted to welcome Jonathan Nicholls, our new Group Finance Director.
Lars Otterbeck and Bongani Nqwababa have also joined us as non-executive directors, the latter from April 2007.
They will provide us with important insights into Swedish and South African business.
Annual General Meeting 2007 Our Annual General Meeting will be held at our offices in London on 24 May 2007.
In addition to our usual standing agenda items, there is one additional item of special business.
Resolution 7 seeks shareholders approval for the proposed use of proceeds from closing the Unclaimed Shares Trusts established to deal with unclaimed entitlements dating back to demutualisation in 1999.
The explanatory notes with the Notice of AGM describe these proposals in detail.
In summary, valid late claims would be settled by Christopher Collins a cash payment for a further three years to the end of August 2009 Chairman consistent with the original authority granted by shareholders to extend the Unclaimed Shares Trusts in 2004.
Many of the residual Overview of 2006 unclaimed shares relate to policyholders in South Africa and other African territories.
We therefore plan to reinvest most of the remaining 2006 was an important year in the history of Old Mutual.
proceeds either into good works in these territories or to enhance the We took a major step in developing our international reach through value of specific smaller life policies in South Africa and Namibia.
We now have operations in over 40 countries and Skandias businesses are well on their way to being This item, as well as all of the standing items at the AGM, are integrated fully with the rest of Old Mutual.
unanimously recommended by the Board, who intend to vote their own shares in favour of them.
I ask you to support them as well.
Old Mutual has also made progress in South Africa, the USA and the Far East.
Nedbank has continued its return to health.
The future Old Mutual is on a journey to become a premier international savings Our adjusted operating earnings per share on an IFRS basis were and wealth management business.
We believe that this will provide in line with plan at 15.1p, reflecting the increased number of shares us with great opportunities.
now in issue following our acquisition of Skandia.
On behalf of the shareholders, I would like to thank all Old Mutual people for their Christopher Collins hard work and dedication in contributing to this result.
Chairman 26 February 2007 Dividend Reflecting the Boards confidence and wish to improve returns to shareholders, we are recommending a final dividend of 4.15p per share, an increase of 13.7% over 2005, making a total dividend for the year of 6.25p per share.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 03
