Chairmans statement The year to 30 September 2006 has been another The consumer credit market has remained weak during successful period for the Group, with profits, earnings, the year and, as a consequence, our focus within the business volumes and loan assets all growing strongly.
consumer credit division on cautious lending rather than The Group has increased its market share within the volumes continues to be appropriate.
As before, we have buy-to-let sector, further strengthening its position as restricted our activities to areas with a low incidence of a top lender to private sector landlords.
arrears with an emphasis on secured lending.
During the year, profit on ordinary activities before Capital management taxation increased by 15.3% on a statutory basis to During the year the Company bought 3,454,000 shares in 82.8 million from 71.8 million in the previous year the market at a cost of 23.1 million with the result that by and by 15.5% from 71.7 million on a proforma basis 30 September 2006 a total of 5,244,000 shares had been appendix II.
Earnings per share increased by 25.4% repurchased since the buy-back programme was on a proforma basis to 61.2p 2005: 48.8p and by 25.2% announced in 2005, at a total cost of 31.4 million.
On an on a statutory basis from 48.9p.
annualised basis the share purchases to date will enhance earnings per share by approximately 3%.
Total advances by the Group increased by 68.5% to 3,412.6 million 2005: 2,025.6 million, of which Over the period we have continued to reduce the risk 3,038.3 million were buy-to-let advances, an increase of profile of the Group's loan assets through a disciplined 82.2% over the year.
Total loan assets at 30 September restructuring of the portfolio from unsecured towards less 2006 increased by 29.1% to 8,426.6 million from capital-demanding secured lending.
In addition, the more 6,528.7 million at 30 September 2005 on a statutory basis capital-demanding closed books have continued to and by 31.0% to 6,431.1 million on a proforma basis.
decline, both from natural run-off and from ongoing disposals, the latter including the sale during the year of The Board has declared an increased final dividend of the majority of the remaining NHL assets.
Further asset 10.1p per share which, when added to the interim dividend sales may be considered as appropriate to supplement the of 6.9p paid on 31 July 2006, gives a total dividend of organic run-down strategy.
As a result, the Board 17.0p per share for the year, an increase of 34.9% over announced during the year that it would increase the last year.
Subject to approval at the Annual General amount set aside to repurchase shares in the market by a Meeting on 8 February 2007, the dividend will be paid on further 20.0 million, within the authority granted by 12 February 2007, by reference to a record date of shareholders at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
8.6 million remains available for investment in the Business review and strategy repurchase programme going forward.
During the period we have continued the development of Board changes our lending brands, Paragon Mortgages and Mortgage In July we announced that I will be retiring from the Board Trust, offering products to a wider range of residential at the end of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and property investors across various types of mortgage that Bob Dench, a non-executive director since 2004, will intermediaries, mortgage networks and mortgage be taking over as Chairman from that time.
The Group is packagers as well as direct to borrowers.
We have fortunate in having a capable and stable management invested significantly in underwriting and distribution team and Bob, with his considerable management technology, to facilitate more efficient underwriting and experience in the financial sector, is eminently suitable for enhance the quality of service to brokers and borrowers.
The fourteen years since I became Chairman have The Group remains well placed competitively in been tremendously fulfilling and meeting the many this market.
challenges we encountered has paved the way for the success the Group enjoys today.
4 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Gavin Lickley, a non-executive director since 2002, retired As I prepare to leave the Group in February, after fifteen from the Board in October 2006.
We thank Gavin for his years of service, I am delighted with progress over this service and commitment during the years of his period.
More important, however, is my confidence in association with the Group.
The Group is financially and professionally strong with an excellent management team We were pleased to announce recently that Terry Eccles and a dedicated staff with whom it has been a privilege will be joining the Board on 1 February 2007 as an to work closely over this period.
Paragon's principal independent non-executive director.
Terry is currently buy-to-let activity is now well understood and most major Vice-Chairman of JPMorgan Cazenove and will bring to banking groups are now active participants in this market.
the Board considerable experience in the financial sector.
We are extremely well placed competitively and see The Nomination Committee is currently considering a opportunities in this sector for many years to come.
promising business streams are reviewed, tested and, as the Chief Executive's review indicates, implemented where Outlook appropriate.
The Group has enjoyed another year of strong growth.
Income generating assets increased by 31.0% on a My successor, Bob Dench, has the qualities and relevant proforma basis through the addition of high quality loans, experience to continue Paragon's successful development.
whilst exposure to the more risky assets in the book was I wish him and the Paragon team great success in the further reduced.
Secured loans now account for 96.8% of future.
A strong cash position has enabled the Group to make a special contribution to the staff pension scheme, thus eliminating the deficit reported last year, Jonathan P L Perry and to make considerable progress with the extended Chairman share buy-back programme.
22 November 2006 The success of the Group in developing its buy-to-let mortgage businesses, Paragon Mortgages and Mortgage Trust, is evident in the increase in Paragon's share of the buy-to-let market and the strong business flows towards the end of the year, and beyond, have ensured a sound start to the current financial year.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 5
