PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 05 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Review of the Year During the year under review your Companys diluted net asset value excluding net revenue for the year NAV rose by 26.6% in comparison to a rise of 24.0% in the FTSE All-Share Index.
The average discount to net asset value for the year for the Companys shares was 3.5% compared to the average sector discount for the same period of 6.4%.
The Companys NAV performance continues to rank in the top quartile in its sector over one, three and five year periods.
These figures take into consideration various new UK Accounting Standards, which became effective during the year as explained below.
Outlook Our Managers cautiously optimistic outlook for the UK equity market, his subdued outlook for the UK economy, and his concern over geopolitical risks such as the stand-off between the US and Iran over the latters nuclear ambitions and the potential impact on global oil prices have encouraged him to maintain his defensive investment strategy going forward.
Against this backdrop, stock-picking will be crucial.
Our Managers astute ability at stock selection is already reflected in the portfolios good performance over the review period.
New UK Accounting Standards Several new UK Accounting Standards became effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, three of which had an impact on the financial reporting of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2006.
The main effects have been the valuation of investments on a fair value bid basis: the recognition of equity dividends on an approved as opposed to a proposed basis: and the amortisation of debenture costs on an effective interest basis.
Board Membership Your Board is very pleased to welcome Mr William Alexander as a non-executive Director of the Company with effect from 28 March 2006.
Mr Alexander brings considerable experience to the Board and his biography can be found on page 11 of this Annual Report.
Dividend An increased interim dividend of 2.40p 2004: 2.25p was paid to shareholders on 30 December 2005.
The Directors are now recommending a final dividend of 3.60p per share 2004: second interim dividend of 3.40p representing an increase in the total dividend for the year of 6.2%.
The final dividend will be paid on 23 June 2006 to shareholders registered on 2 June 2006.
The Board is confident that the Company will continue to maintain its policy of real dividend growth.
Gearing Actual gearing of the Company was 18% at the year-end.
The Boards policy is to allow gearing to the level of 25% for investment in companies where there are stock specific opportunities.
Therefore, gearing is not an expression of confidence in the performance of the overall UK stockmarket but rather an endorsement of the potential for selected stocks.
Warrants There are currently 13,620,201 warrants outstanding.
Holders of warrants have a final opportunity to exercise their warrants at 100p during the subscription period which closes at 3.30pm on 31 August 2006.
Warrants not exercised during this period will lapse.
Warrantholders can expect to receive notice of the subscription period at the beginning of July 2006.
Investment Policy The Board confirms its intention to invest no more than 15% of gross assets in other listed investment companies including investment trusts.
To date, investment in such companies has been minimal.
Annual General Meeting AGM Your attention is drawn to four items of Special Business to be proposed at the AGM as special resolutions and one item of special business to be proposed as an ordinary resolution: 06 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Special Resolutions i Issue of New Ordinary Share Capital Your Board is seeking to renew the authority granted at last years AGM to issue relevant securities of the Company within prescribed limits.
This will allow the Directors flexibility to issue new shares in a shorter period than would otherwise be possible.
Your Directors will not exercise this authority to issue shares at a price below the prevailing NAV, so that the interests of existing shareholders are not diluted.
ii Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Additionally, your Board is seeking renewal of the authority to issue equity securities for cash disapplying pre-emption rights.
This authority will allow a limited issue of new shares without having to be offered to existing shareholders first, thereby broadening the shareholder base of the Company.
iii Buy-back of up to 14.99% of Ordinary Share Capital Thirdly, your Board wishes to renew the authority to buy-back up to 14.99% of the Companys issued ordinary shares.
Acquisitions under this authority will be subject to the restrictions referred to in the Notice of AGM and will only be undertaken at prices below the prevailing NAV.
No such purchases were made during the last financial year, but your Board continues to believe that the buy-back of shares can be a useful facility in maintaining the enhancing shareholder value.
iv Treasury Shares Additionally, your Board is seeking approval for ordinary shares that are bought back in accordance with resolution iii above to be held in treasury, with a view to their resale if appropriate, or later cancellation.
The holding of treasury shares is restricted to 10% of the Companys issued share capital and any reissue of them will only take place on terms that are in the best interests of shareholders.
v Amendment of Articles of Association The final special resolution relates to the Board seeking your approval to amend the Articles of Association.
These amendments will take account of new legislation which entitles companies to widen the scope of the indemnity available to an individual Director in respect of liabilities incurred to third parties in the course of discharging his or her duties, including the provision by the Company of funds incurred in defending legal proceedings brought against him or her, as they are incurred.
A similar indemnity for the benefit of Directors will be included in the Companys Articles of Association as an additional matter in relation to which a Director will be entitled to count in the quorum and vote, notwithstanding his or her material interest in the matter discussed.
The new legislation and consequent amendments to the Articles of Association are designed to prevent people from being discouraged from acting as officers of companies as a result of the rising number of class actions brought against officers in their personal capacity.
Ordinary Resolution vi Your Company has an obligation pursuant to Article 155 of its Articles of Association of the Company, to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting before 19 November 2006 at which a special resolution for the reconstruction of the Company would be proposed.
Your Directors believe that a combination of factors, including the Companys long-term performance, the consistent high rating of its shares characterised by a narrow discount with low volatility and a long-term loyal and growing shareholder base, lead them to believe that a reconstruction of the Company at this time would not be in the interests of shareholders.
Your Board is therefore seeking to be released from this obligation.
Your Directors have carefully considered all the resolutions proposed in the Notice to the AGM and in their opinion, consider them all to be in the best interests of shareholder as a whole.
Your Directors therefore recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each resolution.
My fellow Directors and I greatly appreciate your continuing support as shareholders in this Company.
The AGM will be held on Wednesday, 19 July 2006 at 11.30 am at The Lanesborough Hotel, 1 Lanesborough Place, London.
I very much look forward to meeting you at that time.
