58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:41 Page 04 04 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Chairmans statement 2006 has been a year of significant progress for the group.
The investment in new businesses will benefit the future growth of both the UK and international businesses, and leaves the group well placed to complete the forthcoming demerger of the international business.
John van Kuffeler, Chairman 58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:41 Page 05 Provident Financial plc 05 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Chairmans statement Vanquis Banks focus on developing more rigorous underwriting criteria together with increasing the resources dedicated to collections proved to be the right priorities in 2006, a year of difficult market UK operations conditions which saw impairment charges rise across the industry.
In 2006, UK home credit has restored Customer numbers continue to grow customer growth, enhanced credit and exceeded 250,000 by the end management, invested in technology of the year, assisted by internet The UK home credit to drive future efficiency and recruitment which has supplemented effectiveness, seen a conclusion to the primary direct mail sales channel.
business grew customer the long running Competition Vanquis Bank re-priced its assets Commission inquiry and, overall, towards the end of 2006 and, in line numbers for the first generated improved medium-term with corporate objectives, the prospects.
business is expected to trade around time in three years.
The UK home credit business grew The international business finished customer numbers for the first time The motor insurance business once the year strongly after restoring in three years, assisted by increased again delivered excellent results, the quality of the receivables book investment in marketing which has with increased profits benefiting in Poland and overcoming the opened up new sales channels and from releases of prior years claims temporary suspension of new lending stimulated customer growth.
saw continuing pressure on the the internet-based distribution disposable incomes of UK home channel launched during 2006, Over the past two years, the credit customers.
Polish operation has had to contend charges rose at a faster rate than with rolling out a new product to revenue, although in comparison Discussions with potential acquirers comply with the interest rate cap with other UK lenders, were kept of the motor insurance business are legislation introduced in February well in check by enhanced credit proceeding satisfactorily.
A further 2006 and also respond to management and arrears processes.
announcement will be made in the adverse trends in collections due course.
and impairment that emerged Efficiency is a key priority for UK during 2005.
Management have home credit and the integration The collect-out of the Yes Car Credit successfully met both challenges.
of the Greenwood Personal Credit receivables book continues to Since the late summer of 2006, and Provident Personal Credit field progress well and the balance stood the improvement in the quality management and administration at 108.6 million at the year end of lending and the receivables was completed early in the year.
The board book has generated a significantly In addition, the investment in handis reviewing whether the group reduced level of impairment held computers for agents which should continue to collect-out the charges.
From this foundation, the is expected to be rolled out from book itself or realise value through business is investing in marketing 2007, will allow the company to sale to a third party.
and its field operations to restore operate more efficiently in future profitable growth.
years and also increase the effectiveness of the agency force.
International In Hungary, the changes to Overall, UK home credit profits for administrative procedures and the 2006 of 127.5 million 2005 During 2006, the international status of agents required by the 130.0 million were lower than 2005 business grew profits from its PSZAF, the Hungarian financial because of increased marketing established Central European supervisory authority, were completed expenditure and impairment charges.
operations to 65.7 million 2005 and on 6 December 2006 lending 60.7 million and substantially recommenced after a suspension improved credit quality.
It also period of seven weeks.
The business stepped up investment in its new recovered well and very high levels businesses in Mexico and Romania of credit were issued through the resulting in start-up losses of remainder of December.
The Czech Republic and Slovakia performed well and the Romanian pilot continues to perform in line with plan.
58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:41 Page 06 06 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Chairmans statement continued The board is recommending a final dividend of 22.02 pence 2005 21.37 pence making a total dividend for the year of 36.50 pence In Mexico, customer numbers stood 2005 35.43 pence, an increase at just over 250,000 at the end of of 3%.
Subject to the approval of December, nearly double the figure shareholders at the companys a year earlier.
The current priority annual general meeting on 16 May The report confirms that customer is building the experience of the 2007, the final dividend will be paid satisfaction is high and that home existing local management and on 25 May 2007 to shareholders credit is well-suited to its customers field operations before resuming on the register at 10 April 2007. needs and represents an important geographic expansion through part of the consumer credit mix in further branch openings.
After two years of intense Balance sheet and capital investigation, it is satisfying to have won this independent endorsement Financial results and dividend Net assets increased by 36.6 of the strengths and benefits of the million during 2006 to finish the home credit product.
The report Profit before tax for the year before year at 354.0 million 2005 also rejected the introduction of an exceptional costs increased by 317.4 million.
interest rate cap, an option which is 9.9 million to 191.3 million 2005 widely recognised to be damaging 181.4 million.
The profit for the Amounts receivable from customers to consumers.
year benefited from a one-off fell by 41.2 million to 1,232.7 6.6 million pension credit in million as the collect-out of the The package of remedies put forward respect of changes to members Yes Car Credit book continued to by the Competition Commission commutation rights.
Excluding Yes Car centre on the sharing of customer Credit, receivables increased by data with credit reference agencies The group has incurred 11.1 million 85.5 million to 1,124.1 million and also include enhanced rebates of exceptional costs in the period 2005 1,038.6 million, primarily to customers who settle their loans up to 31 December 2006 in reflecting growth in UK home early.
The cost of implementing preparation for the demerger of the credit and Vanquis Bank.
the required changes is estimated international businesses, comprising at around 5 million in 2007 as legal, accounting, advisory and Borrowings increased to 1,021.0 the remedies are progressively other one-off separation costs.
million 2005 982.9 million implemented, and up to 10 million These costs have been reflected in following the funding of the groups per annum thereafter.
pension deficit earlier in the year.
At the year end, the group had a In the international business, the small pension asset of 8.9 million Polish operation has responded to The international business compared to a 105.6 million the interest rate cap imposed by deficit in 2005.
Year end gearing, the Polish government from nished the year strongly.
expressed as the ratio of borrowings February 2006 by redesigning its to shareholders equity, was 2.9 loans to make the home collection Profit before tax after exceptional times 2005 3.1 times.
service an option which customers costs for the year was 180.2 million can choose to pay for separately.
Earnings per The groups year end capital share were 49.00 pence for the year adequacy ratio was 23.0% 2005 At the request of the financial 2005 nil, and adjusted earnings 21.2%, fully compliant with the supervisory authority in Hungary, per share, before exceptional costs, requirement set by the Financial the business there has modified its were up 5.0% to 52.92 pence 2005 Services Authority.
IT systems and has changed the status of its agents from selfRegulatory developments employed to employed.
Lending was suspended for seven weeks up to In November 2006, the Competition 6 December 2006 while the changes Commission delivered the final report were made.
Trading has returned to of its inquiry into home credit in normal, although annual running the UK.
This report sets out a number costs will be some 6 million higher of remedies designed to increase as a result of the change in status competition in the home credit of agents.
The group is working constructively with the Competition Commission to implement the remedies to the agreed timetable.
58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:41 Page 07 Provident Financial plc 07 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Following the demerger, International Personal Finance plc, a newly established public limited company, will own the international businesses The proposed demerger of Provident Financial.
The board of directors of International Personal i Background Finance will be as set out below: The group announced on 4 July I will continue to be Chairman of 2006 that it would work towards Provident Financial and the other Christopher Executive Chairman implementing a separate listing directors will be as set out below: Rodrigues of the international business.
John Harnett Chief Operating Officer Peter Crook Chief Executive David Broadbent Finance Director The rapid expansion of the Andrew Fisher Finance Director Ray Miles Deputy Chairman international business since formation John Maxwell Non-executive director and senior in 1997 has been achieved in part Robert Hough Non-executive director non-executive director through the financial and operational Charles Gregson Non-executive director support of UK home credit.
Ten Peter Crook joined Provident Tony Hales Non-executive director years on, the international business Financial in 2005 as Managing is a successful, self-sufficient, Director of UK home credit and was Christopher Rodrigues joined stand-alone entity.
appointed to the board in March the board of Provident Financial 2006.
He joined from Barclays plc in January 2007 as joint Deputy With the regulatory uncertainties in where he was UK Managing Director Chairman and Chairman of the the UK and Poland now resolved, the of Barclaycard from 2000 and the international business, having board believes it is appropriate to Managing Director of UK Consumer previously been the President and separate the UK and international Finance from 2004.
Chief Executive Officer of Visa businesses into independently International and formerly the Group listed entities.
The two businesses Andrew Fisher joined Provident Chief Executive of Bradford & Bingley will have distinct strategic agendas Financial in 2006 as Finance plc and a non-executive director calling for different management Director, having served as Finance of the Financial Services Authority.
skills and focus, as well as offering Director of Premier Farnell plc from He is also a non-executive director different investment propositions 1994.
He qualified as a chartered of Ladbrokes plc and Chairman of to shareholders.
The management accountant with Price Waterhouse Visit Britain, a UK government agency.
of the international business will in 1983 and became a partner focus solely on the significant in 1990.
John Harnett previously held opportunities to capture the growth positions as Finance Director of in new, existing and emerging John Maxwell joined the board of Allied Colloids PLC and Holliday markets.
The management of the Provident Financial in 2000.
He is Chemical Holdings plc before UK business will focus on developing also a non-executive director of joining Provident Financial in 1999 a more broadly based business Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance as Finance Director and has been in the UK non-prime consumer Group plc and Homeserve plc Managing Director of the credit market.
and Chairman of the Institute of international business since Advanced Motorists.
He is a May 2006. ii Organisation and board director of the Royal Automobile structures Club Limited and a trustee of the David Broadbent qualified as a Following the demerger, Provident RAF Benevolent Fund.
chartered accountant with Coopers Financial plc will continue to own & Lybrand in 1993.
He was the UK home credit business and Robert Hough was appointed to appointed Finance Director of the Vanquis Bank, its UK non-prime the board of Provident Financial in international business in 2003 credit card business established in February 2007.
He was executive having previously been financial 2004.
As announced on 17 January Deputy Chairman of Peel Holdings controller for four years.
2007, the group is progressing the p. l. c. for 15 years until 2002 and sale of its non-core motor insurance is currently non-executive Ray Miles was formerly Chief business, Provident Insurance.
Deputy Chairman of Peel Holdings Executive of CP Ships Limited and Discussions with potential acquirers Management Limited and was appointed as a non-executive are proceeding satisfactorily and the Chairman of Peel Airports Limited.
director of Provident Financial in board expects to complete the sale He is also non-executive Chairman 2004.
He is also a non-executive of the business before the demerger of Cheshire Building Society and a director of Southern Cross becomes effective.
non-executive director of Alfred Healthcare Group plc, an advisory McAlpine plc and of Styles & Wood director of Stena AB of Sweden Group plc.
and Chairman of Devon Community Foundation.
The board is seeking to make one further non-executive appointment for Provident Financial.
58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:41 Page 08 08 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Chairmans statement continued Charles Gregson joined the board of Provident Financial as a Since Robins departure, the three non-executive director in 1995 executive directors have reported to and was appointed Deputy Chairman me and this will remain in place until in 1997.
He is also a director of the basis of splitting pension the demerger.
United Business Media plc and scheme assets has been agreed: non-executive chairman of ICAP plc.
and On 26 January 2007, Christopher Rodrigues joined the board as joint Tony Hales became a non-executive the corporate name, International Deputy Chairman and Chairman director of Provident Financial in Personal Finance plc, has been of the international business.
He is currently Chairman of selected.
He will become the first Chairman British Waterways and Workspace of the separately listed international PLC and has previously served as a iv Timetable, capital structure business.
On 14 October 2006, non-executive director of Reliance and dividend Tony Hales joined the board Security Group plc, Aston Villa plc Full details of the capital structure and on 1 February 2007 Robert and HSBC Bank plc and as Chief will be included in the circular Hough joined the board, both as Executive of Allied Domecq plc.
and prospectus to be issued in non-executive directors.
connection with the demerger which The board is seeking to make one will follow once the sale of Provident Graham Pimlott resigned as a nonfurther non-executive appointment Insurance has been completed.
executive director on 27 February for International Personal Finance.
The board expect the sale to be 2007 and he leaves with our thanks completed during the second and best wishes for the future.
A proportion of The motor insurance the expected gain on the disposal will be retained to assist the Outlook business once again capitalisation of International Personal Finance.
With growth in customer numbers delivered excellent results.
restored, the medium-term outlook It is the boards intention that the for UK home credit has improved iii Demerger preparations aggregate dividends per share over the past 12 months and The demerger plans are at an paid by Provident Financial and the business is well placed to take advanced stage as summarised International Personal Finance in advantage of changing market below: respect of 2007 will be at least conditions.
Future performance will equivalent to the amount paid by benefit as the recent investments the boards and management Provident Financial in respect in marketing and technology gain roles have been confirmed: of 2006. momentum, although the business will have to absorb the financial the primary UK and European bank The completion of the demerger is impact of the Competition syndication processes have been subject to the approval of Provident Commission remedies.
This will be Bank, which made a substantial documentation is in the process sought at an extraordinary general start-up loss in 2006, is expected of being completed: meeting, details of which, along with to trade at around breakeven for other resolutions to be considered, 2007 as a whole.
the legal process and main tax will be set out in the circular to be clearances to effect the demerger posted to shareholders which will Having laid sound foundations in are in place: follow once the sale of Provident Central Europe during 2006, we Insurance has been completed.
expect to see continued progress the separation of IT systems and in the coming year.
The opportunity infrastructure is substantially within the international business for complete: The board profitable growth in both existing and new markets remains excellent.
the corporate support functions We announced on 14 November and governance structures for the 2006 that Robin Ashton would be John van Kuffeler demerged international business stepping down as Chief Executive at Chairman have been determined: the end of December.
We thank him 7 March 2007 for his dedication and hard work and the new headquarters for the he goes with our very best wishes international business based in for the future.
Leeds has been established and is now occupied:
