Directors report: Overview Chairmans statement Chairmans statement The business today is in robust health, and faces exciting prospects in each of our chosen markets Sir David Clementi Chairman Full year dividend per share 5% 2006 17.14p 2005 16.32p 4 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Overview Chairmans statement 2006 was another good year for Prudential around the world, do, of course, further enhance our overall product range, with strong performances in both the insurance and asset enabling us to accommodate the needs of the vast majority management businesses.
Across all our businesses, in addition to managing our capital We made excellent progress against all our key financial measures, position on a Group-wide basis, we continue to find new ways with EEV operating profits strongly ahead, average margins across the Group up, and record performances in terms of assets under to leverage and share resources and knowledge in areas such as management in both M&G and Asia.
risk management, IT and product development, for the benefit of Prudential as a whole.
We believe that there remains significant The one exception to this pleasing performance was Egg, further scope for collaboration of this kind in future.
where deteriorating conditions in the UK personal loans market resulted in larger than expected losses for the year.
In January, Towards the end of 2006, we appointed Barry Stowe as Chief we announced that we had reached agreement to sell Egg to Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia and as a member of Citi, having concluded that the offer made to us would realise the Board.
His broad knowledge of the Asian insurance markets greater value for our shareholders than we could achieve in the will be a tremendous asset to us as we continue to drive forward foreseeable future by retaining it.
our aggressive growth plans for the region.
Following the Annual General Meeting, Roberto Mendoza will step down as a director Throughout the year, we paid careful attention to the Groups and I would like to thank him for his significant contribution since cash flow and capital position.
We are well placed to fund our he joined in 2000. current organic growth plans: and the strength of our capital position has allowed us to look again at our dividend policy.
As we continue to grow our business in many different This is set out in the Group Chief Executives review.
The full countries, we are committed to contributing to the social and year dividend per share for 2006 has increased by five per cent economic well-being of the communities in which we operate, to 17.14 pence per share.
and we encourage our employees to participate in initiatives that strengthen those communities.
In 2005 we launched the Turning to our individual businesses, our UK business had a Chairmans Award, an international volunteering programme strong 2006 with good growth in profitability.
We saw both which gives all employees the opportunity to become involved new business margins and internal rates of return improve and with a local charitable project, and which provides financial these remain towards the top end of the market.
We are taking a support alongside the investment of our employees time.
The disciplined approach to our participation in the market, focusing first awards under this programme were made in 2006 and I had on those areas where we can use our core strengths to achieve an the opportunity to spend time with one of the winning projects, attractive return.
We feel confident that there are opportunities for and see at first hand the positive impact such initiatives can have, profitable growth, particularly in retirement savings and income, when the Board recently visited India.
Alongside these community and that we are well placed to capture them.
projects we also continue to invest heavily in financial capability Our US business saw another year of excellent progress, as a core part of our corporate responsibility programme, since we as we continued to use our strengths in product innovation, recognise the important part we can play in enabling consumers to relationship-led distribution and IT, to capture a profitable share make informed financial decisions.
of the growing retirement market.
In the last five years, Jackson As one of the UKs leading property investors, we take our new business sales have more than doubled and, as the first wave responsibility to the environment seriously.
Our property of the countrys large body of baby-boomers move into retirement arm, PRUPIM, has established a strong reputation for its over the next two decades, we see plenty of scope for continued thought leadership in the area of sustainability and continues growth in this market.
to be the only real estate investment manager accredited to In Asia, we maintained our strong track record of growth, while  environmental standard ISO14001.
meeting our commitment to go cash positive during the year.
The More details of our corporate responsibility programmes can opportunities in the region are as clear and significant as ever, with be found later in this report.
high economic growth rates, high savings rates, and increasing Looking at the Group as a whole, we believe that the business personal wealth.
We remain confident that our business in the today is in robust health, and faces exciting prospects in each of region will continue to prosper.
The opportunities for growth, particularly in In Asset Management, our businesses around the world go from the retirement savings and income arena, are significant, and we strength to strength, and are significant and increasing contributors feel confident that we have the skills and capabilities needed to to our Group.
Not only are they critical to the performance of take full advantage of them.
As ever, the talents and commitment our traditional insurance products, they are also an increasingly of our people around the world will remain critical to our success, powerful source of non-capital intensive profits.
In addition, they and I would like to thank them for their vital contributions in 2006.
