6 Chairmans Statement In the year to 31 March 2006, your Companys net asset ASSET ALLOCATION value per share increased by 37.9%, from 712.7p to Set out below is our asset allocation at the year end.
982.7p, its net worth by some 421 million, and its share % of % of price from 694p to 1,020p, a rise of 47%.
Over the same Portfolio at Portfolio at 31 March 31 March period, the Morgan Stanley Capital International Index 2006 2005 in Sterling, the FTSE All-Share Index and the Investment Quoted investments 62.0 56.3 Trust Net Assets Index increased by 26.3%, 24% and Government securities and 34.2% respectively.
money market funds 4.3 10.0 Over the last three years, stock market conditions Hedge funds 6.0 6.7 have been favourable and the returns to shareholders Long equity funds 10.0 6.1 exceptional: value creation of 870 million, a share price Unquoted investments 10.4 12.3 which has risen from 371.5p to 1,020p, an increase of Private equity partnerships 5.7 6.3 175%, while your companys net asset value per share Property 1.6 2.3 has risen from 430.2p to 982.7p, an increase of 128%.
It should come as no surprise therefore that the risk reward 100.0 100.0 ratio of investing has become more difficult and challenging.
Our reaction is to be more defensive and we The principal change over the course of the year has have reduced our exposure since the year end by some been the increase in the quoted portfolio, both internally 150 million through a combination of some share sales, and externally managed.
For the most part this reflects a reduction in the amounts managed by some of our the favourable movement in the global equity market, but external managers and through the selling of stock in addition your Company took advantage of the benign market indices in the US, Europe and the Far East.
We outlook and low interest rates to increase levels of are not however unduly pessimistic and remain well investment exposure.
We ended the year with an positioned to take advantage of opportunities, investment portfolio excluding government securities and particularly having put in place borrowings at low levels liquidity equivalent to 109% of underlying net assets and of interest rates.
In August 2005 we completed a 150 with exposure to publicly traded equity markets of 89% million seven year loan with an effective interest rate of including hedge funds.
Taken together with our $150 million loan, In terms of geographical exposure, the balance of the which bears an interest rate of 3.93%, we have long-term portfolio has not greatly changed from a year ago.
On borrowings equivalent to 191 million to add to our currencies, we have continued to diversify our currency permanent capital.
exposure away from Sterling into the Asian currencies After taking account of these defensive measures, your and the Swiss Franc.
In addition, we continued to hedge a Companys exposure to stock markets amounted to 80% proportion of our US Dollar and Euro denominated as of 25 May, the latest available date.
Companys net asset value has not been immune from the A more detailed analysis of your Companys portfolio recent decline in the stock markets.
On 25 May the net and currency exposure can be found on pages 4 and 5. asset value per share was 918p.
QUOTED PORTFOLIO At the year end, 1,084.1 million, or 62% of the portfolio, was held in quoted investments, compared with 56.3% a year earlier.
About half of the quoted portfolio, amounting to 546 million, was managed internally, with a significant exposure to the energy and resource sectors which performed strongly during the period under review.
Other internally managed investments also contributed, notably our holding in the UK electronic payment systems company, PayPoint, a former component of the unquoted portfolio, and Deutsche Brse, which operates the German stock exchange.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chairmans Statement 7 The other half of the quoted portfolio, amounting to DIVIDEND 538 million, was managed by external investment We are proposing to pay a dividend of 3.1p per share on managers, who are listed on page 17 and with whom we 19 July 2006 to shareholders on the register at 16 June have established long-term relationships.
During the past 2006, the same level of dividend as last year.
The focus year we have allocated resources to some new managers of your Company remains one of achieving capital to give us additional exposure to a diverse range of growth rather than increases in dividend income.
geographies and sectors, including India, Japan, Canada, and US technology stocks.
OUTLOOK The big question is whether the sharp setback in the stock UNQUOTED PORTFOLIO markets which we have witnessed in May is a temporary Last year, I commented on the number of successful correction after a long period of gains, or whether the realisations that we had made in the previous twelve bull market of the last three years has come to an end.
In contrast, during the period now under review, The accumulation of risk is clear: long-term interest we have been active in making new unquoted rates have risen, equity prices in many areas have more investments.
than doubled over the last three years, global trading In April 2005 we acquired a 24.6% interest in imbalances are potentially destabilising, particularly for Harbourmaster, an arranger and manager of the dollar, while the geopolitical situation, avian flu, the collateralised debt and loan obligations, at a cost of 10.2 impact of climate change and the housing bubbles around million.
The valuation has been increased to 20.9 the world all give cause for concern.
Inflation may be million at the year-end to reflect the companys excellent subdued but high oil and commodity prices will inevitably performance and a significant increase in its funds under affect both industrial and domestic costs.
In November, we invested 11.2 million as negative factors, corporate profitability and cash flows part of a consortium which acquired the Netherlands remain strong and equity values are not unreasonable by Investment Bank NIB.
In February, we invested 11.5 historic standards, particularly in the USA.
Growth million in Access Point Medical, a US based company continues throughout most of the major economies of the involved in the field of medical equipment which will be world and international policy makers well understand manufactured in China.
their common interest in ensuring that growth continues The only significant realisation during the period arose at a reasonable pace.
from a repayment of 20 million from our investment in Although we have become more defensive and risk averse, Esporta, the health club operator.
on balance we feel that the outlook for stock markets Our exposure to unquoted investments and private remains positive, but we should not expect returns equity partnerships is set out on pages 4 and 5.
In total, comparable to last year.
We retain a significant exposure these amounted to 282 million, or 16.1% of the to equities through a portfolio which is highly diversified portfolio at the year end.
Of this, 181.9 million, or in terms of stocks and country risk as well as asset 10.4%, represents investments made directly by our classes.
We continue to identify interesting and management.
The balance of 100.1 million, or 5.7%, is potentially profitable opportunities through stock invested in limited partnerships managed by third parties.
selection and through our access to exceptionally talented Our undrawn commitments to these externally managed investment managers.
partnerships amounted to 120.3 million at the year-end.
Rothschild 6 June 2006 RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
