Royal & SunAlliance 4 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Chairmans statement A year of significant achievement, which positions us to accelerate further our plans to improve and grow profitably our portfolio of businesses I am pleased to report for the fourth successive year further Although a more significant impact of these changes is expected significant achievements in your Companys operational in 2007, there have been continuing business development performance and progress in its realisation of its stated successes in the year including: strategic goals.
In short we have completed all the goals we Further expansion of our distribution in the UK and acquisition set for our restructuring plan and can now accelerate further of new capability set to deliver profitable growth, our plans to both improve and grow profitably our portfolio of businesses.
Although much has been achieved over the Successful acquisitions in Norway, Canada and Ireland, last four years there is still work to do as we progress our Above market growth in Scandinavia with new distribution plans to transform all aspects of the Companys activities initiatives, and enhance our leadership position in the markets we choose to operate in.
Double digit growth in Canada, the Baltics and Latin America.
The detailed achievements of 2006 are covered in the Chief The key strategic priority set for 2006 was, however, achieving Executives and Chief Financial Officers reports.
On the operating an acceptable exit from the USA, an objective discussed in some and financial front I would like to note: detail in last years annual report.
I repeat a comment made then that this outcome requires us to resolve a number of highly A continued strong financial performance, complex issues on which we are making good headway in an Growth in net written premiums and operating result, area which will remain difficult to predict.
If anything, this was an understatement of the challenge.
Although we signed the MBO Our operational improvement programme and other cost agreement with Arrowpoint Capital the new company set up by initiatives are ahead of target, our former US management team to acquire our US operations Further strengthening of our capital and balance sheet position, in the calendar year 2006, the necessary regulatory approval for the transaction was finally agreed just prior to the disposal being The delisting from the New York Stock Exchange NYSE completed and announced on 4 March 2007. and deregistration from the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
The US exit was a significant management achievement.
It required very substantial effort and attention from the senior We announced in October a revised organisation structure and management and the Board.
management changes to strengthen growth and development plans in our chosen markets.
Bridget McIntyre, following her The range and scale of issues related to delivering an acceptable appointment in 2005, has continued to strengthen our UK basis of exit from the US, required the Board in making any final market position.
Simon Lee has been appointed to head an judgement to balance a series of issues, not least including: International division comprising our large overseas units.
The Our responsibility to policyholders, smaller companies in Emerging Markets have been focused under Paul Whittaker with a key task of accelerating further Our fiduciary duties to shareholders, profitable growth.
There were further senior management Our obligations to our regulators.
changes to our top hundred managers involving both the promotion of internal candidates and external appointments.
This has been a long and complex project and has required the A new Chief Executive of Scandinavia, Rickard Gustafson, has fullest involvement of the Board.
The Board have been resolute been appointed following the retirement of Jens Erik Christensen.
in their approach and are confident that the deal represents the Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 5 appropriate deal for both policyholders and shareholders.
Whilst it is normal to thank my Board colleagues generally at the end of my report, I would like to specifically thank them on this occasion for their diligence, input and overall contribution into what has proved to be an acceptable exit from our US operation.
Finally, despite the demands of our US exit, other essential and important objectives were also achieved in 2006.
This was a significant test of management and a very considerable achievement.
With respect to issues related to continuing operational improvement, and strengthened management control, of particular note has been the launch of a Technical Academy for underwriting and claims.
There has also been the continuation of our plans to improve operational effectiveness, reduce costs, retire by rotation and stand for re-election this year is significant improve competitiveness and customer service.
Although these and include Edward Lea, John Maxwell, Noel Harwerth, Malcolm involve some further loss of headcount, with an announced Le May and George Culmer.
They form part of a key Board reduction of over 1,500 to be effective by June 2008, we team that I have already warmly commended.
continue to positively engage with staff and management at all levels on those key objectives.
Our staff understand and support The outlook as seen by the Board is positive.
We have firm plans our goal to be the best-in-class.
We thank them and appreciate to both improve existing performance and grow and develop our their support, upon which our continued progress depends.
The priorities for the Company are clear and, despite competitive market conditions, particularly in the UK, we Having noted our success in achieving our strategic aims and aim to make full use of our strategic portfolio.
We see ourselves core performance objectives, and with confidence in our plans to as a Company with a quality set of businesses and strong and further improve the business, the Board considered our dividend effective management, well able, in relative terms, to face with policy.
As a reflection of your Boards confidence in the future confidence world market uncertainties.
At the time of writing, the sustainability of the earnings of the Company, we announced 2007 pattern in international financial markets has been of some at our preliminary results on 8 March a 35% increase in the limited instability with market willingness to self-correct and seek final dividend for 2006.
We plan to increase the 2007 interim reasonable stability.
With that comment in mind, I would like to dividend level by at least inflation plus 35% and thereafter plan repeat what I said at the beginning: namely as a Company we can to grow dividends at least in line with inflation.
now put our restructuring plans behind us and accelerate further On Board composition matters two changes have occurred.
our plans to improve and grow profitably our portfolio of businesses.
We welcomed Simon Lee, CEO of our International business, to the Board on 1 January 2007.
At the same time, David Paige, Group Risk Director, retired from full-time employment to take up a portfolio career.
David made a significant contribution to our risk and regulatory areas and we would like to wish him further success on his new career path.
The number of directors who John Napier Chairman
