CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement Scottish Mortgage has returned outstanding results this year.
The share price rose by 57% ending the year at an all time high while net asset value per share rose by 46%.
By comparison, the benchmark index 50% FTSE All-Share Index and 50% FTSE World Ex UK in sterling terms rose by 26%.
These results reflect the continuing success of the truly global stock selection approach embraced enthusiastically by the Managers three years ago.
allocating funds to countries and not to However, in its regular assessments, the Market Background companies.
Board is now focusing to a greater extent Stock markets were strong during the year on the three to five year performance largely on the back of good results from a 2.
Have the courage of their convictions.
This is in line with the long term broad range of companies.
The rises in The choice and size of the investments investment horizon adopted.
market values should be seen in the context should mirror the Managers view of the of a continuation of the recovery period: it is companies prospects not their position in only now that old peaks are being reached any index.
Scottish Mortgage is an Dividend and Earnings in many markets.
While interest rates have Earnings per share were stronger than active fund and not a passive index risen in some countries, they are generally tracker.
The portfolio has progressively anticipated, rising to a figure of 8.82p per still relatively low.
Rising inflation does not share 2004 2005 7.37p.
The become more concentrated and there appear to be an issue of major concern at are now 86 equity holdings as opposed Company has benefited from substantial the moment and economic growth at present dividend growth from overseas equities, to 129 three years ago.
The floor is is partly fuelled by the increase in wealth likely to be around 70 to 80 companies.
particularly from those investments in the and activity in large countries, such as emerging markets.
The Board expects China and India, whose economies are dividend of 4.65p has been holdings to be bought and held and not growing rapidly.
recommended which, if approved, will to be traded frenetically.
An aspiration is make for a total of 8.50p, an increase of to have a typical holding period of at Investment Approach 15.6% compared to the previous year.
least five years but preferably even A benign global economic background will During the year the inflation rate was 2.4% longer.
help the Managers to achieve the as measured by the Retail Price Index.
It is shareholders requirement for growth.
the Boards intention to continue to However, deliberations about the progress Three Year Performance increase the dividend at a rate in excess of of economies will not create value for The three year record is worthy of inflation.
Revenue reserves stand at around shareholders, this depends on the examination as it is over this period that the 20p per share and, if required, these will Managers ability to choose companies global approach has been honed.
The table be used to smooth the rate of growth which will flourish over the longer term.
below shows the performance of Scottish should there be an earnings shortfall in Mortgage shares against its Benchmark and future years.
It was with this view in mind that our the average of other global funds over one investment approach has evolved over the and three years.
To reiterate, we have Total Return to Total return includes both capital growth and encouraged the Managers to: income reinvested.
31 March 2006 1 year 3 years AITC is the Association of Investment Trust 1.
The country where Companies and shown here is the average of Scottish Mortgage share price 60% 138% a company is listed on a stock exchange other investment trusts in the same AITC sector as is of secondary importance compared Benchmark 30% 85% Scottish Mortgage.
with where it actually carries out its AITC Global Growth Average 41% 110% ` IMA is the Association of Investment Managers business.
Customers and businesses are and these figures shown are for open ended IMA Global Growth Average` 32% 85% becoming more and more global in their funds unit trusts and Open Ended Investment reach.
It is important not to limit Past performance is no guarantee of future Companies OEICs in a similar sector.
investment thinking and decisions by performance.
04 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Board is seeking powers at the AGM Discount, Buyback Policy and Board and AGM to be able to take into treasury any The AGM will be held on Wednesday Treasury Shares shares that have been bought back for 28 June 2006 in Edinburgh.
Details are The discount narrowed from 16.5% to subsequent reissue but only at a premium given on pages 51 and 52 of this 10.7%.
The Board is very conscious of the to net asset value.
This ensures that the document.
I do hope you will come and fact that it is the share price performance interests of existing shareholders will not meet the Board.
The Managers will make a that is of primary interest to investors and we be diluted.
short presentation and there will be an have outlined our approach to the discount opportunity for questions.
policy in the Business Review on page 22.
Balance Sheet During the year borrowings have been The Board believes that performance is the Outlook deployed to good effect as markets have key driver of discounts over the long term.
The Managers give a very lucid view of risen.
The Company has short term The Directors realise that discount volatility the outlook on pages 8 to 13 which the borrowings of 5.9bn equivalent is not in the interests of most shareholders Board shares and which I recommend to 29m and$73m equivalent 51m and that the threat of such volatility could you.
I am happy to report that they are in place.
The latter replaces a $60m be a deterrent to attracting new finding no shortage of suitable investment facility that has been repaid.
While a discount target is opportunities at the moment which is a debentures are given on pages 43 and not being set, as has been done by other positive indicator.
The level of gearing into equity large trusts, the consideration of future markets at 112% or 12% of shareholders buybacks will be made with reference to The Board is very pleased with the funds is not excessive and will be Scottish Mortgages discount relative to Managers exceptional performance over adjusted as circumstances dictate.
The Directors also the past three years which is the result of a believe that the superior performance and combination of hard work and sound Costs distinctive approach justifies a narrower thinking.
Achieving sustainable long term I am happy to report that the Total Expense discount than at present.
growth through direct investment in equities Ratio TER remains at 0.52%.
An on a global basis, remains our highest advantage of funds of the size of Scottish During the year, a total of 7,530,000 priority.
I consider that Scottish Mortgage is Mortgage is the dilution of costs and our shares were bought back at a total cost of very well placed to deliver these returns to low TER in comparison to other investment 30.26m which increased net asset value shareholders over time.
trusts and open ended funds is a further per share by 0.44%.
It is a source of some considerable attraction for shareholders frustration that during this period of good and potential investors.
The beneficial performance greater demand for the effect of lower costs on compounded Companys shares has not been returns over long periods of time can be encountered, thus necessitating the need to considerable.
Sir Donald MacKay buy back shares.
The Managers are aware of this frustration and are devoting 10 May 2006 considerable thought and resources to the marketing of Scottish Mortgage.
Details of With the debentures valued at their market various marketing initiatives are shown on price.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 05
