SVG Capital plc Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2006 06 Chairmans statement Including the unaudited Directors valuation of SVG Advisers, over the 12 months fully diluted net assets per share increased by 24.2% to 859.2p per share, with fully diluted Shareholders 1 funds increasing by 21.3% to 810.1p per share.
Shareholders funds do not take full account of the underlying value of SVG Advisers, based on its expanding and recurring income streams and assets under management.
As we have previously highlighted to shareholders, SVG Advisers has become a valuable asset for SVG Capital and the Board has therefore decided to report two gures: the first, net asset value, includes the unaudited Directors valuation of SVG Advisers: and the second, Shareholders funds, is in accordance with generally accepted accounting practice.
Private equity portfolio performance The performance of the investment portfolio over the year has been driven by a mixture of material valuation uplifts and significant realisations.
Many portfolio companies are beginning to reap the benets of strategic and operational changes made by our private equity managers and we are seeing increases in portfolio company earnings.
I am pleased to report In addition, the private equity portfolio has continued to benefit from high levels of distributions 2 which totalled 307.5 million for the 12 months, another strong set of comfortably ahead of 2005.
Since listing in 1996, SVG Capitals average uplift on realisations to previous valuation has been 44% excluding recapitalisations and a net multiple of 2.2x original investment cost.
results, both in terms of the performance of our investment portfolio and our fund management business, SVG Advisers.
1 Shareholders funds in this context refers to audited consolidated net asset value per share.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Overview 07 SVG Advisers Board 24.2% SVG Advisers has continued to build on its The Board worked well together during the course growth in fully diluted impressive performance and ended the year of 2006 and a full review of the Boards activities can net asset value with funds and commitments under management be found in the Directors Report in the Annual per share to 859.2p ofu3.3 billion and external fee revenues of Report and Accounts.
including the unaudited 20.3 million, an increase of 91% on 2005.
Since the year-end, the Company has appointed Directors valuation of The company has become a valuable asset for Gary Steinberg as an independent non-executive SVG Advisers SVG Capital.
Accordingly, the Directors have placed Director with effect from 15 March 2007. an unaudited IPEVC valuation of 72.3 million 49.1p per share fully diluted on the business.
Gary Steinberg, aged 54, is currently working as an 9.9% p. a.
More information on SVG Advisers operations is investment consultant.
Prior to this, Gary was the contained in the Chief Executives review overleaf.
Chief Investment officer of The Wellcome Trust and outperformance of the Chief Executive of BP Investment Management, FTSE All-Share capital responsible for managing investment portfolios of only since inception New commitments and investments 11 billion and 12 billion respectively.
Gary has including the unaudited also held senior investment management positions Directors valuation During the year, the Company made several new with Capital House Investment Management and of SVG Advisers investment commitments.
In the June 2006 interim Universities Superannuation Scheme.
accounts we announced our commitments of Gary Steinberg will bring valuable experience to the u2.8 billion to Permira IV and US$50 million to Board, and on behalf of the Directors, I welcome SV Life Sciences Fund IV.
Both of these funds have him.
His election as a Director of the Company will now held a final close, with Permira IV raising be proposed at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
u11 billion and SV International Life Sciences Fund IV raising US$550 million.
Dividend In addition to these, SVG Capital has agreed to invest up tou35.0 million in a Collateralised Loan Obligations CLO fund.
The fund will be The Companys investment objective is one of managed by SVG Advisers and Key Capital, capital growth and it is anticipated that returns and is seeking to raise approximatelyu100 million for shareholders will derive primarily from capital of commitments.
During the 12 months, the Company received approximately 18.0 million of income from its private equity portfolio, primarily a result Borrowing policy of recapitalisations during the year.
Accordingly, in order to maintain Investment Trust status, As announced in the Interim Report, the Board the Board is recommending that the Company believes that it is in shareholders best interests should declare a dividend of 7.5p per share.
to enhance returns through the sensible use of borrowing, and that the desired level of debt for the Company should be approximately 20%, over time.
Accordingly, during the year SVG Capital increased its credit facility to b600.0 million 404.3 million and issued US$208.0 million 107.3 million of unsecured Private Placement Notes.
In line with SVG Capitals borrowing policy and to take advantage of the relatively low interest rate environment, it is currently intended that the Company issue a further b100.0 million of Private Placement Notes in the next 12 months.
SVG Capital plc Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2006 08 Circular to shareholders Annual General Meeting We will be posting a Circular to shareholders The Annual General Meeting will be held at seeking shareholder approval at the forthcoming 12 noon on Thursday 10 May 2007 at 111 Strand, Annual General Meeting for: London, WC2R 0AG, and, as in previous years, it will include a presentation on the activities of A proposed change in the Companys long-term the Company.
incentive plan, following a comprehensive review of all aspects of the Companys remuneration policy.
Market commentary To change the Companys Articles of Association, including to: The results for the 12 months were strong and Allow the Company to take advantage of there were no material write-downs.
Cash-ow the new electronic communications provisions remains robust across our investments.
Various contained in the Companies Act 2006. commentators have suggested that the high returns from private equity are simply due to the use of Change the exemption to the US Investment leverage.
While Permira and our other managers Company Act of 1940 that the Company relies use and benefit from leverage, which is an on.
The new exemption will provide increased important tool, this is not the principal driver exibility to offer securities to US persons.
Rather, the principal returns have Amendment of investment objective: come from investing in companies where marked The Company will be seeking shareholder improvements have been made in the operations approval to amend its investment objective to and margins: or where they have increased allow for investment in other private equity related concentration on growth markets, and often both.
assets such as Collateralised Loan Obligations, Our managers continue to see a satisfactory ow and other alternative asset classes.
However, the signs that we are in the proposed new investment objective is: the second part of an up-cycle are increasing.
SVG Capitals investment objective is to achieve Multiples paid are rising and so are interest rates capital appreciation by investing principally in and the spreads between these two are therefore private equity funds that are managed or narrowing.
The key to the timing of any market advised by Permira, a leading international slow down will most likely be the debt markets.
Debt continues to be widely available on historically attractive terms.
So far these markets have proved In addition, the Company invests in private resistant to recent economic and political problems.
equity funds that invest in Japan, North America, Whether this will continue in the face of either Asia and the life sciences sectors, and in unquoted increasing ination or a specic market reverse and quoted businesses through specialist funds remains to be seen.
For the time being, the sensible and co-investments alongside these funds.
approach is to be cautious and not to overpay and The Company may also invest in other private this is the approach that Permira and our other equity related assets and alternative asset classes.
To complement this investment objective and create capital and income for the Company, its fund management business structures, markets, manages and advises products for investment in private equity, private equity related assets, alternative asset classes and in public equity Nicholas Ferguson using private equity techniques.
