Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:20 Page 7 Chairmans statement The total return on the the Temple Bar portfolio was assessed against both net assets of Temple the latest market developments and shareholders Bar during 2006 was expectations.
Investment restrictions on the 17.7%, which compares Manager were also reviewed.
with a total return for Overall, the conclusion of this discussion was that the FTSE All-Share major changes were not warranted but that the Index of 16.8%.
The relaxation of selective constraints would provide the return achieved is a Manager with greater flexibility and increase the combination of potential for out-performance of both our underlying portfolio benchmark, the FTSE All-Share Index, and our peer performance and the group, without a significant increase in long-term effect of the capital risk.
Inter alia, it was decided that the fund manager gearing of the Trust.
should have the authority to invest up to 50% of While it is always pleasant to report positively on the portfolio in stocks outside the FTSE 100 against short-term performance, the Board is primarily 30% previously and that the Board would consider focused on longer time periods.
The five year track requests to extend the non-FTSE 100 component record, over which the fund manager is principally beyond this point.
judged, demonstrates sustained positive To reflect this greater flexibility, the Board has performance.
agreed a new investment policy with the Manager, The Board is recommending a final dividend of 19.88p, which is included on page 1 of these Report and to produce a total increase for the year of 5.0%.
dividend will be payable on 30 March 2007 to The fund manager has no immediate plans to make shareholders on the register as at 16 March 2007. use of this increased flexibility: as he details in his This is the 23rd consecutive year that the dividend report, he currently sees greater value in the largest has been increased.
The revenue reserve, which, after stocks in the market.
adjusting for the proposed final dividend for 2006, represents 84.2% of the 2006 dividend, should The Board also decided to ask the Manager to provide shareholders with additional comfort secure an overdraft facility of 25m, to consider the regarding the security of the dividend.
use of options as part of an overall hedging strategy, in particular market conditions, and to be Post-tax revenue earnings increased by 3.2%.
The aware of the potential for investing in special proposed dividend was more than covered by net situations, such as high yield debt, in line with his earnings generated on the portfolio during the year.
It was further felt that the The level of capital gearing, 11.9% at year end, again Manager should have greater flexibility with regard contributed positively to performance during the to balancing potential revenue and capital growth period.
opportunities and it was agreed, therefore, that in The price of Temple Bar shares traded at a small any one year, up to 7.5% of the revenue reserve discount to their underlying asset value throughout could be used to fund the dividend, if necessary.
the year, once again supported by the steady demand created within the Companys Savings Scheme.
The Outlook Board has encouraged the Manager to maintain a The bull market is now over four years old and over regular dialogue with our larger shareholders and that time some dramatic returns have been investment intermediaries.
The FTSE 100 has more than doubled Strategy after reinvesting income and the FTSE 250 the At the Boards strategy review this year, in 250 largest stocks in the UK market after the conjunction with the Manager, the strategy behind Temple Bar Investment Trust 7 Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:20 Page 8 Chairmans statement continued FTSE 100 has risen by over 200%.
Corporate profit margins are generally high, which many would regard as unsustainable, and the valuations of most companies are well above the lows they reached during the bear market.
The Manager believes that much of the value that remains in the market is to be found amongst the largest companies as these offer an impressive combination of low valuations, strong balance sheets, a greater security of earnings and better prospects for dividend growth.
As a result of this view, the portfolio is more concentrated than has been the norm historically.
Any interruption to the earnings momentum that has driven the market in the last few years is likely to increase volatility and thus provide an enhanced number of contrarian opportunities for our Manager to investigate.
Currently, our Manager prefers to hold a portfolio more biased towards security than risk.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held on Monday 26 March at the Managers office in London.
In addition to the formal business of the meeting, the Managers will make a presentation to shareholders reviewing the past year and commenting on the outlook.
I look forward to welcoming as many of you as possible.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
John Reeve 20 February 2007 8 Temple Bar Investment Trust
