12581 Text 8 6 06 1:47 pm Page 4 Chairmans Statement Peter Salsbury BSc Chairman 23 May 2006 Introduction The Trust has had an exceptional year.
As at 31 March 2006 the net asset value per share had grown by more than 50% and outpaced our Benchmark Index for the eighth successive year.
Shareholders funds exceeded 750m and gross assets approached 900m.
The share price rose by over 60% as the discount to net asset value has narrowed.
Revenue per share increased by 20% and this has allowed the Board to recommend another significant dividend increase.
During the year we have reviewed the fund management agreement with Thames River Capital and agreed a fee percentage rebate up to 2009.
Other features of the year included another increase in the proportion of the Trusts equity owned by private investors and, in the recent Budget, the announcement of the framework for the proposed introduction of UK REITs.
International Accounting Standards IFRS These are the first full year accounts produced under the new International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, and there are various changes in the format and layout of the numbers.
A detailed explanation of the changes can be found in the Finance Report starting on page 33, and comparisons between the current and previous numbers are detailed in the notes to the financial statements.
As I commented at the interim stage, we are conscious that these changes make the accounts longer and more difficult to follow than before.
We have therefore made our explanatory notes as full as possible, and we welcome the efforts being made by the AITC to simplify and standardise the reporting requirements for investment trusts.
Overall the impact of IFRS on the substance of the numbers is not significant.
Market Background Commercial property markets across the world have continued to see extraordinary levels of investor demand over 4 TR Property Investment Trust 12581 Text 8 6 06 1:47 pm Page 5 Chairmans Statement continued Ten Year Performance price only 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Mar 96 Mar 97 Mar 98 Mar 99 Mar 00 Mar 01 Mar 02 Mar 03 Mar 04 Mar 05 Mar 06 Index of TR Property net asset value and share price compared with a composite benchmark index comprising the FTSE Real Estate Index for the period 31 March 1996 to 30 September 2001 and the S&P Citigroup European Property Index for the period 1 October 2001 to 31 March 2006 Composite Benchmark Index TR Property Share Price TR Property Net Asset Value the past twelve months, demand which has far outpaced comprise directly held commercial property, and the Trust the supply of investment grade property.
As a result, and would therefore become a property company.
By so doing despite generally fragile tenant demand, capital values we would lose our investment trust status, which already have continued to rise and initial yields to fall across all gives us freedom from capital gains tax.
As an investment our markets.
Against this background property shares trust, we do not have freedom from corporation tax, but cost have performed remarkably well.
of entry into REIT status, which would currently be 17m, compares with a current corporation tax bill of around UK REITs 1m p. a.
To maintain REIT status we should have to Full details of the proposed UK REIT structure were renounce investment in property securities, a field where our eventually announced in the recent Budget.
In essence, management teams talents have been rather well employed.
fully quoted UK property companies are being offered the opportunity to enter into a special tax status where, subject Performance to certain rules, they will be free of capital gains tax on Over the twelve months ended on 31 March 2006, the their real estate portfolios and suffer no corporation tax on Trusts asset value per share rose by 53.8% to 224.11p their net rental income.
The cost of entry will be a 2% levy and the share price increased by 63% to 209.5p.
These on their gross property assets.
The rules to which they increases compare with a rise of 43.3% in our Benchmark must adhere include gearing limits, income distribution Index over the same period.
The annual total returns, limits and shareholder ownership limits.
The proposals, which include the value of the net dividends paid during which may yet be subject to alteration and amendment the period, were 56.5% for the net asset value, 66.3% for during the debate on the Finance Bill, appear to be the share price and 48% for the Benchmark.
Property commercially attractive, and we expect the majority of the equities outperformed general equity markets over the larger UK property companies to enter the REIT structure year, in which the total return on the FTSE All-Share Index when it commences at the start of 2007. was 28.1% and the total return from the DJ STOXX 600 in Euros was 31.4%.
The extent of the outperformance A number of shareholders have raised the question of has resulted in our managers earning the maximum whether TR Property could or should become a REIT.
The performance fee of 1% of adjusted shareholders funds.
Board cannot see any benefit in such a move.
To qualify as a REIT, a minimum of 75% of our assets would have to TR Property Investment Trust 5 12581 Text 8 6 06 1:47 pm Page 6 Chairmans Statement continued Ten years ago, at the end of March 1996, the net asset value distributions as property income rather than dividends, so was 35.2p per share and the share price was 28.5p.
The total that this income will be taxable at a higher rate.
compound annual price growth over the decade has been Nevertheless, despite this tax change, the average net 20.3% p. a. for the asset value and 22.1% p. a. for the share payout to REIT shareholders is currently expected to rise price.
The total return numbers, which assume reinvestment significantly.
At present the Trust has large amounts of of the net dividends, are 25.3% p. a. for the share price and capital invested in UK companies whom we expect to 23.4% p. a. for the net asset value.
Over the same ten year elect for UK REIT status in 2007, and on an unchanged period, the compound annual total returns from the Trusts portfolio, we would expect a very healthy, but as yet Benchmark Index and from the FTSE All-Share Index have unquantifiable, increase in our income.
The Trust has a total return objective.
It is free of taxation on capital gains on its assets but bears corporation tax on Revenue its revenue: thus a pound of capital gain has more net The revenue earnings for the year are 3.44p per share, an worth to shareholders than a pound of income.
Our large increase of 20.7% over the 2.85p per share reported last investments in potential UK REITs have been made with year.
Our total income, including the service charges we this total return objective in mind and not primarily as a made to our tenants, increased by 17.2% to 23.1m, while future source of stable high income.
Evidence from expenses, including interest, property outgoings and overseas markets suggests that UK companies that management fees, rose by 16.6%.
That left pre-tax become REITs may see their shares rise to trade at a revenue 17.6% higher at 13.9m.
The tax charge was premium to asset value while, at the same time, they may lower, in percentage terms, than last year, and revenue alter their business strategies to concentrate more on earnings also benefited from share repurchases.
income stability than on future capital growth.
There is no Ten years ago, in the year ending March 1996, the certainty, under these circumstances, that the Trust will revenue earnings per share were 1.35p and the full year continue to wish to hold large investments in UK REITs, dividend was 0.98p per share.
The annual compound and therefore shareholders are advised not to assume growth figures for revenue earnings and dividends per that the Trust will be bound to receive an abnormal share over the decade have been 9.8% p. a. and 13.23% increase in its revenue beyond April 2007. p. a. respectively.
Comparable growth rates for our Benchmark are not available.
The Retail Price Index has Dividend risen by an average of 2.5% p. a. over the period.
The The Board is recommending to shareholders a final growth in revenue and in dividends, though excellent, has dividend of 1.9p per share, an increase of 22.6% over the nowhere near matched the growth in the asset value.
This final dividend of 1.55p per share paid last year.
Together is because the asset values of our investee companies with the interim dividend of 1.5p per share already paid, and their share prices have risen far faster than their this produces a total payment of 3.4p per share for the rental income receipts, their overall revenue and their year, a 19.3% increase over the total of 2.85p per share dividend distributions.
Revenue Outlook Discount Our managers are advising the Board that, subject to The gap between the share price and the asset value has unforeseen circumstances, they expect the Trusts revenue been narrowing over the last three years and in the last per share to increase modestly in the current financial twelve months the discount has fallen from 11.5% to a year in line with the anticipated average dividend year end level of around 7%.
As a result, the share price increases from the companies in which we hold shares.
has grown faster than the net asset value per share.
This narrowing has been in line with the discount movement With the imminent arrival of UK REITs, I should like to across the whole of the UK Investment Trust sector, make some early comment on implications for our something which reflects good performance and therefore revenue in the financial year starting in April 2007.
The the increased demand for investment trust shares generally.
proposed legislation will give REITs freedom from corporation tax on their net rental revenue and will require Share Repurchases a 90% distribution of this revenue.
With the objective of The narrowing of the discount has meant that tax neutrality the Government has classed such opportunities for worthwhile share repurchases were 6 TR Property Investment Trust 12581 Text 8 6 06 1:47 pm Page 7 Chairmans Statement continued scarce or non-existent.
I reported at the interim stage that Management Agreement, Personnel and Awards we had bought back 2.516m shares at an average of The fund management agreement with Thames River 132.75p in the first half of the year.
No repurchases were Capital was reviewed during the year.
The Board has made in the second half.
agreed a fee percentage rebate for a three-year period to March 2009.
Shareholders funds of up to 450m will Last year I commented on the shrinkage of our investment continue to attract a fee of 0.7% p. a. but the rate will be universe and how repurchases were helping to control the reduced to 0.4% p. a. on shareholders funds in excess of size of the Trust in such an environment.
This rebate has been retrospectively applied to first time in a decade, we have seen a marked expansion in the financial year just ended.
property share issuance notably on the Continent and on AIM.
Our Benchmark has expanded from 84 to 96 During the year George Gay joined the management companies during the year and is likely to show a similar team to assist with direct property holdings, giving James rate of expansion in the coming year.
Wilkinson more time to cover our equity investments, particularly those in Central and Eastern Europe.
Net Debt, Gearing and Currencies During the last twelve months the Trust has received We increased our borrowings over the year from 81m to awards as the best Specialist Investment Trust of the Year 98m, but the pace of the increase was less than the rate from both Investment Week and Moneywise magazines.
of growth in our net assets, so our gearing borrowings as a percentage of net assets declined from 16% at the Outlook start of the year to 12% at the year end.
The Trusts Last year, and at the interim stage, I commented that the gearing level is expected to be between 5% and 20% outstanding capital growth seen by property markets must over the coming six months.
make us wary and vigilant.
The scale of the increase in values and the length of this cycle obviously raise In accordance with the Boards long term policy, all our questions as to the length of its sustainability.
Global debt continues to be denominated in Sterling and the trends can blur traditional reference points of valuation Trusts exposure to foreign currency movements is and timing, and lead both to poor capital allocation and to therefore unhedged.
Over the year, the Euro rose against exaggerated expectations of future price movements.
The the Pound increasing the value of the Trusts overseas markets immediate concerns centre on the interest rate assets by some 4.5m in Sterling terms, equivalent to cycle.
Capital growth has been fed by low global interest 1.3p per share.
rates and abundant liquidity, though demographics and Shareholders and the Shareplan changes in savings behaviour have also been powerfully The Board believes that investment trusts are an excellent at work.
vehicle for the long term savings of retail investors and has For the moment the Trust remains geared, though at a lower ensured that our managers handle the Trusts affairs with this level than normal.
Our portfolio is weighted towards stocks in mind.
In this context I am pleased that we have seen a whose share prices are still in touch with their underlying steady increase in the numbers of retail investors over several asset value and the imminent arrival of the UK REIT regime years.
At the end of March 2006, personal shareholdings is gratifying.
We are diversifying some of our capital into together with the shareholdings of private client stockbrokers property related businesses with ratings that may not be and the investments in our Shareplan, PEP and ISA schemes, wholly dependent on the continued growth of property accounted for over 60% of the capital.
Nevertheless, when the property cycle eventually compares with 50% in September 2004. turns, shareholders should bear in mind that the Trust is a Shareholders using the Trusts Shareplan, PEP and ISA dedicated investor in real estate and real estate securities schemes will be aware that the administration of these and that we will continue to adhere to this core strategy.
schemes was moved to BNP Paribas in April 2005.
The level of service received by some holders has not been satisfactory and I apologise to those affected.
We have taken action to try and ensure the administrators service is improved henceforth.
