Chairmans Statement Finance Director in October 2006 and The current outlook for Tullett we are already benefiting from his previous experience in that role in two Prebon is positive and the Board is other businesses.
His predecessor, Stephen Jack retired from the Board in confident of creating future value November 2006 and we wish him well for the future.
for shareholders Rupert Robson joined the non-executive team in January 2007.
He has held a On 19 December 2006 Collins Stewart 2005: 91m.
The results reflected number of senior roles in financial Tullett plc was split into two the completion of the integration of services, most recently as Global Head, independent businesses: Tullett Prebon which was acquired in 2004 Financial Institutions Group, Corporate Prebon plc, the worlds second largest and benefited from the elimination Investment Banking and Markets at inter-dealer broker, and Collins Stewart of double running costs.
He has already made a strong plc, which is the leading UK margins rose to 17.6 per cent of contribution to the Board and we are independent stockbroker and which revenue from 14 per cent of revenue.
proposing his election at the Annual has recently acquired Hawkpoint, the The average return on capital employed General Meeting.
Alistair Peel has also highly regarded UK corporate advisory was 28 per cent.
The adjusted earnings joined us from Candover Investments business.
The demerger was effected per share for the continuing businesses plc as our Company Secretary and because it was considered that at this 47 per cent.
will be supporting us in maintaining stage of their development the two and developing the effectiveness of companies would be able to grow more The acquisition of Chapdelaine was the Board.
The change also completed in January 2007 for a allows a substantial return of capital to consideration of 48m 29m of which John Spencer, who has been a be made to the shareholders.
Both was paid on completion.
This is a long Non-executive since the Collins Stewart companies now have separate listings established New York business which IPO in 2000, and Bernard Leaver, who on the London Stock Exchange.
provides broking services in corporate joined the Board in 2003, have both bonds, credit derivatives, mortgage indicated that they will not be available Total shareholder return for 2006 was backed securities and equities.
The to stand for re-election at the Annual 55per cent calculated using the Collins acquisition will strengthen our North General Meeting in June.
The successful Stewart Tullett plc share price at the American business, particularly in development of Collins Stewart into start of 2006 and the combined Tullett credit products.
what has now become the two Prebon plc and Collins Stewart plc share independent businesses has not been prices at the end of that year.
This was The accounts also include the results without challenges, requiring the Board 19 percentage points above the FTSE of the Collins Stewart stockbroking to be robust in supporting the best 250 Index for 2006 and 9.5 percentage business prior to the demerger, shown interests of the Company and the points above the General Financials as discontinued operations.
Earnings shareholders, even when that might not Sector Index for the same year.
per share including the results of both have been the easiest course.
We would businesses were up 107 per cent at like to thank our retired and retiring On 26 February 2007 our shareholders 60.6p per share.
John approved a cash return of capital of Spencer has held the role of Senior 301.5m.
Subject to final Court approval, Now that the demerger has been Independent Director and we will make the effective date of the reduction of completed, we have a focused business an announcement about succession in capital is expected to be 15 March 2007 which is in a position to undertake the that role at the Annual General Meeting.
and shareholders are expected to work needed to make further progress, receive 142p per ordinary share in particularly in growing revenues in cash on or around 20 March 2007. what will be a period of continuing change in its markets.
The current The Board is proposing a final dividend outlook for Tullett Prebon is positive of 6.0p per share, which, if approved and the Board is confident of creating Keith Hamill will be payable on 14 June 2007 to future value for shareholders.
Chairman shareholders on the register on 25 May 13 March 2007 2007.
The level of the dividend has Board matters been set taking account of the capital Following the demerger, Terry Smith structure of the Company after the became Chief Executive of Tullett return of capital.
Lou Scotto, who led the has also announced a proposed final integration of Tullett and Prebon, dividend of 5.0p per share.
stepped down from the Board in February 2007 to concentrate on his Tullett Prebon achieved strong results role as Chief Executive of the Americas for 2006.
Revenue amounted to 654m and in particular on the core initiatives 2005: 649m and underlying revenues of developing our electronic platform were up 5per cent.
Operating profits and the integration of Chapdelaine.
before exceptional items were 115m Paul Mainwaring joined the Board as 02 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2006
