qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 4 Chairmans Statement The strongest principle of growth lies in human choice.
George Eliot Harry Henderson Introduction Yes, Witan did pass the exam in 2006.
The NAV For the second year running there are major changes rose by 10.1% against our benchmark of 8.4%.
to the presentation of the Annual Report.
Last year This is now the second full year since the we introduced the International Financial Reporting reorganisation in September 2004 and since then Standards and this year we have incorporated a the Witan net asset value has risen by 42% and the Business Review for the first time.
share price by 48% whilst our benchmark has risen by 38%.
I would particularly like to draw your attention to the section in the Business Review which sets out Where did we come in the class?
Witan came just the Key Performance Indicators for the business.
On under half way up the Global Growth Investment page 3 of these accounts we set out the 2006 Trust sector.
If one extends the comparisons against numbers for these indicators.
I shall now comment unit trusts and other open-ended investment on these.
companies then Witan would have been in the top quartile.
The Business Review on pages 7 to 17 Shareholder Returns analyses the performance in much greater detail.
The share price rose by 9.8% over the year, giving a total return to shareholders including dividends of Currency Management 12.1%.
This is now the fourth year of double digit Your Board for some time has been persuaded by the returns for shareholders with a total return to arguments for active management.
It is an arena in Witan shareholders of 106.9% since the low in which active managers have been constantly able to March 2003. achieve positive returns partly because much of the worlds currency is traded in a manner that is not for It is also important to look at the returns over the profit.
For example, it is bought and sold by longer term and it is interesting to note that over tourists, corporations and central banks whose any twenty year period the total return to prime aim is not to make money out of currencies.
shareholders has been consistently in advance of This provides opportunities for active managers.
that available from deposit accounts.
Before proceeding, it was important for us not only to identify the correct manager but also to create a Performance structure that would not jeopardise the existing With any exam interested parties are eager to know accounting treatment of currency profits and losses.
first was the pass mark achieved and secondly This work was completed in the latter half of last where in the class did we come.
Once satisfied on year and in January 2007 we announced the these headlines a more detailed analysis is given in appointment of Mellon Capital Management the end of term report.
Corporation to manage pro-actively a portfolio of 350 million, equivalent in size to half of your Trusts foreign currency exposure.
qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 5 this, we invested 36.5 million in a UBS loan note It is evident that unconstrained investing requires which will mirror the returns of the Mellon fund the investment manager to adopt different managed on our behalf.
We the investors must understand the implications and change our expectations Total Expense Ratio accordingly.
Because an unconstrained portfolio by You will see from the key performance indicators denition will be very different to any that the total expense ratio for Witan is 0.47%.
It representative index, a greater tolerance of short continues to make Witan one of the best value term relative volatility is necessary.
We must take investments around.
Although some of the the same investment time horizon as the manager, administrative expenses rose in 2006, much of this therefore allowing a skilled management team was associated with the setting up of the sufficient opportunity to deliver the additional Wealthbuilder savings platform.
Dividends Witan Investment Services Your Board has declared a second interim dividend Over the last twelve months Witan Investment of 5.3 pence per ordinary share to make a total Services WIS matured into a full operating distribution for the year of 9.2 pence 2005: 8.8 subsidiary, being authorised by the FSA in April and pence.
This represents an increase of 4.5%, which taking full responsibility for the marketing of the is in line with the RPI and in accordance with our Witan brand, the executive management of Witan stated dividend policy.
Pacic Investment Trust plc and the marketing of the Tribune UK Tracker plc, the latter becoming our Manager Review second investment trust client.
It is now over two years since we moved to a multimanager structure.
We apply rules which can During the autumn, WIS launched Witan automatically trigger a reappraisal of any one of our Wealthbuilder, an internet based savings platform.
managers, but as we approach the third anniversary Witan Wealthbuilder replaces the Henderson Share it is right to start a more formal programme to Plan and other products provided by our previous review all of our managers.
This review will look manager.
The new platform offers the same range first at the overall structure of the portfolio and the of products on the same terms, but Witan mandates we have awarded, and will then move on Wealthbuilder also gives the investor the facility to to re-assess the individual managers.
Your Board purchase the shares of Witan, Witan Pacic and will obviously make the appropriate Tribune UK Tracker online for 15 per transaction.
announcements if we decide to make any changes Investors may also view their account on-line for to the way your portfolio is being managed.
Your Board sees this development as an important means of It is of course easy to ascertain whether an indexencouraging further grass roots investment into aware portfolio has achieved its targets but for your Company and its clients and that is why the those mandates which are unconstrained we must number of private investors is a key performance be more circumspect.
qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 6 Chairmans Statement continued Board Changes Outlook During the year it became necessary for Jane Platt Equity markets have completed their fourth year of to resign as a director due to a perceived conict of double digit returns and their fourth year of interest by her new employers, National Savings & outperformance versus bonds.
The debates do not Investments.
This was a great sadness as her seem to have changed very much over the last contribution was very real from the outset.
They are around the outlook for growth and ination across the world.
They ponder At the AGM in April Robert Colvill retires after the correct level for the US dollar and the impact of thirteen years as a director of Witan, for the last five its continued weakness.
There are concerns over of which he has performed the valuable role of credit spreads and how far they can deteriorate and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
His experience the reasons why.
gained across the financial services industry, and as the finance director of Marks and Spencer, has been There are always things to worry about but, while of enormous value to this Company and he will be bond markets remain calm, corporate activity will much missed.
continue, along with the resulting return of cash to investors.
Further good increases in dividends are We welcome James Bevan and Robert Boyle to the expected from a corporate sector operating with Board.
They bring the respective investment and historically low pay-out ratios.
accounting skills that we were seeking to engage through the recruitment process.
I am confident Your Board is confident that Witan is well placed to that they have a valuable contribution to make to take full advantage of these conditions.
Annual General Meeting Our AGM will be held this year at Merchant Taylors Hall, on Monday 30 April 2007 at 2.30pm.
Formal notice of the meeting is set out on pages 54 and 55 and further details are given on the enclosed invitation card.
With my fellow directors, I look forward to the opportunity to meet you then.
