Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Chairmans Statement It is our intention to strike a fair balance between lower prices and sustainable profits in order to reward both our customers and shareholders.
Securing shareholder value Performance review Looking forward, it is our intention to strike We achieved good underlying financial a fair balance between lower prices and performance despite the particularly sustainable profits in order to reward both challenging circumstances which prevailed our customers and shareholders.
Returns to shareholders In the winter of 2005 06 gas shortages The Board is proposing a final dividend of in the UK and increasing worldwide 8.0 pence 2005: 7.4 pence for payment demand for energy drove wholesale in June 2007 bringing our full-year dividend prices to record levels necessitating to 11.15 pence 2005: 10.5 pence.
This price increases to many of our customers.
represents a 6% year-on-year increase, The management team worked hard to in line with our policy and commitment to minimise the effect of these increases by real growth in the ordinary dividend.
As we containing operating costs and developing become more confident in the sustainability Roger Carr innovative products designed to protect Chairman of more benign market conditions, we will customers and preserve loyalty in be able to consider the reinstatement of increasingly competitive markets.
our share buyback programme should Regrettably, despite these actions, we surplus funds permit.
lost one million residential energy accounts Corporate governance during the year.
British Gas Residential Our reporting has always been open returned to profit by the end of the year and transparent, and this year we have which, together with continued good refined our approach to include the delivery in gas production, strong growth latest EU legislative requirements.
We in North America and the lower tax have integrated the key aspects of our charge, enabled the Group overall to corporate responsibility performance deliver sound earnings growth.
I look forward to 2007 within our Business Review formerly the The high commodity prices in the first with confidence in both Operating and Financial Review.
Also in half of the year held up the price of assets our business model and the Business Review is a section on the and the Board continued to exercise the management team.
KPIs that the Board uses to measure financial discipline and invest only in progress against strategy, as well as a additional sources of supply where section on the main risks facing the Group.
returns met our rigorous financial hurdles.
In the latter part of the year, there was Board changes a fundamental change in the UK energy Sir Roy Gardner retired at the end of market.
New gas supply pipelines from June.
We are grateful to him for his Norway and Holland, whose construction material contribution and commitment, was made possible by long-term having led Centrica through a decade contracts entered into by British Gas, came of considerable change.
on-stream at a time when the country was In July, Sam Laidlaw was appointed Chief experiencing the warmest autumn since Executive of the Company bringing with records began.
This change in the balance him considerable experience in managing of supply and demand, combined with a and developing large scale international fall in global oil prices, reversed previous energy businesses.
Since taking up the wholesale gas price trends.
This enabled appointment he has made real progress British Gas to announce price reductions in developing the long-term vision for the from March 2007 when a portion of the Group and in sharpening the immediate including joint ventures and associates stated net of more expensive gas supplies to which we focus on improving the current performance interest and taxation, and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
are already committed will be exhausted.
and efficiency of the organisation.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 03 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Chairmans Statement continued The future Mark Clare left the Company in the We are entering 2007 under new summer to take up an appointment leadership but with continued commitment outside the industry, having made an to the twin goals of customer service important contribution to the Group both and shareholder value creation.
Lower as Finance Director and, more recently, wholesale energy prices have provided Managing Director of British Gas us with the opportunity to reduce retail Residential.
Patricia Mann OBE retired prices and we expect the completion of from the Group after nine years valuable new systems to help address the service service on the Board and her role of levels.
We will also continue our search for Senior Non-Executive Director was cost-effective supply sources to rebalance assumed by Mary Francis CBE.
Sadly our market exposure and sharpen our Patricia died later in the year having competitive edge.
Our investment programme will be Phil Bentley who has ably served as driven by value and our cost structure Finance Director and Managing Director, will be the focus of continued stringent Europe will move to the role of Managing appraisal.
Innovation will be key to our Director, British Gas following the marketing effort and the application of appointment of Nick Luff as Group our skills and service network to meet Finance Director.
Nick brings with him the growing consumer demand for significant commercial experience.
energy efficiency will be at the heart of Jake Ulrich has taken on responsibility our endeavours.
I look forward to 2007 for the continental European operations.
with confidence in both our business At the beginning of the year we model and the management team.
established a main board committee to lead our corporate responsibility strategy.
This is chaired by Mary Francis CBE and includes the managing directors of each business unit.
I am confident that this new team will bring renewed vigour and commitment Roger Carr to the successful development of Centrica Chairman in the years ahead.
22 February 2007 Our employees Our employees worked particularly hard throughout 2006 as they responded to the unusually demanding environment.
External pressures arising from turbulence in the energy market were magnified by the degree of change in systems, working practices, organisation and management within the Company and I thank them all for their loyalty, hard work and dedication.
The upstream team once again made a material contribution to our financial performance and demonstrated their absolute professionalism in both the operation of our offshore facilities and the rapid recovery of our Rough storage platform following a fire earlier in the year.
Tragically the risks of working offshore were again made evident when six people, four of them Centrica employees, were killed in a helicopter accident in Morecambe Bay at Christmas with a seventh person still missing, presumed dead.
Our thoughts and deepest sympathies are with their families and our thanks go to all the employees who continue to help fulfil the UKs energy needs under arduous and challenging conditions.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 04
