2 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DESPITE A CHALLENGING ENVIRONMENT, STRONG SALES GROWTH OF OUR MAJOR PRODUCTS, PARTICULARLY OUTSIDE EUROPE, COUPLED WITH OUR DETERMINED PURSUIT OF PRODUCTIVITY GAINS HAS DELIVERED ANOTHER OUTSTANDING FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.
In 2006, Group sales totalled $26.5 billion alliances and acquisitions.
The strategy John Varley, Group Chief Executive of up 11% with an operating profit of $8.2 billion review gave full consideration to overall global Barclays Bank plc, was appointed to the up 28%.
Our R&D investment increased this trends of continued growth in demand for Board in July, and his extensive commercial year in absolute terms and as a percentage of improved healthcare: an ageing population, and financial expertise is already bringing sales from $3.4 billion to $3.9 billion, reflecting undiagnosed and unmet medical needs: considerable benefit to our work.
John has our firm commitment to building the platform economic development in emerging markets: joined the Remuneration Committee and he for future growth.
That investment is focused sustained downward pressure on prices will become Chairman of that Committee when on life-cycle management of our key marketed for medicines and ever-more demanding Sir Peter Bonfield steps down from the Board products, developing new products with regulatory requirements.
At that time it is also intended an emphasis on efficiency and effectiveness that Michele Hooper, who has been a Nonimprovements, and intelligent acquisition David Brennan has completed his first year Executive Director of AstraZeneca PLC since and licensing of products and technologies as our Chief Executive Officer, and you will 2003, will become the Senior Independent that will supplement our internal efforts.
see his review of AstraZenecas performance Director in succession to Sir Peter.
Major investments were also announced during during that period, the strategic direction the year in new R&D facilities that will support and his vision for the future in the following Dame Bridget Ogilvie, FRS retired at the 2006 this strategy, notably in the UK and China.
With his distinctive AGM after over nine years service as a Nonleadership style and strong focus on Executive Director, and I would like to thank Whilst AstraZenecas share price fluctuated individual accountabilities at all levels within her warmly on behalf of the Board for her during the year, earnings per share grew by the Company, he has been quick to make sustained contribution to both AstraZeneca 34% from $2.91 in 2005 to $3.86 in 2006. his mark.
I thank him, his colleagues on the and, before that, Zeneca.
This reflects the strong growth from our Senior Executive Team and all our employees, products and careful management of our costs.
including those who have recently joined the In 2007, we will strive to continue to meet the The Board has recommended a second AstraZeneca family through acquisition, for needs of patients, reward shareholders and interim dividend of $1.23 63.0 pence, their contribution this year.
benefit wider society by strengthening our SEK 8.60 per Ordinary Share bringing the pipeline, driving top-line sales growth and total dividend for the year to $1.72 89.6 pence, In addition to its review of strategy, the Board making further productivity improvements, SEK 12.20, an increase of 32%.
The buyas part of its regular cycle of meetings also as well as understanding and influencing the back programmes approved by our conducted financial and business reviews changing business environment in which we shareholders at our Annual General Meeting as well as functional reviews, which this year and our stakeholders operate.
You can hear AGM, under which we return cash to paid particular attention to risk assessment, more about the Companys strategy from shareholders in excess of our anticipated compliance, human resources, and safety, David Brennan in the section that follows.
requirements for future investment, amounted health and environmental issues.
More about David and his management team have my to $4,147 million in 2006.
We are targeting these issues is provided elsewhere in this and the Boards unqualified support for the net share re-purchases for 2007 of $4 billion.
report and also in the Corporate Responsibility steps they are taking to address the challenges Summary Report 2006. that AstraZeneca and our industry are facing.
On page 90 we report on our total shareholder return relative to the FTSE 100 There were a number of changes to the and to a group of our industry peers.
Non-Executive composition of the Board during the year.
Professor Dame Nancy The Board conducted its annual formal strategy Rothwell was elected at the 2006 AGM.
review and reinforced our commitment to the Dame Nancy is currently Vice President for LOUIS SCHWEITZER delivery of sustained revenue growth through Research at the University of Manchester in Chairman an R&D model that delivers new science the UK and as one of the leading scientists and innovative products through in-house of her generation she brings a valuable capabilities and external partnerships, perspective to our discussions.
