Filename: 824560 01.3d Time: 14:32:39 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 1531562998 CHAIRMANS MESSAGE Our results for the 2006 financial year were excellent.
Earnings per share before specic items grew by 8% to 19.5 pence.
We continued to invest signicantly in technologies and systems designed to transform our customers experience, at the same time as generating free cash ow of 1.6 billion.
The news on dividends is again positive.
Your Board is THE BOARD recommending a full-year dividend of 11.9 pence per share There were a number of changes to your Board during the year.
a pay out ratio of 61% of earnings before specic items, I would like to welcome Matti Alahuhta and Phil Hodkinson as compared with 57% last year.
We continue our progressive non-executive directors.
Matti has been President of Kone dividend policy and expect our pay out ratio to rise to around Corporation since January 2005 and was previously at Nokia: two-thirds of earnings in the 2008 financial year.
Phil is Group Finance Director of HBOS.
Both bring a wide We operated our share buy back programme again in the range of commercial and senior management experience to 2006 financial year.
This is being funded from cash generated your company.
I would also like to thank Lou Hughes who over and above that required for servicing our debt, which stepped down as a non-executive director on 31 March 2006 for remains below 8 billion.
his excellent contribution over more than six years.
Im pleased that his experience is not lost to us: he has joined our Americas BUSINESS PROGRESS Advisory Board.
We continued to implement our strategy of growth through business transformation.
Your Board has given its backing to OUR WIDER RESPONSIBILITIES targeted acquisitions that will help us confirm our status as a Our aim as a communications company is to operate in a leading player in the global networked IT services market.
In the socially responsible and sustainable way and to ensure that we 2006 financial year, we acquired Atlanet in Italy as part of a help everyone benefit from improved communications and major deal with Fiat, Cara Group in Ireland and Total Network enhanced connectivity.
Im very proud of the fact that, for the Solutions in the UK.
And in the UK, we now have almost eight fifth year in a row, BT was the highest placed million broadband lines over which we are able to offer telecommunications company in the Dow Jones Sustainability customers exciting, next-generation voice and entertainment Index.
New wave revenue grew by 38% to 6.3 billion, and Climate change has been moving inexorably up the social accounted for around one-third of our total business.
and corporate agendas for a number of years now.
Although telecommunications technology is environmentally friendly, BT REGULATION is one of the largest companies in the UK and one of the largest We believe that a fair and exible regulatory regime is vital for consumers of electricity.
Our operations inevitably have an our industry, for ensuring that we can meet customers growing impact on the environment and we take the job of managing needs and for encouraging investment.
We were pleased that, that impact seriously.
We are now, for example, meeting almost following its strategic review of telecommunications, Ofcom all our UK electricity needs from environmentally friendly accepted the set of legally-binding Undertakings that BT sources, including wind generation, solar, wave and proposed in order to transform the regulatory landscape in the hydroelectric schemes.
We believe that the impact of these Undertakings will be to focus regulation where it remains necessary at the same time as LOOKING FORWARD stimulating fide-regulation wherever possible.
I am very grateful to our shareholders and our customers for their continued loyalty and the confidence that they have shown PENSIONS in BTs programme of transformation.
Id like to thank our BT stands fully behind its pension promise to pensioners and employees for making that programme happen.
members of the BT Pension Scheme BTPS.
The scheme is Your company is well set for continued success in the years well-managed and its assets have grown very signicantly in ahead.
Our performance underpins our confidence that we can recent years, from 23 billion at the end of 2002 to more than continue to grow revenue, EBITDA, earnings per share and 35 billion currently.
The accounting deficit has almost halved dividends over the coming year, and accelerate the strategic in the last year alone.
With the Trustees of the BTPS, we are transformation of the business.
continuing discussions on the triennial funding valuation of the scheme.
In particular, we aim to review recent pensions legislation and guidelines, and examine the implications and extent of the Crown Guarantee given on privatisation in 1984.
The Crown Guarantee, which applies to liabilities assumed by BT in 1984 and only in the event of insolvency, is an extra layer Sir Christopher Bland of security for BT pensioners.
Chairman 17 May 2006 Chairmans message BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 3
