FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 Statement by the Chairman A year of dynamic progress and outstanding performance 2006 has been a year of dynamic progress and outstanding including costs.
This business, which operates in the performance, as anticipated in my closing comments in last energetics industry, is complementary to Nobel Energetics years annual report.
Operating profit and profit before tax and Leafield Engineering.
both increased by over 65% to 37.8 million Throughout the year, the Group has continued its search for 2005: 22.9 million and 31.8 million 2005: 19.2 million respectively, with basic earnings per further suitable acquisition opportunities in energetics, share on continuing operations, on the enlarged share particularly, but not exclusively, in the US.
Some targets, after capital following the vendor placing in March 2006, rising by careful examination, were found not to meet our criteria, and in others we refused to meet the vendors expectations on 51% to 70.33p 2005: 46.63p.
In view of the excellent performance of the Group this year, the Board is price.
Our activities in this area continue.
recommending a final dividend of 11.20p per ordinary share, a 53% increase on the final dividend for 2005.
Disposals As indicated in last years annual report, the Marine division was determined to be non-core.
The Marine Lights business Both the Countermeasures and Energetics divisions contributed strongly in the year, and there was a welcome was sold during the year, and since the year end, we have improvement in Energetics margins which increased to reached conditional agreement on the sale of all but one small part of the Marine Electronics business.
the losses from the Group and, once we have completed the Our acquisitions completed in the latter part of 2005 and sale of the Marine Electronics business, over 7 million of during 2006 - Nobel Energetics in Scotland, Comet in cash will have been received.
The cash will be reinvested in our two core divisions.
The residual Marine Electronics Germany, Technical Ordnance in the US and Leafield business is being carried in the Groups accounts at minimal Engineering in England - all contributed as anticipated.
In 2007 we will enjoy a full years profits from the businesses value, giving the prospect of a small recovery when sold.
Countermeasures As the worlds largest manufacturer of countermeasure Balance Sheet and Cash Flow decoys, with over 50% market share, and the leading supplier In 2006 the Group delivered a very strong operating cash flow of 45.6 million.
Approximately 60% of our acquisitions to the US military, the Groups three countermeasure businesses have all been operating at full stretch to meet the were debt-funded, which increased net debt to 70.6 million increasing demands of armed forces involved in conflicts - a satisfactory debt equity ratio of 75%.
Historically, British around the globe, particularly in the protection of helicopters companies have tended to be geared more conservatively, using balance sheet ratios rather than the interest cover and transport aircraft.
approach which is now predominant in the US and which is All three businesses had a record year in 2006, resulting in a a strong feature of venture capital funding - a competitive 37% increase in the operating profits of this division to force in our search for suitable acquisitions.
of the Groups cash generation from our growing earnings, the Board has determined that, in the short term, the Group The requirements for Iraq and Afghanistan inevitably had a can afford to continue debt funding acquisitions, recognising significant impact on demand but major orders were also the speed at which such debt can be repaid.
The Group will received for future years for new aircraft not linked to these however, as deemed prudent and as it did in 2006, continue conflicts.
to raise equity, as appropriate, as part of its acquisition strategy.
Production commenced in the extension to Alloy Surfaces Acquisitions Since I last reported at the half year, the Group has acquired second plant in June 2006, and the third plant is currently B. D. L. Systems in England for approximately 10 million being commissioned, providing valuable additional capacity.
P 3 CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Statement by the Chairman - continued Kilgore installed additional manufacturing facilities for two Health and Safety new products, and has received multi-year orders for a flare In the majority of our plants throughout the world, the developed by the company to protect the new F-22 Raptor.
Group is heavily involved in the handling of energetic and Chemring Countermeasures in the UK had particular success volatile materials which can, if not stringently controlled, prove hazardous.
The Board has determined that, as part of its during the year with demand for its new spectral decoy, future strategy, the Group will expand its operations in this developed through its own research and development activity, area.
It is incumbent upon us therefore to be at the forefront requiring the establishment of an additional production line.
in whatever methods can be developed to minimise health and safety risks in our manufacturing facilities.
Consequently, Energetics a major investment programme is underway, which will result Despite this division not benefiting from a full years in increased automation to remove employees from sensitive contribution from the newly-acquired businesses, revenue still processes: additional physical barriers to provide protection increased to 69.3 million 2005: 30.2 million.
A notional for employees: and manufacturing processes that minimise the full twelve months performance, including all businesses, risk of incidents.
These processes will be supported by a would have produced revenue of approximately 90 million.
continuous programme of employee training and education.
Divisional profitability increased to 10.4 million 2005: 2.3 million and, as referred to above, an encouraging Health and safety issues are reviewed by the Executive improvement in profit margins to 15% was also achieved.
Committee and the Board every month.
The Board recognises that the highest standards are required in this area The main objectives during the year have been the if we are to achieve our desired growth and maintain development of an effective organisational structure to leadership in the Groups chosen markets.
maximise the performance of the businesses in the division: The Board of Directors and Senior the establishment of a customer-facing, worldwide, marketing Executive Management and selling strategy and sales force: and the rationalisation of During the year I was delighted to welcome production plants to optimise manufacturing efficiencies.
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman to the Board.
Roger Freeman has a wealth of experience, having enjoyed senior roles in the This division now has plants in Germany, Spain, Australia, the financial and defence industry sectors, and was formerly a US, and four plants in the UK.
Government minister in the Ministry of Defence.
He has assumed the position of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Group Strategy In last years annual report I outlined the Boards strategy of We also appointed two senior executives to strengthen our concentrating on our two divisions of Countermeasures and operational management during the year.
In the Group in January 2006 as Managing Director of the Countermeasures we are capitalising on our industry Energetics division, outside of the US, and Dan McKenrick, strengths, developing new decoys and new military uses for a US national, joined us in September 2006 as President of our US operations.
our specialised pyrophoric material, and investing in plant, equipment and new production processes to reduce Insurance Claim manufacturing costs and improve quality.
In Energetics we The Group has now commenced legal action against its continue our search for suitable acquisitions to make us a former insurance broker Willis, for the recovery of additional consolidating force in a fragmented industry.
amounts in excess of the $17 million paid out by Royal & Sun Alliance in respect of the 2001 incident at As a Group with a worldwide capability, we have been Kilgore.
Our claim is valued at over $8 million.
Willis has yet developing a strategy to increase our presence and marketing to serve its defence and no date has been set for a Court activities in the Middle East and in the major and growing hearing.
The Group continues to carry forward in its balance economies east to Japan.
B. D. L. Systems brought with it an sheet the debtor established previously.
Costs incurred in the office in Dubai, which we intend to use to develop further meantime have been expensed.
our existing and extensive relationships in this part of the world.
Our tactics for the other major territories in Asia and Corporate Governance the Far East, where we already enjoy substantial business, are The Group has made significant progress in recent years in meeting the corporate governance standards which are now being established on a country by country basis.
P 4 FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 expected of us.
However, the demands on public companies The Board is considering the introduction of a new defined and their directors continue to grow every year, although contribution scheme for the considerable number of our UK possibly now at a slower rate as it is generally recognised that employees who currently choose not to participate in the defined benefit scheme.
This will provide an alternative to the enough is enough.
It should be recognised that, for any new National Pensions Saving Scheme being introduced by other than the very largest companies, the administration of the Government but will offer better benefits for employees.
these increased requirements incurs significant cost and The UK-based Chemring Group Executive Pension Scheme absorbs management time, with little or no perceived benefit was closed to new entrants some years ago.
to the company or its shareholders.
We continue to strive however to meet the varying demands of the different Dividends self-appointed regulators in this area, and last year generally The Board is recommending a final dividend of 11.20p per received a clean bill of health, which I trust we will repeat ordinary share, a 53% increase on the final dividend for 2005. this year.
This, together with the interim dividend of 4.80p paid in August 2006, gives a total dividend for the year of 16.00p, The new and substantial Companies Act 2006 will bring a 52% increase over 2005.
The dividend is over four times further new challenges and difficult responsibilities for covered on net profits of the continuing operations.
The directors, with the prospect of considerable confusion in shares will be marked ex dividend on 28 March 2007 and many areas if it is as badly drafted as much recent legislation.
the dividend is payable on 20 April 2007 to shareholders on Unfortunately, none of these initiatives help British the register at the close of business on 30 March 2007. companies in a global competitive environment.
Prospects Employees In the year under review basic earnings per share from The Group now has more than 2,100 employees around the continuing operations increased by 51% to 70.33p, the share world.
We strive to be an employer of choice, providing price reached over 16 from 6.60, and the Group was competitive terms and conditions wherever we are located, admitted to the FTSE 250 Index.
Whilst it would be with a favourable working environment recognising that unrealistic to believe that such outstanding performance companies working with volatile materials obviously have could be repeated continuously in the longer term, the Board limitations in this area.
To those who have years of service believes that with the current record order book, a full twelve with the Group, I convey our thanks once again for your months earnings from each of the companies now in the efforts which have produced another outstanding years Group, and the opportunities for our product range at a time results.
To those who have just joined or been assumed of political and military uncertainty, not just in the through acquisition, I hope you will find working for the Middle East, further significant growth is achievable in 2007.
Group an enjoyable and constructive experience.
Pensions The Board has spent a considerable amount of time analysing and debating this complex subject, with regard to both the Groups existing obligations and future pension provision for K C Scobie employees in the constantly-changing pension world.
The Chairman Board currently intends to retain the Groups defined benefit pension scheme in the UK for existing members but with 23 January 2007 restricted entry on a discretionary basis for new employees.
In line with many other companies, the Board has had to recognise the significantly increasing costs, arising from factors such as increased longevity, of maintaining such a scheme.
The schemes triennial actuarial valuation is currently being undertaken and whereas I remain confident, on normal commercial investment criteria, that no deficit should arise, the basis of valuation stipulated by current pensions regulations may produce a theoretical deficit.
It is hoped that, should this occur, a recovery plan as permitted by the Pension Regulator can be constructed which is satisfactory to all parties.
