Statement by the Chairman Sir John Ritblat My general view of property as an investment class is that it remains at least as good as anything else, if not better.
This is my 35th Annual Report to shareholders and I am international renown.
Over the years we extended the site, pleased to tell you that the Company is in a position of redeveloped the building, and recently sold only a part of great strength.
Today British Land owns or manages some the new Plantation Place offices for 527 million.
18 billion of prime property, making it Europes largest Our underlying strategy has been consistently applied quoted property company by this measure.
In the year for many years.
Achieving ownership of the 30 acre ended 31 March 2006, total return before refinancing Broadgate Estate in stages over a 20 year span was charges is 35% and for the fifth successive year the another long-term venture.
It began with a participation in dividend increase exceeds 8%, with a final dividend of the One Finsbury Avenue office development in 1983, and 11.8p per share, making a total of 17p for the year.
now extends to over 4 million sq ft, with another 820,000 Shareholders will welcome these outcomes, not least sq ft currently under development.
It was a similar story at because the value they represent has taken our stock the Regents Place Estate, half purchased in 1984, the market capitalisation well beyond 6 billion.
Net assets, other half in 1986, which is still in course of redevelopment now 7.8 billion, have risen by 32% to 1486p per share on and revitalisation to provide an additional 1 million sq ft, an EPRA basis.
making just over 2 million sq ft of space in all.
We have joint-ventured with others throughout 150th Anniversary Commercial Union, GUS, House of Fraser, Scottish & In 2006 we celebrate the 150th anniversary of The British Newcastle, the Quantum Fund run by George Soros, and Land Companys original incorporation.
The Company Tesco, to name a few of our many partners.
started as part of the great electoral Reform movement of the mid-19th century, when few people had the vote, but Core values ownership of an interest in land worth only 2 in rent per So while there have been important changes in markets year conferred that right.
British Land bought tracts of generally over the last 35 years, the core values that built land, mostly in and around London, which could be subBritish Land successfully remain more valid than ever, and divided into plots on which houses could be built and so much of our current prosperity derives from earlier votes obtained.
Property is a long-term This early political significance did not last long.
The game and it is vital to have the strength of conviction and Company soon concentrated on conventional business, strength of finances to build enduring value.
Our focus on and for the first three-quarters of its existence it survived prime property and on certainty of income remain at a very modest level of activity, but it invested prudently distinctive benefits, as they have been in past years.
It is only in the last quarter Freeholds are no less attractive now than they were 150 of its long lifespan that British Land has grown to take its years ago in 1856. place among the top 50 of all listed British companies.
We are also nimble and accomplished deal makers.
This is a source of pride to all who have contributed to its With undoubted liquidity and a large high-quality asset considerable endeavours over this period.
base, we can take full advantage of market opportunities British Lands equity base in 1970 was just 20 million, to add to or reshape the portfolio as we did in the past and so we have come a long way!
In my second year we have done again with Pillar this year.
embarked on a double takeover, first of Haleybridge Sectoral trends come and go, as do commentator Investment Trust and then, using Haleybridges holding in enthusiasms.
We offer our shareholders the transparency Regis Property as a platform, we acquired Regis as well.
of quarterly reporting, but one of our perennial strengths Regis famously owned a prime City of London office must be to look beyond temporary fashion, using our building, the 365,000 sq ft net Plantation House, in scale expertise to allocate and reallocate capital across sectors quite beyond the reach of the old British Land.
It housed and types of property.
In this way we capture superior banks, insurers and commodity exchanges, enjoying long-term gains, but avoid short-term diversions that may build column inches rather than substantive value.
6 6 The British Land Company PL The British Land Company PLC C REITS and the future add considerable lustre and relevant experience to our We welcome the Governments long overdue introduction deliberations.
Lord Turnbulls distinguished career in public of Real Estate Investment Trust REIT legislation to the service, latterly as Secretary to the Cabinet and Head of UK which should be operational during the current the Home Civil Service, is particularly apposite to the financial year.
important public policy issues that regularly involve our Much work has gone into REITs and it represents an industry.
Our extensive retail property interests will benefit important recognition, as it has elsewhere, of the positive from the deep insights and experience in retail and role that a vibrant, onshore, quoted property industry can consumer fields of Kate Swann, who is Chief Executive of play in regeneration of the UKs built infrastructure and WH Smith PLC.
as a facilitator of economic expansion.
We are also pleased to nominate, at the AGM, two new These outcomes rely on the operation of open markets executive directors.
Andrew Jones, who joined us with to allocate capital efficiently and to drive performance.
We Pillar in 2005, and Tim Roberts, who joined in 1997, have support the market friendly model of REIT legislation, worked to great effect as Co-Heads of Asset Management which has been selected here and is enjoyed by investors since last summer and will lead our Retail and Office in other major economies.
While not all the detail has been settled, we feel we Retiring at the AGM are three directors, to each already know enough to conclude that the REITs regime of whom we owe special gratitude and appreciation.
We therefore have decided in Sir Derek Higgs, our Deputy Chairman, joined the Board in principle to apply for this status from the earliest possible 2000 and has been a stalwart and leading light on the date.
With a level playing field in tax terms, I am confident Board since then.
Patrick Vaughan also retires having, as that a British Land REIT will prosper and be able to pursue agreed, helped us through the successful integration of creating growth and value from our property assets, and Pillar, of which he was Chief Executive.
His contribution in with little change from the fundamentals of our current this, as well as more broadly, has been substantial.
John joined me in 1971 at the My general view of property as an investment class is beginning of the revival of the Company, and his that it remains at least as good as anything else, if not contribution to the Company for 35 years has been better.
With the firm foundation of quality assets providing immense.
For five years he managed British Land of strong, sustainable and growing cash flows, the Company America, and on his return to the United Kingdom he took has a great deal to offer currently and prospectively.
over the role of Finance Director.
He is both friend and colleague and has been an enormous contributor to our The Board success.
We are very pleased to welcome some newcomers Other forthcoming departures include the evergreen to the Board.
Joining as non-executive directors from Cyril Metliss, a friend who has concluded a further 1 April are Lord Turnbull and Kate Swann, who will both three-years service on our operating boards following 32 outstanding years as an executive director: and the retirements after many invaluable years of our long-serving Chief Surveyor, Michael Gunston, and Deputy Chief Surveyor, John Iddiols.
We shall be saying farewell also to our Cornwall Terrace headquarters, where we have run out of space.
In 2007 we move to our new building at Marble Arch, where our team, energetic as always, will continue to flourish.
Sir John Ritblat Chairman 1 June 2006 The British Land Company PL The British Land Company PLC C 7 7
