Chairmans statement 05 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2006 Overview Responsible business We are strongly aware of our responsibilities to staff and to the The Company has delivered another wider community.
We have long regarded it as good business to striking performance in 2006, with a total engage with all stakeholders, and have more recently taken steps to co-ordinate and measure our efforts.
To this end we have return on equity of 32%.
appointed a Board Committee chaired by Alan Coppin to supervise this initiative.
Our share price has also performed strongly.
Total shareholder return dividends plus the increase in the share price over the year In particular, we believe that good day-to-day shopping centre was 81%, the highest of our peer Group of 13 companies in the management can make a real difference to the environment.
We FTSE Real Estate sector capitalised at more than 1 billion.
have taken a lead with the Enviromall Partnership, where we have linked with a number of industry bodies to develop benchmarks Dividend for the industry.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 17p 2005: 11p, bringing the total for the year to 26p 2005: 18p, a 44% increase.
Our twenty-first anniversary Over the past ten years dividends have increased at an average rate 2007 is our twenty-first anniversary as a publicly traded company.
We started on the Unlisted Securities Market the predecessor of AIM in 1986 with 55 employees and an initial market capitalisation Dividend Year on year increase 2006 2005 of 7 million.
Today we have 936 employees and a market Interim 29% 9p 7p capitalisation of well over 1 billion.
That journey would not have Final 55% 17p 11p been possible without the exceptional efforts and contribution of Total 44% 26p 18p employees past and present and I would like to thank them warmly.
The proposed distribution for 2006 is fully covered by our recurring At our coming of age, we can look back at our success so far with profits alone, allowing performance fees earned from the funds to some satisfaction and pride but more importantly, we are looking be reinvested in the growth of the business.
forward to applying the strength and experience we have built up to make the very best of the opportunities in the years to come.
The Board During the year we appointed two new independent non-executive Tom Chandos directors.
Philip Newton was until recently the chief executive of Chairman Merchant Retail Group plc, where he built up the successful Perfume Shop chain.
Manjit Wolstenholme, formerly a member of Gleacher Shacklock LLC and co-head of investment banking at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein has also taken over as chair of the Remuneration Committee.
