Chairmans statement After a transformational year, Derwent London, Derwent Market review Valley Holdings new name following its merger with Rental growth fulfilled expectations, especially in the London Merchant Securities LMS, reports excellent West End, as tenant demand flourished and the supply results for the year ended 31st December 2006. of vacant space receded.
Yield compression was also still evident as demand from the investment market showed The merger created one of Londons leading West End no sign of faltering.
office specialists with a market capitalisation in excess of 2 billion making it the sixth largest UK listed property The year was an exceptionally productive one for the company.
The benefits and the prospects for the group in terms of letting activity, the high points being enlarged group are dealt with below.
the successes at its three largest projects.
In the first half of the year, Telstar, Paddington, where the group Results overview is acting as development manager for Prudential, was The merger was completed on 1st February 2007 and, pre-let to Rio Tinto.
The Johnson Building, Hatton accordingly, these results do not include those of LMS.
Garden, is now fully let and Horseferry House, Victoria The adjusted net asset value increased by 33% to was pre-let to Burberry as its new global headquarters, 950 million, equivalent to 1,770p per share compared at a very early stage of its refurbishment.
These three with 1,335p last year.
The property portfolio was valued transactions, which combined have a floor area of 2 at 1.3 billion, producing a surplus of 223 million on 39,000m, demonstrate the high level of demand for the the previous year.
Properties held for the full year gained groups product.
For Derwent London, continuing this in value by 21.6% compared to 14.8% in 2005. success involves three principal factors that the board believe give a competitive advantage.
First, create At 16.4 million, adjusted profit before tax was marginally interesting and design-led space that stands apart.
lower than the 16.7 million achieved last year.
Profits Second, be enterprising and prepared to invest in those were held back as a consequence of the groups strategy London villages that have the essential characteristics of foregoing income and taking possession of properties necessary for future improvement.
Third, target schemes where opportunities for value enhancing development predominantly at the middle market, where rents are 2 schemes were evident.
Applying these principles 2 to the merged portfolio, which comprises over 440,000m During the year, 58.3 million was expended on of space in central London and has a project pipeline of 2 acquisitions including 24.8 million on the Astoria, 315,000m, should deliver further net asset growth.
Charing Cross Road and 17 Oxford Street.
At 18.7 million, capital expenditure on projects was lower Merger than anticipated due to unexpected delays caused by The merger effectively doubled the size of the company.
the increasingly protracted planning environment within This, together with the additional depth in management which the group operates.
Disposal proceeds totalled resource, will allow the group to make larger acquisitions 31.2 million and gave a profit of 2.9 million.
and increase the scale of its future redevelopment and refurbishment schemes in central London.
Dividends The terms of the merger with LMS necessitated a Integration of the two businesses is proceeding change to the timing of the payment of the 2006 final smoothly with a phased transfer of personnel to Savile dividend.
Shareholders of Derwent Valley Holdings Row due to be completed by early April.
The annual cost received a second interim dividend of 10.525p per share savings, to be achieved through synergy, are estimated on 23rd February 2007, in lieu of the final dividend at 4.5 million by 2008.
The net savings in 2007 are normally paid in June.
This, together with the first interim expected to be half this figure.
dividend of 4.225p paid on 6th November 2006, gave a total payment for the year of 14.75p, an increase of 8% on the previous year.
The companys next dividend payment will be the interim dividend for the year to 31st December 2007, which is expected to be paid in November 2007.
4 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2006 The Qube Fitzrovia, W1 2 10,000m of ces retail Completion: Summer 2007 Portobello Dock Ladbroke Grove, W10 2 6,400m mixed use Completion: Autumn 2007 Chairmans statement The combination of the two companies portfolios EGM to approve the changes to the companys articles presented a unique opportunity to create a new major of association needed to achieve this.
The targeted ownership within the central London commercial conversion date is 1st July 2007.
Upon conversion, the property market, with 2.2 billion of property located in group will be required to pay a one-off charge calculated this key sector.
Whilst Derwent Valley Holdings focussed at 2% of the groups gross assets.
Based on the proforma its efforts solely within this area, LMS historically held value of the investment portfolio, the conversion charge some of its assets outside London.
It is the boards would be 46 million.
intention that the new group will become wholly concentrated on central London and, therefore, assets The board has reviewed its dividend policy in light of outside this core area, with a value of 0.3 billion, the merger and the pending conversion to REIT status.
will be disposed of in a timely and efficient way.
The Historically, the groups strategy has been to maximise proceeds of these sales will either be recycled into total returns and this will continue post the merger and the extensive pipeline of projects or reinvested in REIT conversion.
The board has concluded that Derwent London will pay The enlarged group has a significantly enhanced dividends broadly equal to the aggregate of the current presence in two major London hubs the West End and dividend distributions of the two companies plus a the City borders which are currently two of the most significant proportion of the tax saving on recurring profit dynamic locations for property investment.
The total arising from REIT conversion.
Since conversion will take portfolio value is 2.5 billion, of which 1.7 billion is place part way through 2007, the dividend for this year in the West End, and 0.5 billion in the City borders.
Traditionally, Derwent Valley Holdings pursued a policy of owning assets with a relatively short lease profile, Going forward, the board plans to continue the groups which provided future refurbishment and development existing progressive dividend policy, in line with adjusted opportunities.
In contrast, LMS concentrated on letting earnings growth.
buildings on longer leases and at some of the larger buildings, these leases are approaching the end of their The board consider that the benefits to the group of terms.
This will present exciting opportunities to apply converting to a REIT are: Derwents design-led philosophy and active asset A globally recognised structure for investors to management approach to regenerate the properties gain exposure to the groups assets and enhance value.
No tax on property rental income or chargeable gains on disposals The board Elimination of latent capital gains tax liability on the In addition to my appointment as chairman, the merger investment property portfolio a proforma amount has brought other changes to the board.
that John Ivey, the companys former chairman, has agreed to become deputy chairman.
John has made Prospects a substantial contribution to the development of the With yield compression unlikely to contribute significantly group and I look forward to benefiting from his knowledge to performance, it is encouraging that rental growth and experience.
John Burns, Derwent Valley Holdings in central London, where the portfolios average rent 2 managing director, became chief executive officer of is only 255 per m, looks firmly set to continue.
For the enlarged group and Simon Silver became head of Derwent London shareholders, the future offers the development.
Nick Friedlos joined the board in an exciting prospects of REIT status, a portfolio packed executive capacity and June fide Moller and Donald with opportunities and a specific focus on central Newell, former non-executive directors at LMS, London.
I look forward to reporting to you later in the continue in that capacity for the enlarged group.
year on the groups progress.
REITS The group is planning to elect for REIT status and R. A. Rayne shareholders will shortly receive a circular convening an 20th March 2007 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2006 7
