04 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2006 Chairmans statement Our development programme is now swinging into full gear at what appears to be an advantageous moment in the property cycle.
Knighton House, for nearly 45 years the headquarters of Looking ahead, we are giving detailed thought your Company, is currently the subject of an extensive as to whether it is in the Companys best interests to refurbishment and so, as I write my twenty-first convert into a Real Estate Investment Trust, where the statement, it is the first from our new offices in Chancellors proposals in March were friendlier than Cavendish Square and, by coincidence, this is the the industry might have anticipated.
We have achieved first Annual Report prepared in accordance with exceptional returns recently and, whilst it is unlikely that the new format and revised presentation required we will be able to repeat them in the immediate future under International Financial Reporting Standards.
although I remember writing something similar in the late 80s only to be proved wrong!
I believe that we In the context of this environment and the plethora of should be able to provide a satisfactory performance in financial detail and corporate governance information the coming years.
In conclusion, I would like to thank contained in the following pages, I am beginning to feel my fellow Board members and all associated with the that the traditional Chairmans statement is becoming Group for their support and hard work in helping to something of an anachronism and I shall, therefore, achieve these excellent results.
confine myself to a few very brief introductory remarks.
It has been a high octane year, fuelled by an increasingly frothy investment market, and one in which our Chief Executive, Toby Courtauld, and his well regarded team have produced another strong performance, based on our focus in central London and by applying our asset management and development expertise to create added Richard Peskin value in our chosen areas.
Indeed, the development Chairman programme is now swinging into full gear at what appears to be an advantageous moment in the property cycle.
We have also been active on the financial front where our recently appointed Finance Director, Timon Drakesmith, has implemented more financial restructuring, thereby further reducing the average cost of debt.
At 31 March net assets per share, despite a one-off hit on the repurchasing of a Debenture, stood at 437 pence, a rise of 29.7% and a total shareholder return of 53.9% was delivered for the year under review.
