JohnNelson In 2006 the Company showed an increase in net asset value per share of Good progress was also made in advancing a number of other major 21.3% to 15.00 and generated a return on shareholders equity of 25.3%.
Planning permission was obtained for the New Retail Quarter in Sheffield in August, whilst in February 2007 Adjusted earnings per share increased by 5.1% to 32.8 pence, primarily a resolution to grant planning consent was passed for Eastgate reflecting additional rental income.
Both of these are medium-term projects The Board is recommending a final dividend of 15.3 pence per share, making that we shall advance over the next few years.
a total for 2006 of 21.68 pence per share, an increase of 10% on last year.
Taxation and REITs Progress in 2006 The UK Government introduced the tax-exempt Real Estate Investment Hammerson enjoyed another very active year in 2006, maintaining Trust REIT regime in January 2007.
I believe that the REIT environment momentum across the business.
We continued our policy of active will lead to greater liquidity and transparency in the real estate market recycling of capital to enhance returns.
We invested over 800 million, and attract new capital to the industry, resulting in an improvement to principally on acquiring assets and on our development programme.
the nations commercial property stock.
This is likely to benefit investors Highlights were the acquisition in August of a portfolio of retail parks in in real estate companies and the wider UK economy.
the UK for 427 million and the completion in May of the redevelopment of 9 place Vendme in Paris, with the latter generating a development Following approval by shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting profit to Hammerson of 81 million on our cost of 86 million.
Disposals in December 2006, Hammerson elected for REIT status.
From 1 January during 2006 raised 628 million and included the sale of Liberty 2007 Hammerson is exempt from corporation tax on its property income Shopping Centre, Romford, two assets in Germany and a 50% stake and capital gains on disposals of UK investment properties.
Starting in July in 125 Old Broad Street, London EC2.
2007 Hammerson will make four quarterly payments totalling 101 million, representing the entry charge, to the Treasury.
The Company has been able Excellent progress has been made on the major city centre retail-led to write back deferred tax no longer required amounting to 457 million regeneration schemes in Leicester and Bristol, both of which are in respect of unrealised capital gains, thereby increasing equity scheduled to open in Autumn 2008.
I am particularly encouraged by shareholders funds.
the level of lettings we have achieved and this augurs well for the future success of both projects.
Property markets and outlook Ret il property During 2006 we started the redevelopments of 125 Old Broad Street, previously the London Stock Exchange, and the adjacent site, 60 UK consumer confidence improved in 2006 following weakness in 2005.
In November we sold a 50% interest in the former Sales for non-food retailers increased by 2.2% in 2006, compared to scheme to show a very high return.
We also commenced work on a fall of 0.7% the previous year.
Against this backdrop, there was modest a substantial retail development in Aberdeen and a major expansion and rental growth at prime shopping centres and retail parks, but retailers are refurbishment of the groups Parinor retail centre on the outskirts of Paris.
looking for additional incentives, including longer rent-free periods.
8 AnnualReport2006 Annual AnnualR Report eport2006 2006 9 9 Section 02 [ ]  We expect retailers generally to see positive sales growth in 2007 at the following the recent increases in interest rates in both countries, the strongest trading locations, leading to further increases in rental levels.
positive differential between property investment yields and borrowing costs has been largely eliminated or reversed, reducing the attractions In France non-food retail sales grew by 3.7% in 2006 compared to 3.4% of property to some debt financed investors.
Against this background, the previous year.
Demand from retailers for space improved at the best we believe that capital growth in 2007 will depend more on asset locations, supporting higher rents for new leases, a trend we expect to management initiatives and increases in rental income than a further continue in 2007.
Rents on existing leases in France are linked annually downward movement in investment yields.
In France continued demand to a cost of construction index.
The latest index, applicable from should lead to further capital growth.
Secondary property remains 1 January, is 7.1%.
potentially more vulnerable to any market weakness.
Office property Board changes Demand for office accommodation followed similar trends in the City I am delighted that David Atkins was appointed to the Board as an of London and Paris, with buoyant levels of letting activity.
The central Executive Director in January 2007.
David is a Chartered Surveyor and London office market saw a substantial increase in the level of take-up joined Hammerson in February 1998.
He retains responsibility for the of space during 2006 compared to the previous year, with a combination management of the groups retail property business in the UK.
of sustained demand and little additional supply leading to a reduction in the overall market vacancy rate.
Rent-free periods shortened dramatically I am pleased to announce that Jacques Espinasse has agreed to join and rents saw strong growth, particularly for prime office accommodation.
the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 May 2007.
Although there has been an increase in the level of development activity Jacques is a member of the Management Board and Chief Financial during 2006, continued demand for space and further reductions in Officer of Vivendi Universal.
His outstanding career in the management vacancy are anticipated to lead to higher rents in 2007. of major international companies means that he brings a wealth of experience and I am confident he will make a major contribution In the central Paris office market, there was a substantial increase to Hammerson.
in leasing activity in 2006 over the previous year with many office occupiers seeking to consolidate their businesses into single locations John Bywater, currently Managing Director of Hammersons UK business, offering more efficient office accommodation.
This trend is expected will stand down from the Board in March 2007 on reaching his normal to continue into 2007, leading to further rental growth.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank John for his leadership, enthusiasm and contribution to Hammerson over the past nine Investment markets years.
I would also like to pay tribute to John Barton who will stand down During 2006 demand from investors for real estate in the UK and France from the Board at the AGM in May 2007.
John has served as a Nonwas buoyant, particularly during the first half of the year, leading to Executive Director since 1998, latterly as Senior Independent Director, further appreciation in capital values.
We expect continued demand from and I would like to take this opportunity to thank him for his wise counsel.
a broad range of investors for prime investment properties.
However, 10 AnnualReport2006 I am also pleased to announce that John Clare will become Hammersons new Senior Independent Director at the AGM in May.
TheBoardexpects Hammersons success is due to the skills, commitment and enthusiasm tobeableto of our staff.
I am sure that our shareholders will join me, on behalf of the Board, in thanking them all for their continuing efforts.
recommendan Summary and outlook Hammerson has a portfolio of real estate assets of the highest quality increaseofaround in the UK and France.
We have a very experienced management team focusing on prime retail and office assets and creating value through 25%inthetotal developments.
We have achieved strong returns in recent years and this is demonstrated by our outperformance in the UK of the IPD index in nine out of the last ten years, making us one of the best performing dividendfor2007.
Our financing model is efficient and provides operational flexibility.
The Company now has major tax-exempt businesses in the UK and France.
Looking ahead, our rental income is projected to show substantial growth in 2007 with continued growth thereafter, enhanced by one of the most extensive development programmes in the sector.
Against this background, the Board expects to be able to recommend an increase of around 25% in the total dividend for 2007 over the proposed level for 2006.
We have a strong base from which to take Hammerson forward and I have every confidence that the Company will continue to thrive.
John Nelson, Chairman 9 March 2007 AnnualReport2006 11 Section 02 [ ]
