Left: Cobhams handheld video transmitter is a tool for first responders, government, military and law enforcement teams.
Right: A COM-201B VHF antenna Business review continued fitted to a HMMWV in Iraq.
Cobham Avionics Cobham Defence and Surveillance Electronic Systems Achieved EFIS certification for Strong financial performance in the second In the second half of 2006, the Division Excellent growth in vehicle The Division had another excellent year Microwave half of the year reflected growth in the began the integration of two LENS with exceptional margins and very strong In the microwave market, the Division the EC- 20B and AS350 355 intercom sales covert tracking Law Enforcement and companies, Orion and Micromill, and organic growth in revenue and the full remains focused on high priority family of helicopters National Security LENS markets and the one complementary search and rescue year impact of REMEC.
The Middle advanced tactical programmes for the Received largest military upturn in the commercial market for audio company, Seimac.
The new entity, East war continues to affect specific US Department of Defense.
Microwave Acquired domo Limited antenna award to date management and avionics technology.
Cobham Tracking & Locating, has been programmes for funding priorities with modules continue to be supplied for with digital wireless video Without the impact of Chelton Telecom well received by customers.
Operational particular emphasis placed on soldier ongoing production requirements for radar, technology Strengthened microwave and Microwave CTM in France reducing issues in the French telecom business, safety and ground vehicles as a EW, and communications, and navigation component sales and R&D its telecom revenue, organic growth is 8%.
CTM, have been addressed through consequence of the on-going ground systems for the F-16, F-18, F-22 and the Secured navigation and development programmes management changes and the telecoms conflict.
Whilst some large airborne and F-35 aircraft programmes, as well as communications system Avionics market exited.
shipboard radar, EW Electronic Warfare several missile programmes.
A number contract for the UH- 45 Following successful selection of the and communication programmes have of key R&D programmes started in the Light Utility helicopter Revenue Trading profit Divisions Synthetic Vision EFIS Electronic Search and rescue slipped, the ground communication year, using funding from primes and the m m Flight Instrument System for Bell In the search and rescue market, programmes in support of the US Army US DoD.
These advanced technology Helicopter platforms in 2005, the EFIS has Cobhams covert beacon technology is have more than compensated for these developments will strengthen the Revenue Trading profit 200 45 now achieved FAA Supplemental Type showing promise for the military market.
2007 will be another year for Divisions technical position in the antenna m m Certification for the Eurocopter EC-120B In January 2006, a contract worth more revenue growth, but this is likely to revert and RF Radio Frequency front end of 160 36 helicopter and the Eurocopter AS 350 355 than C$3m was received from Canadas to trend in 2008 particularly if operations Electronically Scanned Arrays of the future.
The next generation Department of National Defence for in the Middle East reduce.
It is anticipated navigation and communications system, personal locator beacons PLBs to be that the exceptional margins achieved Antenna subsystems 120 27 160 36 FliteLine, achieved full FAA certification.
used by Canadian Air Force aircrews during in 2006 will start to revert back to There has been strong organic growth in operational and training missions.
Further trend in 2007. ground communication antennas, with a A 10 million South African rand order was orders for PLBs were secured from the multi-year contract worth up to US$49m 80 18 120 27 secured to supply, install and support US Army and Danish Air Force.
Situational awareness awarded for the COM-201B portable seven dual EFIS for the Safair fleet of Ground Vehicle Intercom VHF antenna for the US Army.
A contract was also Communication system sales remain followed In December by the largest 80 18 won to supply the navigation and extremely strong with units being military antenna award to date for communications system for the EADS installed in most of the US Armys COM-231 vehicle mounted microwave 0 0 40 9 UH-145 Light Utility Helicopter.
fleet of Main Battle Tanks, Armoured antennas for the US Army, Navy, Air Force, 05 06 05 06 Personnel Carriers and Light Tactical and Marine Corps.
Whilst the award is on Law Enforcement and Vehicles currently deployed in theatre.
an Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity 0 0 National Security New network-centric products have basis with an initial one year contract and 05 06 05 06 Following the acquisition of domo been developed to support future four one year options, it could be worth Limited, a handheld video transmitter programmes which will provide a up to US$248m.
Good organic growth has completed development using basis for further growth in the future.
continued in airborne electronic warfare domos technology.
The product is The new Integrated Digital Soldier antennas, shipboard radar components, effectively a video flashlight transmitting System which provides Command, and support of US air traffic control radars.
images in the path of the beam and is Control, Communications and a tool for first responders, government, Situational Awareness capability military and law enforcement teams.
has now gone into service with the Domos capability is being exploited British Army and will also form the 4 across the Division and into adjacent basis of the FIST C I Lite system, areas within Cobham Antennas and which is scheduled for evaluation Cobham Defence Electronic Systems.
