20 Chairmans Statement Weve delivered a total business return of 32.4%, demonstrating a strong performance from all areas of the business.
Peter Birch Chairman The outstanding performance of Land Securities over the past 12 months can be summed up by the 28.5% growth in adjusted diluted net assets per share, driven largely by the 15.3% valuation surplus on our investment portfolio and the 293.0m profit on the sale of Telereal.
Growth in net assets is one of the leading financial measures against which we are benchmarked and I am delighted with this result in a year which was exceptional for both Land Securities and the property industry.
Under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS our pre-tax profit was 2,359.2m and now includes revaluation surpluses as well as exceptional items, providing a simple measure of the value we have created for shareholders.
Revenue profit, our measure of underlying pre-tax income, was up 8.2% to 391.3m and we are recommending a final dividend of 28.55p per share.
Over the year we have delivered a total business return of 32.4%.
Benchmarking We have reported against key benchmarks for three years now, allowing you to evaluate our performance against our major competitors and the underlying commercial property market.
Once again this year the Group outperformed all its key benchmarks and, given the important role benchmarks play, I hope you will not mind if I expand a little on these here.
Total shareholder return Total shareholder returns Total shareholder return is the most widely recognised way to compare returns from one publicly % return % return for six quoted company against another.
As a constituent of the FTSE100 we compare our performance for year to years to against both this and the FTSE Real Estate Index, over the 12 month period under review and 31 03 06 31 03 06 since 1 April 2000 when we embarked upon the reinvigoration of the business.
This year we Land Securities 54.3 224.4 produced a total shareholder return of 54.3% compared to 25.5% for the FTSE100 and 48.6% for FTSE100 25.5 9.8 FTSE Real Estate Index.
The returns over the six years since 1 April 2000 are even more impressive FTSE Real Estate 48.6 210.9 recording 224.4% for Land Securities compared to 9.8% for the FTSE100 and 210.9% for FTSE Source: Datastream Real Estate.
Investment Property Databank Total property returns The next benchmark we employ is an external commercial property benchmark, known as the Relative i i ii Year to 31 03 06 LS% IPD% return % Investment Property Databank IPD.
By participating in this benchmark, which is the industry Total portfolio 23.3 20.6 2.2 standard, we are able to compare the performance of our underlying property portfolios against the commercial property industry average.
It also enables us to set key performance indicators Source: IPD quarterly benchmark to March 2006 i includes acquisitions, sales and developments for our Retail and London Portfolio business units.
Our ungeared total investment portfolio return ii Relative return relates to the geometric not arithmetic difference between Land Securities and IPD was 23.3% as compared to 20.6% for the IPD quarterly benchmark.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 21 Chairmans Statement continued Land Securities returns % Weighted average cost of capital WACC We also compare our return on average capital employed against our WACC which reects the Years ended 31 March cost of the Groups equity and debt capital.
As well as providing a minimum hurdle rate for our 40 investment decisions this also provides a sharp focus on the returns we make from our property 35 investment, development and outsourcing activities.
This is essential in a capital intensive industry.
Over the past year our pre-tax WACC moved to 7%, which is half a percent lower than it was a year 30 ago as a result of a lower cost of debt.
Our returns signicantly exceeded our cost of capital with a 25 return on average capital employed of 26.4% and a return on average equity of 35.5%.
20 Performance highlights 15 In a year of high activity, I nd it extremely hard to pick key highlights to demonstrate to you why 10 I believe that this business is truly different to the organisation I joined when I became Chairman some eight years ago.
I have, therefore, chosen three examples which not only demonstrate links 5 to our sources of competitive advantage of scale, financial strength and skills but also ones which 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 link clearly to our values.
Return on average equity Return on average capital employed Weighted average cost of capital all figures are pre-tax The first is our acquisition of Tops Estates PLC which was the first acquisition of a publicly-quoted Excludes exceptional charge Note: 2002 03 weak London office market company made by us for over 35 years.
The fact that we could purchase a business for over 0.5bn including debt and finance this out of existing resources is testament to our financial strength, particularly as we also invested a further 1.8bn across our business in the same year.
We now own 30 shopping centres, which receive some 300 million visits per annum and provide some 5.8% of the retail accommodation across our core markets.
This represents scale in a fragmented industry and can only be of benefit to our customers, the retailers.
However, the reason that this acquisition so manifestly fulls our values criteria is because the founder Chairman and majority shareholder of Tops Estates, Everard Goodman, had sufficient confidence in our Company values that he recommended the sale to us of a business that he had spent a lifetime creating.
Second on my list is the completion of two of our substantial developments, namely the mixed-use Our values development at Cardinal Place, London SW1 and Whitefriars retail scheme in Canterbury.
To date, we have invested a total of 369.8m in developing these two schemes and our development and Integrity 2 2 project management teams delivered 46,580m of retail space and 51,130m of ofce space.
Respect for the individual The return on our investment, including acquisition costs, was 46.3%.
Cardinal and the Whitefriars Excellence Quarter are now in the top ten properties in our 12.9bn combined portfolio.
These schemes Customer service created 2,400 retail jobs and, at Cardinal Place, we will provide new accommodation for some 4,000 ofce workers.
The link here with our values?
Our values underpin our approach to Innovation development enabling us, in complex and difficult circumstances, to create attractive and economically thriving environments.
The third example is the sale of Telereal, which generated 293.0m of profit for shareholders.
While it is always difficult to sell out of successful ventures, we made this decision in anticipation of future reinvestment opportunities.
The profit generated speaks volumes about the value Land Securities Trillium has created for the Group, leaving it poised for further growth from new business, the winning of which is supported by the excellent reputation for customer service that this business has developed.
The Board We are fortunate to identify and recruit individuals to the Board with wide-ranging and complementary skills, who provide clear strategic direction, strong guidance and leadership to the Group.
It is our primary responsibility to support and challenge executive management as they pursue our strategic objective of creating long-term sustainable returns for shareholders as well as ensuring the governance of the business on your behalf.
I would like to welcome our new finance director, Martin Greenslade 41 who joined the Board earlier this year from BAE Systems and has supported the organisation through the transition to IFRS.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 00.0 22 Chairmans Statement continued Strategic direction Six years ago we set out a new strategic direction and embarked upon a series of business initiatives aimed at the transformation of the Land Securities Group.
The ambition was to create a modern, dynamic property business with a strategic focus on the customer and on income as well as asset value growth.
We have been very successful in our ambitions.
We have re-invigorated the investment property business, through an active sales and acquisitions programme, creating two highly-focused business units which, through scale, are now meaningful providers of accommodation to retail and London-based ofce occupiers.
We have also invested in our property outsourcing business, Land Securities Trillium, creating the market-leading property solutions provider.
This represents real innovation in an industry which can be slow to accept change.
We have also become a more demanding employer, focusing our people with stretching performance-based reward schemes Communicating and challenging many to adopt new ways of working and new skills.
We launched our new occupier portal, a Outlook property management tool, which has been We have made considerable progress on all fronts this year and, in particular, have positioned well-received by retailers, further evidence our London Portfolio business to benefit from the strong growth that the London ofce market of the importance we place on making life is enjoying and which, we believe, it will continue to enjoy.
Our Retail business has a scale and easy for our customers.
quality of assets positioning it to generate ongoing income growth in a more challenging retail environment, and Land Securities Trillium is now pursuing a wider range of new business opportunities than at any time in the past.
However, over the next 12 months we expect certain aspects of our environment to be more challenging.
The Department for Work and Pensions, the largest of our property outsourcing customers, has started to use its exible accommodation allowance, so, as expected, income from that contract will decrease over the next few years.
We also do not believe that the unprecedented levels of growth in property values will continue at the same rate or necessarily be sustainable across all property types, particularly more secondary buildings.
This growth occurred against a background of low interest rates which have increased recently in both Europe and America and it is for this reason that I sound a note of caution.
At this time in the cycle we need to be particularly astute when purchasing standing investments and also take the opportunity to capture value through selective sales.
However, if growth should slow or stall, we are in a strong financial position to be acquisitive once more while at the same time continuing to use our skills to create value from within our portfolio.
We can also invest more in development and property outsourcing, which rely more heavily on our skills to deliver value to shareholders rather than the forces of investment markets.
We now also have the prospect of a thriving Real Estate Investment Trust REIT sector in the UK and we are enthusiastic about the opportunities this will present to us.
Our preliminary assessment is that the regulations being introduced with REITs will not adversely inhibit exibility and we believe that our existing strategy and mix of business can be accommodated within them.
While we will not announce any final decision on REITs in advance of enacted legislation, our view at present is that we are ideally positioned to benefit from this status.
I would hope to announce our intentions and the implications for shareholders in the coming months and, subject to any unforeseen obstacles, am of the view that it will be in shareholders interests to convert as soon as is practical after 1 January 2007.
Land Securities has enjoyed a year of strong growth helped by continuing low interest rates.
The outlook is positive for the business with a strong development pipeline, a high quality investment portfolio and an outsourcing business which has growth potential.
I would like to congratulate everyone who has made this possible, most especially our people.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 Piccadilly lights, London We look after many important properties, but Piccadilly Circus is such a national icon and global tourist attraction that the advertising generates more income than the buildings.
Who would have thought that the lights would be worth more than the bricks?
