Chairmans statement Considerable progress has been made on the development programme during the year.
Construction has started on Qube, 90 Whitfield Street, London W1, while the redevelopment of 28 Dorset Square, London NW1, and the Phase 2 development of Strathkelvin Retail Park, Glasgow, are near to completion.
Planning consents were obtained for one million square feet of principally residential space at Greenwich Reach, London SE10, for Phases 2 and 3 of the redevelopment of Arups headquarters in London, W1, where construction is about to commence, and for a residential development at Winchester Road, Swiss Cottage, London NW3.
In the Investment Division the Group took profits of 9.8 million from the sale of quoted investments, particularly in oilfield services, and from fund realisations.
2005 2006 has been a year of intense activity, leading up to In addition, the majority stake in Inflexion plc is being realised the demerger of the Investment Division as Leo Capital plc, for 24.5 million, against a cost of 18.0 million in early which begins trading on AIM today.
In advance of the demerger, writedowns totalling progress in the development programme, several acquisitions 33 million were made against the UK technology portfolio, have been made for site assembly adjacent to our existing offset by unrealised fair value movements on fund investments London holdings, and 100 million of non-core property has and securities, producing an overall negative fair value been sold.
adjustment and goodwill impairment of 4.3 million.
Following the demerger LMS will continue to pursue a clear Dividend property strategy, characterised by active asset management and a focus on development.
The Group will be well The Board is recommending a payment of 4.6p final dividend positioned to take advantage of the advent of REITs in 2007. per Ordinary share, making a total of 6.6p for the year Shareholder value will also be enhanced by the restructuring compared to 6.5p in the previous year.
of the balance sheet, with gearing appropriate to the high The dividend going forward will be reduced, reflecting the quality and stable rental income of the portfolio.
demerger of Leo Capital plc, but the intention is that it should Leo Capital plc becomes a significant investment company on then grow at a faster rate than in recent years.
AIM, with the freedom to manage its assets, pursue an Board and management independent business plan and develop its own shareholder base.
James Wilson stepped down from There will be a transitional period as the separate the Board, following his decision not to proceed as Chief managements of the two businesses are established and we Executive of Leo Capital plc.
We thank him for his hope to have made significant progress with this by the end of contribution to the Group.
On behalf of Shareholders I should like to record my thanks This is the first full year in which the Group has reported its to the management and staff of the Group for their results under International Financial Reporting Standards considerable efforts in executing the demerger and in IFRS.
Notable consequences of this are the requirements to delivering strong performance across the property portfolio.
report gains on revaluation of the property investment portfolio as part of operating profit and to consolidate a Outlook number of Investment Division holdings.
As a focused property group with a major development Net assets at 31 March 2006 rose by 14.9% to 893.9 million programme, LMS is well placed for the future.
This breaks down into net rental growth in our core holdings in the West End are assets of 624.4 million for the Property Division encouraging and we expect to see capital growth in existing 2005: 529.5 million and 269.5 million for the Investment holdings arising principally through this, rather than through Division 2005: 248.9 million.
Equity Shareholders funds at significant further yield compression.
The development the year end were up by 13.9% to 826.9 million programme will yield substantial additional rental income over 2005: 725.9 million.
Adjusted Shareholders funds per share the next five years as well as capital receipts from disposals of undiluted were 282p 2005: 239p, an increase of 18.0%.
The long-awaited arrival of REITs Gearing was 36.1% 2005: 49.9%.
next year will also increase the range of options for the Group to add long-term value for Shareholders.
Operating profit for the year, including the impact of the property revaluation, rose by 70.3% to 193.8 million 2005: 113.8 million, while profit after tax increased significantly to 126.6 million 2005: 46.7 million.
The return on equity for the year was 20.5%, with a ten year rolling average of 21.0%.
Graham Greene Chairman 12 June 2006 London Merchant Securities plc 13
