04 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS In 2006, Aegis had the fastest organic growth of all the major marketing services groups.
We outgrew the wider marketing services industry for a tenth successive year.
In total, Aegis produced good double-digit growth across the group.
Underlying pre-tax profit was 116.2m, some 16.0% ahead of the previous year, and underlying fully diluted earnings per share rose 14.8%.
Aegis Media delivered a phenomenal new business performance, winning $2.7bn of net new annualised billings.
Synovate outgrew its industry by a factor of almost two for the second year in a row.
These results are not just the result of good fortune.
Aegis has long had a reputation for being ahead of the curve, and first to market with new ideas and services.
Our focus on two areas of marketing services - media communications and market research - allows us to react quickly as we see new trends emerging, positioning Aegis Media and Synovate to lead the field.
In 2006 those trends included the continuing strategic importance of the media agency in shaping overall communications strategy: the move from pure media to broader communications planning: and embracing digital platforms, and the interactive possibilities they bring, of all shapes and sizes.
In market research, true globalisation is now of prime importance: that is, the globalisation of research programmes and projects, not simply of research companies.
At the same time, as data becomes obsolete faster, and as corporates look to market research to play a greater role in strategic decisions, the ability to provide timely data and the means to unlock its value, via analysis and modelling, has become critical.
2006 turned out to be a year of good growth for marketing services around the world.
The US market, which still accounts for the lions share of global marketing investment, grew nicely once again.
The major Eurozone economies, after several moribund years, delivered in the main on the early signs of recovery seen the year before.
Meanwhile Asia-Pacific continued to turbo-charge the industry.
And just as importantly, we spent the year producing great work for our clients.
Like any services business, the quality of our work is our licence to operate.
We pioneered industry firsts in both Aegis Media and Synovate, with technology-led advances - new communications platforms and tools - and strategic thinking.
At the same time, we held true to our belief in the highest possible standards in whatever we do: whether industry firsts, or the equally important, albeit less headline-grabbing, fields of media productivity and data services.
05 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS Behind the headline numbers are tens of thousands of different projects and initiatives for many thousands of clients.
Our performance is the result of almost 14,000 people, working in 70 countries.
It includes those of our staff bringing in record new business and servicing clients, and our unsung heroes behind the scenes providing vital support to our client-handlers.
The one thing common to all Aegis people is an abiding pride and professionalism in how they go about their work.
Without them, there would be no Aegis: they deserve our thanks.
And while it is not possible to mention every one of our people by name, one or two deserve special acknowledgement.
We were joined in August by our global CEO for Aegis Media, Mainardo fide Nardis.
This is a newly created role, reflecting the rapid growth of Aegis Media into the sophisticated business it is today.
With a very distinguished background in media services, Mainardo is the ideal person for this role.
And Jeremy Hicks, our CFO of seven years, leaves us shortly to join his new American wife and family.
Jeremy has been instrumental in helping Aegis more than double in size during his tenure.
We are sorry to see him go and wish him well with the next chapter of his life and career.
Jeremy will be succeeded by Alicja Lesniak, who comes to us with over 30 years of finance experience, the majority spent in marketing services.
Alicja knows the agency world inside out, and has a natural feel for our business.
Her achievements to date have been impressive, and we are excited about the contribution she will now make at Aegis.
Altogether then, the performance and strategic positioning of our businesses, coupled with the passion and talent of our staff, give us every reason to hope and believe that 2007 will be just as good a year as 2006.
Lord Sharman, Chairman Robert Lerwill, Group Chief Executive
