04 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Chairmans statement Our priority is to manage your business with the creation of shareholder value 02 firmly at the top of the agenda.
Delivering greater shareholder value Sir Roy Gardner Chairman I was delighted to take over as Chairman of Compass in July.
We have a significant presence in the countries and sectors in which we want to trade.
Our people are passionate about what they do and are proud to work for us.
We also continue to achieve excellent levels of contract retention demonstrating that we have a satisfied client base.
These are solid foundations on which to build.
Our priority now is to create value for shareholders.
During the year we took the actions necessary to improve our future performance.
We have streamlined and reshaped the management team to better reflect the needs of the business.
We have improved financial discipline and governance right across the Group, giving the Board much better visibility as to the performance of the business.
In June we sold our travel concessions business, Select Service Partner SSP, for 1.8 billion.
This disposal will enable us to focus on our contract catering operations and exploit the significant growth opportunities in support services.
In November we announced our plan to sell our European vending business, Selecta.
As the business derives only 9% of its revenue from our contract foodservice clients, it is not a core part of our operations.
These actions provide the basis for improving returns to shareholders.
Our strategy Strategy Focused on our contract The creation of shareholder value is our priority.
Contract foodservice offers attractive and sustainable growth potential which, allied to Growing our support support services, represents our core activities.
The business model is sound and our focus now services business.
is on better executing our strategy to deliver sustainable growth and profits.
We will do this Committed to giving our by growing our business in a more disciplined customers superior levels way, continuing to give our customers superior of service.
levels of service whilst being focused on driving cost efficiencies for the shared benefit of our customers, shareholders and employees.
Focusing on driving cost efficiencies.
05 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Returns to shareholders contribution to the Group and on a personal we have taken the actions necessary to improve The Board is proposing a final dividend of note for the support he has given me since our performance and restore our reputation.
6.7 pence per share for payment in March 2007, taking over as Chairman.
They have also acted professionally to produce bringing our full year dividend to 10.1 pence, the highest level of customer service.
On behalf a year-on-year increase of 3%.
Whilst we I am delighted to welcome two new additions of the Board I want to record our appreciation remain committed to growing the dividend in to the Board.
Sir Ian Robinson, formerly of their continued dedication and commitment.
real terms, our objective over the medium term Chief Executive of Scottish Power and is to move the dividend cover more towards the currently Chairman of Ladbrokes plc Outlook two times level.
formerly Hilton Group plc and a Director The results we have reported for 2006 are a of Siemens Holdings plc will join the Board benchmark from which to measure our future In June 2006 on completion of the sale of as a non-executive director on 1 December.
Fundamental changes have been our travel concessions business, SSP, we His experience of developing international made during the year, including new leadership, commenced a 500 million on the market share businesses will be enormously valuable to us.
a comprehensive review of the business, and buy-back programme.
As of 30 September 2006 establishing clear strategic priorities for the we had purchased shares for cancellation to the Gary Green will join the Board as an executive future.
We have improved financial discipline value of 149 million.
He has been at and governance across the Group and we are Compass for over 20 years and has successfully now well placed to leverage the significant Once the planned sale of Selecta is completed, led the development of our business in North opportunities our global platform gives us.
These our aim will be to achieve a balanced use of the America since 1999. actions will, in the years ahead, improve our net proceeds and this will include an extension performance and deliver value for shareholders.
of the current share buy-back programme.
Corporate governance The way the Group is managed has been a Management matter of concern for shareholders.
During the Since becoming Chairman I have looked at the year I have taken a number of decisive steps to management skills needed to meet the future improve corporate governance.
We have put in needs of the business.
I have begun a process place more robust centralised controls to ensure Sir Roy Gardner of re-invigorating the Board.
I have also established Chairman a sub-committee of the Board to focus on 29 November 2006 During the year Sir Francis Mackay, Chairman, corporate responsibility.
Its terms of reference and Michael Bailey, Chief Executive, left the include looking at all aspects of business Full year dividend Company.
On behalf of the Board I would like conduct, safety, health and environmental to acknowledge their role in establishing Compass management and responsible business practice.
10.1 pence 3% Group as the global leader in contract foodservice.
United Nations Sale of SSP In June we appointed Richard Cousins, This has been an unfortunate episode in the previously Chief Executive of BPB plc, as Groups history.
The Board has instituted a 1.8bn our new Group Chief Executive.
Richards number of changes to control procedures as a track record in operational management, result of the lessons we have learned.
In March business transformation and the creation of 2006 two competing food companies brought US Compass share price performance shareholder value has already been invaluable lawsuits totalling some 600 million against ESS, vs FTSE 100 2006 in mapping out the Groups future strategy.
Compass and various ESS staff.
Though these Compass Group 300 FTSE 100 Index claims would have been resolutely defended we In December Val Gooding will step down decided that it was in the best interests of the 280 from the Board after seven years.
On behalf on-going business and shareholders to settle 260 of the directors I would like to thank Val for these claims without prolonged litigation.
240 the enormous dedication and commitment In October, with no admission of legal liability, 220 she has shown to the Group.
we reached final settlement of all claims for less than 40 million.
We continue to cooperate 200 Peter Cawdron, who has been a member of fully with the relevant UN and US authorities 180 the Board since 1993 and is currently Deputy in their on-going investigations.
160 Chairman and Senior Independent Director, 30 09 30 11 31 01 31 03 31 05 31 07 29 09 2005 2005 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 will retire from the Board at the Annual General Our people The FTSE 100 index has been rebased to the Compass Meeting in February.
I would like to thank Peter This has been another tough year for our Group share price on 30 September 2005 206.25 pence.
on behalf of the Board for his outstanding people.
They have supported one another as
