Chairmans Statement Brendan Fitzmaurice Smiths News entered a new era as an independent public Company on 1 September 2006.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the staff involved in the demerger, at both Smiths News and WH Smith.
Their hard work ensured that the demerger proceeded smoothly and efficiently.
To coincide with this change, Mark Cashmore was appointed as Group Chief Executive and I became Chairman.
I would like to thank all the staff at I am pleased to report a good set of results for Smiths News, Smiths News.
They are the heart of achieved in challenging trading conditions.
Sales including those to WH Smith Retail were up 2 per cent to 1,210.6m a remarkable operation that serves 2005: 1,187.1m and operating profit was up 4.3 per cent millions of customers every day.
These results reect a continuing trend of profit growth from Smiths News.
During recent Brendan Fitzmaurice, Chairman years, the business has shown predictable revenues and a culture of strong cost control, both of which have contributed to steady profit growth and strong cash ows.
The Board has proposed a dividend of 4p per share, subject to approval by shareholders.
The Board intends to adopt a progressive dividend policy, targeting a dividend that would, over time, be broadly covered twice by earnings.
Smiths News has a strong Board with a wide range of experience.
The day begins when publishers start to deliver newspapers to Smiths Newss warehouses.
Our strategy of improving service and efficiency will continue 4 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chairmans Statement Brendan Fitzmaurice Smiths News continues to be the market leader for the In closing I would like to thank all the staff at Smiths News distribution of newspapers and magazines.
This year we for their hard work in achieving our results this year.
They are renegotiated five major contracts, retaining all our existing at the heart of a remarkable operation that serves millions of territories with Associated Newspapers, Financial Times, consumers every day.
I am looking forward to working with Guardian Newspapers, and Northern and Shell.
In April 2006 everyone in the business to ensure that we build on our our contract with magazine distributor, Frontline, was heritage and full our potential over the coming years.
increased by 50m annualised sales revenue as we won additional territories.
Brendan Fitzmaurice Chairman In July 2006 the Office of Fair Trading issued a draft opinion 12 October 2006 on the status of magazine and newspaper distribution contracts under competition law.
It also announced its intention to review the Newspaper Code of Practice that was established after the Monopolies and Mergers Commission enquiry into newspaper distribution in 1993.
A final opinion is expected in the spring of 2007, together with the outcome of the Newspaper Code review.
We believe the current arrangements serve consumers well, however, for some time our plans have recognised the market is becoming more retailer focused.
Regardless of the outcome, our strategy of improving service and efficiency will not alter and the business is well placed to respond to change and capitalise on opportunities that may arise.
As an independent Company, Smiths News has a strong Board with a wide range of experience.
I am delighted that by appointing Dennis Millard, Anthony Cann and John Worby we have assembled a skilled and knowledgeable group of non-executive directors.
They supplement the executive directors, Mark Cashmore and Alan Humphrey Group Finance Director.
Stock is checked and despatched to the packing teams, who pack each Newspapers are loaded and customer consignment.
5 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
