Nigel Rich CBE Chairman Chairmans Statement In my first year as Chairman of Slough Estates, I have been impressed with the Groups financial and operational performance.
The development pipeline in both the UK and Continental Europe is very strong and focused.
The balance sheet provides opportunities for further investment and the portfolio is being actively managed.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 12.1 pence, making a total dividend of 19.0 pence, an overall increase of 8.6 per cent.
As your new Chairman, I am delighted to have joined the Company at a time when it is going through exciting change.
The heritage of the Mobbs family provided the strong base from which Ian Coull and his management team are taking the Company forward in the UK and in Continental Europe.
We have also announced a strategic review of the options for our US business, which is progressing well.
On 1 January 2007, we became a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT, which will save the Company considerable tax going forward, in return for a conversion fee.
We have already announced that shareholders should benefit through an enhanced dividend policy.
The new dividend policy will take effect during 2007, but is not reflected in the recommended final dividend for 2006.
With the publication of the Annual Report we are implementing a new corporate identity.
Consistent with this change and with the strategic direction of the Company, we are also proposing a name change.
As our business has developed to many other regions in the UK and also in Continental Europe, we have decided to evolve our name from the Slough Estates Group to SEGRO.
We believe the new name reinforces the dynamic momentum of the Company.
Our employees have all contributed to our In May 2006 Lord Macgregor retired as a Director after performance in 2006 and are committed to delivering 11 years.
Dick Kingston who was Finance Director sustained performance in the years ahead.
Their until 2005, and then chaired our European business, success is also reflected in recent awards given to the retired at the end of 2006 after 19 years service.
In September the Estates Gazette gave us We are grateful to both of them for their significant its Industrial Property Company of the Year Award.
contribution to the development of the Company.
In October at the European Property Awards organised by Property Week, the Supreme European On 1 January 2007, Lesley MacDonagh joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Lesley was Property Achievement was awarded to Ian Coull.
formerly worldwide Managing Director of Lovells, I must pay tribute to my immediate predecessor from where she will be retiring this month.
Lesleys Paul Orchard-Lisle, a veteran of the Slough Estates expertise in property law and in leading Lovells into Board who became acting Chairman and then Europe will be invaluable to the Board.
On the same Chairman when Sir Nigel Mobbs so sadly died.
date, Walter Hens joined the Board as an Executive Paul did a terrific job and ensured, with Ian Coull, Director.
Walter has been with the Company for 17 that there was no pause in the momentum of the years and has been responsible for the successful Company.
Paul retired from the Board following development of our Continental European business.
It is clear that 2007 is going to be at least as busy and full of opportunities as 2006.
The Company is well placed to take advantage of the opportunities, Dividends per share has a substantial development pipeline, and we are pence determined to build on our position as leader in the 19.0 provision of Flexible Business Space in Europe.
