Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2006 WAS A RECORD YEAR.
WE HAVE MAINTAINED OUR MARKET SHARE AND OUR CLEAR LEADERSHIP IN BLUETOOTH DESIGN WINS CSR delivered another record year Nevertheless 2006 was a record year.
Chief among recent developments and strengthened its position in a fast We responded quickly to changes is the establishment of Business growing but developing marketplace.
in market demand, began shipping Segments which will bring sharper Our revenues grew by 45% to UniFi products to address new focus to our markets, aligning resources $705 million, we shipped over emerging markets and maintained more accurately to opportunities.
250 million Bluetooth units and our our clear design win leadership in diluted earnings per share were up Bluetooth at around 60%.
ERP is now fully functioning across 32% to $0.82.
the business, improving efficiency Bluetooth remains our core strength and enabling us to track products This was achieved despite the and we believe that the market will around the world from wafer performance for the second half continue to be strong in 2007 and assembly plants in the Far East to being tempered by over ordering beyond, driven by the global growth customers around the globe.
We from a key account, followed by in mobile telephony.
Our ability to have also strengthened our Human a market shift to lower end phones offer handset manufacturers increased Resources function, putting in place which do not yet contain the functionality on a single chip will be several measures which will enable Bluetooth capability which reduced the cornerstone of our future success.
us to follow best practice, including anticipated sales.
As a result, our Furthermore, our recent acquisitions the introduction of a company-wide share price, having risen in the first of NordNav Technologies AB and performance evaluation process.
half of the year to around the 12.00 Cambridge Positioning Systems to 14.00 mark fell back in the Limited secures our position in GPS CHANGES TO YOUR BOARD second half to the 6.50 level.
technology and will underpin our John Scarisbrick is nearing completion desire to incorporate location finder of his first year as Chief Executive New markets, including the Bluetooth technology on the chip at a price far Officer.
John has taken the reins market, exhibit high growth rates but below that currently on offer.
with skill and determination, bringing are also volatile.
When growth is at strong leadership to his position.
the 100% level, as we have seen in Of equal importance are applications previous years for CSR, the volatility beyond the phone handset and We were delighted to announce element is masked as a consequence headset which show great promise.
the appointment of Sergio Giacoletto of supply constraints.
However, as Our recently announced partnership in January 2007 as a non-executive growth rates fall back to 40-50%, still with Sony, to provide wireless director.
As Executive Vice-President a high and very respectable growth technology for the PlayStation 3, of Oracle Corporation Europe, Middle rate for any business, this volatility is a landmark contract that extends East and Africa, Sergio gives your becomes visible and the organisation our reputation for winning important Board the benefit of both proven needs to develop appropriately.
management ability and extensive We have now strengthened our key experience in high technology, account management, along with STRENGTHENING international markets.
improving the understanding of the OUR INFRASTRUCTURE market dynamics within each of our Within CSR, we have strengthened I should also comment on my own Business Segments to ensure we are the infrastructure as we move from position.
I joined the Board back able to understand and anticipate a small business to a medium-sized in 2003 with the task of leading the changes better.
company and now to a major player Company into the public arena with in the UKs technology sector.
our flotation in March 2004 and 06 | 07 building a new board to serve the needs of a listed company and its new shareholders.
I have been proud and honoured to serve CSR as Chairman for the last three years.
Over that time, CSR has grown significantly from a company with revenues of $68 million, in 2003, to $705 million by 2006, whilst building a strong global position in the Bluetooth market and launching into other wireless standards with UniFi 802.11 a b g. Your Board has also built a solid base of good governance but it is with these demands in mind and the time required that I am conscious that it is increasingly difficult to do full justice to the demands which CSR has rightfully placed upon my time.
As a consequence I have decided that I should stand down.
I am delighted that Ron Mackintosh, who has served on your Board since 2004 as a non-executive director, more recently as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and who knows the Company well, will become Chairman on 2 May 2007.
I know that in his capable hands the Board will further develop and give high quality leadership to the Company.
LOOKING AHEAD In 2006, CSR faced a number of challenges, not least a rigorous testing of our ability to respond to short-term variations in demand from major customers.
I am pleased to report that our response was immediate and aggressive.
In addition, the flexibility and speed of response from our manufacturing partners, TSMC and ASE was also critical and they receive our wholehearted thanks.
I have no doubt that the wireless sector will continue to grow and present extensive opportunities to CSR.
The need to react to short-term John Whybrow issues with agility is well understood Chairman by your management team and the lessons learnt during 2006 will prove invaluable in the coming years.
I wish to thank all our stakeholders for their support through the year.
Without the abilities and knowledge of our manufacturing partners, suppliers and customers we would not be able to translate ideas into the innovative applications that are transforming the lives of consumers worldwide.
Finally, the Boards sincere thanks go to all our staff.
Whether they are based in Cambridge, Asia, Europe or the USA, the determination of our people to respond so well to the dynamics of the business is the single greatest reason behind our continued success.
