qxd 7 6 06 11:37 am Page 3 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 3 Chairmans statement Dairy Crest has performed well in the second half of the year ended March 2006, despite the difficult overall trading environment, and reported full year adjusted profit before taxation of 67.7 million, in line with expectations, on revenue of 1,424.2 million including share of joint ventures and adjusted earnings per share of 40.3 pence.
Reported profit before taxation was 41.3 million.
The Board is recommending an increase in the final dividend of 6.3% to 15.2 pence per share.
This, together with the interim dividend of 6.3 pence, makes a total dividend for the year of 21.5 pence per share, an increase of 6.4%.
The Board remains committed to a progressive dividend policy.
The group has grown The focus of the Groups strategy continues to be on growing the added significantly since 1996 and value and branded side of the business, which we have supported by increased delivered good long-term levels of marketing expenditure and new product launches.
The success of this returns to shareholders strategy has been evident in our Foods division, which has had another good Simon Oliver year with a strong performance from a Chairman number of the key brands including Cathedral City, Clover, Country Life and the Yoplait brands.
In the Dairies division the performance reflects the adverse and the desire to plan together for the impact on the retail milk business from mutual benefit of both milk suppliers and last years supply changes in the fresh the Group.
This partnership approach will milk sector.
The household side of the enable us and our milk suppliers to deal Dairies division has continued to perform more effectively with the dairy reforms of well, generating good profits and cash for the Common Agricultural Policy CAP the Group.
Our Dairies division has been currently being implemented.
strengthened by strategic acquisitions In August 2006, the Group will reach and volume realignment across our its tenth anniversary as a quoted company operations.
We are also investing to on the London Stock Exchange.
The develop a branded position with the Group has grown significantly since 1996 launch of St. Ivel advance.
Taken as a and delivered good long-term returns to whole, these management actions and a shareholders, significantly ahead of the better balance of industry supply and FTSE250 Index, both through share price demand should lead to an improved appreciation and dividend growth.
This performance by the Dairies division in successful performance reflects both the 2006 07. robustness of our long-term strategy to We continue to value the strong develop the branded and added value relationship that we have built up with our side of the business and the dedication milk suppliers and in particular, Dairy and hard work of our employees.
Crest Direct, our direct milk supply association.
During the year, the number of direct suppliers has risen to over 1,600 representing over 70% of our milk requirements.
Our close working Simon Oliver, Chairman relationship is built on trust, transparency, 23 May 2006
