CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 03 WE ARE WELL POSITIONED FOR DEVELOPMENTS IN THE MEDIA LANDSCAPE.
THE VISCOUNT ROTHERMERE new financial year with more revenue We sold our Aberdeen titles for an excellent CHAIRMAN booked for the new year than it achieved price.
I have recently visited many of the last year.
centres and have been most impressed by the positive attitude in Northcliffe, despite Euromoney Institutional Investor benefited all this change.
An incentive scheme has restricted reported I had the pleasure in May of opening our profitgrowth,  new building in Szeged, in southern into generating greater organic growth.
We are developing a solid recent acquisition of Metal Bulletin is the business there, in Slovakia and in largest external acquisition that the neighbouring countries.
We expect I AM PLEASED TO REPORT it to be quickly integrated.
I make no apology for talking again this year ANOTHER RECORD about the internet.
It is having a fundamental DMG World Media and DMG Radio effect on all media businesses and we must PROFIT FOR THE GROUP Australia both had a difficult year, affected continue to invest in it.
We have created DESPITE SOME DIFFICULT by downturns in consumer advertising.
Associated Northcliffe Digital to take ADVERTISING MARKETS AND Both had bright spots, with strongly advantage of the outstanding opportunities growing exhibitions in the Middle East and that the internet offers, both to expand our CLAIMS THAT TRADITIONAL in the recently created technology sector.
print titles and in its own right.
We have MEDIA WERE LOSING THEIR The latest Nova stations in Adelaide and invested more than 150 million to create PLACE IN THE WORLD.
particularly Brisbane have performed one of the UKs largest online consumer well since launch.
Both divisions should networks covering jobs, property, personal increase their return on our investments finance, travel, motors and dating.
investment is already giving us a good return and we shall continue to invest in this area.
Associated Newspapers had to cope with the competitive national newspaper market, The Board will lose the wise counsel of as well as with an advertising downturn.
Frank Lowy from the end of the AGM.
The circulation performances have Franks is a remarkable success story and We owe much to the strength of our titles improved as the year progressed and we he has been an excellent adviser both to my and brands, as well as to our investments have once more significantly outperformed father and to me.
With the approval of in newer media sectors.
Adjusted profit the rest of Fleet Street.
Advertising, too, shareholders, we will welcome Nicholas before tax, calculated in accordance with has seen some improvement recently, Berry, whose broad experience of media and International Accounting Standards for the doubtless partly as a result of the papers investment will be valuable to the Board.
first time, rose by 9% to 260 million.
While Metro continues Revenues were up 2% to 2,176 million.
to thrive, the Evening Standard has faced I have already complimented the employees two new free competitors, one of them our of Northcliffe.
I extend this to all our The best part of this rise was due to another own London Lite.
The Standard is Londons employees who have produced such a sparkling .
quality newspaper and this makes it resilient trading performance this year.
All its companies increased their profits and remarkably resilient.
We are well positioned for developments see good opportunities to expand further.
in the media landscape and our titles and We entered another market through the Northcliffe has had a year of upheaval.
people will enable us to continue to prosper.
acquisition of Genscape, the worlds only We reviewed the business early in 2006 provider of real-time data on power and concluded that shareholders would do ROTHERMERE generation, and sold Study Group for a better if we retained the business, rather good price.
Since then, we have been implementing our plan to increase DMG Informations quality of earnings from shareholder value, including regionalising largely subscription businesses is high the management structure and developing Adjusted profit before exceptional items and amortisation and Risk Management Solutions entered the digital operations linked to the newspapers.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc
