Chairmans statement David Newlands, Chairman Dear fellow shareholders BUT had a difficult year but I am convinced we are taking the necessary I would like to introduce the third Annual report for KESA Electricals.
steps to turn the business round.
We have strengthened the management team and put more efficient financial processes in place 2005 was a very tough year for electrical retailers across Europe.
which will enable tighter financial control to be exercised.
BUT will now There was no exception for Kesa and this is reflected in our lower focus its investment on a store relay programme concentrating on the profits for the year.
However, relative to their difficult markets, our smallto medium-sized stores that represent 80 per cent of its portfolio.
businesses put in creditable performances.
The Board has decided to recommend an increase in the final dividend All our electrical businesses maintained or improved their market share, of 11 per cent to 9.15 pence bringing the total dividend for the year to our three small businesses, BCC, Vanden Borre and Datart, made 12.1 pence, an increase of 10 per cent over last year, which reflects the useful improvements in their contributions and we made a good start strong cash generation and the Boards confidence in the future of the in developing the Darty brand in new markets, opening stores in Italy business.
I remain encouraged by the performance we have achieved this year.
Kesa is by no means the only retailer facing challenging times in Europe but we are helped by some key underlying strengths: Cash generation At 1 February 2003 our net debt was 368 million under UK GAAP.
Opportunities for growth At the time of the demerger we said that it was our intention to investigate opportunities in selected European countries.
First we needed to prove the cash generative nature of our business model by reducing our debt and to prove we could make a success of our three small businesses before doing anything further.
We have now started to develop the Darty brand in Italy and Switzerland and we have announced that we intend to open stores in Turkey before the end of 2007.
6 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 In the subsequent three years we have generated over 200 million of Once again we expect sales to be led by digital products and that the free cash flow reducing our net debt under IFRS to 166 million.
It has World Cup will produce an increase in the already booming sales of enabled Kesa to create significant future growth opportunities and to flat-screen TVs.
We will also see continuing price deflation across all substantially increase our dividends.
Substantial and sustainable free our digital ranges.
We are facing another year of fragile consumer cash flow generation is one of the most valuable measures for confidence, although we have seen early signs of an improvement in shareholders.
France, and are not anticipating any significant upturn in the market for white goods.
Margin management Managing a pan-European electrical retailing business successfully is These market conditions inevitably impact on profits.
We are reducing a complex task in a period of very significant retail sales price deflation this impact by developing our specialist business model with new store combined with cost inflation, particularly property costs.
Against this formats, productivity gains in logistics and leveraging our service background, given the price deflation we have experienced, it is a propositions.
We will continue to focus on cash generation to drive our testament to the skill and professionalism of our management team investment in existing businesses whilst developing the Darty brand in that we have achieved the margins we have.
We have already made considerable progress on the cost front through Overall, we believe Kesa is a good business with significant growth centralised buying, rationalising warehousing, installing new computer prospects over the medium term and management are working hard to systems and there is more benefit to come in these areas.
deliver them for the shareholders.
The Darty brand Once again my thanks go out to everyone in the Group for the effort The Darty brand is a tremendous asset for Kesa.
Dartys well earned and dedication they have shown over the past year.
I firmly believe that reputation for service and quality is unsurpassed in France.
We believe KESA has both the ambition and ability to become Europes leading that there is still more to be done to further leverage the brand.
On another note, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome Simon Fox, formerly Managing Director at Comet, who has become the Groups Chief Operating Officer.
Simons responsibilities will include Comet, Vanden Borre, BCC, Datart and our growing E-business.
His appointment adds further strength to our senior management David Newlands Chairman team whilst allowing Jean-Noel Labroue to focus on our key French businesses, Darty and BUT.
Outlook Overall trading since the year end has improved but it is too early to predict if this will continue.
The Kesa Group n Established businesses n Developing businesses n New markets Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 7
