CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DURING THE YEAR DEBENHAMS HAS ENHANCED ITS POSITION AS ONE OF THE LEADING DEPARTMENT STORE GROUPS IN THE WORLD We also have plans to increase our international store franchises from 30 to over 70 stores by the end of the 2010 financial year.
Debenhams changed its culture under its new management team with an increased emphasis on the needs of our customers.
It is no coincidence that we had our best ever years in the wake of this change.
John Lovering Our management style places the focus on These first full-year results as a re-listed leadership and trading in a structure of rigid company once again demonstrate the uncompromising cost and capital control.
strength and resilience of Debenhams as we continue to deliver on our plans to grow We encourage sensible risk-taking, trial new ideas, the business profitably.
measure and evaluate them and then act quickly.
During the year Debenhams has enhanced its We believe in incentives, which means we reward position as one of the leading department store success and encourage those who deliver and groups in the world, offering stylish products at challenge, not those who present well or adopt affordable prices.
Against a challenging retail backdrop, we have We also want to be a good citizen, to help create again increased profits, sales and market share a stable prosperous economy in which our while accelerating our store opening plans, business can grow while supporting sensible improving the supply chain and successfully CSR and environmental initiatives.
The management of Debenhams believes that There is still significant growth potential to there is no difference between a well-run private come from our Designers at Debenhams and or public company.
We are committed to our own-label brands, while our unique mix of own, culture.
We know it gives us the best chance international and concession brands gives this to succeed in an increasingly tough and business huge flexibility.
In addition, we are accelerating plans to expand We really value the contribution of our 25,000 our portfolio of department stores, either by people, including the many new employees acquisition or new store openings, and believe who joined us during the year, and thank them there is potential to increase our portfolio from for their continuing hard work and enthusiasm.
132 up to 240 stores in the UK and Republic We are committed to the Debenhams culture of Ireland.
of customer focus and individual responsibility.
Separately, we have successfully trialled our new The board is recommending a final dividend concept womens store, Desire by Debenhams, of 2.4 pence per share in line with the progressive with five stores open and another four contracted dividend policy outlined at IPO.
We have also invested in a new distribution centre and in upgrading our website.
John Lovering Chairman 24 October 2006 5 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 Crochet mini dress and cream dolly coat from Red Herring, one of our many exclusive own-brands 6 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006
