Chairmans statement Solid business growth defines our performance.......................................................................... Diageo continues its course as a strong Diageos success will be judged by our ability to deliver sustained business performance.
But for todays global business, success is and sustainable business and one that measured by more than sales or profits.
This report shows that is trusted and respected by stakeholders although there is much work still to be done Diageo continues its course as a strong and sustainable business and one that around the world.
is trusted and respected by stakeholders around the world.
This has been another year of progress and solid achievement Board of directors for Diageo and our business continued to grow.
Our achievements Laurence Danon joined our board in January this year.
I am delighted in the year are significant.
I would underline the continued strong that Diageo will benefit from her wealth of luxury retail experience.
performance in North America, the growth in Latin America I know she will play a valued and important part in our deliberations.
and the considerable contribution of many of our African Returning value to shareholders markets.
In a year of rising energy prices, the work of our supply Our commitment to deliver sustained financial performance operation to mitigate the heavy pressure on costs of goods also continues.
This is demonstrated by our efforts to return value to merits recognition.
Our share buyback programme is one of the most Responsibility for our business interests significant in the United Kingdom and we have again increased The global debate on the responsible consumption of alcohol our dividend.
This year, the board has recommended a 5% increase continues.
Diageo-backed programmes are wide-ranging and we in the full year dividend to 31.1p.
have also continued our sponsorship of Team McLaren Mercedes Formula One and through this extended our innovative responsible I thank all of you for your support during the past year and look drinking support for Johnnie Walker.
forward to your continued support of Diageo.
That commitment is also relevant to the emerging dialogue between our industry and the World Health Organisation WHO.
Diageo has played an important role in bringing together 15 of the leading beverage alcohol businesses in the Global Alcohol Producers Group, which participated in formal consultations Lord Blyth of Rowington, Chairman with the WHO earlier this year.
Participation in this group is an.................................... opportunity to work with our industry colleagues to see the advantages of an active stance on alcohol and responsibility.
In corporate citizenship, our North American business assisted those caught in the wake of Hurricane Katrina and we have continued to develop our Water of Life programmes in Africa as well as our Skills for Life initiatives in a number of International locations.
The year also saw an important milestone in Diageos continued co-operation with the Thalidomide Trust.
We were able to reach a further agreement to contribute to the long-term care and welfare of Trust beneficiaries and to agree a way forward designed to ensure close co-operation into the future.
