2006 has been another year of excellent progress for Dimension Data.
We have achieved strong revenue growth ahead of the market and improved profitability.
I am pleased to announce that we will be paying a maiden dividend of 1 US cent per share.
It has been particularly gratifying to see the improvements in operating profit in most regions.
Europe continues to be an area of significant attention for management, but the relatively new regional management team is tackling the issues in a methodical manner.
We believe the CHAIRMANS LETTER actions taken will deliver results in the new financial year.
Most markets that we participate in have been buoyant.
Strong demand in the Asian and African emerging markets, as well as JEREMY ORD [ ] in the US, contrasted with slower growth in Europe.
Our operating model, with its combination of technology, solutions and service offerings continued to gain traction in the market and has allowed us to increase our presence and penetration in existing and new accounts.
Our focus on global Composition of the Board was unchanged during the year, multinational clients is bearing fruit and we have been able to although after the year end Peter Liddiard, who has extensive add a large number of accounts to an already impressive list.
investment experience in the global IT services sector, was Our Network Integration line of business grew strongly, and appointed as a non-executive director.
Gordon Waddell will be good demand for our solutions offerings, particularly Converged retiring as a non-executive director in April 2007.
Wendy LucasCommunications and Security, continued to be a major driver of Bull took over as Chairperson of the Remuneration Committee.
The investment that we have made over the past few years in positioning the Group to be able to capitalise I would like to thank our clients and partners for their support on the convergence trend is now paying dividends.
Our employees have demonstrated their commitment and dedication and I thank them for continuing to We have worked hard to strengthen our partnerships with our uphold and enhance the name of Dimension Data around the major supply partners.
This creates opportunities to penetrate a world.
wider client base and ensures that we are at the forefront of the latest technology innovations.
Success on this front is evidenced The 2007 financial year marks our 20th anniversary as a listed by the many industry awards that we received during the year.
company on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
As we enter the new year as a global business with a primary listing on the Corporate activity included the purchase of the remaining 20% London Stock Exchange, I am encouraged by the exciting share holding in Internet Solutions and a number of smaller opportunities that lie ahead for Dimension Data.
transactions on the African continent.
During the year, the $100 million convertible bonds were converted to 188 million Dimension Data ordinary shares.
On conversion, the additional shares amounted to 12.2% of the enlarged issued share capital Jeremy Ord of the Company.
Chairman PAGE 9 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 RISING FROM SEATTLE, WASHINGTON We had an exceptional performance from our US operation.
Residing in the largest and most mature IT market in the world, the US is an important part of the Dimension Data strategy and global footprint.
Seattle, Washington represents one of the most recent offices opened to support the US expansion, and provides us close proximity to Microsoft, one of Dimension Datas strategic partners.
Dimension Data experienced record growth in North America of over 30% year on year far outpacing the market.
