Group Overview Chairmans Statement Sir John Collins Chairman In a year in which consumer spending in service standards whilst gaining efficiencies.
Cost reduction and service improvements remain core many of the major economies of Western objectives for the coming year.
Europe was subdued, your Company has Our two principal divisions, Electricals and Computing, produced satisfactory results in terms of are now well established under the leadership of Per Bjrgs and Kevin OByrne and are focused on capturing profit and cash generation.
In addition the significant cross-market synergies that come with to paying dividends of 150 million, we growing internationalisation.
completed the return of 200 million to The internet provides an additional channel to the shareholders through our share buy back customer where our involvement will be immediately enhanced through the acquisition of Pixmania, programme.
operating internet sites in 26 countries across Europe.
Nick Wilkinson is responsible for this development Our strategy to grow the business both geographically activity, and together with Stephen Carroll is evaluating and through the internet is leading to major investments further opportunities for geographical expansion.
which will help us fulfil our ambition to become the largest and most successful electrical retailer in the The Groups increasing size also provides opportunities world outside North America.
Our balance sheet has to leverage buying, strengthen supplier relationships the capacity to support these investments and will and expand own label and exclusive brands.
Within our be better utilised as a result.
divisions, buying teams now have Group responsibility.
They are supported by Simon Turner who provides Attention to operational efficiency enabled us to reduce leadership in supplier relationships for both merchandise our cost base by over 30 million.
Distribution costs in and non-merchandise procurement as well as ensuring the UK will be materially reduced by rationalising the our systems are fit for purpose.
Our buying office in China current network of national and local warehouses into is being reorganised to improve procurement and logistics.
two mighty warehouses in Newark and Bristol supporting a network of strategically located stockless distribution Throughout the Group our obsession with range and centres.
Comparable efficiencies in distribution are price, to offer the best, is genetic and is the foundation being implemented in Italy and have already been of our pedigree.
To match this with a comparable and achieved in Scandinavia and Central Europe.
A programme consistent standard of customer service is both our of selective outsourcing has enabled us to improve goal and a prerequisite to curbing the appetite of the 6 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Adapt, innovate and grow A multi-channel specialist electrical retailer hypermarkets to sell electricals.
To deliver on this ambition, In another testing year for profit generation and in we continue to embrace the principles of Being the Best: markets facing stiff competition, your Company is customer surveys confirm encouraging progress.
fortunate to have the experience, resilience and creativity of John Clare as Chief Executive.
He is It is with pleasure that I can report that our nonsupported by an excellent management team, executive directors are all committed to a second increasingly international in composition, and by three year term.
Board performance has now more than 40,000 staff whose commitment is of been appraised for the third year, and individual the best.
The Buncefield explosion which seriously contributions assessed for the second time.
The quality damaged our headquarters in Hemel Hempstead of teamwork in the Board and the level of mutual saw John lead an impressive response from head respect between executives and non-executives are office staff who worked from temporary offices and of a high standard, and the momentum to keep the homes to support peak season activity in our stores company ahead of the game is very strong.
David without any loss of sales: a great tribute.
Longbottom, our Human Resources Director, retired in April after 19 years service, the last three of them on The recent Queens Award for Enterprise, given to the the Board.
We thank him for his contribution to both Company in recognition of our successful expansion the Company and the Board.
We wish Ben Bengougam throughout Europe, is an achievement of which all success as the new Director of HR for the Group.
our employees can feel proud.
The Boards strong stewardship of corporate responsibility continues to ensure that performance matches the high standards of integrity that we demand of all our businesses in all of their relationships.
In the Sir John Collins environment, our standards in product specification Chairman and operational aspects are moving toward sector leadership from mere compliance.
Similarly, attention to energy efficiency has been considerably raised.
Financial donations to the community, of the order of one million pounds a year, will in future be channelled to four charities under the theme Switched on Communities where technology and training can radically improve the quality of life.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 7
