Foodservice Group Chairmans statement Our vision encompasses the world's best kitchens be they in property disposal profit.
Aga Bakery continued its expansion your home or where you eat out.
Our aim is to continue to outside its home markets of the UK and France into Eastern expand our premium brands and to be a world leading Europe and the US.
Similarly, in refrigeration, Aga supplier into the bakery and refrigeration markets where we Foodservice is expanding from the well-established platform have sector leading products for changing markets.
We have we have in the UK and is trading well in Australia and China.
invested heavily in recent years in products and acquisitions.
In North America, markets remained mixed.
In the consumer We have worked to make our business less cyclical and markets we have developed a strong team incorporating dependent on narrow markets.
We Marvel, Aga Ranges and Heartland, our 2005 acquisition in embrace enthusiastically the sustainability agenda covering Canada.
Marvel, the refrigeration appliance business, is well energy efficiency and waste reduction.
We believe that our established in its markets and grew strongly.
We invested in strategy developed in recent years will continue to generate our North American cooking operations to build further attractive returns for shareholders.
market recognition which held back their results.
Otherwise, in foodservice, during the first half we incurred a cost of 0.8 Trading performance continuing operations million to reorganise our bakery operations to better position In 2006 revenue rose by 15.0% to 528.9 million of which them for the next phase of growth.
The acquisition of organic growth was over 5.0%.
Operating profits were up Amana, the microwave business, in September strengthened 15.2% to 47.7 million.
The loss made by Domain Home is our operations materially, opening up new major account shown under discontinued operations.
Profit before tax was opportunities.
Overall, the US contributed 17.2% of revenue up 7.7% to 46.0 million.
Profit after tax and earnings per and 9.6% of operating profits.
share rose 8.5% and 8.7% respectively to 37.0 million and 28.7 pence.
These good figures and a balance sheet which Corporate development showed a small debt level of 10.9 million at the year end We have steadily grown the overall business over the last six enables us to recommend an increase to the dividend for the years by investing in our products and by making sixth year in a row to 10.5 pence per share - an overall acquisitions of businesses both strong in themselves, and increase of 110% in that period and to announce a special using cross-selling initiatives which could bring operational dividend of 43 pence per share.
Since the disposal of pipe gearing benefits to the Group as a whole.
This strategy has systems we have returned 125.5 million to shareholders worked well and is continuing to create opportunities.
Aga is whilst the market value of the company has increased from iconic and our consumer brands are outstanding: their value 250 million to over 525 million.
and potential is at the heart of our thinking.
As we strengthen The UK and European consumer markets remain the them further by investment, we see ever greater heartland of the business generating 46.0% of total opportunities to grow them - primarily organically.
Whilst UK markets were mixed during the year have less intrinsic strength and where we are active in strong new product introductions and marketing campaigns markets undergoing structural changes reducing profitability, for Aga and Rangemaster in particular enabled us to make decisive action is needed.
This applies in the case of Domain continued progress while growth came through more where a strong franchise is being impacted by a weak strongly in continental markets.
All of our brands performed market and changing sourcing patterns.
In December the particularly well in Ireland which is now firmly established as board concluded a review of the business with the a core business area.
Revenues fell at Fired Earth as we assistance of Ernst & Young Orenda and initiated its sale.
As switched from soft furnishings to higher-margin kitchen a result it is being shown as a discontinued operation in furniture although prospects have steadily improved there as these results.
the process of integrating Fired Earth into Aga was In foodservice we see a sector where the pace of change is completed.
accelerating because our customers need quality food faster There was a strong performance from the European and are starting to realise that for too long equipment has foodservice operations in 2006 with revenue up 12.7% and been inefficient.
We are already well placed to benefit operating profits up 28.6% 11.4% excluding the Williams because of our strong product offering and established Annual Report and Accounts 2006 02 03 Another good set of results, highlighting the strengths of our brands and market positions market positions.
Our proposals for increasing efficiency in the commercial kitchen highlight the contribution this sector can make to address environmental imperatives.
Government, lobby groups, manufacturers and caterers themselves are putting efficiency high on their agendas.
We are delighted that Aga Foodservice Inc has been named 2007 Energy Star Partner of the Year by the US Federal Environmental Protection Agency.
During 2006 we approached Enodis, a UK quoted foodservice operation, primarily operating in the US.
We believed that there was an opportunity to create a clear international leader in a sector which should consolidate and in geographical, product and financial grounds value would be created.
We remain committed to driving structural change in the sector and seeking the best way to achieve it in the interest of our shareholders.
Our strong balance sheet and good cash flows mean that we can return cash to shareholders as part of the process of establishing a sound long-term debt equity structure.
We are proposing a special dividend of 43 pence per share, bringing the total dividend payable in June 2007 to 50 pence per share.
This leaves flexibility as we consider further acquisitions and a share buy-back programme.
We also have flexibility to buy back up to 10% of the shares in the market given our longer-term gearing target of 2 times net debt to EBITDA.
Current trading and outlook The start of 2007 has seen a continuation of the trends seen in the second half of 2006.
The strength of our UK product offering and the positions we have created internationally is providing momentum.
The mixture of product introductions, larger account wins and steady underlying markets provides confidence.
Lead indicators and order books are positive.
Against this background, we see 2007 as another year of progress.
Vic Cocker CBE, Chairman, 16th March 2007.
