12 Chairmans introduction We have reported strong operating results for 2006 and have delivered on the trading and business enhancement commitments made to shareholders at flotation.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 13 Dear shareholder, Adapting to change Last year was stimulating for Drax in a number of areas: For fundamental structural reasons, I believe Drax will the challenge of the Energy Review: establishing ourselves continue to play a key role in UK power generation.
as a listed company: developing relationships with a new The challenge is to anticipate opportunities and to exploit investor base: guiding the business through volatile commodity them at the most appropriate moment.
Environmental markets: and developing our plans for the future.
constraints, unless we deliver performance improvements, will inevitably impinge on our operations.
Our approach will 2006 performance maintain our current leadership position as the cleanest Your Board was clear from the date of Listing on the and most efficient of the UKs current coal-fired generators, importance it attached to meeting its commitments but, the improvements must also be compatible with to investors.
We have reported strong operating results for 2006 and Our key initiative announced to date is the turbine upgrade have delivered on the trading and business enhancement project, and we have also announced our projects to enable commitments made to shareholders at flotation.
I am us to increase burning of biomass.
These are significant particularly pleased with the progress we have made first steps in our desire to reduce the impact we have through our progressive hedging strategy to secure on the environment and make a material contribution to longer term power sales and associated locked-in margins, tackling climate change.
Importantly, those initiatives also in particular, the fixed margin contract with Centrica make good business sense.
covering the five-and-a-quarter year period to December 2012.
I am equally pleased with the progress made in The Board plant safety and the EBITDA enhancements to which The Board has a suitable balance of experience.
as non-executive Chairman commenced on 7 March 2006 following a short period as executive Chairman.
The Board Shareholder returns and value comprises eight directors: five are non-executives, of which In respect of 2006, shareholders received interim ordinary four are deemed to be independent under the Combined and special dividends totalling 84 pence per share in Code on Corporate Governance and there are three full October 2006 and, subject to approval by shareholders at time executives.
the Annual General Meeting of the Boards recommendations, will receive a further 42 pence per share in final ordinary Our people and special dividends in May this year.
This makes a total Finally, I would like to thank all the people at Drax for their dividend payment for the year of 497 million, which is hard work and contribution.
We recruit, train and develop equivalent to 134.7 pence per share based on the number our people to meet tomorrows challenges.
In the meantime of shares in issue as at 31 December 2006. we should recognise that it is todays skills, passion and commitment which deliver results.
We remain committed to our policy of distributing Gordon Horsfield substantially all excess cash flows after taking into account Chairman business needs.
This requires the Board to make careful 7 March 2007 judgements about prospective cash flows from volatile commodity markets whilst operating within an uncertain future regulatory framework.
We must also seek to maintain the investment grade ratings necessary for trading.
Looking to the longer term, the focus of your Board will be to seek to build future value for our shareholders and key to this will be our ability to adapt cost effectively to changes in the environment in which the business operates.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006
