4 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 Chairmans Statement as Chairman, we have improved the operational performance of many of our businesses while pursuing our strategy to change the shape of the Group.
We have expanded our downstream Packaging activities through several major developments.
In Corrugated Packaging, we have grown profits substantially, both organically and through acquisition.
In Plastic Results were affected by a Packaging, we have built an international position in liquid packaging and dispensing.
harsher than expected trading These moves have reduced the Groups reliance on the cyclical Paper business where we have environment but we benefited also enhanced our product mix, particularly through the development of our plasterboard from our strategic actions.
In Office Products Wholesaling, we have established a significant presence for Spicers in continental Europe.
These The Groups results in 2005 06 were acquisition, grew sales of plasterboard achievements are the result of the continued significantly affected by the further rise in liner strongly, closed two uneconomic paper hard work and enthusiasm of our people, energy costs.
Additionally, stronger competition production operations and sold two non-core, often in the face of difficult market conditions.
in the UK office products wholesaling market loss-making businesses.
On the continent, we I thank them for their determination and eroded sales margins in our Spicers Office expanded further both our eastern European the improvements they have made within Products Wholesaling UK business.
However, corrugated packaging and Spicers businesses.
the strategic actions we have taken to reduce the Our actions to improve short-term performance Groups reliance on commodity corrugated case I am handing over the role of Chairman to have included cost-cutting and, in the second material CCM and to grow our business base Peter Johnson with effect from 1 January 2007. half of the financial year, raising paper and outside the UK have strengthened DS Smith.
In Peter has made a major contribution to the corrugated packaging prices after an extended the UK, we achieved the anticipated synergy Boards deliberations and decision-making as a period of price decline: these price rises did benefits from our 2004 corrugated packaging non-Executive Director.
I am confident that he not benefit the 2005 06 result significantly.
will guide the Group wisely as it continues its The Groups adjusted profit before tax was development.
Jean-Paul Loison will be retiring 53.4 million 2004 05: 73.9 million and from his role as Divisional Chief Executive adjusted earnings per share were 10.0 pence of DS Smith Kaysersberg and stepping down 2004 05: 14.4 pence.
Cash flow, before from the Board at the end of September 2006. dividends and acquisitions, was 63.2 million I thank him, on behalf of the Board, for his 2004 05: 55.8 million.
major contribution to the development of our continental European paper and corrugated Actions to restructure our UK operations packaging business for which he has had and streamline the portfolio accounted for responsibility for many years.
the majority of the exceptional charge in 2005 06 of 42.4 million 2004 05: 9.6 We are achieving box price increases, but million : the balance included the impairment so far they have been insufficient to recover of an investment in an independent UK fully the input cost rises incurred through the packaging business.
Based on current forward energy market prices, we anticipate the increase in The Board is proposing a final dividend our underlying energy costs in 2006 07 will of 5.8 pence which, together with the interim be somewhat higher than the 10 million dividend of 2.6 pence, maintains the total that we indicated at the time of our dividend for the year at 8.4 pence.
In Office Products During the year, we further strengthened the Wholesaling, we expect our actions to result Groups management with the appointments of in improved performance in the second half Huub van Beijeren as Chief Operating Officer, of the year.
Packaging and Rob Vale as Chief Executive, Spicers.
Both these senior executives bring valuable experience and expertise to the Groups operations.
As we announced in March, I will be retiring from the Board at the end of 2006, having reached the age of 70.
During my seven years Antony Hichens Chairman
