Chairmans Statement Trading Philip Rogerson As the acquisition of GE Energy Rentals was Chairman completed only a few weeks before the year end, it did not have a material impact on the years trading results.
Reported revenue at 540.7 million 2005: 417.7 million was 29.5% higher than 2005 while revenue 1 in constant currency and excluding pass-through 2 fuel from our contracts in Sri Lanka and Uganda increased by 27.1%.
profit before tax and exceptional items increased Introduction by 47.5% to 83.1 million 2005: 56.4 million : 2006 was a very successful year for Aggreko, with earnings per share pre-exceptional items increased record earnings for the Group and strong growth by 45.2% to 20.05 pence 2005: 13.81 pence.
across all our businesses: North America and Aggreko An exceptional charge of 9.2 million before tax, International both performed extremely well, and, 7.0 million after tax, was recorded in respect after three difficult years, our European business of the GE Energy Rentals acquisition.
Net of this delivered sharp improvements in both revenue and exceptional item, earnings per share were 17.41 pence.
Additionally on 4 December 2006, Aggreko completed the acquisition of substantially Net debt increased to 205.2 million 2005: 102.9 all the activities of GE Energy Rentals, one of our million, largely as a result of the GE Energy Rentals largest competitors.
This acquisition has materially acquisition and increased capital expenditure.
Around strengthened Aggrekos position, and brings skilled 90% of this capital investment was spent on our rental people as well as a large amount of additional eet, eet to support the strong growth in the business.
which will help sustain our growth in the years ahead.
Looking ahead we estimate that eet capital investment in 2007 will be around 140 million.
Strategy Aggrekos strategy is to drive the growth of our core Dividend business of power, temperature control and oil-free Aggrekos financial position remains strong as measured compressed air rental in two ways: by organic growth, by interest cover of 13.9 times 2005: 14.1 times.
enabled by eet investment and geographic expansion, With this in mind, the Board is recommending a and by judicious acquisitions.
We made good progress final dividend of 4.19 pence per ordinary share on both fronts in 2006.
To drive organic growth, which, when added to the interim dividend of we increased capital investment in the year to 2.53 pence, gives a total for the year of 6.72 pence, 128.0 million 2005: 80.2 million, the equivalent a 10.0% increase on 2005.
At this level, the dividend of 1.8 times depreciation, and we opened new service would be covered 2.98 times.
Subject to approval centres in Dubai, Hong Kong, Doncaster, Manaus by shareholders, the final dividend will be paid on in Brazil and Moerdijk in the Netherlands.
The 18 May 2007 to ordinary shareholders on the register acquisition of GE Energy Rentals complemented as at 20 April 2007, with an ex-dividend date of this by adding further geographic reach, with new 18 April 2007. service centres being added to our network in Europe, North, Central & South America, and also increased our rental eet size by about 30%.
1 Constant currency takes account of the impact of translational exchange movements in respect of our businesses which operate in currency other than sterling.
2 Pass-through fuel revenue relates to two contracts in Sri Lanka and Uganda in our International Projects business where we provide fuel on a pass-through basis.
10 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Employees Outlook for 2007 2006 was an extremely busy year, during which Aggreko is a business in which the ow of events can employees have had to manage the pressure caused have a powerful inuence on short-term performance, by the businesses rapid growth: many of them have so it is always difficult at this early stage to predict also been involved in the preparation, planning and the years performance.
However, trading in the first execution of our acquisition of GE Energy Rentals.
few weeks has been strong, and the integration of I would like to record my, and the whole Boards, GE Energy Rentals is running ahead of plan.
Overall, thanks to all our colleagues for their hard work, if current trends continue, we anticipate a strong first dedication and commitment to delivering first-class half.
For the year as a whole we expect to achieve customer service, often in difficult circumstances.
a material increase in profits compared to 2006, I would also like to welcome those employees of and to be ahead of current market expectations.
GE Energy Rentals who have joined Aggreko, and who have risen to the challenge of adapting We are carefully monitoring economic conditions in quickly to a new environment.
North America, where we are getting mixed signals from the various economic indicators we follow.
On Update on the integration of GE Energy Rentals an underlying basis, the business is still growing, albeit The integration of the GE Energy Rentals business at a slower rate than in 2006.
While the business is is going well and we have secured many of the cost highly seasonal, and makes a high proportion of its savings faster than we expected: by way of example, profits in the summer months, at this stage we believe we completed the planned 25 property exits out of that we will make progress during 2007.
33 properties occupied at the time of the acquisition by mid-February.
Agreements we reached with GE Our performance in Europe during the second half concerning the re-deployment of people and a number of 2006 was encouraging and this momentum has of other mitigating actions have also signicantly continued into the first weeks of 2007.
We expect reduced the exceptional costs related to the acquisition: this business to continue its recovery and to as a consequence, we are taking an exceptional charge increase revenues and improve margins in 2007. of 9.2 million in 2006, against 16 million estimated at the time of the announcement of the acquisition in The strong demand we have seen in Aggreko September 2006.
Our ability to achieve planned levels International over the last few years continues of utilisation from the GE Energy Rentals eet in the unabated.
In the Local business we have had a strong short-term will be dependent upon demand during summer season in Australia, and our operations in the summer season, but the good progress we have Asia, South America and the Middle East are made on the integration leads us to believe that the performing well.
The International Power Projects businesses and assets we have acquired will contribute business has had a good start to the year, with very to profits in 2007, rather than being earnings neutral high levels of utilisation on a eet that is materially as originally expected.
We anticipate that this business will deliver another strong performance in 2007.
Philip G Rogerson Chairman 8 March 2007 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 11
