Chairmans statement I am pleased to report on an Groups original target of 23 million.
People outstanding year for SCi.
The year to Unadjusted EBITDA for the year was The last 12 months have been an 30 June 2006 was the first full 12 22.6 million.
eventful period for the combined Group month period following the Groups Profit before tax for the year was and, on behalf of the Board, I would acquisition of Eidos in May 2005.
like to express sincere thanks to all relatively short space of time the SCi the staff and management for their and Eidos groups have been fully Board changes hard work and dedication.
integrated, major brands such as Tomb Following the expansion of the Group Raider and Hitman have been over the last 18 months, and in Outlook re-invigorated and the Group has accordance with best practice, we have The Group is in a strong financial achieved record results that are ahead conducted a review of the Groups position and well placed to take of original targets.
advantage of opportunities in what The Group is now one of the worlds Further details of this review are continues to be an exciting and leading games publishers and the only contained on pages 24 to 26 of the dynamic global market.
UK based publisher with a global Annual Report.
have taken on the role of Chairman.
In I am pleased to report that the addition, I am delighted to welcome success of the Group has been Roger Ames to the Board as a reflected by significant growth in non-executive director.
Roger has many shareholder value, both over the period years experience of the entertainment since the acquisition of Eidos and over industry, having been chairman and the longer period since flotation in CEO of Polygram UK and Warner Music Tim Ryan 1996.
Chairman 16 November 2006 Financial results Dividend Both turnover and profitability were We will not be paying a dividend this ahead of the Groups original plans.
year due to the opportunities for Total revenues for the year were growth and investment that we expect 179.1 million.
Earnings before to see in the future.
However, we will interest, tax, depreciation and continue to keep this policy under amortisation EBITDA before review.
exceptional items and share based compensation for the year was 28.8 million.
This compares to the 09:12:05 Championship Manager 2006 was the Groups first launch on Sonys new PlayStation Portable platform.
Lego Star Wars The Group continued to derive significant revenue and profit from the distribution of Lego Star Wars, selling 2.5 million units during the year.
8 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006
