Introduction Chairmans I am delighted to be presenting an outstanding set of results statement for 2006, as demonstrated by the numbers on this page.
We have continued to make further significant progress this year on all our strategic objectives and I am particularly pleased that our focus on top line growth has achieved excellent results.
As we move forward, we continue to refine our strategy and long-term goals, recognising both our current solid financial position and the impressive progress over the last three years.
More details are contained in pages 18 to 21.
Approaches The Board and senior corporate management team spent a significant amount of the second half of the year involved 768.3m in addressing the approaches from The Middleby Corporation Revenue 2005: 667.9m and The Manitowoc Company Inc. We adhered throughout to our guiding principle, to ensure that shareholders interests were paramount.
With the help of our advisors, we kept in close touch with the wishes of shareholders and strove to 70.8m meet them.
In the event, no offer was ultimately forthcoming Adjusted operating profit 2005: 54.6m but the experience has helped shape our goals to ensure that we do all in our power to deliver the value that shareholders expect.
Given the amount of senior management time devoted to that activity, the excellent results are a tribute 39.3m both to the calibre and determination of our management Profit after tax and to the continuing success of our programmes to 2005: 25.4m enhance the quality and depth of our people.
More recently, we have received yet another approach, this 13.5p time from Aga Foodservice plc.
My statement is not the Adjusted diluted place to comment on that proposal.
It is concerning that earnings per share senior managements attention is once again diverted from 2005: 9.1p the business but as always we will keep the interests of our shareholders at the front of our minds during this period.
The Board 3.0p Dividend per share We have been assisted in addressing the challenges we 2005: 1.3p have faced over the year by having a stable and committed Board to support our excellent management team.
We have continued to set high expectations for ourselves as a Board 41.8m and, as set out in the Corporate Governance Report, Net debt we have maintained our efforts continually to examine 2005: 79.1m our performance and to develop.
I would like to thank my Board colleagues for their time, commitment in the face of increasing demands and for the quality of their contributions.
Not the least of these was handling the approaches from Middleby and Manitowoc where the Board members gave unstintingly of their time and experience.
14 Enodis plc Employees Enodis is very well positioned to continue the momentum of the last two years.
We begin FY07 with the introduction Our people are central to our success.
Our updated goals of two important product lines: specifically recognise this.
At the same time as we position ourselves around technology and innovation, we state 4the new Scotsman Prodigy cuber ice machines which clearly that these are the tools for which people are the key.
we believe will be very attractive to the industry, and I and all Board members take this opportunity to express our particularly to chains, due to smart diagnostic controls and great thanks and appreciation to all our employees worldwide increased energy efficiency: and for their vital contribution, support and hard work throughout 4 a mini countertop combi-oven from Convotherm suitable the year.
for small restaurant footprints and QSR chains.
Dividends and use of our balance sheet Several other new products are scheduled for introduction Dividends represent an important component of total throughout the year.
We expect these products, along with shareholder return.
The Board is therefore pleased to the cumulative effect of an aggressive new product recommend a final dividend in respect of FY06 of 2.17p programme in the last few years including over 30 new per share bringing our total for the year to 3.0p, payable on products introduced in FY06, to propel continued 15 February 2007, subject to approval by shareholders at the revenue growth.
This makes the total dividend in We are very focused on the high growth segments of the respect of FY06 3.0p, a 50% increase on the full prior market, in particular global chains.
We are streamlining our year equivalent of 2.0p.
pipeline of innovation projects to increase our penetration As more fully explained later in this report, we intend to at global accounts and we continue to invest in our global use on-market share buy-backs to enhance shareholder sales and service infrastructure, particularly in China, to value whilst ensuring gearing stays around our target levels.
Accordingly, we are proposing to make use of our existing In our Retail Group, we are building a new plant in authority to purchase and cancel up to 10% of our issued Fort Worth, Texas for Kysor Panel Systems and investing in share capital in the open market over the next 12 months.
sophisticated fabrication equipment at our Kysor Warren We will determine the appropriate timing for such activity factory to increase capacity for continued growth and in accordance with circumstances at any particular time.
FY07 outlook We continue to see significant materials cost inflation and There are a number of fundamental drivers in the food anticipate headwinds of 12m15m in FY07.
However, we equipment markets including increasing consumer disposable have a proven track record of mitigating these impacts income, lifestyle changes and the growth of multi-unit and have already taken a number of steps to counter this operators throughout the world.
These factors are leading to impact including a US price increase three months earlier increased demand for solutions to foodservice challenges than normal, continued focus on Lean manufacturing and and in particular Accelerated Cooking Technology.
Group-wide purchasing, alternative material substitution and the benefits of higher margin new products.
Industry forecasts for foodservice equipment market growth in calendar 2007 are 4.25% to 4.75% in North America We are off to a good start in FY07 with strong order rates and 2% to 3% in Europe.
Along with the consumer trends and continued momentum from our competitive advantages.
highlighted above, energy cost and environmental factors are In summary, we expect another year of good progress in emerging as a driver of equipment demand.
According to the FY07 and have confidence in the long term prospects of National Restaurant Association, more than half of North the Group.
American operators report purchasing energy-efficient equipment over the past two years.
Conclusion Emerging markets such as the Middle East, Eastern We continue to benefit from the pursuit of a consistent Europe and Asia are high potential regions for Western-style strategy under the strong and skilled leadership of our food equipment.
Chinas restaurant market is expected to management.
The year has seen the accelerating progress maintain double digit growth for the rest of the decade.
As you will see from the following pages Although occupying a small section of the entire market, of this report, we are evolving our approach.
Enodis has Quick Service Restaurants QSR are growing at excellent prospects and I am confident that our strategy approximately 20% per year as both local and foreign chains and management will enable us to continue to deliver expand.
Of more than 3.5 million restaurant locations in increasing value for our shareholders.
China, approximately 7,000 are chain outlets, with 70% to 80% of those outlets owned indigenously.
After several years of slow growth in food retail equipment, there has been a recent increase in activity as retailers have started upgrading stores and recommenced opening new Peter Brooks stores.
Overall food retail equipment market growth is Chairman forecasted to be c2%, with higher growth in cases.
