04 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Business Review Chairmans Statement Jeff Harris Results summary This is Filtronas first full financial year as an independent listed company following the separation from Bunzl plc in June 2005.
Our management has shown the benefits of that independence by delivering revenue growth of 5.9%, profit before tax growth of 9.2%, and increasing diluted earnings per share by 8.3%.
Underlying operating profit grew by 9.0%, after taking account of foreign currency translation and a full year of central service cost, which is well ahead of our historical trend of organic growth.
The Company is established as an international group with strong market positions and manufacturing facilities in most major markets in the world.
Both business segments made real progress in 2006, with Plastic Technologies showing particularly strong profit and margin improvement.
Fibre Technologies recovered from the tough conditions in the first half of the year and delivered both revenue and profit growth for the full financial year.
The Company achieved an 81% improvement in net cash inflow before financing activities, increasing from 15.8m in 2005 to 28.6m.
05 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Filtrona delivered a strong set of results in 2006.
We expect to maintain good underlying growth in 2007 and, with improved cash generation and a strong balance sheet, we are seeking value enhancing acquisitions This was largely achieved by operational Warren Knowlton became a Non-executive In Plastic Technologies, the combination of management focusing on stronger working Director of the Company on 1 June 2006.
At strong market positions and the expected capital control.
During the year interest cover the end of 2006, Warren assumed a full-time favourable trading conditions give the increased to 10.1 times 2005: 9.6 times chief executive role in the US and, as a Company confidence in continued positive and, at the year end, the ratio of net debt to result, he is not putting himself forward for progress in 2007. earnings before interest, tax, depreciation re-election at the AGM and will leave the and amortisation had improved from 1.5 in Board on 30 April 2007.
We are grateful to Within Fibre Technologies, further progress is 2005 to 1.2 in 2006.
Warren for his valuable contribution.
The expected in revenue and operating profit from recruitment of a replacement for Warren is the Bonded Fibre Components business and Dividend already under way.
the Company remains confident in the future The Board is recommending a final prospects for Cigarette Filters.
dividend of 4.6p per share which, if Employees approved at the Annual General Meeting After the challenges presented by the The Company will continue to invest in AGM, will make a total of 6.9p 2005: demerger, Filtronas employees renewed their the organic growth of the business and it 6.4p per share for the full year.
This focus on generating sustained growth of is anticipated that capital spend in 2007 represents a 7.8% increase on last year.
The will again be ahead of depreciation.
The final dividend will be paid on 4 May performance of the Company demonstrates Capital investments will reduce unit costs 2007 to shareholders on the register at the commitment and skill of Filtrona of production and improve both quality 10 April 2007. employees across the many regions in which and service performance.
On behalf of the investments will drive geographic Board Board and the shareholders, I would like to expansion, product innovation and The Board, which was established at the thank them all for their continuing contribution intellectual property development.
In time of flotation, has successfully introduced to the strong development of Filtrona.
addition, the Company remains active in the high standards of governance which are the pursuit of value enhancing acquisitions appropriate to an independent listed Outlook in selected niche markets.
company as well as reviewing the business Looking forward, Filtrona expects 2007 to be strategy of the Company.
It met eight times a year of further good underlying progress, With a clear strategy, a committed team during the year, with two Board meetings although the headline results will be affected and a strong balance sheet, the Board being held at operating sites to enable the by an anticipated 5m restructuring charge.
remains confident the Company will Non-executive Directors to meet key local As previously announced, this charge continue to achieve good underlying management and further extend their relates to the restructuring of Cigarette Filters growth and deliver attractive returns.
knowledge of the Companys manufacturing manufacturing facilities to match the expected facilities within the UK and Europe.
reduction in demand for conventional carbon dual filters.
