Chairmans Statement Sales to established customers were 3.5% ahead of the I am pleased to report that your company has previous year even after taking into account a 5% price enjoyed another record year, underpinned by a deation on carry forward lines.
Repeat orders from both particularly strong performance in the education established and new customers were satisfactory, division.
Overall sales for the financial year ended conrming the strength of the offer.
Retention rates and average order value were approximately the same as the 31 March 2006 were 11% higher at 528m prior year at over 64% and 39 respectively.
profit before tax, and before sales grew by 31% and now account for 23% of all orders.
amortisation of acquisition intangibles and Although we started this calendar year with a customer restructuring costs, increased by 14% to base some 9% less than last year, recruitment tests 52.1m from 45.5m.
These results include a conducted in October produced response rates 10% ahead profit of 2.9m 2005: nil on the sale of land of those achieved in 2004.
This recruitment method was held for resale: this is deducted to arrive at retested in Spring, again with a positive result, giving confidence that we can again return to growth in our base.
Benchmark profit before Tax for the year of 49.2m 2005: 45.5m, an increase of 8%.
We also believe we can increase sales to our existing customers.
This belief is supported by the fact that since Statutory profit before tax was 35.1m January we have succeeded in increasing product sales to 2005: 41.5m primarily reecting the impact of them by 8%.
Benchmark earnings Last year our Summer Living catalogue was very well per share improved by 20% to 47.04p, having received and we also saw a dramatic 50% increase in benefited from a lower tax charge this year.
Basic sales from our Christmas Living catalogue, which was earnings per share were 35.58p 2005: 35.41p.
mailed later in the season.
Customers prefer merchandise offerings that are seasonally appropriate.
In view of this, The restructuring of the Educational Supplies division is both of these catalogues will be increased in size this now substantially complete.
The principal elements of the year.
Importantly Christmas Living, which was offered to restructuring comprised the consolidation of warehousing, less than half of our established base last year, offers administrative ofces and computer systems: the scope for a significant increase in distribution.
After this rationalisation of the stock ranges, and the separation of years experience the size and distribution of this our healthcare operations into a standalone business.
catalogue will provide the necessary safety net should the During the restructuring process a number of additional early season again prove difficult.
It is becoming opportunities were identied, increasing our expectation increasingly obvious that more niche catalogues and of the final run rate of benets to a minimum of 10m frequent mailing provide additional sales opportunities, and annually, 2m ahead of expectations.
It has been support the main catalogue.
We will introduce more necessary to increase our investment in the project to editions of these niche catalogues this year to take 16.1m in order to achieve this: however the acceleration advantage of this trend.
and improvement of benets will mean that this extra cost should be recovered by the end of the current We are encouraged by the growth of Internet sales and financial year.
have now established a substantial database of customers who have positively opted to receive e-mail.
We Net finance costs increased by 8% to 14.7m 2005: anticipate continued growth from this route to market.
Interest charges were more than four times covered by Benchmark operating profit.
We have a very successful home shopping credit business.
There is a much wider cash with order audience that we Dividends do not currently reach.
Whilst it is possible to build this business organically we believe that small targeted The directors are recommending an increase of 10% in the acquisitions are a more efficient way of gaining critical final dividend to 14.2p per share 2005: 12.9p to be paid mass.
We have the infrastructure, expertise and capacity on 6 July 2006 to shareholders on the register at 9 June to achieve cost savings and leverage profitability from any 2006.
This will make the total dividend for the year 18.0p such acquired business.
Educational Supplies Home Shopping The Educational Supplies division has had an excellent year.
In common with retailers generally our Home Shopping Divisional sales rose by 40% to 228.3m 2005: division had a difficult year with sales reduced by 4.6% 163.5m both through the two acquisitions we made in to 228.0m 2005: 239.1m and operating profit the third quarter of last year, and through continued also down to 31.9m 2005: 40.2m.
As reported in organic growth.
Benchmark operating profit was up 78% December, our recruitment and marketing campaign for to 27.6m 2005: 15.5m.
our main Christmas trading season coincided with one of the weakest consumer environments for many years.
The major focus of the year was the implementation of the Recruitment from this campaign was 27% down on the divisional reorganisation plan.
This has been a massive previous year.
The lower sales to new customers were not project and has taken a tremendous amount of time and the only factor impacting on operating profit.
Lower effort from the Education team.
response rates meant that marketing expenditure increased by 3.8m and lower product sales resulted in The key aim of the restructuring project was to streamline less financial services income.
Additionally the company our operations, improving service to customers whilst informed the market in December that it was taking a reducing operating costs and benefiting margins.
The prudent approach to bad debt and as a result the charge implementation was such that it has been possible to increased by 2.4m.
complete a number of key activities ahead of original 2 schedule including consolidation of the warehousing and Board Changes administrative operations and of computer systems.
As a I am delighted to welcome Patrick Jolly to the executive result, some 6m of benets have been realised from the board as chief executive.
Patrick has been a non-executive project during the financial year.
director for the past five years where his contribution has The reorganisation is now virtually complete allowing the been considerable.
Philip Maudsley, who has been group division to concentrate on further growth.
managing director for the last two years has been appointed chief operating officer bringing to that role his In spite of having to cope with the reorganisation the strong operational capability and in-depth knowledge of division has made strong progress: the group.
Over the last 12 months we have been giving The new catalogues for our national, curricular based, urgent consideration to the most effective composition of education brands, consisting of the improved and the top management team, and in particular to the rationalised product ranges, have been well received since recruitment of a chief executive.
We have looked externally these were launched in January.
These long established as well as internally and, with the appointment of Patrick market leading brands are the key to the unique nature of I believe we have now achieved the necessary blend of Findels offering in the education marketplace.
complementary skills to lead the group forward for the coming years.
The new common catalogue for our regional commodity based brands was launched on schedule at the beginning One of Patrick Jollys first tasks is to conduct a thorough of April.
assessment of the group and its future development.
This assessment will cover all the groups activities, with the Successful promotional activity from our sports product object of maximising shareholder value.
ranges was undertaken during the year with two major national retailers.
Both have chosen to repeat the activity Tony Johnson, our deputy chairman will become a in our current financial year.
non-executive director at the annual general meeting.
Tony has made an invaluable contribution to the growth The March budget confirmed the continuing spending of the group and I should like to thank him for all of the priority placed by the Government on Education, with an assistance he has provided over the last 18 years.
I am announced long term aim of bringing capital provision for pleased to report that he will also remain as a consultant public sector pupils up to the level of that in the private enabling the group to continue to benefit from his sector.
Combining this general objective with the experience and wise counsel.
previously announced introduction of multi-year The board is actively seeking to appoint an additional guaranteed budgets from April 2006, supports our belief independent non-executive director.
that schools will now have increasing confidence to invest in the resources they need.
Employees We also expect to benefit directly from the increased I thank all the groups employees for their hard work and emphasis and investment in science education, which will commitment.
On behalf of the board I would like to express now form part of the Governments School Accountability our appreciation of the continued loyalty and dedication Framework.
Our Philip Harris brand is the leading supplier shown by all group employees.
of science equipment to secondary schools.
The transactional websites operated by our key brands Prospects now integrate directly with the administrative software in The inherent strength of the Home Shopping business use in the majority of UK schools.
We are consulting with together with experience gained and opportunities the Governments newly created Centre for Procurement identied provides confidence for its future development.
Performance to ensure that our e-commerce strategy remains aligned with developing Government thinking in We are already seeing significant benets from the this area.
restructuring programme in Educational Supplies, which has provided the division with strong long term growth An important part of the restructuring in the Education potential.
division was to separate NRS Healthcare into a stand alone business.
Today NRS is a substantial operation in its I remain confident that the group will make further own right occupying the leading position in a growing progress in the current year.
market with its own premises, systems and infrastructure, and most importantly a dedicated and experienced management team.
Huntleigh has been successfully integrated and we anticipate the financial benets to lead to a significant growth in operating profit in the current year.
Burley House Having successfully completed eld trials, we are now Bradford Road actively marketing our Telecare wristcare patient monitoring BurleyinWharfedale products across the UK.
To these, we have added a Keith Chapman West Yorkshire comprehensive range of Telecare products from other Chairman LS29 7DZ suppliers including a wide range of sensors and detectors, pill dispensers, and an interactive care companion.
Benchmark measures are stated excluding amortisation of Findel Services acquisition intangibles 0.9m 2005: 0.7m, restructuring Divisional sales were level with the same period last year costs 16.1m 2005: 3.3m, both in the educational at 71.5m 2005: 71.4m.
Benchmark operating profit supplies division, and profit on sale of land held for resale at 2.5m 2005: 2.6m was in line with expectations.
2.9m 2005: nil in the Services division.
