Chairmans statement This year is marked by the bombings in amortisation, bid costs and profit on disposal offer passengers through bus priority and London in July.
On behalf of the Board of of fixed assets.
It will be paid on 25 August other traffic management schemes.
FirstGroup plc and all of its employees I 2006 to shareholders on the register on During the year we further strengthened the would like to express my condolences to 21 July 2006.
The dividend increase reflects Board with two new appointments.
In July the injured and to the bereaved.
Although the Boards confidence in the Groups strong Professor David Begg joined the Board as our operations were not directly affected, cash generation and growth prospects.
David has vast we are proud of the efforts our staff made Board is confident that this level of dividend experience and an impressive record in to assist passengers in extremely growth is sustainable for the foreseeable public transport and transport policy.
I would like to future, at least until 2008.
Sid Barrie joined the Board as Commercial take this opportunity to thank all of our staff This year saw the Group build on its Director in August and his appointment involved for their courage and commitment successful rail portfolio with the award of two further strengthens our commercial team.
during that very difficult time.
The safety of important rail franchises Great Western and Both bring extensive experience to the Group.
our passengers and employees is our Thameslink Great Northern now renamed highest priority and we constantly strive I would like to take this opportunity to thank First Capital Connect.
We were delighted to to achieve the highest possible standards.
our staff for their continued hard work and win both of these franchises as a result of commitment in delivering another year of I am pleased to report another year of good substantial and comprehensive research and strong growth.
I would also like to welcome progress across the Group.
Revenue has the expertise of our bidding team.
We are new employees including those at First increased to 3,030.9m 2005: 2,693.4m now the UKs largest passenger rail operator, Capital Connect and the enlarged First Great and adjusted profit before tax before providing services from the north east of Western franchise and staff who have joined intangible asset amortisation, bid costs and Scotland right down to the south west of our businesses in the UK and US during profit on disposal of fixed assets increased England, and look forward to building on our the year.
Profit before record of success.
We are shortlisted for the tax increased to 157.4m 2005: 155.7m.
South Western franchise and look forward to We have a clear strategy to deliver value for shareholders by growing in our core This is a particularly strong performance submitting a robust and innovative bid.
given the additional cost increases faced businesses in the UK and North America Our North America division continues to and exploring opportunities to develop in by the Group during the year, specifically perform well with high contract retention increases in fuel prices which impacted new markets.
We will continue to invest for and new business won across all of our growth in our businesses while remaining Group operating profit by 31m.
These businesses have delivered generation was again strong.
EBITDA committed to increasing the dividend by consistent growth since we entered the North 10% per annum and, where appropriate, adjusted operating profit plus depreciation American market in 1999. increased to a record 351.7m 2005: share repurchases while maintaining our strong balance sheet.
Adjusted basic earnings per We believe that the bus is the natural solution share has increased by 6.9% to 30.9p to the increasing problem of congestion 2005: 28.9p and basic earnings per share affecting our towns and cities.
to promote and develop a partnership The Board has proposed a final dividend, approach to tackle the problem of traffic subject to approval by shareholders, of congestion.
We have experienced 9.55p making a full year payment of 14.1p, encouraging growth in those areas where we an increase of 10%.
The dividend is are able to develop quality partnerships with Martin Gilbert covered 2.4 times, before intangible asset Local Authorities to improve the services we Chairman Operating profit referred to throughout this document refers to operating profit before intangible asset amortisation, bid costs and profit on disposal of fixed assets.
