Media markets are changing fast and we are creating the strategy to deliver improved profitability by developing strong national networks and increasing audiences in the most commercially important demographics most commercially important demographics.
Overview We have focused on getting the business in It has been a difficult year since the best shape to deliver our strategy and, as GCap Media launched in May 2005. previously announced, we have restructured As we highlighted in our March the Group around eight commercially attractive trading update, the Groups financial regions and created a new operational performance was affected by several structure to reflect this.
factors including weak advertising conditions, audience declines at our In November, we presented our strategy to core heritage stations, post-merger the City, our staff, customers and shareholders integration disruption and the outlining a clear direction for the Company in short-term effects of our inventory three key areas: reduction policy at Capital Radio.
Investing in our core stations: with a focus As a result, underlying pro-forma Group on Capital Radio revenues were down 12.7% year on year Repositioning our portfolio of stations Peter Cawdron at 220.2 million and underlying pro-forma within commercially attractive markets Chairman Group profit before tax was down 40% at and developing strong national networks 22.2 million.
On a statutory basis, revenues, to challenge the BBC which only include GWR Group from the date Developing non-traditional revenue of merger, 9 May 2005, were 210.7 million.
opportunities The statutory loss before tax of 47.9 million includes intangible amortisation of 42.8 million We are already starting to deliver on that and a charge for separately disclosed items strategy.
The first stage of this was the of 27.8 million, which include merger phased relaunch of Capital Radio.
In reorganisation costs, goodwill impairment December, we introduced a new inventory and the profit on the sale of Century 106. policy and independent research has demonstrated that advertising on Capital Delivering on our strategy Radio is now almost 40% more effective.
Against these tough market conditions, the We are also repositioning Capital Radio to management team has been focused on 90% appeal to a target audience of 15-44 year delivering on our strategic aims and putting old females and, although the station recently the Group in the best position for future growth.
lost the overall commercial leader position in With 90% of the We have identified significantly higher cost London, Capital Radio is now more appealing population listening synergies than initially anticipated and brought to this target market with a greater share of forward additional savings into 2005 06.
At the to radio almost 24 listening than any of its commercial time of the merger, we estimated annual cost competitors.
Listener feedback since the hours a week, radio synergies of 7.5 million to be achievable in the relaunch has been extremely positive and is as strong as ever year to March 2008.
We have now identified we have announced the appointment of a annual cost synergies of 27 million achievable new Programme Director who will join us this in full in the year to March 2007. summer from leading Australian station, Nova.
Media markets are changing fast and we With 90% of the population listening to radio are creating the strategy to deliver improved almost 24 hours a week, radio is as strong profitability by developing strong national as ever.
Developing strong, complementary networks and increasing audiences in the networks on analogue and digital is central GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 03 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement continued 38% Advertising on Capital Radio is now 38% more effective to our strategy of attracting listeners, Opportunities for growth formerly his eight years as Chief Executive of particularly from key BBC radio stations.
DAB Digital Radio provides new business Capital Radio plc.
I believe that the Board is Classic FM remains the UKs largest opportunities for radio companies in operating now the appropriate size and composition commercial radio station, with a record number multiplexes and developing new radio brands.
comprising three Executive Directors and of commercially attractive ABC1 listeners.
For listeners, it offers a much broader choice seven Non-executive Directors.
of services, with more than 420 available This year, the station also saw its highest around the country and more than 50 on-air Setting the dividend level revenue since 2002 and was the biggest in London.
For advertisers, the benefits are In November, the Board reviewed the revenue contributor for the Group.
On DAB clear: the opportunity to target more niche Companys future dividend policy in the light of digital radio, Sony Gold Award winning Planet audiences who are loyal to their strong radio the very significant changes that had occurred Rock achieved record reach and share with brands.
Opportunities for the take-up of digital in the radio advertising market, the audience almost half a million listeners.
radio comprise mobile phones and PDAs, and declines in the GCap Media portfolio, the the addition of DAB digital radio to products trading outlook at that time and the anticipated In March we completed the creation of the such as cars, where the removal of the need short-term effect on earnings of our strategy to new national Xfm network with the launch of to re-tune whilst travelling can be seen clearly enhance the long-term value of the business.
We now own a network of as a significant benefit.
Vauxhall is a prime It proposed a new level of dividend which would analogue and digital stations across the UK example of a mass market manufacturer that form the basis for a progressive dividend policy broadcasting to commercially attractive, but has already begun to develop in this area.
once the benefits of the strategic repositioning difficult to reach, 15-34 year old males and The number of in-car radios is expected to of the Group flow through.
The interim dividend have already seen positive feedback from rise from 15,000 units in 2005 to 702,000 was set at 3.1 pence per share and paid in advertisers.
Elsewhere, as audiences fall at units in 2009 according to the DRDB.
The Board is now proposing Radio 1 and Radio 2, we are starting to deliver a final dividend of 6.15 pence per share making audience growth at key stations including Streamlining our Board a total of 9.25 pence for the year.
Choice FM and the Century FM Network.
We have seen changes to the structure and composition of the Board this year starting with A business fit for the future The digital opportunity the announcement in September that David As we start the 2007 financial year, we have There have now been three million DAB digital Mansfield would step down as Chief Executive.
targeted Capital Radio and are giving it the radio sets sold.
It took five years to sell the first Having two senior executives made a lot of management focus and investment it needs million sets, 11 months to sell the next million sense in the months following the merger.
to build audiences and grow revenue.
Across and just five months to sell the third million.
However, in September, with the early integration the rest of the business, we are in great shape By 2009, more than 40% of homes in the UK nearing completion and the Groups strategy operationally, have seen some encouraging are expected to own a digital radio.
GCap review well under way, both David and Ralph growth on our national networks and are well Media is well placed to take advantage of this Bernard felt that the time was right to review this placed to benefit directly from any longer-term growth, having the necessary content and structure and together agreed this way forward.
distribution network to attract listeners and grow revenues.
In our November interim statement, we Finally, I would like to thank our dedicated and signalled our intention to streamline the talented staff, who have all continued to deliver The national commercial multiplex that GCap composition of the board by reducing its exceptional levels of hard work and creativity Media controls through Digital One, together non-executive membership.
In March 2006 the during a year of significant change.
I am with our network of digital stations including Group announced that Stella Pirie, Tim Mason confident that we now have an excellent team Xfm, Choice FM and Planet Rock, put us in a and Peter Mitchell would be standing down of talented people in place across the Group strong position to compete against the BBC.
from the Board of Directors with effect from to help us deliver long-term growth.
We have also stated our intention to participate 31 March 2006.
I would like to thank all of in the application for the second national digital them for their significant contributions over the Peter Cawdron multiplex as part of an industry consortium.
years, particularly David for the role that he Chairman, GCap Media plc played as Chief Executive of GCap Media and 24 May 2006 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 04
