ALFRED McALPINE PLC 04 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Our three core businesses delivered a strong performance in 2006, with good growth in comparable underlying profit before tax year-on-year.
Our positive view of our trading performance The investigation confirmed that the controls We entered 2007 in 2006, which we indicated in our trading in the slate business had been systematically update on 9 January 2007, was overshadowed circumvented over a number of years to by the discovery in late February 2007 of overstate results.
The behaviour and collusion with a record a systematic and extensive fraud by senior of the managers responsible was entirely managers within our slate business dating deliberate and involved fraud.
The Managing 3.9bn order book, back a number of years.
Director and Operations Director of Slate have been dismissed.
The other members of the having secured in Each of our three core businesses delivered former senior management team of Slate had a strong performance in 2006, with good already left the business.
The financial impact excess of 1.5bn growth in comparable underlying profit before of the fraud resulted in a 22.9m reduction tax year-on-year.
Business Services delivered in sales and pre-tax profits in the years up another strong year with significant revenue to and including 2006 and asset impairment, of new business and profit growth.
Project Services also professional fees and other costs of 17.5m performed well.
The improvement made net of total tax.
during 2006. in the underlying performance of our Infrastructure Services business was particularly Ashurst and Deloitte believe that, whatever encouraging as the benefits of our financial controls had been in place, given the restructuring actions started to come through.
extensive collusion of senior managers in the slate business, steps would have been taken We ended the year with a record 3.9bn to attempt to circumvent these.
Controls have, order book, having secured in excess of however, been reviewed and, in accordance 1.5bn of new business across all our markets, with the recommendations made by Deloitte, including our largest contract to date with further strengthened where possible.
The Board is deeply concerned by the Slate discovery of this fraud, but is confident that On 26 February 2007, we announced that decisive action has been taken to address this.
an investigation by our internal audit team had Our immediate priority is to return this uncovered a systematic misrepresentation business to profitability.
of production volumes and sales for a number of years by a number of senior managers Group financial controls at Slate.
The Board immediately suspended In the light of the uncovering of fraud two senior managers at Slate and instigated within the slate business, the remit of the an independent forensic investigation into Deloitte investigation also included a wider these accounting irregularities, under the review of relevant key financial control terms of which Ashurst and Deloitte reported procedures in our core businesses.
This review their findings to the Audit Committee.
has been completed and confirmed the robustness and appropriateness of our existing control procedures.
No material issues were identified.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200605 1.5bn 3.9bn New business won in the year.
Group financial results Board Strategy and outlook Group underlying profit rose by 4% to We were delighted to welcome Dr Roger Alfred McAlpine today is a leading support 27.0m restated 2005: 26.0m, reflecting Urwin, as Non-executive Director, to the services group focused on providing clients a profit before tax PBT margin of 2.4% Board in September 2006.
Roger was Group with integrated solutions for all their built in line with 2005.
Reported profit before tax Chief Executive of National Grid plc until environment needs.
Group he retired at the end of 2006 and will bring revenues in the year rose to 1,123m restated a wealth of experience to the Board.
He will Alfred McAlpines core businesses are strong, 2005: 1,072m, an increase of 5%.
become Chairman at the conclusion of the well managed and are well placed to benefit Annual General Meeting on 26 June, when from the growth opportunities offered by Underlying earnings per share were 22.8p I am due to retire from the Board.
We aim to maximise these restated 2005: 23.7p per share.
to handing over to Roger then.
opportunities by continuing to focus on investment in our core businesses.
Basic earnings per share were 16.8p.
Diluted Dominic Lavelle decided to stand down earnings per share were 16.3p.
These figures from the Board as Group Finance Director We entered 2007 with a record 3.9bn order are stated after non-recurring items.
On behalf of the Board, book and over 80% of our target revenues I would like to record our gratitude to Dominic for the year already secured.
Maintaining this After funding organic growth in our core for his significant contribution to the Company momentum, we have won in excess of 400m business, the investment of 10m in new over the last three years.
At the time of writing of new business since the start of 2007. systems and one-off cash costs of 5.5m, my statement, the search for a replacement Against this background, the Board remains including payments made under our pension has commenced and until a successor is confident in the Groups growth prospects.
liability management programme of 2.8m, found, Mark Greenwood, Finance Director our year end net cash position was 29.0m of Project Services, is acting as interim 2005: 32.8m.
Dividend Acquisitions In recognition of the continuing improvement On 1 February 2007, we acquired Enviros G O Whitehead in the underlying trading performance of the Group Limited Enviros, a leading Chairman core businesses and confidence in the Groups environmental consultancy, for 30m in 11 May 2007 future development, the Board recommends cash 27m and shares 3m.
Enviros works a final dividend of 8.65p per share, taking our across industry sectors, in both the public full year dividend up 10% to 14.65p per share and private sector, and has a broad range 2005: 13.3p per share.
Subject to shareholder of clients including DEFRA, the Carbon Trust, approval at the Annual General Meeting on BP, Corus and the MOD.
The acquisition 26 June 2007, the final dividend will be paid allows us to continue our strategy of moving on 6 July 2007 to shareholders on the register up the services value chain and gives us on 15 June 2007. access to another high growth market.
