Chairmans statement Strategic progress The Board GKNs performance in 2006 confirms that the Group On 1 January 2006 Sir Ian Gibson succeeded Baroness is making significant progress in implementing its Hogg as Senior Independent Director.
Sarah retired from strategy which is focused on the achievement of the Board at the Annual General Meeting on 12 May long-term growth and enhanced shareholder value.
after more than nine years service.
We thank her for her extremely valuable contribution during that time.
Driveshaft manufacturing capacity continues to be transferred to the high growth economies of Asia On behalf of the Board, I am delighted to be able Pacic, South America and Eastern Europe.
Whilst to congratulate Kevin Smith on the Knighthood we have had production facilities in Japan and China conferred upon him in the 2007 New Year Honours.
for some 20 years and have achieved significant This recognises Kevins contribution to British industry market penetration in these countries, the scale of and is richly deserved.
the current re-alignment of the Groups manufacturing Corporate responsibility assets will take full advantage of the new world order Last year I reported that we would be introducing the in automotive production.
GKN Code which is common to all parts of the Group Our Aerospace business, which now represents 29% of and sets out a clear and unambiguous framework of subsidiaries trading profit, increased sales in 2006 by conduct and behaviour.
During 2006 we executed 11% and profits by 30%, achieving a trading margin of a major communications exercise in 25 languages 10%.
Stellex Aerostructures, acquired during the year, to make our entire global workforce aware of the will increase our exposure to the US civil aircraft market.
obligations which the Code demands of the Group and its individual employees.
We have also transformed the contribution which Powder Metallurgy is making to the Group.
Our To further support our Values, and in particular our Sinter Metals business in North America returned commitment to make a positive contribution to the to profitability in 2006 and further progress can now communities in which we operate, we have launched be expected.
We also made bolt-on acquisitions in an exciting initiative which aims to raise funds across OffHighway including a wheels business in China.
the Group in 2007 for charitable purposes in our local communities and in Africa.
The initiative is known as GKN I am pleased to report that the Group produced a Mission Everest and involves sponsorship of the first satisfactory improvement in profitability and earnings ight over Mount Everest by powered paraglider.
Further despite high energy and raw material costs and information is available in the corporate responsibility difficult conditions in some of our markets.
review in this report and at www.
We made a 200 million payment to the UK pension Against the background of global concern over the scheme during the year and, although a deficit remains, impact of climate change, GKN strives continuously we feel confident that this issue is now substantially to improve its environmental performance.
preserving scarce resources and reducing levels of waste Results and emissions from our manufacturing processes, this profit before tax on a management basis was includes the development of lighter weight components 221 million compared with 204 million in 2005. which contribute to greater fuel efficiency for both Earnings per share on the same basis rose to 28.8p automotive vehicles and aircraft.
Through our joint 2005 22.3p helped by a lower tax rate.
Net debt venture, Emitec, we also assist vehicle manufacturers rose to 426 million at the year end 2005 65 million to achieve ever more stringent emission standards due to the cost of acquisitions, restructuring charges, through the production of advanced metal substrates further share buybacks and the contribution to the UK for catalytic converters and diesel particulate lters.
The future Dividend Enhancing shareholder value remains paramount in The Board remains committed to a progressive the development and execution of our strategy.
Having dividend policy, subject always to prevailing economic almost completed the most significant restructuring conditions.
We recommend that a final dividend of programme of recent years we now look forward to a 8.7p be paid on 9 May 2007 bringing the total dividend period of profitable growth.
The proposed dividend is covered 2.3 times by earnings on a management basis 2005 1.8 times.
Roy Brown Chairman Annual Report 2006 GKN plc 3
