CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Revenue increased to 1,464 million 2005 1,302 million, Against a challenging with profit before exceptional items, amortisation and tax of background, the 91.9 million 2005 95.5 million.
Adjusted earnings per share were 118.4p 2005 116.3p.
The board proposes a final dividend of 38.0p group has delivered a 2005 33.0p per share payable on 24 November 2006 to shareholders creditable performance on the register at the close of business on 3 November 2006.
This represents a total dividend for the year of 56.0p 2005 48.0p, an and made good increase of 17%, reducing the dividend cover to 2.1 times progress in developing 2005 2.4 times adjusted earnings, in line with our stated policy of reducing dividend cover to 2.0 times by the year ending 2007. its operations for Shortly after the year-end, events were overshadowed by the the future.
illness of Chris Moyes and his consequent resignation from the board and as chief executive.
Chris has made a major contribution to the development of the group since privatisation and, indeed, to the transport industry as a whole.
He is a liked and well-respected gure in the industry and will be missed.
The group is fortunate, however, to have a strong executive team and the board is confident that, under the leadership of Keith Ludeman, formerly chief executive of our rail division, the strategy that has been so successful for the group will continue to deliver value.
The year started with rising fuel costs and the terrorism of 7 and 21 July in London which particularly affected demand for our rail services.
The group has made good progress in dealing with these problems.
In our bus business, we have completed the integration of Southern Vectis with Wilts & Dorset, delivering significant cost and operational benets.
We have established a business base in Birmingham.
The process of integrating and upgrading the businesses acquired, to provide further growth opportunity for the group, is underway.
The depot infrastructure upgrade of our Metrobus subsidiary is now complete.
First class operating performance in our London bus businesses, where we have consistently topped the Transport for London TfL quality league tables, has provided the platform to increase market share.
Other projects to improve efficiency are now producing benets.
The board is confident that the bus business will increase revenues and profit in the coming year, despite the continued pressure from fuel prices.
In rail, the groups success in winning the Integrated Kent franchise has established a platform for earnings growth in what is now Sir Patrick Brown called the Southeastern franchise.
Operations commenced on 1 April Chairman 2006 and it has started well.
Meanwhile, the Southern business, having 7 September 2006 quickly recovered from the events of July 2005, has pushed its quality standards to new heights, supporting passenger growth.
The end of nine years of our ownership of the Thameslink franchise was marked by record levels of operating and financial performance.
Looking beyond the current year, the main operating challenge for the rail business is likely to be the increasing cost of traction energy.
There are other opportunities to expand in rail and in June the group was short listed to bid for the TfL London Rail Concession.
We also intend to enter the imminent competition for franchises in the Midlands.
In aviation, our cargo business was particularly successful in increasing both volume and profits during the year.
General ground handling services have been restructured following the change of management last September.
As well as reducing its cost base, the division has improved the quality of its business and shown encouraging growth at Heathrow.
Recent high prole contract wins there, and other prospective developments, underpin an improving trading outlook for this division despite the recent terrorist threats.
During the year there have been several key management changes in our subsidiaries.
These have strengthened the groups ability to deliver profitable growth, and I wish to thank all the management teams and their staff for their achievements in what was not an easy year.
The new financial year has started in line with the boards expectations.
The groups strategy, focusing on organic growth and selective acquisitions in the UK, provides a rm basis for increasing returns in the years ahead.
Strong cash ow will continue to support dividend growth and the share buy-back programme, the authority for which will be renewed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
2 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 1 July 2006
