qxd 28 9 06 17:01 Page 5 Chairmans Statement David Ross Chairman Gondolas good results demonstrate the power of our brands, the strength of our business model and the commitment of our people.
Our strong cash flow and healthy new site pipeline give us a great opportunity to add to the significant growth already being delivered from the core restaurant estate.
Total Group sales were up 6.8% to 404.4m and restaurant sales up Our performance and our confidence in 7.4% to 394.0m for the financial the Groups future prospects leads the year.
Profit before tax was 18.2m board to recommend a final dividend after exceptional items of 12.6m, With three of the most of 4.7p per share, taking the total and cash flow from operating popular brands in the casual dividend to 7.0p per share for the activities was up 56.8% to 87.8m.
dining sector, a strong period since IPO.
This is equivalent to property pipeline and a 11.1p per share for a full 52 week As planned, we opened 23 new period, at the top end of our dividend highly experienced and restaurants during the year and payout policy of 35% to 45% of motivated management although some opened later earnings per share.
The final dividend team, Gondola is well in the year than expected, the will be payable to all shareholders placed to continue to sites are performing in line with registered on 10 November 2006 and benefit from the large and expectations.
For the current year, will be paid on 30 November 2006. growing eating-out market we have increased our target for in the UK and Ireland.
With three of the most popular brands Two are already opened, and we in the casual dining sector, a strong are on site at a further five.
property pipeline and a highly experienced and motivated Our strong performance reflects the management team, Gondola is well Groups focus on our restaurant basics placed to continue to benefit from the strategy, with food innovation and large and growing eating-out market in improved service standards helping the UK and Ireland.
In the first eleven to maintain the very positive sales weeks of the current year, like for like momentum seen in recent years.
We are confident of At the same time, effective delivering further good growth in management of our cost base has shareholder value.
enabled us to maintain profit margins in the face of challenging industry wide cost pressures, whilst continuing to invest in the quality of our food, our people and our restaurants.
2 GONDOLA HOLDINGS PLC - ANNUAL REPORT 20O6 3502 - Financial Rep 06 Start Q7.
