CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Ian Bull joined the board in January 2006 as Results I am delighted to be able to report another year of finance director.
He had latterly been chief executive of BT Retail Enterprises and brings to strong profit growth for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2006.
These results include contributions bear another valuable perspective from outside the brewing and pubs sector.
from Ridleys, acquired in July 2005 43 weeks and Belhaven, acquired in October 2005 Ian replaced Michael Shallow, who had served 30 weeks.
Tim Bridge, Chairman the company in this role for fourteen distinguished years.
I would like to record my Revenue for the year was up 16% at 818.6m and operating profit increased by 21% to 190.9m.
thanks to Michael for his great service over this long period of transformation and growth.
Operating profit margin was therefore 23.3%, up 0.9 percentage points.
Our profit before tax and In June 2005, John Brady joined us as a nonexceptional items rose by 25% to 119.6m.
Over the last twelve years, we have delivered a executive director.
He had been with the consultants McKinsey & Co for twenty four years compound annual growth rate in earnings per share of above 10%: this year our earnings per share have and has extensive marketing and retailing experience.
At the year end, net debt stood at 1,246.7m and interest cover at 2.7x, Alan Bowkett is retiring as a non-executive at the figures with which we are very comfortable.
AGM this year and I would like to extend our thanks to him for the very considerable Dividend The board recommends a final dividend of contribution he has made to the board during the last twelve years.
14.35p per share, which will give an increase of 11% in the total dividend for the year to 20.15p People per share.
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 11 September to those shareholders on Our business succeeds through all our employees and licensees, who work with great effort and skill the register at the close of business on 4 August.
to serve our customers well.
It is they who bring our pubs and brands to life.
I would like to thank Acquisitions The year saw two acquisitions.
In July we them for their passion and dedication over this past year and I hope that, like me, they will feel purchased Ridleys, based in Essex, with an estate of 73 tenanted leased pubs: and in October, we very proud of these results.
I would also like to welcome our new colleagues from Ridley's and acquired Belhaven, with 97 managed and 185 tenanted leased pubs, which has given us instant Belhaven.
Each time we have made an acquisition, we have benefited by learning from scale in Scotland.
Since the end of the financial year we have announced a recommended offer what the businesses have brought to us and by trying to retain better skills and ways of working.
for Hardys & Hansons plc, a leading integrated pub company and brewer concentrated in the We continue to do this and view the future with every confidence.
Midlands, to bring us a further 83 managed and 185 tenanted leased pubs.
Board In September 2005, Justin Adams joined us as managing director of our Brewing Company.
He had previously worked for Diageo and Maxxium Tim Bridge Worldwide and is well qualified to drive the Chairman further development of our brands and 4 July 2006 distribution business.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 3 All our employees and licensees work with great effort and skill to serve our customers well GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 4
