CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Brian Steer Executive Chairman Our strategy Provide the highest quality PK tissue management and Invisio visualisation products Differentiate product portfolios through technological performance and See and Treat strategy Focus on leadership in our chosen market segments Build our position in the substantial general surgery market Gyrus Group PLC 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Overview increased its profit contribution In our last annual report we concluded substantially as it restructured to focus We look at 2006 as the foundation on the surgical aspects of its current year for significant integration and and future portfolio.
In the last quarter new product introductions, which will the Division began a significant overhaul determine our future success.
This is a of its management and sales force to succinct summary of the Groups strong achieve this.
Global Divisional revenue performance in 2006, a year in which we fell by 4% on a reported basis, due to have progressed well with the operational the decline in the dollar, to 38.5 million integration of Gyrus ACMI, having 2005: 40.1 million.
reorganised and refocused the Group on the strength and value of our See and The Partnered Technologies Division Treat technology platform.
In addition to showed strong growth with each of its bringing a large number of new products principal partner relationships contributing to market, we have continued to deliver well.
The Division reported global revenue strong growth in the Groups revenue growth of 14% to 26.2 million 2005: and earnings.
In addition it commenced a potentially interesting new relationship The Groups reported sales revenue in the area of robot-assisted surgery grew by 42% to 213.3 million 2005: with Intuitive Surgical Inc. 150.4 million.
The majority of this growth derived from the full year effect By the end of the year the International of the acquisition of ACMI in July 2005. sales organisation had addressed Underlying proforma constant currency the need to rationalise its distribution revenue grew by approximately 7% yearpartnerships around the world.
The on-year showing a slight improvement process of achieving this restricted in the second half compared with the revenue growth in the year, resulting first six months.
in constant currency growth of 2% year-on-year.
The Group continued to improve its operating margin, which translated into Overall the Group enjoyed a strong finish both basic Earnings Per Share EPS to the year and revenue growth for the growth of 61% to 9.0p 2005: 5.6p and second half began to improve towards our underlying measure of Adjusted EPS the Groups target of 10% per annum.
R&D and New Products Business Review During the year we focused our Revenue performance, on a constant development resources primarily on currency basis, across the Group the Groups See and Treat platform, reflected the changes taking place comprising the Groups Invisio digital in each business Division.
visualisation and PK tissue management technology.
During 2006 our expenditure Global Surgical Division revenue on research and development before increased on a reported basis by 40% restructuring costs, increased 16% to 52.5 million 2005: 37.6 million to 15.2 million 2005: 13.1 million although this includes the effect of the but declined as a percentage of sales transfer of certain laparoscopic products to 7.1% 2005: 8.7%.
Cystourethroscope from ACMI to the Surgical Division at the end of 2005.
The Division posted In the visualisation field Gyrus ACMI 19% proforma revenue growth in the US introduced three new camera systems on a constant currency basis, primarily during the year, including the Titan, the An instrument combining the uses due to the continued growth of the first 3 chip digital camera, which can of a cystoscope and a urethroscope, laparoscopic hysterectomy market in the withstand repeated sterilisation by whereby both the bladder and urethra United States.
In addition the early stage autoclave, and two megapixel camera can be visually inspected.
of the Divisions introduction to the large heads.
In addition, we introduced the general surgery market is encouraging.
DUR-D ureteroscope, our latest flexible endoscope to incorporate Invisio digital The Urology & Gynaecology Divisions technology.
We have high expectations reported global revenue reached 96.1 for this products success in the market.
million, a 93% increase on the prior Revenue by Division period performance 5.5 month period In the tissue management field, Surgical 25% ENT 18% in 2005: 49.7 million.
On a proforma Gyrus ACMI introduced the PlasmaCision Urology & Partnered basis, US revenue grew 4% in constant range of products for general abdominal Gynaecology 45% Technologies 12% currency when compared against a surgery and, in the last quarter, for strong pre-acquisition comparative.
We now have seven Division was refocused onto the sale of separate disposable instruments single use products and several new incorporating the Groups proprietary product launches resulted in encouraging PlasmaCision simultaneous cut and seal signs of a pick up in revenue growth technology.
We anticipate that the during the second half of the year.
Surgical and ENT Divisions will make significant gains in their respective 42% Whilst underlying revenue from continuing markets with these instruments.
revenue growth operations remained flat on a constant currency basis, the ENT Division Gyrus Group PLC 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Plasma Trissector The Laparoscopic Plasma Trissector for use in general surgery procedures.
This single use disposable instrument harnesses PlasmaCision our simultaneous cut and seal technology to enable rapid haemostatic transection of multiple tissue types.
Launched in late March 2006, this is one of the Groups lead products in its entry into the significant General Surgery market.
Gyrus Group PLC 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Also in the year, we were delighted to The Maple Grove Distribution Centre was will retire at this years Annual General have successfully defended the long the first site to go live on the new system Meeting and we thank him for his strong running patent litigation over the ENT in early March 2007. and wise support of the Group over Divisions Diego Microdebrider when the 10 years he has held office.
Michael Medtronic Xomed agreed to drop the Management and staff Garner, Deputy Chairman has agreed to case in September 2006.
This is empirical It is a testament to the capability and take responsibility for ensuring an orderly evidence that Gyrus ACMI will rigorously commitment of our staff around the Chief Executive succession process defend its patent estate against world that we have been able to progress during 2007. attack, regardless of the size of the on all fronts this year whilst making the litigating organisation.
restructuring changes necessary to During 2006 the Nominations Committee support our future success.
began its preparation for the Chief Integration of Gyrus ACMI Executive succession programme and the In 2006 the Group made substantial During the year there have been some selection process has now commenced.
This changes in personnel and responsibilities It is anticipated that a decision will be process, which involved significant amongst the members of the Group made by the time of the Groups interim restructuring programmes, related to Operating Board, which is the primary results in September this year.
manufacturing capacity and location, forum for the day-to-day management incurred restructuring costs of 5.8 million of the Groups activities.
Andy Zappas, Outlook before taxation 2005: 23 weeks 2.4 was appointed President of the Urology We have delivered earnings ahead of million.
We are nearing completion of & Gynaecology Division with a particular expectations reflecting the Groups the closure of our facility in Racine, brief to build the disposable product improved trading and leaner cost base.
Wisconsin, a process that commenced business.
Following the departure of In 2006 we have made excellent progress in January 2006.
In mid-year we Frank DAmelio as Chief Technology with the integration of ACMI, having announced the instigation of a sheltered Officer, Roy Davis, Chief Operating Officer, reorganised and refocused the Group manufacturing programme in Mexico, has taken over responsibility for research on our See and Treat technology.
which is designed to take on the and development activities alongside his We are seeing the strategic benefits manufacturing of products for which existing operational duties.
Tom Murphy, of the combined product portfolio labour and overhead cost is a significant Executive Vice President, has taken on and are encouraged by the developing barrier to success.
The first product to responsibility for the Groups Customer momentum of our new products.
be manufactured at our new Saltillo site Service and Distribution Centre and, Although the weakness of the US was despatched in February 2007.
In in addition, he is responsible for the dollar remains a translation concern, addition, we have set up the Gyrus ACMI implementation of the Oracle ERP we anticipate further improvement in Customer Service and Distribution Centre System.
Finally, Simon Shaw, Chief our operating margin and continued in Maple Grove, Minnesota and further Financial Officer, has assumed strengthening of our business in 2007. increased our manufacturing capacity executive responsibility for the there.
Finally, we have also been working Partnered Technologies Division.
Brian Steer on the implementation of a new Oracle Executive Chairman Enterprise Resource Planning ERP Board system throughout the Group.
This is In preparation for the next phase of designed, over the next two years, to the Groups development, the Board replace most of the multiple computer appointed John Rennocks and Katherine systems and manual processes which Innes Ker as Non-Executive Directors in are currently in use throughout the Group.
Charles Goodson-Wickes Gyrus Group PLC 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Scott Sanders Vice President Procedural Development In developing our products Gyrus ACMI Creating strong works in tandem with specialists in the relationships sector to which the product development relates.
We strive to understand and address the changing needs of surgeons as the frontiers of laparoscopic surgery continue to be pushed forward.
Our Procedural Development team, under Vice President Scott Sanders, works with surgeons in the field to develop, optimise and validate new product development.
Invisio DUR-D Digital Ureteroscope The use of Invisio distal tip digital sensoring technology results in significant improvements in picture quality for the Urologist.
Gyrus Group PLC 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 LISTEN DELIVER Gyrus Group PLC 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Innovation is key to success in the Leading electrosurgery market.
The historic limits the way governing what laparoscopic surgeons were able to do in keyhole surgery are falling away rapidly.
Our role is to develop the tools to enable surgeons to extend the potential of laparoscopic surgery and thus provide better outcomes for patients.
The j PlasmaKnife, a j PlasmaKnife PlasmaCision derived instrument for full or partial tonsillectomy.
This is a second generation PlasmaKnife, which builds on our experience in the field over the last twelve months, and was introduced to market in Autumn 2006.
Gyrus Group PLC 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 INNOVATE LEAD Gyrus Group PLC 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Prototype Invisio Digital Entering new Percutaneous Nephroscope markets A forthcoming addition to the Digital visualisation portfolio.
The Urology & Gynaecology Division is working closely with Dr Art Smith of Long Island Jewish Hospital, a pioneer of percutaneous nephroscopic procedures.
Percutaneous nephroscopy is the process by which an endoscope is used to view and work on the kidneys accessed via a small puncture in the patients flank.
Gyrus Group PLC 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 ANTICIPATE GROW Gyrus Group PLC 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
