Chairmans Statement Richard Pym Halfords has again demonstrated its resilience, benefiting from its unique market position as the UKs leading auto, leisure and cycling product retailer.
These are my first annual results as Chairman, although Ronald, our existing non-executive directors.
The Board I have been a director of the Company for the two works well together as a balanced team to consider the years since it was listed on the London Stock full range of issues that matter to our shareholders.
I am pleased to report that Halfords has again demonstrated its resilience, benefiting from its During the year, CVC Capital Partners significantly unique market position as the UKs leading auto, leisure reduced their shareholding in the Company, which and cycling products retailer, operating predominantly stood at 7.3% by the year end, and we thank Jonathan from out of town locations.
Feuer, the CVC-nominated director who resigned from the Board on 11 January 2006, for his contribution to Our total sales increase of 8.5% is encouraging against our success.
Rob Templeman led the Company from the background of the broader UK retail market, which March 2003 and resigned as Chairman at the end of the is widely described as challenging.
Earnings per financial year on 31 March 2006.
Rob made a huge and share were 23.6p and the Board is recommending a enduring contribution to the Company and we wish him final dividend of 8.75p per share in addition to the 4.0p well as he pursues his responsibilities elsewhere.
interim dividend already paid, bringing the total dividend for the year to 12.75p per share, up from The results for the year to 31 March 2006 are a credit to 12.0p per share last year.
the hard work of the entire Halfords team working in our stores, our distribution centres and in head office.
All of The strong group of independent non-executive our people are dedicated to bringing our customers a directors have been together since the flotation in 2004, great range of products and services and this gives the working closely with our Chief Executive, Ian McLeod, Board continuing confidence in the future of the and Finance Director, Nick Carter, who successfully Company.
lead a wider and equally talented executive management team.
Upon my appointment as Richard Pym, Chairman Chairman, Nigel Wilson was appointed Senior 7 June 2006 Independent Director, alongside Keith Harris and Bill 04 Chairmans Statement Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Leisure The Halfords cycling proposition goes from strength to strength, with one in three bikes in the UK now being purchased from Halfords.
Our own brand Apollo cycle range is the best selling cycle brand in the country and our higher end Carrera brand is also performing well.
There are now 339 Bikehut subshops in Halfords stores and we have 511 colleagues trained in cycle repair skills.
Going forward, we will be establishing cycle training stores of excellence nationwide and in the Republic of Ireland, to ensure that we maintain and build even greater capability across our business.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chairmans Statement 05
