Halma p. l. c. 2006 05 Chairmans statement During the last year, Halma has made significant progress.
What is also very noticeable is the impact of our new CEO Andrew Williams.
Our strategy is clearer than it has been since I arrived on the Board this is articulated later in this report both at the Group level and for each of the three new major operating sectors.
Speed of decision making has improved dramatically the same piece of paper rarely gets picked up off his desk twice and this is spreading throughout the Group, although Andrew would be the first to modestly say its a team effort, and hes right.
With this strategy as a template, the direction of cash allocation is much clearer.
In line with this, we have disposed of eight businesses during the year and acquired three, so, in turn, our structures and focus are also far clearer.
Our balance sheet remains strong at the year end we had net cash of 4 million During the last year, Halma has made significant progress.
despite investing 36 million in acquisitions and receiving First of all, the headline numbers.
The total Group including 15 million from disposals.
Including 60 million of debt capacity, discontinued operations, which is what we were responsible we have significant firepower to acquire more companies in line for throughout the year, increased revenue by 12.8% to with our strategic directions.
We are also investing in more sales 337.3 million 2004 05: 299.1 million.
Profit before tax and and production infrastructure in the new fast-growing economies amortisation of acquired intangibles on this basis increased by particularly China, the aim being to make it easier for our 19.4% to 59.6 million 2004 05: 49.9 million.
Revenue and individual companies to make further, and in some cases first, profit before tax and amortisation of acquired intangibles from steps there in developing more business.
continuing operations increased by 15.7% to 310.8 million and 20.3% to 58.1 million respectively.
Statutory profit before tax I should like to thank all of our employees for their dedication increased by 17.9% to 56.6 million.
All these figures are clear to our customers and their constant ability to come up with records for the Group.
These results reflect organic revenue innovative ideas.
The increased investment in people seems to growth of 10.8% and organic profit growth of 14.9%.
be having a very significant payback with a healthy queue of The Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.12p per excellent internal candidates now clamouring to participate share, an increase of 5% for the year, in line with our policy of in our customised management training.
progressively increasing the dividend but also increasing cover So, behind these record results also lies record investment in which now moves to 1.6 times 2004 05: 1.5 times.
Return on people, innovation and new markets as well as new acquisitions.
total invested capital improved to 12.8% 2004 05: 12.1%.
This, together with clarity of direction and increased momentum Over the last few years our focus has been on re-establishing gives us confidence for the future.
organic growth: a point emphasised and supported by All in all, an excellent vintage.
shareholders at last years annual general meeting.
In previous statements I highlighted some of the areas that may have been holding us back and some of our actions to address them, Geoff Unwin Chairman for example more and faster innovation, upgrading our sales capabilities, more investment in training our people, sharpening and simplifying our devolved management structures, rethinking management incentives and so on.
Well, the action we took certainly worked last year.
The statistician in me would love to be able to determine what benefit we got from what changes intriguing, but impossible to do with precision.
What I can say, is that we are not resting on one years results and we continue to examine and debate each and every factor that may be impeding us.
Restated under IFRS see note 1 to the accounts.
