Annual Report and Accounts 2006 1 Hays plc Chairmans Statement Acquisitions Whilst the fundamental strategy of the The performance highlights the growing Group is to create growth and value from strength of our international businesses organic development, geographic in-ll or the acquisition of specialist market and our ability to deliver the benets sector knowledge remains a part of our from the structural growth opportunities.
During the year we acquired Recruitment Solutions Group for 20.6 million including deferred consideration of 2.7 million to enter the specialist healthcare and social care markets.
In considering this acquisition, the Board was aware that the current market for healthcare professionals would be challenging due to constraints in National Health Service funding, but over the long-term there are good opportunities for growth both in the specialist healthcare and social care markets.
We also acquired for 7.8 million including deferred consideration of 5.2 million, St. Georges Harvey Nash, a small permanent recruitment business primarily based in China, but with complementary search activities in Hong Bob Lawson, Chairman Kong to those of our organic start-up.
This business holds the appropriate licences to operate a recruitment business within China and hence provides us with a quality platform to develop the longer term potential of the Chinese market.
Dividend Results summary Net fees for the Group increased by Capital structure and dividend 04 3.00p 14% to 538.2 million 2005 470.6 The business continued to generate million and profit before tax increased 05 3.40p strong free cash ow during the year.
by 15% to 192.5 million 2005 The priorities for our free cash ow are 06 4.35p 167.7 million.
We have seen to fund Group development particularly contrasting performances between our in the International Division, purchase of Earnings per share businesses in the United Kingdom & in-ll acquisitions as they arise, support Ireland and in the International Division.
5 a progressive dividend policy, and to 04 5.29p In the United Kingdom & Ireland net buy-back shares as appropriate.
fees grew by 7% and operating profit 05 6.82p The initial circa 300 million of grew by 6% with moderate performance the share buy-back programme was 06 8.69p in the major specialist activities.
There completed at the close of the first half remain attractive growth opportunities this year.
We have commenced the 5 Based upon profit from continuing operations after tax, in our specialist activities in the United before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items and second stage of the share buy-back Kingdom & Ireland and we are now before share of interest payable of associate, under programme and during the second UK GAAP investing accordingly.
half of the year we have purchased The Group continues to focus on 32.7 million shares at a total cost of the significant growth opportunities in 47.1 million.
The total number of shares the international specialist recruitment purchased to date is 274.6 million at a markets.
The International Division has total cost of 352.1 million representing, produced an excellent performance with 15.8% of the issued share capital.
net fee growth of 38% and operating Basic earnings per share from profit growth of 53%, and has contributed continuing operations for the year of 55.5 million 2005 36.3 million 8.69 pence was 27% ahead of last year to Group profits.
The improvement highlights the growing strength of our in earnings per share arises from the international businesses and our ability strong growth in post tax profits from to deliver the benets from the structural continuing operations, 15% ahead of growth opportunities.
International last year, combined with the favourable now represents 30% 2005 25% effects of the accretion from the share of Group net fees and further reduces buy-back programme to date.
our dependence on the United Kingdom The Board is aware of the importance & Ireland.
of both sustainable and progressive We have been able to nalise one dividend growth and therefore the Board of the last remaining legacy issues, is recommending a final dividend of the historic investment in Albion, the 2.90 pence per share, which if approved chemicals business.
We received at the at the Annual General Meeting will end of June this year a final net cash make a total of 4.35 pence per share inow of 30.0 million after Albion was for the full year.
This represents a 28% purchased by the German speciality increase on last year, with 15% of this chemicals business, Brenntag.
increase attributable to the accretive 2 Hays plc www.
com Chairmans Statement continued effects of the share buy-back programme leniency programme, but at this stage and 13% attributable to the underlying we do not know when the OFT growth in the profitability of the investigation will be completed.
The recommended dividend Board believes that any financial impact will be paid on 21 November 2006 to of the matters under investigation will shareholders on the register at not be material to the Group.
Board governance People The Board is conducting its evaluation As I announced at the Interim Results by questionnaire and interview.
This in February, John Martin our previous process has proven to be particularly Group Finance Director left the Group in useful in setting and agreeing the Board March to join Travelex plc.
The first priority is to devote a pivotal role in the transformation and more formal Board time to the strategic refocusing of Hays into a Specialist development of the Group.
The second Recruitment Group and we wish him priority is to undertake more visits to every success in the further operating businesses to increase the Board exposure to middle tier executives and to broaden the Boards knowledge of our operating activities.
The third Our continued priority is to ensure that there are investment will allow adequate succession plans for the senior management group and to the Group to take develop more options to address the full advantage of its Groups needs in the future.
The Board has met 10 times in substantial growth the year including a strategic away day.
This year one international visit was undertaken to the French operation, and in addition, the Directors have made development of his career.
In May, individual visits to ofces and international Paul Venables joined the Group as operations as their itineraries have his replacement.
The visit to France gave the depth of experience in the multi-national Board an insight into the changing service sector has already had a positive nature of the recruitment industry in impact on the Groups activities.
I, and Continental Europe, together with an the Board look forward to Paul having a opportunity to witness the excellent long and fullling career with the Group.
quality of the French executive team.
Our business has many opportunities As noted above, the Board plans to for our people.
In the United Kingdom hold a higher proportion of its meetings the challenge is to capitalise on our away from the corporate ofces to market leading positions and to identify improve the breadth of exposure for and to the Board.
and exploit new opportunities, which can subsequently be developed internationally.
Current trading For the international operations, the In July and August the Group continued opportunity is to develop these markets to generate strong like-for-like net fee for our business model and establish growth of 13%.
Growth was 6% in the Hays in a market leadership position.
United Kingdom & Ireland, 28% in Asia Having visited many of our operations Pacic and 37% in Continental Europe during the year, I am delighted to report & Canada.
For the full year the Group to you the enthusiasm, commitment and expects some slight erosion in Group professionalism of our teams in meeting margins from those achieved in the these challenges.
second half of last year, arising from I do wish to thank each and every a modest margin reduction in the United one of them for all their hard work and Kingdom temporary business and the enthusiasm and look forward to them impact of investment for future growth.
developing their careers and strengthening Our continued investment will allow the the business and its relationships with our Group to take full advantage of its clients and our candidates.
Ofce of Fair Trading investigation As previously announced the Ofce of Fair Trading OFT is conducting an investigation into a number of recruitment companies involved in the construction recruitment sector.
Hays is one of the companies currently being investigated.
Bob Lawson The investigation relates to a small part Chairman of our Construction & Property business in the United Kingdom.
As a Group we take this matter very seriously and are co-operating fully with the OFT in its investigation under its
