Headlam Group plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chairmans Statement The group is committed to being the leading distributor of floorcoverings in the UK and Continental Europe During 2006, market conditions in the UK, in both residential To retain our position as the leading distributor of and particularly commercial floorcoverings, have been floorcoverings in Europe, we will continue to invest in the favourable.
Increased contributions across each of our business infrastructure of the business.
Over the last twelve years we sectors and all product categories have enabled the group to have invested in eleven new facilities, giving our businesses achieve another record year in revenue and profitability.
increased capacity and the latest floorcovering material handling technology keeping us at the forefront of the Revenue from the groups activities amounted to 509.9 floorcovering industry.
million, an increase of 4.8% on last year and profit before tax increased by 6.7% to 43.6 million.
Operations We continue to develop and maintain our close relationship Earnings and dividend with the leading worldwide floorcovering manufacturers.
Our 47 Basic earnings per share increased by 6.0% from 33.1p to businesses in the UK operate in five clearly defined business 35.1p.
Your board is recommending a final dividend of 15.30p sectors, working closely with these suppliers and subsequently per share, an increase of 12.5% on last year.
This increases the with our customers.
We employ 320 external sales people who total dividend for the year by 11.9% from 18.00p to 20.15p.
If are positioning new product into the independent retailer and approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General flooring contractor on a daily basis.
This ensures that our Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 2 July 2007 to customers have the latest product offering which is supported shareholders on the register at 8 June 2007. by a next day delivery service through our fleet of 420 commercial vehicles.
Whilst encouraging the autonomy of Strategy individual business operations, they each operate to a specific The group is committed to being the leading distributor of strategy relevant to their own market position and also comply floorcoverings in the UK and Continental Europe.
During the with consistent operational procedures and financial ongoing development of our businesses, it is not our intention disciplines.
to diversify away from our focus on floorcovering distribution.
The Year in Review Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 11 The management teams of these individual businesses are Outlook working to clearly defined budgets and specific objectives.
Through our clearly focused structure, which exists in each of They are measured and incentivised on the performance of our five business sectors, we are confident that our individual their individual business responsibility.
We believe this management teams and the autonomous businesses, for which autonomous business structure is a major strength that allows they are responsible, will continue to exceed market us to manage our market position and thereby removes a large conditions.
element of risk within our business.
The group has made a positive start to 2007 in both the UK The improvements we have made in our three Continental and Continental Europe and is well positioned to achieve its European businesses in France, Switzerland and the objectives for the year.
Netherlands have resulted in a further increase in revenue and profitability.
Employees We wish to thank all management and employees for their contribution to the groups ongoing success.
The autonomous structure of our business operations has developed a culture of Graham Waldron, Chairman individuality, whilst benefiting from opportunities throughout the group.
We have had many instances over a number of years where employees have developed into senior sales and management roles.
This policy of internal promotion wherever possible, gives all employees the opportunity for significant career development within the group.
