04 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Chairmans statement HMV Group began a period of transition during 2005 06.
In Waterstones, we are continuing to make progress In the UK market, to which the Group has an overwhelming on a number of initiatives to improve the operating and exposure through HMV UK & Ireland and Waterstones, financial performance of the business, including the retail conditions were highly demanding.
The most launch of waterstones.
com in autumn 2006. popular entertainment and book titles were impacted by The acquisition of Ottakars plc was completed on rapidly growing competition from supermarkets, while a 3 July 2006, and as a result the Waterstones business pronounced shift in consumer preference to buying is being enlarged to over 330 stores.
This scale will online put pressure on the deeper range of product.
enable us to respond better to competitive challenges.
As a result of these competitive inroads, statutory I would like to welcome Ottakars employees to the turnover for the 52 week period decreased 2.0% to Group.
Their excellent bookselling skills are highly 1,825.9m and profit before tax and exceptional items complementary to our own, and will ensure that we was 98.2m, down 20.7%.
Basic earnings per share continue to offer customers the best book buying were 14.0p and adjusted earnings per share were 17.4p.
experience on the high street.
The acquisition for 62.9m Despite these challenging conditions, the Group on a fully diluted basis is being nanced from existing continues to be cash generative.
Therefore, your Board cash resources.
Although this will increase the Groups is recommending that the total dividend be increased leverage, your Board believes the Group can operate by 8.8% to 7.4p per share.
on a higher level of financial gearing, and during the In responding to the competitive environment, new financial year we plan to resume a programme of it has been necessary to make operational and structural on-market share buy-backs.
We believe this will enhance changes in our businesses.
Throughout, the dedication value for shareholders, and still enable the Group to and passion of our people has been conspicuous.
pursue opportunities for organic growth.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to say how much we I am delighted to be the Groups new Non-Executive appreciate their unfailing commitment to our customers Chairman, following my appointment to the Board on and to our business.
The new financial year sees further changes The past months have not been uneventful.
David Kappler, who has been a member In February, we received a conditional offer from Permira since the IPO and last year became Chairman for an interim Advisers Ltd, valuing the Company at 210p per Ordinary period, retires on 6 July.
We have benefited greatly from Share.
The Board fully explored this proposal on behalf Davids extensive business experience, and will miss him.
of its shareholders, and was unanimously of the view The Groups Chief Executive, Alan Giles, will retire at that it undervalued prospects for the business in the the end of 2006 after almost nine years.
He successfully medium and long term.
We also received a proposal to led the Groups formation in 1998, its stock market otation buy Waterstones from Lazard European Private Equity in 2002 and, most recently, the acquisition of Ottakars Partners, which was ultimately withdrawn.
The Board would like to express our appreciation to The UK retail environment remains challenging.
Alan for his many contributions.
However, your Board is confident that initiatives The lead-time on Alans departure allows us to undertaken by management to revitalise the plan thoughtfully for succession.
While this process was performance of the UK businesses will ultimately somewhat slowed by earlier events, we are confident of generate greater value.
appointing in due course a high-calibre Chief Executive After a successful trial in six stores, we are now to lead the Group and the experienced and proven retail rolling out new lower prices throughout HMV UK.
management teams in our businesses.
co. uk are running ahead of last year Competitive pressures will persist in the new financial by over 100%, following improvements made to the year.
However, with a robust balance sheet, two powerful competitiveness, functionality and marketing of the retail brands, and highly-skilled and committed people, transactional website.
During the new financial year, I am confident that we can successfully extend our we will further develop this multi-channel approach by excellence in store-based retailing to become a truly more closely integrating the Internet channel into our world class, integrated multi-channel retailer.
Performance in games continues to be very encouraging: we prepared thoroughly for an upturn in the market and have been rewarded by increased market share.
The HMV businesses in Asia Pacic and Canada had an excellent year.
In both, we have already Carl Symon Chairman demonstrated our ability to respond successfully to 5 July 2006 many of the challenges now faced by our UK business.
05 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 The UK retail environment remains challenging.
However, your Board is confident that initiatives undertaken by management to revitalise the performance of our UK businesses will ultimately generate greater value.
Some of these are illustrated over the following pages.
