Chairmans Statement Brian Whitty Executive Chairman Homeserve has had another very successful Net debt at 31 March 2006 was 16.3m 2005: year, building upon its position as an innovative net cash 11.2m.
Cash generated by operations market leader in both of its Policy Membership amounted to 55.6m which has principally been and Emergency Repair businesses.
Within the invested in acquisitions 34.7m and the purchase Policy Membership division, the UK business has of shares by the Homeserve Employee Trust in again delivered outstanding policy growth.
The respect of share incentive plans 8.2m.
Emergency Repair division has seen high levels of activity and bene ted from its unique ability to Our results continue to be analysed between combine repair networks across most trades as a Policy Membership and Emergency Repair, which is package for Household Insurers.
consistent with our internal reporting structure.
Results Policy Membership Revenue from continuing operations increased by The Policy Membership business increased revenue 66% to 367m 2005: 221m.
earnings per share increased by 25% to 59.2p 2005: 47.2p.
Homeserve GB, the UK policy business, achieved an increase in policies and customers of 30% and Pro t before tax increased by 29% to 50.0m 22% respectively, with the recent mailing campaigns 2005: 38.8m and total basic earnings per share performing particularly well.
delivered strong growth of 20% in operating pro ts, in part offset by increased investment in The Board is proposing a final dividend of 13.9p our international business development and a loss per share to be paid on 7 August 2006, which in our Retail Warranties business.
brings the full year dividend to 20.0p per share, a year on year increase of 25%.
excludes amortisation of acquisition intangibles of 3.6m 2005: 0.3m and exceptional bad debt charge of nil 2005: 2.8m as set out in the Financial Review and notes 4 and 13.
Report & Accounts 2 Chairmans Statement i inno nnov va at tiv ive e......... Homeserve has had another very successful year, building upon its position as an innovative market leader... Investment in organic growth in our international Emergency Repair operations increased by 1.5m to 2.6m during The Emergency Repair business has increased the year.
Domo, our French operation is revenue to 218m 2005: 100m with operating performing well with our 49% share of the joint pro t increasing by 192% to 13.1m 2005: venture generating an operating pro t of 0.8m 4.5m.
and with the number of policies increasing by 49% to 0.42m.
These results include revenue and operating pro t of 64m and 3.9m respectively, from acquisitions The US operation increased its policy base three in the year, principally Chem-Dry, acquired in April fold to 0.13m and signi cantly strengthened its 2005, and Improveline, acquired in December management team.
We signed our fifth marketing 2005.
The year on year growth in revenue and agreement in the US in May 2006 with CEMC, a operating pro t was 54% and 106% respectively, major energy utility based in Georgia, providing including a full year contribution from Homeserve access to 0.4m homes.
We also agreed with our Property Repairs, acquired in December 2004. existing partner, Aqua America, to extend into three more of their territories.
This brings the total The Glass, Locks, Plumbing and Drains business had number of US households to which we have access an outstanding year completing the turnaround to 1.4m.
In April 2006 we reached agreement with programme.
This will result in a final earn-out a major Spanish utility to commence a test of our payment of 13.7m, which is in line with our electrics policy in September 2006. original estimate at the time of acquisition in 2002.
Our Retail Warranties business has continued We completed the acquisition of the glazing to experience dif cult trading conditions in the division of Pilkington Building Products in April furniture retail market and made an operating loss 2006 at a cost of 6.5m.
This business brings of 1.5m 2005: 1.4m pro t. We have reduced complementary customers and will be fully the operating cost base of this business, which integrated into our existing glazing network.
combined with new retail clients, is now beginning to be re ected in improved performance.
Within Manufacturer Warranty, we have achieved strong policy growth.
Homeserve plc 3 Chairmans Statement Over the last twelve months we have brought Our Emergency Repair business is expected together a comprehensive range of emergency to build on its unique ability to provide a fully trades into a unique integrated offering for integrated range of trades on behalf of Household Household Insurers, acquiring businesses in re and Insurers.
We aim to achieve this by extending this ood, property repairs and glazing to complement model to other Household Insurers, where we our existing operations.
believe there is a signi cant market opportunity, and by ensuring that each of our operations Employees provides market leading levels of ef ciency and The commitment to our successful growth and the customer satisfaction.
dedication of all of our employees has continued and I would like to thank them all for their Homeserve looks forward to the coming year contribution to another outstanding year.
Our existing businesses, both in the UK and internationally, are well positioned Prospects for continued organic growth in policy numbers Homeserve will continue to develop its innovative and pro ts and we will continue to seek strategic Home Emergency business where each of our acquisitions for Policy Membership and Emergency chosen markets has signi cant potential for further Repair.
Our Policy Membership business is expected to Brian Whitty continue to increase its market penetration in the Executive Chairman UK and further develop its international operations, 22 May 2006 replicating the proven UK model for successful growth.
Internationally, our focus will continue to be on signing new water and energy company partners in the US and further developing our operations in France and Spain.
