Chairmans Statement These are the results for the 53 weeks to 30 December 2006.
Pre-exceptional In this section: profit before tax on continuing operations has increased from 42.5m last year Results to 57.2m.
Net exceptional costs of 32.2m have been incurred 2005: 12.7m Board changes and losses from discontinued operations are 179.6m 2005: 144.4m.
Outlook Turnover from continuing operations was up 17.9% against last year to 733.0m 2005: 621.8m, with Howden Joinery growing its sales 9.5% to 676.3m.
In the light of these results, the Board has recommended that no final dividend be paid.
The new management team, under Matthew Ingles leadership, has focused on enhancing financial stabilisation during the year.
The Groups borrowing facilities have been restructured via a 3.25 year secured facility announced in February 2006.
The net debt position has improved first from the disposal of our French business and secondly from the settlement of the long-standing dispute with HM Revenue & Customs over the sale of some of our insurance products.
These transactions have provided us with the finance to restructure the Group.
The MFI Retail business was sold to Merchant Equity Partners in October.
This has enabled us to focus on our core competencies, whilst giving MFI Retail, with new funding, a chance to be successfully turned around.
We continue in the short term to provide MFI Retail with product, IT and logistics services.
Howden Joinery, with its significant small builder customer base, remains a very strong and special business.
In 2007 it will build on its successful model and excellent customer relationships, with up to 60 new depots due to be opened.
Our Supply division, now re-branded Howden Kitchens, is focused on becoming much more flexible so it can respond quickly to changing consumer demand and new product development, while delivering products at the right price.
We closed two factories at Stockton and Scunthorpe during the year as we concentrated on what we Outsourcing doors and drawers do well, and we outsourced other manufacturing to specialist suppliers around the enables us to meet rapidly world.
We greatly regret the loss of jobs which these changes involved, but we believe changing consumer tastes, faster and more efficiently them to be right for the business.
Speed-to-market, cost and quality will all be enhanced by better sourcing and distribution.
Board changes I joined the Board in July 2006 and was appointed Chairman in October.
Angus Cockburn and Michael Wemms have joined the Board as non-executive directors and Gerard Hughes is appointed to the Board today as Group Commercial Director.
They bring comprehensive experience from both executive and nonexecutive roles and are thoroughly familiar with retail and support services.
During the year Bob Wilson, Paul Cheng and Ian Peacock announced their retirements: and Lesley Knox and Tony fide Nunzio have retired from the Board today.
All have made substantial contributions to the affairs of the Group and have left with both our thanks and good wishes.
I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Board for their support, and I would like to thank staff for the skill, dedication and exceptional commitment they have put into the business throughout the year.
Galiform Annual Report 2006 15 Chairmans Statement continued Outlook In the first eight weeks of 2007, Howden Joinery has continued to trade well, in line 8.2% with our expectations.
Sales increased by 8.2% compared with the same period last sales growth in first eight year, 4.4% up on a same depot basis.
Gross margin was similar to that seen in 2006. weeks of 2007 The trend from Do it Yourself to Done for You continues to be reflected in the favourable market conditions that Howden Joinery is experiencing.
The positive effect of the maturing of depots opened since around 2000 will be constrained by the planned opening of around 60 new depots.
There are also a relatively low number of depots going through the rapid growth that is typically seen in years three and four of a depots life.
Supply should see the full-year benefit of the move to greater outsourcing in 2006, although its overall performance will be strongly influenced by the level of demand from its contract to supply MFI Retail.
Will Samuel Chairman 6 March 2007 16 Galiform Annual Report 2006
