Chairmans Statement As we announced in December, the prices in its traditional products and suppliers limit our ability to do this but progress is being made.
Company has benefited from strong from a successful emphasis on trading and our performance has products from the lighter half of the Basic earnings per share were 37.6p, exceeded market expectations.
Trucking operates the an increase of 77% on the previous before taxation for the year to 31 largest crude oil fleet in Western year.
We are recommending a final December 2006 was 80.8m 2005 Canada and has had a busy and dividend of 5.2p per share, giving a 40.9m, a 98% increase.
Canwest Propane, the total of 7.5p for the year, a 25% second largest propane company in increase.
The Company is essentially a North Canada, produced fine results and is American energy business, with This has been a superb year for your expanding its activities into the strong positions also in the North Sea Company.
There will continue to be northern United States.
Commodity short term fluctuations in commodity prices remain strong relative to Hunting Energy is the Companys prices but the fundamentals of historical levels so that recent upstream operation, providing hydrocarbon supply and demand in corrections have not adversely sophisticated equipment for the the markets we serve suggest that the impacted the Companys activities, upstream sector of the worlds future looks bright.
order books or production backlogs.
hydrocarbon industry with special I thank our fine staff for their hard emphasis on tubular products destined Gibson Energy, the Companys work and dedication during another for below-ground applications.
As Canadian-based midstream services successful year.
easily exploitable reserves become operation, is at the hub of an harder to locate and produce, the extremely active energy scene.
It has emphasis on deeper and more difficult been able to benefit from its deposits plays to Hunting Energys involvement in both conventional strengths.
Manufacturing plants in the heavy crude oil and ever-increasing United States, Canada, United volumes of production from Albertas Kingdom, Netherlands, Singapore and extensive oil sand deposits.
The China have been working flat out Marketing division, concentrating on throughout the year.
Outstanding quality management of the provinces Richard Hunting technical achievements have been diverse product streams, has once Chairman recorded during the year in the Gulf of again produced outstanding results.
Mexico and in the North Sea.
Operating margins in this activity are typical for the industry but returns on The Company continued to invest in capital are excellent.
Moose Jaw capital equipment to support its strong Refinery has substantially improved market positions.
Lead times and its results, benefiting from better skilled labour shortages amongst 2 2006 annual report & accounts 2006 2006 annual report & accounts annual report & accounts 3 3
