Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement Informa has demonstrated repeatedly that we are good at M&A.
But of the many pleasing aspects of 2006 I am most satisfied by our underlying growth rate.
On a proforma basis revenue increased by 13% and adjusted operating profit by 22%.
This proves without doubt that we have built a strong engine for organic growth.
Richard Hooper Over the last two years Informa has been Taken together we believe these three distinctive transformed.
Starting with the merger with Taylor & revenue streams put us in the enviable position Francis in 2004, followed by the acquisition of IIR in of allowing us to capture growth quickly when 2005, Informa is now four times the size that it was economic conditions are strong but will also three years ago.
demonstrate superior defensive qualities during tougher economic periods.
It was this confidence in In 2006, we produced over 2,800 new book titles, Your Dividend the strength of the business and our independent 2,000 subscription products and 10,000 events.
future that led us to reject the unsolicited bid Our marketing database has over 20 million contacts.
approach we received from private equity interests The IIR acquisition has broadened our geographical in November.
reach, particularly in North America which now 12.2p represents over 38% of our revenue.
We have over As we move ambitiously into 2007, I believe that 7,500 employees and offices in 43 countries.
we have the portfolio, the people and the passion Total dividend to produce another strong set of results.
I would In last years report I said that across our 150 like to take this opportunity to thank everyone business units we were building an ever more within Informa for their dedication, hard work and integrated Group underpinned by common goals 3.3p commitment in creating this success.
and shared values that guide us in our interactions with our customers and each other.
I think we have This will be my last statement as your Chairman.
Interim dividend achieved that integration.
Throughout our Annual After full consultation with our major shareholders, Report, you will see full page photographs that are I am delighted to announce the appointment of each a visual representation of an Informa value: Peter Rigby as my successor as Chairman, with 8.9p Innovative, Non-bureaucratic, For Profit, Open, David Gilbertson becoming Chief Executive Rewarding, Market Focused, About Quality.
Final dividend were all taken by Informa employees, from around In deciding to request that Peter take up the role of the world, from different businesses, some new to Chairman, a step the board recognises runs counter Informa and some who have been with us for to the recommendations of the Combined Code, we decades.
Each captures the essence of the value, considered the complexity of the Groups global and each employee explains in their own words operations, the need for management stability at Above: what it means to them.
Chairman the top of the Group following three years of Richard Hooper For Peter Rigby, our CEO, and David Gilbertson, our fundamental changes and the long-term and MD, to have integrated three businesses of similar proven partnership of Peter and David since 1998. size over the course of two years is an achievement The Board has also resolved to make certain few can rival.
governance changes please see Combined Code We now have a well balanced portfolio of revenue Compliance report which include annual re-election streams.
Publishing, Performance Improvement PI of all directors from this years AGM and the and Events all display strong qualities individually.
enhancement of the role of Senior Independent Publishing in Informa is inherently a high margin Director, Derek Mapp.
Next year you will see a business with limited cyclical exposure.
PI is a durable statement from Derek in the Annual Report.
income stream hedged over many market sectors I have been closely associated with Informa since including both private and public sector.
It has high 1998 when I joined LLP as a non-executive director.
client retention rates and enjoys strong relationships I have been delighted to be a part of such a with most of the Fortune 100 companies and many wonderful growth story.
I wish Peter, David, Tony Foye of the multi-national blue-chips.
Events is our fastest and the rest of Informa all the best in continuing growth capturer.
Our best this sterling work during 2007 and beyond.
practice blue prints and 20 million strong marketing database mean that we can move quickly when we identify market opportunities.
Richard Hooper Chairman 3 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
