Introduction by the Chairman Strong customer focus produces good results.
Acquisitions In line with the Groups strategy of extending its range of services and territories through complementary acquisitions, seven new businesses were acquired in 2006, for net consideration of 36.9m.
The largest of these was Alta Analytical Laboratory Inc. which was acquired on 30 November 2006 for 14.0m.
Alta which is based in California, USA provides analytical services to North American pharmaceutical and clinical research organisations.
This acquisition broadens the range of laboratory services offered to the pharmaceutical sector.
Other acquisitions enhanced our ability to offer analytical chemical testing in Europe and strengthened our market position in strategically important countries such as Japan and Spain.
On 9 January 2007 the Group acquired for 12.9m, UK based Umitek Ltd and its subsidiaries, CAPCIS and SREL which provide specialist testing and consultancy services to the oil and gas industries in the North Sea Vanni Treves and globally.
Chairman Dividends An interim dividend of 4.6p per share 2005: 3.9p was paid to shareholders on 14 November 2006.
The Results Directors will propose a final dividend of 10.2p per I am pleased to present the fifth Annual Report of the share at the Annual General Meeting on 11 May Intertek Group since its debut on the London Stock 2007, to be paid to shareholders on 15 June 2007.
The Group has enjoyed a approved, this will make a full year dividend of 14.8p successful year and has continued to grow its per share 2005: 12.0p, an increase of 23.3%.
The operations both organically and through acquiring Group continues to follow a progressive dividend complementary businesses.
Revenue for the Group policy.
In determining the future level of dividends we grew by 14.5% to 664.5m in 2006 compared to previously set dividend cover to be at least three times 2005.
Our three largest divisions, representing 92.0% earnings.
As a result of our strengthening balance of the Groups revenue, grew by 20.9% in total and sheet, in future we will set the dividend to be covered Government Services, our smallest division, declined by at least two and a half times earnings.
as expected, due to the discontinuation of preshipment inspection programmes in Nigeria and Earnings per share Venezuela.
Basic earnings per share were 40.9p, up 11.1% over last year.
Diluted adjusted earnings per share, before Group operating pro t was 98.1m, up 18.2% over amortisation of business combination intangibles and 2005.
Operating pro t, stated before the amortisation impairment of goodwill, were 43.2p, up 10.5% from of business combination intangibles and the 39.1p.
Excluding the pro t on sale of an associate impairment of goodwill adjusted operating pro t made in 2005, the earnings per share growth was 102.2m, up 17.3% over 2005.
Details of the Government Services, adjusted operating pro t calculation of earnings per share is given in note 8 increased by 35.0%.
These results include the contribution of acquisitions Board changes made in 2005 and 2006.
Excluding these acquisitions The Intertek Board of Directors was further the organic growth in revenue was 13.3% for the strengthened during the year by the appointment of three largest divisions and 7.9% for the Group.
Christopher Knight and Debra Rade as Non-Executive Organic growth in adjusted operating pro t was Directors.
Christopher Knight is a Chartered 27.3% for the three largest divisions and 10.7% Accountant and former investment banker with a for the Group.
wide range of experience in corporate finance both in the UK and internationally.
Debra Rade is currently a Intertek Group plc Annual Report 04 partner in a major US law rm.
Her practice focuses on corporate governance and compliance as well as Strength through acquisition product safety and certi cation.
Until 2002, Debra was a senior of cer of Underwriters Laboratories Inc. a provider of product safety and certi cation.
Their expertise and experience will contribute to the continued success of the Intertek Group.
After leading the Consumer Goods division for most of his 33 years with Intertek, Raymond Kong retired as Chief Executive of that division on 1 July 2006 and became a Non-Executive Director of Intertek Group plc.
Raymond continues as President of Asia and China, using his knowledge and experience to advance the Groups interests in that region.
On behalf of everyone at Intertek, I would like to express our deep gratitude to Raymond for his outstanding contribution towards building the Consumer Goods division into the successful business that it is today.
Paul Yao, formerly the Chief Operating Of cer of the Consumer Goods division, was appointed Chief Executive of the division to replace Raymond.
I wish both colleagues success in their new roles.
Biographies of each of the Board members are set out on pages 18 and 19.
Employees The growth re ected in this strong set of results has been delivered by the dedication and expertise of the Groups employees in providing value to our customers.
At the end of 2006, the Group employed over 18,000 people in 109 countries, an increase of Alta Analytical Laboratory Inc 2,600 people over last year.
One of our key challenges in the Group, is recruiting, training and developing In November 2006, Intertek acquired our people to ensure that they deliver excellent the pharmaceutical testing company Alta services which add value to our customers.
In order Analytical Laboratory Inc. Alta supports to meet this challenge, we have strengthened the North American pharmaceutical and clinical human resources function and have developed new research organisations by providing a variety metrics to identify and develop talent within the Group.
of analytical services including the testing On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank everyone that is required in the development of in the Group for their effort in making 2006 another new drugs.
good year and for their continued dedication towards giving our customers the best possible service.
The business is based out of two sites Outlook in California with a pool of experts in The Group operates in a dynamic global marketplace immunochemistry and bioanalytical services where change is continual.
Through its extensive and counts major global pharmaceutical global network and experienced people, the Group and biotech companies among its clients.
will continue to adapt and expand its services to anticipate and meet the changing needs of customers.
Altas expertise and business gives Intertek The Groups strong financial position and ability to a platform to build a global presence in the generate cash will enable it to invest in new facilities area of analytical services, extending the and acquire new businesses.
Looking forward, we see good opportunities to develop the business further, existing European offering.
Alta will be able both organically and through selective acquisitions, to utilise Interteks extensive global reach and whilst the weak dollar will impact on our results, to expand their bioanalytical services to we remain con dent about the prospects for 2007. existing and new international customers and markets.
Vanni Treves Chairman Intertek Group plc Annual Report 05
