Chairmans statement 2006 was the end of one era and the beginning of another for AMEC.
We said farewell to one chief executive and welcomed another, sold a major business while laying plans for future investment and decided to exit former important markets in order to focus on our growing core businesses.
As we start 2007, AMEC is making good progress as it executes its new strategy.
This transition has taken place in a demanding time frame.
In November 2005, we announced our plans to review strategy, in particular that we would dispose of AMEC SPIE, which we successfully completed in July 2006, producing an excellent return on our investment.
In August 2006, we announced the appointment of our new chief executive, Samir Brikho, who took over from Sir Peter Mason in October.
By the year end, Samir had announced his strategy, begun to prepare for the sale of the Built Environment businesses and put in place a major cost cutting programme to make AMEC substantially leaner and fitter than it was previously.
These announcements received widespread investor support.
At the same time, he successfully defended the company against an approach from a private equity consortium, which the board felt undervalued our business.
Jock Green-Armytage Chairman 2006 marked the beginning of a new era for AMEC 2 AMEC plc annual report 2006 Chairmans statement www.
com Chairmans statement AMEC plc annual report 2006 3 4155 AMEC front 06 LH CS2.
indd 2 4 4 07 09:15:42 All this speaks of Samirs energy and dedication to results and I am delighted We are confident about 2007 and the future given the strength in our core that our recruitment exercise identified the right man to take AMEC forward.
markets and the intense efforts being directed to achieving significant He has already laid the foundations for the groups future growth and success reductions in cost and improved margin in each of our businesses.
This is and we can expect to see the new AMEC well established by the end of the reflected in proposed dividends for the year, which are increased by 6 per cent current year.
During 2006, we said farewell to Sir Peter Mason, who left the company in AMEC has a clear vision and new strategy focused on providing value-added October 2006, his official retirement date.
Sir Peter played a pivotal role in engineering services to its core energy and process clients worldwide.
AMECs development over the last decade and indeed instigated the reshaping We have put in place plans to turn around, and will divest, the UK Construction of the group away from its traditional construction markets.
Jean Monville, business, putting a stop to the losses that have damaged AMECs performance who led AMEC SPIE and was an influential and much valued presence on in recent years.
This, together with the divestment of our profitable Investments the board, and Jean-Paul Jacamon, another valued director, left the board and Building and Facilities Services businesses, will refocus the group following the AMEC SPIE sale.
It was announced with our 2006 results, and increase resources available to invest in the core businesses.
that James Dallas would retire from the board after the annual general Looking further ahead, our core markets are strong, and I am confident meeting on 16 May of this year.
James originally intended to serve two terms that the new AMEC will achieve its margin targets of 6 per cent in 2008 and only, but he agreed to stay on through a period of major change for which we 8 per cent in 2010, delivering performance and value.
On behalf of the board, I would like to thank all of them for their important contributions to AMEC.
Results for 2006 were very much as expected in December 2006.
Adjusted profit from continuing operations of 64.7 million was below both 2005 73.9 million and original expectations for the year.
The loss before income tax was 108.8 million 2005: 17.7 million.
However, there was a profit from discontinued 14 March 2007 operations of 319.1 million.
Strong performance in Natural Resources and Earth and Environmental, together with a substantial profit from the sale of a PPP asset during the year, was not sufficient to offset reduced profit in Power and Process and continued Construction losses.
Chairmans statement AMEC plc annual report 2006 3 4155 AMEC front 06 LH CS2.
