01 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Message from the Executive Chairman Michael Grade Together I believe we can raise our game to create more innovative content for our viewers and more valuable airtime for our advertisers.
On Monday, 8 January, 2007 I returned to work for ITV.
From The Consumer businesses represent an area of proven growth the moment I was approached by the Board last year, I had no which we will seek to accelerate: and doubt that I would accept this most stimulating and challenging The Boards strategy which I inherit is essentially sound.
The businesses that have been recently acquired and developed ITV has not had an easy time in recent history, operating in the are all natural extensions of the core operations.
highly competitive and technology driven media sector.
It faced On the negative side: a challenging advertising market and speculation over both its leadership and its ownership.
Whilst the strategy is sound, we are playing catch up in many areas, no doubt due to the efforts required to bed in the My brief is to restore the fortunes of the Group and thus return successful Carlton Granada merger.
We have a valuable the business to growth.
multichannel offering and exciting web opportunities but Having been in post for two months it is too soon to conclude still a long way to grow: definitive plans for the business, but generally I have developed There is a lack of innovation in our programming, partly more positive impressions than negative ones, and the latter are resulting from a fear of ratings failure and the punitive mostly within our control to remedy.
consequences that follow under the Contract Rights Renewal On the positive side: CRR remedy described below : There are talented and dedicated people across all areas The Company has developed a tendency towards bureaucracy.
of the Company: The cure for this lies with the example set by the leadership team within the businesses.
I will improve delegation, and place ITV Productions is a superb business of real scale with the ability emphasis on the need to make the ITV values described on to deliver outstanding content, from the Oscar winning film page 25 a reality in our actions: The Queen starring Dame Helen Mirren, to Coronation Street and Emmerdale, to Dancing on Ice: We need to continue strengthening the relationship between our commissioning teams and both internal and external ITV remains a much-loved brand and ITV1 is still the UKs most producers.
This is critical to ensure that the commissioning popular television channel in peak-time with the England v pipeline is filled with the high-quality programmes that deliver Sweden game during the football World Cup achieving the the audiences which in turn our commissioning team need to highest audience 18.5 million on any channel in 2006: fulfil our advertisers and viewers aspirations: and Our strong regional presence is a greater asset than is Our regulatory environment needs to reflect the reality of recognised and the growth in regional advertising has been our 21st century structure and the developing market in which particularly buoyant against a depressed national TV advertising we operate these days.
ITV may have consolidated, but it market.
We need to find ways to sustain and even enhance is a long way from the advertising monopoly of yesteryear.
It is part of what binds ITV to its The regulatory burden has yet fully to reflect this.
audiences throughout the UK and distinguishes us from our competitors.
Our digital channels are the most successful free to air commercial family of digital channels in the UK, each with distinctive branding and programming.
We must ensure that they have the investment they need to grow their leading market position as we approach digital switchover: 02 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Message from the Executive Chairman Michael Grade The value chain for content is getting longer and more lucrative thanks to the digital present and future.
My task, after the recent distractions, together with ITVs New media platforms senior management team is to build a sense of confidence Increasingly our viewers are demonstrating a desire to move in our people and the wider creative community to ensure beyond a simple passive viewing experience and expect to that together we deliver more consistently for our viewers, interact with, and participate in, our programming.
People are our customers and our shareholders.
There is a section on ITV also accessing our content from a much wider range of media strategy later in this report on pages 21 to 22. platforms.
Our Consumer team has responded, developing My immediate priorities are developing the strength of our ways of enabling viewers to do this.
Technology creates new programming and new media businesses, and working to opportunities for content consumption, and we must ensure reduce overly onerous regulatory constraints.
that we exploit the opportunities that this brings, delivering new services that viewers can access whenever, wherever, and however Raising our creative sights they want.
The launch of our new broadband proposition this Spring will significantly enhance our online offering.
I will be On the programming side we must raise our creative ambition.
promoting the acceleration of our new media businesses.
We must be more innovative and take more risks.
We must With our high-quality content and services for viewers, I believe be more relevant and we must be ahead of audience tastes.
that 2007 will be the year that ITV comes of age as a deliverer of In particular we must regain our pre-eminence in drama series online entertainment with real commercial opportunities.
I am definitely encouraged by what I have heard and seen so far from the new commissioning team headed Appropriate regulation for the digital age by Simon Shaps.
They have already started to cull some of the older programmes which were past their sell by date, and we ITV is subject to a high degree of regulation, some of it the are introducing a range of new programmes in 2007. legacy of an age of analogue broadcasting and an oligopolistic commercial broadcasting structure.
This regulatory burden is not I am now working with them on the plans that are being entirely compatible with the increase in competition driven by formulated for 2008 and beyond.
digital technology and new media, and by the publics appetite to access new distribution platforms as they appear.
A section Content creation is at the core of our future on regulation appears later in this Business Review, and one of High quality, home produced, popular content attracts our priorities is to seek some alternative to the Contracts Rights the mass audiences which only ITV can offer advertisers, Renewal remedy CRR.
The CRR undertakings were given in 2003 thus generating value.
Content creation is today, as a pre-condition to the merger of Carlton and Granada to create and will remain, at the heart of ITV.
I am committed to ITV, and the effect is to link ITV1s advertising share Share of the continuing development of ITV Productions.
It is already Broadcast directly to its commercial viewing share measured by one of Europes most successful commercial production Share of Commercial Impacts SOCI.
It has become apparent that companies supplying programmes in many different genres this not only prevents ITV from receiving fair value for the mass both for ITV and other UK broadcasters.
Our licensing, audiences it delivers, and which are so sought after by advertisers, distribution and international production businesses which but it is also damaging to the overall UK television advertising are also important to our content development strategy, market.
A number of well respected figures in media and are growing and moving into new markets and territories, advertising now accept that CRR needs urgent review, and we providing important additional revenue streams.
The value are lobbying hard for that process to begin.
chain for content is getting longer and more lucrative thanks We continue to look for operating efficiencies across the business.
to the digital present and future.
We announced in June 2006 an operational review with plans to save 40 million over three years.
We are on track to deliver these efficiency savings.
03 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Conclusion growing advertising revenue from our successful digital channels.
Having regard to this, your Board has decided to propose that During 2006, ITV was the subject of much bid speculation, with the final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 should potential offerors being forced on two occasions to make public be held at the same rate as for 2005 of 1.8 pence, to be paid statements about their intentions.
In neither case was a formal on 2 July 2007 to shareholders on the register on 20 April 2007. offer tabled, and in both cases the Board carefully considered firstly the limited information provided by the potential offerors, My Board colleagues and I would formally like to record our and secondly detailed internal and external valuation work.
thanks to Sir Peter Burt and Charles Allen for their contributions On both occasions the Board concluded that it was in all ITV to ITV.
The creation of one ITV from 11 separate regional ITV shareholders interests that such proposals should be rejected.
companies owes much to Charles vision and determination.
Under Sir Peters steady stewardship through an unsettling On 17 November 2006, British Sky Broadcasting BSkyB acquired period, Charles directed the integration of Granada and a 17.9% holding in ITV at a price of 135 pence per share.
At the Carlton ahead of schedule and produced greater synergies present time, BSkyBs holding is subject to regulatory reviews by than originally forecast.
Ofcom, the OFT and the DTI in relation to both competition and broader public interest issues: Ofcom is also separately reviewing I would like to thank all of my new colleagues within ITV change of control under the Broadcasting Act.
ITV has made for their warm welcome, and to express my belief that submissions in response to the authorities, at their request, and together we can lift our game and create new and valuable has noted the concern that BSkyB as a competitor may be able, content for our viewers and uniquely effective airtime with the size of its holding and given historic voting patterns, to for our advertisers.
block a shareholder resolution requiring a 75% majority and that this may not be in the interest of ITVs shareholders as a whole.
The authorities will consider whether there should be any form of restriction on BSkyB in respect of their holding in the Company.
The Board will continue to act in the interests of all shareholders.
Michael Grade Executive Chairman In reviewing the level of the final dividend to propose at the forthcoming AGM your Board has considered a number of factors.
The UK television advertising market deteriorated over the late Summer and Autumn of 2006, resulting in a near 5% fall for the calendar year.
It was in part as a result of this that the Board of ITV plc decided to halt the share buy-back programme at 251 million.
Market estimates for 2007 were that the UK television advertising market would be either flat or decline a little further, with the first half of 2007 likely to be more adversely affected as a result of comparative 2006 monthly revenue patterns.
Over the first quarter of 2007 we believe that the UK television market will be approximately 0.5% higher than 2006, and ITVs total advertising revenue will be down by approximately 4.5% as the effect of CRR and SOCI decline on ITV1 reduce the channels share of advertising.
Whilst we expect this decline to slow and stabilise as multichannel digital television fully replaces analogue, it is probable that ITV1 revenues will decline in 2007, and may not be wholly made up by the 04 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Stories that deliver.
ITV delivers the largest commercial audiences in the UK and was watched by around 80% of the population every week in 2006.
ITV1 has dominated the top shows of the year, broadcasting the most popular programme of 2006 ITV1s coverage of the World Cup match between England and Sweden, and the highest rating shows across major genres including drama and sport.
ITV1 remains the most popular channel in the UK across peak hours.
ITVs portfolio of digital channels continues to deliver.
Measured by share of commercial impacts in 2006, ITV2 is the biggest non-terrestrial channel in the UK, with ITV3 the second biggest and ITV4, which was only launched in late 2005, the 11th and increasing its audience.
The top programme of the year in the UK was ITV1s coverage of the World Cup match between England and Sweden on 20 June 2006 with 18.5 million and 67.8% of the available audience tuning in.
