Chairmans statement Philip Hampton This has been a strong year of recovery for Sainsburys Last year we introduced a long-term incentive plan with a continued focus on the implementation of the plans specifically to support the recovery plan launched in outlined in October 2004.
Our performance in the last October 2004.
It was a one-time arrangement and no year has increased confidence in Sainsburys prospects further incentives can be awarded from it.
among customers, colleagues and, I believe, shareholders.
At our AGM in July we will be proposing a new incentive 3 Our underlying profit for the year was 267 million.
The framework for arrangements to be put in place over the Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.85 pence per next ten years, starting with the 2006 07 financial year.
It share, an increase of 3.5 per cent.
This will take the full year will build on last years plan applying to around 1,000 senior dividend to 8.00 pence per share, an increase of 2.6 per managers in order to retain and motivate key talent beyond cent compared to last year, covered 1.3 times by earnings.
the 2008 09 milestone set last year.
We will also propose The Board does not wish to see the dividend eroded in a new deferred bonus plan for top managers where the real terms and the increase broadly equals inflation in the proposed measure is based on TSR.
However, we continue to expect to rebuild dividend aligned with UK best practice and offers strong incentives cover to at least 1.5 times.
for top performance and no rewards for failure.
Details are set out later in this report.
The key to recovery is to increase sales.
We are on track to hit our target of 2.5 billion additional sales in our recovery Bridget Macaskill will be stepping down as a Non-Executive period.
As we move forward, we expect to see financial Director at our AGM in July and June fide Moller retired rewards to shareholders arising from improved sales from the Board in September 2005.
I would like to take performance and our continued focus on cost reductions.
this opportunity of thanking them for their hard work and commitment over the past few years, especially their The Board is determined to work towards a successful help in the introduction of recovery initiatives.
financial recovery, while maintaining the ethical approach and commitment to high business standards that are a This year we have again strengthened the Board with fundamental part of Sainsburys heritage.
There are arguably significant additional knowledge and diversity of experience.
few business sectors where customer demands for In August 2005, Darren Shapland joined the executive team value and quality have to be so constantly balanced with as Chief Financial Officer and John McAdam was appointed their concerns for health, the environment and the local Senior Independent Director in September 2005.
Pages 24 and 25 detail our approach to this 2006 we welcomed Anna Ford as a Non-Executive Director.
as does Justin Kings operating review.
The Competition Commission has announced that it is to In March 2006 we completed a major refinancing raising conduct an investigation into the UK grocery market.
This provided cost effective long-term finance We have established a dedicated team to deal with this by recognising the value in our property portfolio.
At the to ensure it will not distract us from our continued same time we retain ownership of these valuable assets.
In commitment to serve customers in the best possible way.
conjunction with the refinancing we agreed with Sainsburys The many activities that have taken place this year give pension schemes trustees that some of the new funds encouraging signs that our recovery plan is well on course.
raised would be used to make a one off contribution of Once again there has been great change for colleagues 350 million into the pension schemes.
Annual contributions but there is a real sense now around the business that by Sainsburys into the schemes will also be increased by Sainsburys has renewed vigour and ambition.
This view 18 million to 38 million per annum.
Our defined benefit is also being echoed by many stakeholders and I would like schemes remain in place for existing members but to provide to thank them, as I did last year, for their continued support a more balanced sharing of risk and cost between members and the part they are playing in our recovery plan.
and the Company, changes such as increased contributions and controls on future benefits are being introduced to improve the funding of the schemes and increase security of benefits.
Colleague contributions for those in the defined benefit schemes will increase from September 2006 with options to maintain current contribution levels or move to career average or a new scale of retirement benefit.
Philip Hampton Chairman J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 3
