Chairmans statement and operating review I am pleased to report a year of good progress for the company.
Sales for the year increased by 37.7 million to 847.5 million, a rise of 5% 2.5%.
Helped by good cost control, operating margins were 9.9%, compared with 8.8% in the previous year.
Operating profit increased by 17% 14% to 83.6 million, and profit before tax by 24% 20% to 58.4 million.
Earnings per share increased by 43% 38% to 24.1p.
Net interest was covered 3.3 times 2005: 2.9 times by Dividends operating profit.
Free cash flow, after payments of tax, The board proposes, subject to shareholders consent, to interest, share purchases under the companys share plans pay a final dividend of 3.1p per share on 24 November and capital investment of 20.8 million in existing pubs, 2006 to those shareholders on the register on 27 October increased by 1% to 69.7 million, resulting in free cash flow 2006, bringing the total dividend for the year to 4.7p per per share of 42.1p 2005: 37.1p.
share, a 10% increase on the previous year.
Finance The company had 116.6 million 2005: 53.1 million Earnings per share of unutilised banking facilities and cash balances as at the balance sheet date, with total facilities of 472.2 million increased by 43% 2005: 387.2 million.
The years capital expenditure on to 24.1p new pub developments was more than covered by free cash flow.
In the current financial year, any cash surplus the company generates, after capital expenditure and dividends, will be available for debt reduction, share buybacks or a We opened 9 pubs during the year, compared with 13 in combination of both.
The total number of pubs now operated by the company is 657.
Average sales per pub increased Return of capital by 3% in the year under review, with like-for-like sales During the year, 21,560,000 shares representing increasing by 2%.
We intend to open about 15 pubs in approximately 12% of the issued share capital were the current year.
purchased by the company for cancellation, at a cost of 78.7 million, representing an average cost per share of 365p.
Excluding the benefit from the 53rd week, with increases based on 2005 results, before exceptional items.
2 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Chairmans statement and operating review Further progress Wetherspoon is aware of its responsibilities to the The company continues to try to make improvements in environment and was one of three finalists in the every area of the business.
In the 2006 Good Beer Guide National Recycling Awards for 2005.
During the year, published by CAMRA, 120 of the companys pubs received we recycled 2,300 tonnes of cardboard, 1,420 tonnes of nominations a greater number, we believe, than any other cooking oil, 230 tonnes of paper, 70 tonnes of plastic and pub company.
The company has also made strenuous efforts, in recent We have also been keen to promote the sales of years, to enhance its reputation as a responsible retailer non-alcoholic drinks in our pubs.
A major push on coffee and in 2006, was named Responsible Drinks Retailer of in the last 18 months, means that our UK coffee sales now the Year, by the trade publication the Morning Advertiser.
approximately match those of Caffe` Nero in volume and are Wetherspoon is the only substantial pub company which about a quarter of those of Starbucks.
We believe that we does not, for example, offer a discount for double measures now have approximately 6 per cent of the UK chain coffee of spirits: does not permit 2-for-1, or similar offers: offers market.
In a similar area, Wetherspoon has pioneered the food from 9am to 10pm, every day.
availability of breakfasts across all our pubs and now sells approximately 200,000 breakfasts per week.
Non-smoking in 2006 was named We continue to open non-smoking pubs and now have a total of 92, representing 14% of our estate.
Wetherspoon Responsible Drinks has strongly supported the principle of pubs becoming Retailer of the Year non-smoking and is confident about the companys mediumand long-term prospects in this environment.
Typically, however, the short-term effect of a change to non-smoking results in a drop in sales and profits.
In the area of training, Wetherspoon continues to lead the way in the UK pub industry.
We have been nominated in We converted 17 pubs in England and Wales to nonseveral categories for the forthcoming Institute of Innkeeping smoking, in the first half of the period under review, and awards, and 38 of our employees have recently graduated their sales declined by 6.5% on a like-for-like basis in with a diploma in Leisure Retail Management from the second half of the year.
In the remainder of our Nottingham Trent University.
As well as concentrating on non-smoking pubs in England and Wales, a like-for-like high standards of training, the Wetherspoon incentive system picture is difficult to quantify, as pubs were converted to for pub employees spent 13 million in bonuses in the year non-smoking at different times during the previous 6 under review, and purchased 3.5 million of our own shares months.
Overall, we believe that sales started to improve for employees under our employee share plan scheme.
in those pubs after the initial 12 months, but remain below the levels of 2 years ago and represent a mixed picture.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 3 Chairmans statement and operating review In our 39 pubs in Scotland, like-for-like sales over the last changed the layout of the financial accounts.
A separate quarter MayJuly 2006, declined by 0.3%, and pub press release was issued in January 2006, restating the operating profits, before head office costs, declined by 11%.
previous years results under IFRS.
Although the adjustment to a non-smoking environment Current trading and outlook can be difficult, the company is confident that the long-term The company has had an encouraging start to the new benefits will outweigh the short-term issues.
financial year, with continued sales improvements, combined with a tight grip on costs.
We continue with our efforts to improve the business and In the area of training, have, for example, recently introduced an enhanced range of bottled beers, wines and spirits and are about to Wetherspoon continues to introduce an upgraded menu.
We continue to invest in our lead the way in the UK pubs, with plans to spend around 15m on a new cooling system for draught beers, designed to produce lower pub industry temperatures of dispense than are currently achieved by any major pub company.
In addition, we continue to invest heavily in repairs and Board changes improvements to our pubs and in head office and pub IT Suzanne Baker resigned from the board on 20 December systems.
The concentration on both investment and 2005 after 13 years at the company, and we would like to improvement in the business will help to put the company in thank her very much for her efforts.
a strong position for the smoking ban in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, expected in the course of the next year.
The company would like to welcome Debra van Gene, who was appointed a non-executive director on 1 March 2006.
As a result of our strong cash flow and our dedicated management team, we remain confident of our prospects.
People I would like, once again, to thank our employees, partners and suppliers for their excellent work in the last year.
Tim Martin International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Chairman These accounts are the first accounts prepared under 8 September 2006 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
This has involved restating the previous year and has significantly 4 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
