Chairmans statement Serious About Sport Although not unexpected, the fall in profits for the 52 weeks to 29 January 2006 is still disappointing.
As well as a generally difficult retail climate, the sports sub-sector is also going through a fundamental change with competitive pressures making trading conditions extremely challenging.
The fall in our profits over the last few years can be mainly put down to the increasing strength of our competitors.
These competitors are not just in our sports sector of the retail trade but are also from a wide range of textile and footwear retailers many of whom then emulated our success by moving many of their product ranges into a leisure sporting offering, thereby taking part of our market share.
The question that is then asked of us is what are we doing to reverse this falling trend in profits.
In essence, we have adopted a more aggressive stance on pricing and become much more competitive.
Whilst this move invariably results in a reduction of gross margin, we aim to offset the effect of this by increased levels of turnover.
At the same time, we are more clearly defining our product offer as being the one truly national, comprehensive sports retailer.
We intend that our ranges of sports and leisure related textiles, footwear and accessories, principally from the major sports brands, will clearly differentiate our offering from other retailers and will further emphasise our sports-led position.
We look to some degree of support from those brands in order to achieve our aim.
We are serious about sport.
On a more positive note I am very pleased with the performance and continuing expansion of our Leisure Division where membership of our health clubs at 29 January 2006 was 55 per cent higher than on the same date last year and where our plans are in place to open a further 12 combined units during the current year.
The concept of a health club with a superstore on the first floor is one that differentiates us from all other retailers.
In the immediate future, I am looking forward to a number of replica kit launches for Premier League Clubs as well as the World Cup where I have more reason than most to wish England luck!
I expect that the future will present a number of challenges to our employees and on behalf of the Board, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the Groups employees for their sustained commitment and to ask for their support in meeting future challenges.
Whilst I do not anticipate an improvement in trading conditions during the current year, I do believe that the strategies I have referred to above are the most appropriate for JJB and will generate success.
We are not only serious about sport, we are serious about performance.
