6 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Chairmans statement In strong oil & gas and improving power markets, Wood Group has strengthened its market positions and delivered record results.
Revenues in 2006 grew 26% to $3,468.8m, EBITA grew 44% to $215.1m, and adjusted diluted EPS grew 48% to 24.5 cents.
Given the strength of our performance, and con dence in our future prospects, we are proposing a final dividend of 3.5 cents, taking the annual dividend to 5.0 cents, 25% up on last year.
Markets We anticipate continuing growth in demand for energy, driven by the growing global economies, particularly in the Asia Paci c region.
Oil companies are focused on reserves replacement from new discoveries and on maximising recovery from existing elds.
Gas demand continues to increase, driven by its perception as the most environmentally friendly fossil fuel, by the increasingly global gas market due to the growing signi cance of LNG, and by the ef ciency of gas turbine generation.
Risks of imbalances in regional gas markets, such as the current concerns around gas storage in the US, may continue until a global gas In strong oil & gas market is more fully established.
and improving power Our clients investment decisions generally continue to be based on lower oil & gas prices markets, Wood Group has and this would appear to con rm the potential long term nature of this oil & gas up cycle.
strengthened its market We anticipate $50 $60 oil as the likely scenario for at least the next three or four years.
positions and delivered This will lead to increasing exploration and production spend in most regions throughout the record results.
world and a strong demand for oil & gas services, particularly those, like ours, that add value and can produce cost-effective developments and enhanced production.
Sir Ian Wood, Chairman On the power side, there is an increase in the demand for power in the North American market and continuing growth in the installed base elsewhere in the world, and we are seeing an increasing demand for our industrial gas turbine services.
On the downside, there continues to be signi cant geo-political uncertainty in some of the key oil & gas provinces.
However, these produce opportunities as well as threats, and tackling the range of challenges in some of the dif cult energy production areas around the world has become a core skill.
That is not to say we will not have problems to overcome, but we have the ability to carefully assess risk and reward and to build in a range of mitigating factors to try and ensure we can service our customers in these dif cult regions and at the same time achieve acceptable returns.
Strategy Our strategy has four strands to achieve a balance between eld development and later cycle production support to achieve sustainable growth to develop world leading activities based on differentiated know-how and technology to achieve long term performance contracts in long term relationships which add value to our clients business to extend our services and broaden our international reach in areas where we can successfully develop our market leading positions.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 7 We now have 20,000 people operating in 44 countries globally and during the year Energy use 2000 and 2030 MBDOE we have developed our activities in North and West Africa, the Middle East, the FSU Million barrels per day and Asia Paci c. of oil equivalent People 2000 I would like to express very grateful thanks on behalf of the Board to all of our 2030 employees worldwide whose knowledge, skills, commitment and enthusiasm drive our growth and success.
Our intention is to be the employer of choice in all parts of our business and to attract and retain the best talent available.
This will enable us to provide premier quality services to our customers and superior growth for our shareholders.
Board Changes In 2006, Ewan Brown retired from the Board and was replaced by Ian Marchant.
Ewan was a Director for 24 years during which time he provided exceptional support to the Group and to me personally, and his unique style and contribution are greatly missed.
Ewan left with our very grateful thanks and best wishes.
Ian Marchant joins the Board with a broad business background and valuable experience in the power sector through his role as Chief Executive of Scottish and Southern Energy plc.
Ian is already making a contribution to our Board discussions.
The other signi cant change on the Board relates to my own position.
Following 25 years as Chairman and Chief Executive, from 1st January 2007 I am focussing on the Chairmans role, and Allister Langlands, who has served as Deputy Chief Executive Source: ExxonMobil The Outlook for Energy: A View to 2030 for seven years has taken over as Chief Executive.
Allister has the ability, knowledge and experience to lead an excellent management team to greater and better things.
My role, as well as leading the Board, will be to provide the necessary encouragement Worldwide reserves of oil and support, and work with my colleagues in developing our market presence and trade relationships around the world.
N. America Central & South America Looking ahead Europe & Eurasia I believe that the complex economic factors governing the supply and demand Middle East for oil & gas will lead to sustained increases in exploration, development and Africa production spending and this, together with our world leading market positions and Asia Paci c differentiation, should enable us to continue our strong growth.
Worldwide reserves of gas N. America Central & South America Europe & Eurasia Middle East Sir Ian Wood, Chairman Africa 5 March 2007 Asia Paci c Source: BP Statistical Review of World Energy 2006 North America South & Central America Europe & FSU Middle East & Africa Asia Paci c
