Chairmans Statement Sir John Banham Chairman I am delighted to be writing to you for the first time as Chairman of its operations.
I intend to build on this reputation and to of Johnson Matthey and to be introducing this annual report on ensure that all shareholders have full information on all aspects what has been another successful year for your company.
of the companys activities and achievements.
Having joined your board as a non-executive director on I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to my 1st January 2006, I am honoured to have been appointed as predecessor, Michael Miles.
Michael served as a non-executive Chairman from 1st April.
I also consider myself extremely director of Johnson Matthey for 16 years, the last eight of which fortunate to be joining the company at such an exciting time in as Chairman.
Under his leadership the company was refocused the development of its businesses.
With its focus on products on its core skills in catalysts, precious metals and fine chemicals and technologies that benefit the environment, reduce energy and has emerged as a world leading speciality chemicals consumption, provide alternative energy solutions for the future company.
Throughout his service as Chairman, Michael oversaw and treat life threatening diseases, Johnson Matthey is without excellent progress towards the boards main objective of any doubt a company that can make a real difference to delivering superior value to its shareholders.
improving the quality of life of people around the world.
Over the 16 years that Michael Miles served on the board Over the last few months I have had the opportunity he made a major contribution to its work and that of its of meeting with a number of Johnson Mattheys major committees.
His vast amount of overseas business experience, shareholders and I have received very positive feedback from particularly his experience of the Far East, has been invaluable each one of these meetings.
I look forward to meeting other as the company has expanded its operations in Asia and in shareholders at this years Annual General Meeting and to other markets around the world.
On behalf of all of us at having the opportunity of discussing your companys businesses Johnson Matthey, I would like to thank Michael for his important and its performance with you at that time.
contribution to the success of the company and to wish him all As Chairman of your board, I see my role as ensuring that the very best for his retirement.
the company delivers performance in line with shareholders Johnson Matthey has a very strong executive team led by expectations and continues to create superior shareholder our Chief Executive, Neil Carson.
As I have travelled around value.
Johnson Matthey has a good reputation for the quality the group worldwide, I have been struck by the enthusiasm, of its corporate governance and for its reporting on all aspects professionalism and dedication of everyone that I have met.
- Johnson Matthey 2 I know that this reflects the investment that the company delivery of superior shareholder value.
The company is well makes in the training and development of its people.
We positioned to benefit from a number of exciting opportunities continue to place an absolute priority on nurturing our in its core businesses driven by environmental concerns, high oil management talent and on the development of the skills of prices and emerging technologies.
I look forward to reporting on people at all levels of the organisation, to equip them to meet a successful 2006 07 and to the company continuing to achieve the challenges of the future and ensure that we benefit from good growth over the years ahead.
On your behalf, I would like to thank all of our employees around the world for their hard work and dedication during the past year.
Your board has a long standing commitment to reporting on Johnson Mattheys corporate social responsibility CSR performance.
A comprehensive review of the groups policies Sir John Banham and performance in this very important area is to be found Chairman on pages 27 to 37 of this annual report.
This year our CSR presentation includes a case study on Johnson Mattheys role in low carbon technologies, an area that is attracting a great deal of attention as concerns over global warming and high energy prices continue to hit the headlines.
We are also publishing the fourth edition of our full web report on CSR.
This continues to be well received by key stakeholders in your company, and generates much very useful feedback: it can be accessed on the companys website at www.
In short, the prospects for your company over the next few years are very encouraging.
Johnson Matthey is in good shape and continues to make excellent progress towards the Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - 3
