06 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 chAIR M ANS S tAtEMENt 2006 was the first full financial year for Kazakhmys as a UK listed company, after the primary listing of our shares on the London Stock Exchange in October 2005.
The past year has seen a solid operational performance and a good set of results for the Group Overall production of copper cathode rose 4.7% to 405 kt excluding tolling concentrate, whilst production of copper cathode from own concentrate rose 8.6% to 368 kt.
EBITDA excluding special items was at a record $2,308.4 million.
Safety remains a high priority for the Board and implementation of measures to improve our record in this area is of key importance to us.
We have strengthened the composition of the Board, which is now in compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code, save that I was not independent at the time of my appointment.
resUlTs and shareholder valUe Against a backdrop of exceptionally buoyant VLADIMIR KIM commodity prices seen throughout 2006, including unprecedented increases in copper and zinc, profitability improved, with pre-tax profits rising by 156% to $2,167.8 million.
The increase in our Free Cash Flow to $1,327.2 million was especially encouraging, as this is a key component for the successful execution of our capital expenditure and acquisition strategy.
Despite challenging operating conditions during the earlier part of 2006, we delivered a solid increase in copper cathode production, driven by an improvement in copper production from own concentrate.
The performances from our newly commissioned Artemyevskoe, Kosmurun and Zhomart formerly Zhaman-Aybat mines have been particularly pleasing as they continue to ramp-up to their full operating capacities.
Zinc metal and zinc in concentrate revenues rose on the back of both higher prices and improved production volumes.
The reduced proportion of copper production from purchased concentrate ensured our margins remained strong in the face of challenging cost pressures.
Higher input costs faced across the mining industry, particularly labour costs for natural resource companies operating in Kazakhstan, show no sign of diminishing and we will vigorously pursue operational efficiencies and maximisation of by-product credits to address these issues.
B U S I N E S S R E v I E w K A Z AK HM YS PLC 07 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 US cents $ M 38.5 2,168 total dividend per share, a 7% pre-tax profits, up from $848 million increase on last year on a comparable last year post-Listing basis $ BN 3.9 increase in market capitalisation over the year The proposed final dividend of 25.7 US cents per share Organic growth of our existing operations is also results in a 7% increase in the full year dividend to a strategic goal and, to this end, our expansionary 38.5 US cents per share on a comparable post-Listing capital expenditure for the year was $260.1 million.
This increase reflects the Boards confidence in Successful projects during the year included the the outlook for the business, whilst taking account of commissioning of the Zhomart and Kosmurun mines, our future growth opportunities.
the construction of an acid plant at the Balkhash Complex and expansions of our Karagaily and Our market capitalisation rose to $10,174 million at the Nurkazgan concentrators.
year end, which compares to $4,619 million at the time of Listing.
The 106% increase in our share price since The economic assessments of our Aktogay and Listing in sterling terms compares to growth of 16% Boschekul projects continue and we expect to decide and 45% generated by the FTSE 100 group of which one to fast-track to the feasibility study stage by companies and FTSE Mining Index, respectively.
During the latter part of 2006, we secured additional title rights adjacent to the Boschekul project sTraTegy for fUTUre growTh from the Kazakhstan Government, increasing its A strategic objective for Kazakhmys is to use the development potential.
Meanwhile, we remain cash flows generated by historically high copper committed to rigorous capital discipline to ensure that prices to acquire other assets in Kazakhstan and only projects which are economically robust throughout the neighbouring regions, so as to diversify our the commodity cycle are taken forward for execution.
safeTy and CommUniTy We continue to review investment opportunities I am sad to report that last year there were 32 fatalities in Kazakhstan, a country that remains attractive for within our operations.
This was an improvement on the opportunistic acquisitions within a stable political previous year but is a long way from our objective of no and economic environment.
We will only undertake fatalities.
We are working hard at delivering changes acquisitions if we are confident that they create within our working culture and senior operating value for our shareholders.
management have been tasked with embedding best practice safety standards in conjunction with At the beginning of March 2007, we announced that international consultants under the auspices of the agreement had been reached to acquire the East Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
Akzhar petroleum field, an exploration block in western Continuous management focus is being applied Kazakhstan, which is a first step in delivering on our to raise safety standards within our operations.
strategy of diversification of the business.
Exploration work will be carried out in the coming year to fully We remain committed to investing in our workforce determine the blocks potential, and the Board is and local communities as part of our social considering a number of options for its future responsibilities within Kazakhstan.
complex at a total cost of $20 million was completed during the year and we also made charitable donations As previously announced, the Company has to the value of $4.4 million, with particular focus on been granted a call option in respect of the 25% providing support to the disadvantaged in society.
shareholding that I presently own in ENRC Kazakhstan Holding B. V. a holding company for certain assets of the Eurasia Natural Resources group.
Please refer to the separate report on page 9 by the Independent Committee of the Board on this matter.
08 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 chAIR M ANS S tAtEMENt continued CorPoraTe aCTions and governanCe The intention of the buy-out programme will be to We have made changes to the composition of our provide those individual shareholders in Kazakhmys Board and it is now in compliance with the provisions Corporation LLC with a more liquid investment in the of the Combined Code, with the exception that I was Company or a cash alternative whilst simultaneously not independent at the date of my appointment.
As simplifying the shareholding structure of the Group.
announced previously, Oleg Novachuk will become Chief Executive with effect from 15 March 2007, taking oUTlooK over this role from Yong Keu Cha who retired at the end The global economic outlook for 2007 remains positive, of December 2006. supported by anticipated economic growth coming from Asia, particularly India and China.
While it appears There is a clear division of functions between the new unlikely that metals consumption in countries like India Chief Executive, who is responsible for the day-to-day and China will continue to grow at the exceptional rate management of the Group, and my responsibility experienced in the recent past, in the next few years for the strategic direction of the Group.
The Board we expect demand for metal products to remain at continues to be of the opinion that it is in the best historically high levels.
interests of shareholders for me to serve as Executive Chairman at the present stage of the Groups Although prices in our key commodities recently development.
softened from their all-time highs, we believe that they will remain above their long-run historic averages David Munro joined our executive management during 2007, as supply and demand fundamentals team on 1 October 2006, and is making a valuable suggest continued price strength.
contribution to the development of our strategy.
Matthew Hird will take over Olegs current role of Copper cathode production in 2007 is expected to be Chief Financial Officer.
slightly higher than the output achieved in 2006.
This increase will be driven by higher levels of production Since 1 January 2006, we have appointed two new from both own and purchased concentrate.
We independent non-executive Directors, Simon Heale continue to seek strong production of our by-products, and Philip Aiken, both of whom bring significant with 2007 production expected to be similar to 2006 boardroom and relevant industry experience levels.
Whilst we anticipate that rising labour costs, to the Company.
We look forward to their driven by the burgeoning economy in Kazakhstan, will continuing contributions.
impact our costs, we shall continue to be robust in our cost control.
We successfully obtained a secondary listing in Kazakhstan at the end of October 2006, making We look forward to pursuing new opportunities to a meaningful contribution to the development of grow our business at this exciting time, leveraging Kazakhstans capital markets.
This listing also provides our financial strength and knowledge of Kazakhstans our Kazakhstan based shareholders with an effective natural resources.
As always, on behalf of the Board means through which to participate in our growth.
I would like to thank our management team and all our employees for their significant contribution to a We are also considering the most appropriate means rewarding year for Kazakhmys.
Their dedication will of structuring and implementing a share for share be invaluable in continuing to deliver value to our exchange programme or cash alternative to buy-out shareholders, and we are confident that 2007 will the minority shareholders of the Companys principal be another successful year for Kazakhmys.
operating subsidiary in Kazakhstan, Kazakhmys Corporation LLC.
At present, 0.92% of the share vladimir Kim capital of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC is held by ExEcUtIvE chAIRMAN approximately 4,000 individuals in Kazakhstan.
