Chairmans statement There remains significant opportunity for growth in our contracting business and in delivering further out-performance in Yorkshire Water.
targets have been out-performed and, together There are a number of firsts for the year with increased prices allowed under the under review.
It was the first year of the determination, helped to offset cost pressures fourth 5 year price determination for the from energy and other charges.
Increases at the UK water industry, the first presentation operating profit level were eliminated by increases of Kelda accounts in the IFRS format, in tax charges.
The first year phasing of price and the introduction of major changes increases under the 5 year determination gave a in the tax treatment of depreciation and first year regulatory budget below prior year due capital allowances.
to the large impact of tax calculation changes.
The budget was bettered due to the operational IFRS has required a restatement of the prior year out-performance, but the year to year movement 2004 05 numbers and, following the sale of our US was as expected.
The YW results are summarised Aquarion operations agreed subject to regulatory on page 94.
In the meantime, the business continues approval, the treatment of the US as a to drive forward and remains dedicated to delivering discontinued operation.
The coincidence of the not only improved efficiency, but increased service timing of the introduction of IFRS and significant standards for customers and improved regulatory tax changes relating to investment has produced and environmental outputs.
YW continues to review some interesting effects on the restated prior year.
its operations and has successfully implemented a The 2004 05 numbers form a nominal restated quarterly assessment scheme for all staff linked to start point for the necessary introduction of IFRS quarterly bonus payments.
and, for instance, the required elimination of discount on deferred tax significantly reduces YW achieved a further first when it received 2004 05 profit numbers and makes the reported the Utility of the Year award for the second year movements in tax in 2005 06 appear relatively in succession, a first for the utility industry.
The opposite is the case with significant addition, it tops the Ofwat national efficiency increases in actual tax paid in 2005 06.
Therefore, rating table for all water companies and was some additional analysis is made on the underlying ranked first ahead of all other water companies in year to year results in the financial review.
John Napier a survey carried out by a major trade association, British Water.
There has been much comment in Chairman, Kelda Group plc I am very pleased to report that the company built the national press about water shortages in the on a good first half to produce a strong first year UK with a particular emphasis on the south of with a good overall performance.
In Yorkshire, we are in a fortunate profit number of 174.1m is almost identical to position with reservoir capacity at normal levels unadjusted prior year.
This broadly reflects the and therefore predict no restrictions in the current underlying year to year performance.
An above year based on worst case historic rainfall.
We budget, but below prior year result after tax from continue to take pride in our achievements and Yorkshire Water YW has been offset by increased all round performance.
US and Kelda Water Services KWS performance.
The result reflects improved operating performance in all major operations including the US.
In the principal operating subsidiary YW, first year efficiency Kelda Group plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 4.6% 825.4m full year dividend increased 4.6% to 30.35p group turnover from continuing operations per share up 15.6% to 825.4m 46.9p 17.
6% adjusted earnings per share increased 10.1% group profit before taxation from continuing to 46.9p operations up 17.6% to 224.3m The revenue growth of our contract operations make further important contributions via the Last year we raised the final dividend to reflect business KWS was excellent with a 64m sector management of our land and water catchment the average performance through the previous 5 gain or 129% growth.
This reflects the first full areas, putting particular emphasis to a balance of year regulatory period and to end with a dividend year of the Welsh Water contract.
We also conservation and recreation.
We have conservation growth achievement consistent with that allowed reported we have been named as a preferred sites dedicated as Special Scientific Interest and in the regulatory determination, an annual 2% real bidder for Northern Ireland water operations, generally encourage elsewhere access and recreation growth.
Having increased the dividend to that level which should give further growth when it comes consistent with our water catchment conservation last year we are proposing to maintain the 2% real into operation in 2008.
The KWS business has responsibilities.
We focus on childrens health in growth.
This gives a final dividend of 21.60p to give been developed entirely by organic growth and is our Cool Schools programme encouraging the a full year dividend of 30.35p, a nominal increase of now one of the prime water services contracting use of cold drinking water in schools.
The share buy back announced businesses in the UK.
volunteering programme encouraging improved last year is 50% completed as planned.
standards of literacy among school children.
As a Although the US business Aquarion has been regional company we recognise we have important Finally, the management of the company, very treated as discontinued, I can report it performed regional responsibilities, and try to engender a capably led by Kevin Whiteman and his team, well in the year.
In the prior year we incurred positive general ethos by developing company are motivated and dedicated to further progress.
exceptional costs in developing a profit improvement initiatives aimed at making us one of the best water It is part of our culture.
Existing performance is plan which was fully delivered by the management.
not automatic and must be worked for.
We The company also benefited from a more seasonal remain indebted to all our staff who respond to rainfall pattern which increased sales.
The results I reported last year on changes made to the the challenges that are set for the company by were also helped by a favourable exchange rate.
board with the appointment of Ed Anderson, Chief the regulator and by our own commitment to Executive of Leeds Bradford Airport, and Kate Avery, performance and service improvement.
I would A decision was announced in February that we the Retail Distribution Director of Legal and General, like to thank all staff and the board for its continuing had achieved a sale to Macquarie Bank, conditional as non executive directors.
I am pleased to further contribution and support, essential to maintain upon regulatory approval which we expect to receive report the board has settled well and that David and improve our all round performance.
towards the end of the year.
The initial 2000 Salkeld has taken over the role of Senior Independent investment in the US Aquarion operation gave us Director with Christopher Fisher continuing as a valuable insight into the US market which did not Chairman of the Audit Committee.
follow the European pattern as expected.
It remains highly fragmented with very high degrees of public As I said at the beginning, this is the first year of a ownership.
This has made suitable acquisition targets five year determination where price increases are and organic growth opportunities more limited.
There remains significant The lack of opportunity to develop further in the opportunity for further growth in our contracting US at prices which could show an adequate return business and in delivering out-performance to shareholders led to a decision to sell our interests.
Although we have started well there will be significant challenges in energy costs.
We are I have already reported generally on our dedication developing a series of alternative energy generation to efficiency and customer service improvement.
proposals which will help some plants be more A major part of all our activities is also directed at self reliant.
New process initiatives and improved improved environmental performance particularly quality requirements work to increase energy relating to river and bathing water quality.
We usage making energy conservation more difficult.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 05
