Chairmans Statement Dr Michael West Results Dividends Strategy 2006 marked a step change for Keller: The Board has reviewed the Groups In 2006 we made good progress building on previous years successes dividend policy in light of the substantial against our strategic objective of further and taking full advantage of buoyant increase in profits in the last two years.
consolidating our global leadership in conditions in most of our global markets, Given these excellent results and specialist ground engineering.
We we signicantly increased the scale of our confidence in the Groups future made three acquisitions Phi in the UK, our operations and achieved our highestprospects, the Board intends to increase Anderson in the US and Piling Contractors ever margin.
the dividend for the year by 30%, and in Australia.
The last of these reinforced Group revenue rose by 26% thereafter by 15% per annum for the our leading position in this very strong to 920.2m 2005: 731.0m, mainly foreseeable future, subject to maintaining market.
All three acquisitions made reecting excellent organic growth.
profit three times dividend cover.
Whilst our excellent first-time contributions and before tax was up 72% to 83.7m 2005: policy is to reward shareholders with their management and staff have adjusted 48.8m and earnings per share before progressive dividends and to maintain well to life under Kellers ownership.
the benefit of a one-off tax credit grew a comfortable dividend cover, we will We also pressed forward in our to 79.0p 2005: 41.8p, in part reecting also continue to reinvest our cash ow programme of introducing new solutions a reduction in the underlying tax rate to in the growth of the Group, as we have and extending the use of our existing 37% from 41%.
Earnings per share have successfully done to date.
technologies and methods around now grown at a compound annual growth The Board is therefore the world, as is demonstrated by the rate of 19% since otation some 12 years recommending a final dividend of 11.4p impressive organic growth rates achieved.
Our operating margin increased to per share 2005: 8.2p.
This brings the In 2007, we aim to continue to its highest-ever level of 9.7% from 7.3%, total dividend for the year to 15.6p 2005: make strategic advances within our reecting significant improvements in 12.0p.
The final dividend will be paid core business.
We are often seen as a all of our geographic regions.
on 29 June 2007 to shareholders on preferred buyer of businesses within our the register at 1 June 2007. industry, mainly because of what we can Cash ow and net debt offer in return strong nancing, access The very strong trading result was Pensions to new technologies, a supportive culture supported by an increase in cash The UK dened benefit pension scheme and an excellent reputation.
We will generated from operations to 98.3m was closed for future benefit accrual continue to take advantage of the 2005: 73.5m.
Net debt at the end of with effect from 31 March 2006, when opportunities presented by a highly the year stood at 38.6m 2005: 40.9m, active members were transferred to fragmented industry, both in the US, which is stated after expenditure of a new dened contribution arrangement.
where we have a long tradition of making 26.4m on acquisitions net of cash and To help reduce the scheme deficit, the good acquisitions, and in other areas debt acquired and a 4.0m one-off cash Group made a one-off cash contribution where either we are currently undercontribution into the UK pension scheme.
The pre-tax deficit represented or where we see growth Capital expenditure of 29.4m 2005: reduced to 6.8m at the year end on potential.
As in the past, our approach 15.7m was higher than in recent an IAS 19 basis 2005: 11.9m.
will be measured and sure-footed.
years, as we modernise and expand our equipment eets in order to take advantage of the strong demand in most of our markets.
4 Keller Group plc Chairmans Statement Building success upon success has only been possible because of the skill, commitment and effort which can be found in abundance throughout our businesses.
Dr Michael West, Chairman People Progress against strategic objectives Broadening our product range I am proud of what our employees have Acquisition: Phi, UK Dry soil mixing achieved and I believe that they, in turn, Products: Slope and excavation Swedish technology acquired by acquisition.
take pride in belonging to a world-class retaining wall systems Further applications in the US as part organisation in which they are well Acquired: April 2006 of the New Orleans levee and canal respected, where their contribution is Consideration: Initial 5.5m, repair programme.
recognised and where they can inuence net of acquired cash Composite piles the future.
On behalf of shareholders and Acquisition: Piling Contractors, Australia Developed in France using Kellers the Board, I thank all our employees for Products: Large diameter piling proprietary specialist equipment.
Acquired: August 2006 First-time applications by Keller Consideration: Initial A$21.4m 8.7m, in Germany and Poland.
Outlook net of acquired cash Looking ahead, we see potential for Tubular soil-mixed piles Acquisition: Anderson Drilling, US Patented system for excavation further growth in all of our markets.
In Products: Large diameter piling walls and underpinnings.
the short term, we expect to see some Acquired: October 2006 First-time offering by Keller in France, further contraction in the residential sector Consideration: Initial $21.7m 11.8m, Germany and Poland.
in the US, at least in the first half of 2007. including the assumption of debt Our US non-residential order book has Vibro piers recently eased from its peak, which may Fast and economic solution to support lighter loads.
signal some weakening in this buoyant Launched by Hayward Baker sector in the second half, although the in the US in 2006. order book remains at an historically high level.
Outside the US, we continue to Secant pile walling and see plenty of opportunities and we continuous ight auger CFA piling expect to see good growth.
Broadening our offering in the US.
Our Group-wide current order book WAFFLEMAT system remains strong, which gives us a sound Another cost-effective alternative to traditional platform for the year ahead.
Our increased foundation methods for housebuilders.
scale and strong business model mean Added to the Suncoast range.
we are ideally placed to continue to perform well in our chosen markets and, whilst the outstanding 2006 result is unlikely to be matched this year, we are confident that 2007 will be another good year for the Group.
Dr Michael West, Chairman 28 February 2007 5 Keller Group plc Chairmans Statement
