4 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chairmans statement We continue to focus on long-term growth opportunities which will produce good shareholder returns.
Sir Ian Robinson Introduction As you are aware, we commenced discussions Chairman 2006 has been a good year for Ladbrokes plc.
These discussions continue In its first year following the sale of Hilton International and are complex because of the current conditions in February 2006, management has successfully in the US.
We will update the market as and established Ladbrokes as a market-leading, standalone when appropriate.
1 betting and gaming company, where profitability for continuing operations increased by 7.7 per cent.
As the worlds leading betting and gaming company Ladbrokes is committed to, and is an industry leader We continue to focus on all elements of our business, in, social responsibility and good corporate citizenship.
diligently looking for long-term growth opportunities We persistently strive for high standards of performance which will produce good shareholder returns: and advocate socially and environmentally responsible business practices throughout all of our operations.
In our betting shops we have invested in the estate, We benchmark ourselves in indices such as Business technology and brand, and expanded our Irish in the Community and the Dow Jones Sustainability.
In eGaming, we continue to grow strongly in relation Overview of results to both content and the countries we serve.
Our In 2006, Ladbrokes made good progress in acquisition of Sponsio in January 2007 will help implementing its strategy in each of its businesses, consolidate our position in the Nordic region.
with total profit before taxation and non-trading items In International development, our recent investments rising 6.2 per cent to 246.5 million.
in Spain and Italy present good growth opportunities and we remain well positioned to pursue the growing Total gross win increased by 9.9 per cent to appetite for betting and gaming regulation in Asia.
1,008.9 million with strong growth in eGaming and Irish Retail.
Total operating costs grew by Further details on the above developments can 10.9 per cent, partly due to a larger shop estate be found in the Business review sections on pages and cost pressures in Retail, with UK Retail like for 1 8 to 23. like costs increasing by 4.0 per cent.
Operating profit increased by 7.7 per cent to 268.1 million.
As shown in the chart on the right, our strong performance in recent years is illustrated by our total The Board shareholder return.
This is testament to the hard work The Board saw several changes following the sale of of our colleagues who have contributed to our Hilton International in February 2006.
Our Company continues to executive viewpoint, David Michels, Brian Wallace and grow, creates value for shareholders and secures Ian Carter resigned and departed with the hotels jobs for our teams.
We were fortunate to have senior Ladbrokes management with many years of experience to fill the In October 2006, the US government made key positions: Christopher Bell became Chief it illegal for domestic banks to fulfil online gaming Executive: John OReilly, Managing Director of Remote transactions for US based citizens.
Ladbrokes policy Betting and Gaming: and Alan Ross, Managing has consistently been to rigorously prohibit US based Director of European Retail and Casino.
Rosemary customers and we have successfully focused our Thorne also joined the Board as Group Finance development on Europe and Asia.
Director, having previously occupied the same position at Bradford & Bingley plc and J Sainsburys plc.
2007 will be a year of much change in the UK as the new Gambling Act is put into effect in the autumn.
We welcomed two new independent non-executive We are well prepared and this will represent good directors, Henry Staunton and John Jarvis, during opportunities for our UK Retail business and will drive 2006 and Ian Livingston departed in October 2006. quality earnings growth over the coming decade.
1 Profit before tax, finance costs and non-trading items.
2 Adjusted for corporate actions, including Ladbrokes plcs share consolidation on 13 April 2006.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 5 John Jarvis CVO CBE, Chairman of Jarvis Hotels Ltd, Following a 2006 that included a successful World non-executive Chairman of Sandown Park Racecourse Cup, the Board recognises that 2007 does have its and a member of The Jockey Club, joined the Board own challenges but we remain confident in the future on 1 July 2006.
Henry Staunton, a non-executive prospects for Ladbrokes plc.
director of Legal & General plc and Standard Bank plc and previously Finance Director at ITV Plc, joined the Investment plans Board on 1 September 2006.
Our main objective is to continuously improve returns for shareholders.
Patrick Lupo has served two terms as a non-executive director and has decided to retire at the coming Annual The rapidly changing global marketplace in which General Meeting.
During the last four years he has Ladbrokes operates presents us with an increasing been both Chairman of the Remuneration Committee number of opportunities for growth.
Consequently, and our Senior Independent Director.
We thank him we will continue to proactively search for investment for his significant contribution and his wise counsel.
opportunities that enhance shareholder value, Christopher Rodrigues takes over as Chairman of the as typified by 888, Italy and Spain.
Remuneration Committee and Nicholas Jones as our Senior Independent Director at the conclusion Dividend of the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 8.6 pence per share payable on 1 June 2007 Further information about the current Board members to shareholders on the register on 2 March 2007. can be found on page 32.
This final dividend, together with the interim dividend of 4.6 pence, gives a total dividend of 13.2 pence.
Outlook Trading in the first seven weeks of 2007 has been satisfactory, with good football results but a higher level of UK horse racing cancellations this year than last, due to the excessively wet weather.
eGaming continues to perform strongly and is ahead Sir Ian Robinson of our expectations.
Telephone Betting is behind last Chairman year due to tough High Rollers comparators but is 22 February 2007 in line with our own expectations.
Our International expansion plans are on track and we anticipate positive contribution from 2008.
Ladbrokes Total Shareholder Return performance since 2 Ladbrokes Total Shareholder Return TSR performance against key indices 2003 has out-performed the FTSE100 and FTSE TSR % All Share indices.
