Chairmans statement Nigel Keen Overview Board Development programme of continuous improvement Laird today is a higher growth, increasingly Geoff Drabble, an Executive Director of in all areas of its corporate responsibility.
pro table company which remains driven The Laird Group and Managing Director 2006 was another year of progress in our by the overriding objective of creating and of Laird Security Systems, left the Group overall performance in the areas of health, growing shareholder value.
2006 saw at the end of September to become Chief safety and environmental stewardship.
an acceleration of the momentum Laird Executive of another UK public company.
The Group successfully completed its has established in recent years.
Further programme of ISO 14001 accreditation progress has been made against our The Board made two appointments in for all manufacturing businesses, strategic objectives of focusing on higher 2006: Professor Michael Kelly joined as with the exception of certain recent growth markets, obtaining a competitive a non-executive director on 1 July 2006 acquisitions, which are targeted to achieve edge through technology and customer and later in the year Sir Christopher accreditation during 2007.
In addition, service, allied to a well established and Hum, KCMG, was also appointed a ten ISO 14001 accredited manufacturing expanding low cost manufacturing base.
With these two sites successfully integrated the British appointments, the Board is well equipped Standards Occupational health and safety Delivery of Pro table Growth to oversee the Groups continued growth speci cation, OHSAS 18001, providing an 2006 saw further good progress made by and development.
integrated Health, Safety & Environmental the Group.
We strengthened and developed management system.
The Group aims both our market leading divisions, Laird Sir Geoffrey Owen and John McDowall, to complete this integration across the Technologies and Laird Security Systems, OBE, both retired as non-executive remaining ISO 14001 registered sites in during the year and have again delivered directors at the end of the year.
A review of the Groups policies and positive organic revenue growth together John McDowall has been succeeded as performance in this key area is to be found with good growth in underlying pro ts and Senior Independent non-executive director in the Corporate Social Responsibility earnings.
Group underlying pro ts before tax by Anthony Reading, MBE.
As Chairman, section of this Report.
were 73.3 million in 2006, up 33% on the I would like to thank Geoffrey and John for 55.1 million reported in 2005.
Earnings per their valuable service over many years Maintaining the Momentum of the share on a similar basis were 31.7 pence, up and their extensive contribution both to Group 16% on the 27.3 pence in 2005. the Board and to the development of Laird had another excellent year in 2006, The Laird Group.
again delivering good growth in revenue Continuing Dividend Growth and underlying pro t. The strategic The Boards dividend policy is to increase Our Employees decisions which were made to continue returns to shareholders progressively 2006s achievements would not have been to focus the Group, together with the over time, re ecting both the underlying possible were it not for the hard work investments that have been made to pro tability of the Group and the cash and determination of our 11,500 strong strengthen and develop it and to broaden requirements of the business.
Their loyal commitment its product and market spread, have again Board is recommending a final dividend and enthusiasm is an extremely valuable allowed Laird to progress strongly.
We of 6.95 pence per share, payable asset in realising the Groups strategy will continue to implement this strategy, to shareholders in respect of their and continuing its successful growth, and we are con dent that Laird will make shareholdings recorded on the register as and to each of them I extend the Boards further good progress in 2007. at 25 May 2007, subject to approval at wholehearted thanks.
This represents a total dividend for the year Corporate Social Responsibility of 10.3 pence per share, compared with The Board recognises the need for Group 9.56 pence per share for 2005 restated businesses to behave ethically and for the bonus element of the Rights Issue, responsibly in the different locations and and represents an increase year-on-year environments in which they operate and of 8%.
the Board is, therefore, committed to a 2 The Laird Group PLC
