Chairmans statement LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Chairmans statement Cor Stutterheim, Chairman Delivering on our strategy Building a strong Board In 2004, the Board set The Board recognised several years ago that As the company is evolving, the Board is out a strategy which the IT services market was consolidating.
Following the completion We played an active role in this process of the Unilog acquisition in January 2006, has since resulted through the combination of Logica and CMG Didier Herrmann joined the Board.
Crister in a signi cant in 2002 which provided a strong platform Stjernfelt joined the Board and Executive for future development.
The subsequent Committee following the WM-data transformation of acquisitions of Unilog and WM-data were acquisition.
Nol Harweth and Wolfhart LogicaCMG, extending carefully targeted on the basis of strict Hauser, whose appointments as noncriteria.
Particularly important was targeting executive directors were announced in its capabilities and high-quality businesses with good margins January 2007, bring valuable commercial scale in Europe and and a strong cultural t, facilitating the and international experience.
With the successful integration of these businesses expected retirement of Helmut Mamsch allowing it to focus on while maintaining LogicaCMGs strong following the 2007 AGM, we plan to appoint its core strengths in IT operating performance.
Wim Dik as deputy chairman and senior The Unilog transaction was completed independent non-executive director.
Following shareholder We are committed to sound corporate approval, we nalised the WM-data governance and have continued to acquisition in October 2006.
We issued formalise our procedures to re ect 386.9 million new shares and paid SEK the fact that we are now a major European 2.35 billion 170.8 million to finance the company.
We expect to take control review provided an opportunity to of the remaining WM-data minority interests enhance the operations of the Board.
We have increased the number of Board The divestment of the Telecoms Products events and strengthened the focus on business, announced in early 2007, Board succession planning through the enables us to concentrate on our Nomination Committee.
LogicaCMG today is a substantial European company with an Incentivising employees extensive international network, focused As a knowledge-based organisation on IT and business services.
operating in a competitive market, it is essential that we retain and motivate high-calibre staff.
We regularly review our remuneration and professional 38 p 5.6 2006 dividend % 5.5 Dividend increase development policies to ensure that markets is in our long-term interest.
We are strong growth in adjusted earnings we continue to attract and retain the recognised for our efforts by our inclusion per share and operating cash ow.
successfully integrating our acquisitions Like LogicaCMG, Unilog and WM-data We aim to stay in contact with and expect to complete the divestment attached high importance to developing shareholders to ensure that they understand of Telecoms Products and the related their people.
We are now bringing these the strategy we are pursuing for the share buyback in 2007.
Our increased learning cultures together by creating business.
Our new annual report format scale and strengthened employee base, an internationally recognised corporate is designed to improve the quality of led by a talented management team, give university.
A mini-MBA programme information we provide and includes us con dence that 2007 will be a year of is also being introduced to support the Key Performance Indicators KPIs sustained growth in which we will continue leadership development.
that we consider in assessing the business.
to deliver returns to our shareholders.
The Group promotes a performanceThe geographic distribution of our oriented culture by aligning financial shareholders altered with the addition incentives to long-term business success.
of former WM-data shareholders in late At the last AGM, shareholders approved October.
In response to the needs of Nordic a new Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, shareholders, LogicaCMG shares are now which provides for an annual bonus, based traded on the Swedish Stock Exchange.
on a combination of the Groups and individual performance.
Executive directors Delivering returns to shareholders Cor Stutterheim must meet challenging earnings per share Our dividend policy aims to ensure Chairman EPS and total shareholder return TSR that shareholders bene t directly and targets.
They are also required to invest consistently from the successful growth For more information, visit at least 20% of their bonus in LogicaCMG of the business, while continuing to www.
provide suf cient funds to invest in future In 2006, adjusted EPS grew by 42.7% to growth.
We have increased our dividend 10.7 pence per share.
LogicaCMGs total every year since 2003 when adjusted to shareholder return was 8.3% in 2006, while re ect the bonus element of the rights the weighted total shareholder return of our issue undertaken in November 2005.
The dividend increased by 5.5% in 2006, bringing the total for the year to 5.6 pence Communicating with stakeholders per share.
We are mindful of the interests of all our This has been an important period stakeholders, including our own employees.
in the Groups strategic development.
Acting as a good corporate citizen in all our At the same time, the business delivered 39 Governance
