LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 02 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Company is the leader in its sector, has good cash flows, some outstanding assets and experienced staff.
I am confident that the policies being followed should transform Luminar.
STRATEGY At the year end the Companys net debt was Revenues from continuing operations amounted The sector in which the Company trades has 115m, representing a reduction in debt during to 296m.
This included a growth in been experiencing a challenging environment for the year of 50m.
During the three years to comparable sales for Dancing division units of several years and this has continued in the year 2 March 2006, the Companys net debt has been approximately 3%.
Profit before tax from to 2 March 2006.
The challenges have arisen reduced by over 110m.
Sufficient progress has continuing operations before exceptional items from sector over-capacity, market and economic been made with the debt position to enable the amounted to 43m 2005: 39m.
The profit trends and a significant regulatory tightening Board to announce that it has decided to return before tax contribution from discontinued compared with previous practice.
The Company capital to shareholders through a programme of operations was, however, reduced by 11m to has reacted to this by: 70m of share buybacks over three years, with 3m following the disposal of 64 units during the majority expected within the next 18 months.
Earnings per share from continuing Following a strategy of developing a high operations amounted to 25.8 pence 2005: quality differentiated nightclub business which The Board has also reviewed the position of the 23.9 pence.
will be predominantly on a branded basis.
Entertainment division, which remains a strong This strategy has included the disposal of business but is experiencing adverse trends in As in previous years the Company has reported units which do not fit with this objective.
the high street bars sector.
In order to allow the significant exceptional losses, which in the Company to focus on its strategy and to enable current year amounted to 13m after tax Significantly reducing debt levels in order to the Entertainment division to develop, it has credits of 7m relating to continuing operations safeguard the position of the business and to been decided that it will be separated and either and 18m after tax credits of 7m relating to focus investment on its strategic objectives.
Any net cash proceeds will discontinued operations.
These losses be returned to shareholders in addition to the predominantly relate to non-cash write-offs and By 2 March 2006 the Company had developed planned buybacks.
asset impairments against amounts previously 43 branded nightclub units, 13 of which had stated in the accounts for property, plant and been developed during the year.
These will An explanation of the Companys plans and a equipment and goodwill stated at amounts represent approximately 45% of annualised summary of progress to date are set out in the reflecting the cost of past acquisitions.
After continuing revenue from core Dancing units.
Operating Review on pages 6 to 9. exceptional items and discontinued operations, The new units are generally performing well.
profits attributable to equity shareholders The Company has also acquired ten larger RESULTS amounted to 2m, net of exceptional items capacity units which are suitable for conversion The results are set out in the financial of 31m.
to branded units for a consideration of 11m.
They are also discussed in the Financial Review on pages Underlying cash performance remains strong.
Over the last two years the Company has 10 to 17.
Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation disposed of 79 units which did not fit its and exceptional items EBITDA for total strategy, realising proceeds of 46m.
A further As required as a result of regulatory changes, the operations amounted to 87m 2005: 99m 17m was also raised from a sale and leaseback financial statements have, for the first time, been and cash flow from operating activities transaction for a continuing unit.
Further disposal prepared using International Financial Reporting amounted to 70m 2005: 78m.
Investment transactions are planned for the current year.
The formats involved and accounting in capital expenditure was 57m.
principles are more complex than those previously used and the change has required the application of considerable resources.
LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 03 BOARD 8%.
The current performance includes trading The Company is by a significant margin the During the year Nick Beighton joined the Board from the Easter period which was disappointing leader in its sector, has good cash flows, some as Finance Director.
Nick has already made a due to the timing of Easter.
The Dancing outstanding assets and able and experienced substantial favourable impact on the Company segment has shown good top line growth but staff.
I am confident that it is following the right and is building a team which will strengthen the the Entertainment division sales have further strategy: it has announced substantial measures Companys financial controls and effectiveness.
to deliver shareholder value and the Company is continuing to follow its policy of strengthening At the end of February Linda Wilding retired as During the first ten weeks gross margins have management.
In addition, although it continues a Non-Executive Director.
Linda served as a strengthened following the results of to face regulatory and other challenges, the Director from 1998 and had previously been managements operational effectiveness work.
sector has experienced cyclical characteristics in involved with the Company prior to its flotation Admissions income, although down on last the past from which it has recovered.
She made a major contribution to the year, has strengthened as a proportion of confident that the policies being followed should Companys affairs.
Martin Gatto has taken over as Chairman of the Subsequent to Easter there has been an KEITH HAMILL Audit Committee and David Longbottom has improving trend.
Management do not believe Chairman taken over as Chairman of the Remuneration the first ten weeks to be indicative of the likely 17 May 2006 Committee.
outcome for the full year.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIVIDEND The Companys Corporate Social Responsibility The Board is proposing a final dividend of 10.74 Statement is set out on pages 18 to 19. pence, giving a dividend for the year of 15.18 pence, an increase of 10%.
The Board has The Companys activities are principally in the announced a policy of progressively moving to a late night sector with the sale of alcoholic drink dividend cover of two times.
The Company places considerable emphasis on developing, SUMMARY maintaining and monitoring policies and My second three year term of office as processes designed to protect the well-being Chairman comes to an end in December and and welfare of customers and employees.
The I have told the Board that I am not in a position, Company is also committed to taking account of due to other interests, to be available for a the interests of the communities in which it further term.
In accordance with the provisions operates.
of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance, the Nominations Committee led CURRENT TRADING by the Senior Independent Director, David Like-for-like sales for the first ten weeks of the Longbottom, is responsible for recruiting a new financial year have been disappointing with total Chairman and has commenced the process of like-for-like sales from core businesses down by doing so.
LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 04 LIQUID OCEANA Taking cool London clubbing to the mass market.
In the main room, youll find state-ofFive bars, two clubs, one amazing night.
Cruise the-art lighting, sound and laser technology through seven destinations including a futuristic combined in a cutting-edge environment Tokyo Vodka Bar, a 1970s New York disco, providing the perfect atmosphere for todays and a sexy Parisian boudoir.
A venue offering generation of clubbers.
In addition, Liquids also wonderfully different ports of call all under feature a mellow chill-out room and a VIP one roof.
lounge to complement the high energy of the main room.
DAN DO YOUR O ENTERTA CHICAGO ROCK CAF The place to eat, drink and party.
Appealing to a mature 20-something age group with a mix of food, drink and entertainment based around music, comedy, memories and nostalgia.
Tasty Tex-Mex food is served all day, whilst our bartenders mix the most tantalising cocktails.
Whether you choose to eat, drink or dance, Chicago Rock Cafs offer an alternative to the high street pub to club scene.
LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 05 LAVA & IGNITE LIFE Local pub, local club, local people.
Life is a bar and club concept designed to appeal to young and old alike from local business folk relaxing The classic twin-scene format updated for the after work to a local group of girls on a hen 21st Century.
The main room includes amazing night.
Designed to fit into smaller towns and sound and lighting technology, and is flexible become a major part of that towns community, enough to be the perfect venue for corporate Life is a versatile brand and can cater for events, live music and televised sporting events.
meetings and corporate events as well as the The themed bar sitting alongside caters for the traditional pub and club market.
Open seven pre-club drink market and two other rooms days a week, at the weekend a screen is drawn provide a change of atmosphere and music for a back to reveal Club Life, where customers can variety of moods.
CING OWN THING AINMENT JUMPIN JAKS The place to be for real entertainment.
Live entertainment is staged every night the doors are open and Jumpin Jaks is a huge hit with people of all ages, thanks to its unique party atmosphere.
Featuring all genres of the UKs best live acts along with guest performances from celebrities.
The key to success is the music the songs you will hear are those you love to sing along to, dance to and the ones that set the tempo for a great atmosphere, good feeling and real interaction.
