Marshalls text 2006:Marshalls Text 3 4 07 14:46 Page 4 Chairmans Statement Gaining Momentum I am pleased to report a year of revenue and profit advance, as Marshalls builds momentum in pursuit of its strategic growth objectives.
In keeping with our sustainable dividends policy, we are declaring a 5 per cent increase in dividends for the year and maintaining our record of continuous increases, broadly in line with medium term earnings growth.
During the year we have made progress in implementing the various elements of our growth strategy.
Haworth Moor Paving and Setts In our core Landscape Products operations we The development of our Consumer strategy have continued to invest in the business.
gained momentum with the sponsorship of the Examples of strategic investment include the Royal Horticultural Societys Chelsea Flower Show, acquisition of rights to develop new mineral the acquisition of the garden design and reserves in North West England, the extension of installation company Scenic Blue and the opening the range of robotics in our manufacturing of further Drive & Garden Transformation Centres.
operations and further expansion in the machine laying of our products, thus making the block Our Public Sector and Commercial presence was paving of large areas more economical.
We have reinforced by the acquisition of Urban also worked to bring our overseas suppliers into Engineering, Tempakerb, Decathlon and, since the the Ethical Trading Initiative, an innovation in the year end, Ollerton, thus reinforcing the unique industry.
proposition which Marshalls can offer by packaging both street furniture and surfacing.
We are already seeing the benefits of this integration, for example, The Sage Gateshead.
All of these initiatives have been pursued together with an increased focus on our environmental and sustainability responsibilities.
The Environmental Report on pages 26 to 29 contains a detailed report, but we are particularly proud of our employees at our Maltby site, who have achieved the Biodiversity Benchmark from the Wildlife Trust, the first UK manufacturing unit to be awarded the Benchmark.
Evening at The Sage Gateshead 4 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2006 Marshalls text 2006:Marshalls Text 3 4 07 14:46 Page 5 The risk profile of the business also improved during the year as the result of the replacement of the defined benefit pension, with a defined contribution pension.
Whilst this was a necessary step given the uncertainties of funding such schemes, Marshalls remains committed to the provision of pension benefits for its employees.
All parties to this negotiation are to be congratulated on achieving a balanced and sensible outcome.
As ever, the programme of work I have described results from a positive interaction between our employees, our customers and suppliers.
On behalf of the Board, I offer everyone a sincere vote of thanks.
Mike Davies Chairman 9 March 2007 Michael Davies Chairman The Sage Gateshead Marshalls plc Annual Report 2006 5 Marshalls text 2006:Marshalls Text 3 4 07 14:46 Page 6 Morrisons headquaters building, Bradford 6 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2006
