CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We are continuing to make improvements in terms of the choice and value in our customer offer, communication with our customers and the overall shopping experience at Matalan.
We continue to offer our customers a wide range of quality During the period Matalan opened 12 new stores including 4 re-sites, products at great value: High Street quality at half the price.
bringing the total to 196 stores at the year end 2005: 14 new stores including 4 re-sites, 1 closure, and a total of 188 stores.
In aggregate, Throughout the financial year, the market has been characterised an additional 0.1 million square feet of net selling space was added by very tough trading conditions and this has, of course impacted to the estate in the year.
Total net selling space amounted to on the performance of the business.
Against this background, we 5.7 million square feet at the year end 2005: 5.6 million square feet.
are continuing to make improvements in terms of the choice and value in our customer offer, communication with our customers Lee Cooper Group and the overall shopping experience at Matalan.
As I announced last year, the Lee Cooper Group was sold on 4th Despite the decline in profitability, the Board remains confident May 2005 and full provision was made for the impairment of the Lee that the business is on the path to a recovery in profits and this Cooper goodwill in the results for the 52 weeks ended 26th confidence is reflected in the recommendation by the Board that February 2005.
An additional post tax loss of 3.8m arising from the the final dividend be maintained at 6.0p per share 2005: 6.0p per sale of the Lee Cooper Group has been recognised in these results.
share which, together with the interim payment, will give full year Board dividends of 8.9p per share 2005: 8.9p per share.
Robert Shrager, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Sales in the financial year declined by 6.9% on a like for like basis will not be seeking re-election at the Companys Annual General 2005: increase 4.5%.
However, the bulk of this decline is Meeting in July 2006 and on behalf of the Board I thank him for his attributable to a poor performance in our Homewares department support and counsel over the past nine years.
combined with the planned withdrawal from unprofitable grey market sales.
The performance of our core own branded clothing Outlook has been more resilient, with a like for like sales decrease of 1.6% The marketplace remains tough and we do not foresee any 2005: increase 3.0%.
improvement in that situation and have planned accordingly.
The poor performance of our Homewares ranges during the year For the new financial year, Matalan will continue to work on has now been addressed with the recruitment of a new Buying improving the shopping experience for our customers through and Merchandising Director for Homewares.
improving our product offer and availability, particularly in terms of re-establishing our Homewares ranges, improving retail Despite the decline in sales and consequent requirement for standards and refurbishing the estate.
The focus on improving clearance activity, gross margins have improved from 42.0% to margins and cash flow through strong buying and better stock 42.8%, reflecting improved bought-in margins, the withdrawal from management will also remain unchanged.
the grey market referred to above and tighter stock management.
Further work in partnership with our suppliers is ongoing to continue to reduce stock levels and to manage markdown exposure.
Operating profit from continuing activities, before the impact of a 20.4m charge relating to the write-down of software and development costs, declined by 30.7% to 59.8m 2005: 86.3m after one-off rationalisation costs including redundancy costs John Hargreaves of 5.1m.
