Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Directors Remuneration report Remuneration committee Chairmans statement Since March 2011, when our market capitalization was 635m, On behalf of your board, I am pleased to present our Directors we have returned 424.3m in cash to shareholders through share Remuneration report for the financial year ended 30 April 2014.
In buy-back, dividends and Returns of Value and our market August 2013, the UK Government Department for Business Innovation capitalization has increased to 1,081.4m.
During this period we have & Skills BIS published regulations setting out what companies must improved the operational efficiency of the business by increasing the disclose in the Directors Remuneration report with the aim of Underlying Adjusted EBITDA margin from 35.5% to 45.3% and taking improving transparency and promoting best practice.
This report is the absolute figure from $155.0m to $196.4m.
Long-Term Incentive therefore divided into three sections: Plan LTIP awards granted in the year ended 30 April 2011 based on three year cumulative earnings per share growth vested at 100% and This Remuneration committee the committee those based on cumulative earnings per share growth and absolute Chairmans statement: shareholder return are expected to vest at 150%.
On 14 April 2011 the Company appointed Kevin Loosemore as Executive Chairman The Directors Remuneration Policy, which details Micro Focus combining the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
remuneration policies and their link to Group strategy, as well as As announced on 15 April 2014, his recruitment Share Incentive projected pay outcomes under various performance scenarios: and vested at 198.67%.
The Annual Report on Remuneration, which focuses on the As also announced on 15 April 2014, the board plans to conduct an remuneration arrangements and outcomes for the year under orderly separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer review, and how the committee intends to implement the over the coming 12 to 24 months.
This will include the evaluation remuneration policy in the year ended 30 April 2015. of internal and external candidates for the role of Chief Executive Officer whilst at all times aiming to ensure appropriate continuity and The Directors Remuneration Policy set out on pages 40 to 47 will be continued focus on performance.
In the meantime, Kevin Loosemore put to shareholders for approval in a binding vote at the forthcoming will continue to be remunerated as the Executive Chairman, within the AGM on 25 September 2014, and every three years thereafter.
The policy for executive directors as detailed on pages 40 to 47.
Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
We hope that you find the report to be clear, Remuneration decisions in the year ended 30 April 2014 transparent and consistent with the new reporting requirements.
We The Companys remuneration policy has remained fundamentally continue to monitor best practice in this area and to consult with our unchanged during the year.
Our objective is that the policy should be shareholders and other stakeholders and we welcome feedback on stable, easy to understand and aligned with shareholder returns and any issue regarding this report or executive remuneration.
Business context In the final quarter of 2014, the Group undertook a review of The Company has a clear strategy that defines an operating and salaries for all employees against comparative companies in the financial model to deliver superior shareholder return.
This model is technology sector and FTSE 250.
In respect of the executive directors underpinned by a remuneration model that ensures rewards only and senior managers, the committee reviewed their salaries against accrue as value is delivered to shareholders.
The committee awarded the Chief Financial Officer, Mike Phillips, a salary increase of 19% to bring him in line In the year ended 30 April 2014 the Company has delivered another with his peers in the industry as he had fallen significantly behind strong financial performance and returns for shareholders.
This increase took effect from 1 April 2014.
The Chief currency CCY revenue growth at 6.4% was marginally ahead of the Operating Officer, Stephen Murdoch, was appointed to the board guidance that had been given with a return to organic revenue growth on 16 April 2014 and his base salary was increased by 16% with in the second half of the year.
Underlying Adjusted EBITDA increased effect from 1 May 2014 to reflect the new responsibilities of this role.
Our KPI of shareholder return in the No salary increase was awarded to the Executive Chairman, Kevin year to 30 April 2014 was 19.7% which is towards the upper end of Loosemore, which means his base salary continued to be positioned the range of our core objective to deliver 15% to 20% per annum.
below median when compared with the market.
38 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes The Company announced on 15 April 2014 the vesting of the Share Incentive Award granted to Kevin Loosemore when he assumed the role of Executive Chairman on 14 April 2011.
The committee determined that the award under the Share Incentive Award amounted to 1,295,328 shares representing 198.67% of the base Share Incentive Award of 652,000.
In accordance with the terms of the Share Incentive Award, 198.67% represents the same percentage as the return to any shareholder who had held shares throughout the period and reinvested Returns of Value.
The calculation of the amount due has been verified by the Groups remuneration advisers and auditors.
On 18 April 2011, Mike Phillips received an award of 146,504 nil-cost options at zero pence per share, equal to approximately 150% of salary.
Vesting of the award was based on annualized EPS growth in excess of RPI over three years ended 30 April 2014 with 100% of the award vesting if the annualized EPS growth was RPI plus 9%, The resulting level of vesting will be reduced by 25% if the Absolute Shareholder Return ASR is below 150 pence or increased by 50% if the ASR is 300 pence or above.
Although the vesting date is not until 1 July 2014 the committee has included this award in Mike Phillips single figure of remuneration for the year as it relates to the period under review.
Calendar of activities The calendar is driven by the business planning activity of the Group prior to the start of the new financial year.
The committee is fully informed of changes in business strategy, which may affect its decision making.
The annual timetable for the committee is set out below: Date Purpose Matters reviewed and or approved Q1 May July Annual Report and Directors Remuneration report: Payments Bonus payments and any vesting of awards under all plans for the previous year: and Grants of equity awards to executives, top talent and all employee share schemes.
Q2 August October AGM Investor engagement: and Review committee agenda for following year.
Q3 November January Strategic Outlook and Progress of half year business performance: Policy Review On-going appropriateness and effectiveness of remuneration and benefits policies strategy and their linkages to the overall business strategy: Review of external remuneration consultants: Review of revised remuneration reporting regulations: Corporate Governance developments: and Business objectives for the following year.
Q4 February April Year End Remuneration Executive director, Company Secretary and executive committee remuneration reviews Approvals including benchmarking where appropriate of base salaries and benefits: Group-wide pay and benefit reviews: Share awards and their performance conditions for grants to executives, top talent and employee share plans: Design and targets for annual performance-related bonus arrangements for executives and employees for forthcoming year: Review of performance and terms of reference of committee: and Review of vesting of long-term incentive awards.
This Directors Remuneration report has been prepared on behalf of the board by the committee and complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The report has been prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
The effective date of the policy is 25 September 2014 which is the date shareholder approval is being sought for the policy for the first time under the new reporting rules.
The policy remains consistent with that operated during the year ended 30 April 2014 and approved at the AGM in September 2013 under the previous reporting framework, following extensive consultation with shareholders.
Karen Slatford Chair of the Remuneration Committee 18 June 2014 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39
