Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes Executive directors remuneration policy table Element of pay and alignment with strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Supports the recruitment and Normally reviewed annually.
Increases Ordinarily, salary increases None, although overall retention of executive directors generally apply from the first quarter will be in line with increases performance of the of the calibre required to deliver of the financial year.
awarded to other individual is considered the Groups strategy.
by the committee when When determining base salary levels, However, increases may be setting and reviewing Rewards executives for the consideration is given to the following: made above this level at the salaries annually.
committees discretion to Pay increases for other employees take account of individual Set at a level that allows of the Group: circumstances such as: fully flexible operation of our variable pay plans.
The individuals skills, experience and Increase in scope and responsibilities: responsibility: Pay at companies of a similar size, Increase to reflect the complexity and international scope, in individuals development particular those within the technology and performance in sector, the FTSE 250, US listed technology role e. g. for a new companies and privately owned Software appointment where base companies: and salary may be increased over time rather than set Corporate and individual performance.
directly at the level of the previous incumbent or market level : and Alignment with market level.
Benefits Provides a competitive and The Group provides a range of benefits which Set at a level which the None.
cost-effective benefits package may include a car benefit or cash equivalent, committee considers: to executives to assist them to private medical insurance, permanent health carry out their duties effectively.
Appropriately positioned against comparable roles Additional benefits may also be provided in companies of a similar in certain circumstances which may include size and complexity in but are not limited to relocation expenses, the relevant market: and housing allowance, school fees and temporary increase in responsibilities.
Other benefits may Provides a sufficient be offered if considered appropriate and level of benefit based reasonable by the committee.
on the role and individual circumstances, such as relocation.
Pension Provides a competitive postDefined contribution plan with Company 20% of base salary.
retirement benefit, in a way contributions set as a percentage of that manages the overall base salary.
An individual may elect to receive some or all of their pension contribution as a cash allowance.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Directors Remuneration report Directors Remuneration Policy continued Element of pay and alignment with strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual bonus Rewards and incentivizes Measures and targets are set annually and For maximum performance: The measures and targets the achievement of annual payout levels are determined by the committee are set by the committee financial and strategic targets.
after the year end based on performance 150% of salary for each year.
The measures against those targets.
Executive Chairman: and that applied for the financial year 2014, and The committee may, in exceptional 100% of salary for other that will apply for the circumstances, amend the bonus payout executive directors.
financial year 2015, are should the formulaic outcome not, in the described in the Annual view of the committee, reflect overall business The maximum bonus will Report on Remuneration.
be achieved by growing Any such adjustments would be disclosed the Underlying Adjusted Targets are set that drive in the relevant years Annual Report on EBITDA by 10% year on improvement in the Remuneration and bonuses would not year excluding the impact underlying performance of exceed the stated maximum.
of in year acquisitions the business ensuring a link and currency on a straight to shareholder return.
The annual bonus is delivered in cash.
Currently measures In the case of fraud: mis-statement of accounts: are limited to growth in or misconduct: claw-back provisions are in Underlying Adjusted EBITDA place for a period of up to one year after a excluding the impact of bonus payment has been made.
in year acquisitions and currency.
This may change if needed to support a change in business strategy.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Motivates and rewards the Contingent awards of performance shares Maximum opportunity The performance measures achievement of long-term structured as nil-cost options are made annually contained within the plan and respective weightings business goals.
with vesting dependent upon the achievement rules is 200% of salary.
may vary year on year to of performance conditions over three years.
reflect strategic priorities, Supports the creation of The maximum face subject to retaining at least shareholder value through The committee has discretion to decide value of annual awards 50% on EPS.
the delivery of strong market whether and to what extent targets have been will be 200% of salary.
performance aligned with the met, and if an exceptional event occurs that Details of the measure and long-term business strategy, causes the committee to consider that the performance targets used both organic and inorganic.
targets are no longer appropriate, the for specific LTIP grants are committee may adjust them, provided the new included in the Annual Supports achievement of conditions are no tougher or easier than the Report on Remuneration.
our strategy by targeting original conditions at the time they were set.
performance under our Threshold performance key financial performance The committee has the discretion to adjust the will result in 25% vesting.
indicators of revenue LTIP outcomes to ensure alignment of pay with growth and EPS growth.
performance to ensure the outcome is a true reflection of the performance of the Company.
Aligns executive interest with Any such adjustments would be disclosed in the those of long-term shareholders.
relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
There is no opportunity to re-test.
42 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes Element of pay and alignment with strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures All-employee share plans Provides an opportunity for Executive directors are entitled to participate Participation limits are Not applicable.
directors to voluntarily invest in a tax approved all-employee plan, The Micro those set by the local in the Company.
Focus Sharesave Plan 2006, under the same tax authorities from time terms as other employees.
Under this plan they to time.
make monthly savings over a period of three years linked to the grant of an option over Micro Focus shares with an option price which can be at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of shares on grant.
Options may be adjusted to reflect the impact of any variation of share capital.
Fees for non-executive directors are determined by the board after taking appropriate advice.
The Company currently has an Executive Chairman whose role combines those of Chairman and Chief Executive.
The section below details the Companys policy on how the non-executive directors, including a non-executive Chairman, will be remunerated.
Element of pay and alignment with strategy Operation Non-executive director fees Provides an appropriate The non-executive Chairman and non-executive directors are paid a basic fee.
Additional fees are paid for reward to attract and retain chairmanship of board committees and for the roles of the senior independent director and Deputy Chairman: high-calibre individuals.
Fees are currently paid in cash but the Company may choose to provide some of the fees in shares.
Fees are set at a level which: Reflects the commitment and contribution that is expected from the non-executive Chairman and non-executive directors: and Is appropriately positioned against comparable roles in companies of a similar size and complexity in the relevant market, especially companies of a similar size and international scope to Micro Focus, in particular those within the technology sector, the FTSE 250, US listed technology companies and privately owned Software companies.
Increases will typically be in line with market levels of fee inflation.
In exceptional circumstances including, but not limited to, material misalignment with the market or a change in the complexity, responsibility or time commitment required to fulfil a non-executive director role the board has discretion to make appropriate adjustments to fee levels to ensure they remain market competitive and fair to the director.
Aggregate fees paid to non-executive directors will remain within the limit stated in our articles of association, currently 1m.
Actual fee levels are disclosed in the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant financial year.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any incentive scheme.
The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out below, where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43
