Governance 100 Directors remuneration policy continued Executive directors existing service contracts, and policy on loss of office continued Details of the service contracts of the executive directors who served during the period under review are as follows.
These contracts were all signed prior to 27 June 2012.
Executive director Effective date of contract Unexpired term notice period David Hathorn 3 July 2007 Terminable on 12 months notice Andrew King 23 October 2008 Terminable on 12 months notice Peter Oswald 1 January 2008 A fixed term expiring on 30 April 2019 but terminable at any time on 12 months notice A directors service contract may be terminated without notice and without any further payment or compensation, except for sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of certain events such as gross misconduct.
Service contracts for new appointments Normally, for any new executive director appointments, the Groups policy is that the service contracts should provide for one years notice by either party.
The contract would provide that, in the event of termination by the company, other than for cause, the executive would be eligible for: payment of the base salary, pension contribution and benefits in respect of the unexpired portion of the 12-month notice period: annual bonus only in respect of the period they have served, payable following the relevant performance year end and subject to the normal performance conditions for annual bonus: and share-based awards they hold, subject to the plan rules, which include arrangements for pro ration of LTIP awards and continued application of performance conditions.
The Group would seek to apply the principle of mitigation to the termination payment by, for example, making payments in instalments that can be reduced or ended if the former executive wishes to commence alternative employment during the payment period.
In exceptional circumstances, such as to secure for the Group the appointment of a highly talented and experienced executive in a market such as Germany or Austria where it is common for the most senior executives to have three-year or five-year fixed term contracts, the Committee may need to offer a longer initial notice period that reduces progressively to one year over a set time period.
In such exceptional circumstances, the Committee would seek to ensure that any special contract provisions are not more generous than is absolutely necessary to secure the appointment of such a highly talented individual.
The Committee would also take account of the remuneration and contract features that the executive may be foregoing or relinquishing in order to join Mondi, in comparison with the overall remuneration package that Mondi is able to offer.
Approach to remuneration for new executive director appointments The remuneration package for a newly appointed executive director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Groups approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
The variable remuneration for a new executive director would be determined in the same way as for existing executive directors, and would be subject to the maximum limits on variable pay referred to in the policy table on pages 96 and 97.
For an internal appointment, any legacy pay elements awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out according to their terms.
For internal and external appointments, the Group may meet certain relocation expenses, as appropriate.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
