Governance 94 Remuneration report Introduction from the DLC remuneration committee chairman I am pleased to present the Committees report on directors remuneration.
Due to Mondis DLC structure and our need to comply with both South African and UK regulation the structure of the remuneration report has been left largely unchanged from last year and comprises the directors remuneration policy and the annual report on remuneration.
The annual report on remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2015 AGMs.
The directors remuneration policy, which remains unchanged since it was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGMs, will be tabled for a non-binding advisory vote to Mondi Limited shareholders in 2015 in accordance with South African regulations.
Under UK regulations the policy report is required to be put to a binding Anne Quinn, chairman of the shareholder resolution every three years or sooner if changes are proposed and is not DLC remuneration committee being presented for Mondi plc shareholder approval in 2015.
Our remuneration policy for executive directors is based on the principle of pay for performance and alignment with shareholders.
Annual bonuses are dependent on a scorecard of financial and non-financial elements with robust metrics and 50% of any bonus is deferred into Mondi shares for three years.
The long-term incentive plan rewards sustained financial performance, measured through our percentage Return on Capital Employed ROCE and our relative Total Shareholder Return TSR compared to other international companies in our sector.
Executive directors are also required to build a personal shareholding in Mondi.
As described in the Strategic report, Mondis financial performance in the year under review was very strong.
ROCE performance for 2014 was 17.2% and EBITDA was 1,126 million.
This performance is reflected in the remuneration received by directors: Annual bonuses of approximately 92% to 94% of the maximum have been awarded in respect of performance in 2014.
This recognises the Groups good financial and safety performance as well as strong performance against personal operational and strategic objectives that were set at the start of the year.
The performance period for the 2012 LTIP ended on 31 December 2014.
Half of the award was based on ROCE performance and the other half on relative TSR performance.
ROCE for the three-year performance period was 15.4%, above the applicable performance range of 10% to 14%.
The Groups TSR over the period was in excess of 175% 179% for Mondi plc and 176% for Mondi Limited which placed it in the top 25% of the comparator group.
As a result of this performance both the ROCE and TSR elements, and therefore the overall LTIP award, vested in their entirety.
Base salary increases of 2.9% were implemented with effect from 1 January 2015, after consideration of percentage increases for the wider employee population.
The Committee believes that the remuneration policy will continue to motivate our senior team to achieve the Groups objectives and deliver sustained returns for our shareholders.
We also believe that the remuneration of executives during 2014 reflects our successes to date in the delivery of our strategy.
I trust that you will feel able to support the remuneration resolutions at this years annual general meetings.
Anne C Quinn Chairman of the DLC remuneration committee Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
