Governance 96 Directors remuneration policy continued Executive directors remuneration policy table Component Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity The following table To recruit and reward executives of a suitable Reviewed annually by the Committee, taking account of Group performance, individual performance, changes There is no prescribed maximum salary or annual Base salary summarises key elements of calibre for the role and duties required.
in responsibility and levels of increase for the broader employee population.
However, increases will normally be no the remuneration of executive more than the general level of increase in the UK Reference is also made to market median levels in companies of similar size and complexity.
directors in accordance with market or the market against which the executives The Committee considers the impact of any base salary increase on the total remuneration package.
On occasions a larger reporting regulations: Salaries and other elements of the remuneration package may be paid in different currencies as appropriate increase may be needed to recognise, for example, to reflect their geographic location.
development in role or change in responsibility.
Details of the outcome of the most recent review are provided in the annual report on remuneration.
To provide market competitive benefits.
The Group typically provides: Maximum values are determined by reference Benefits to market practice, avoiding paying more than is car allowance or company car: necessary.
medical insurance: death and disability insurance: limited personal taxation and financial advice: and other ancillary benefits, including relocation and assistance with expat expenses as required.
The policy authorises the Committee to make minor changes to benefits provision from time to time, including if appropriate implementing all-employee share plans up to the limits approved by tax authorities.
To provide market competitive pension Defined contribution to pension, or cash allowance of equivalent value.
Only base salary is pensionable.
Company contribution of 30% of base salary for Pension contributions.
the chief executive and 25% of base salary for other executive directors.
To provide incentive and reward for annual Awards are based on annual performance against a balanced scorecard of metrics as determined by the The policy permits a maximum annual bonus of up to Bonus Share performance achievements.
To also provide Committee from time to time such as EBITDA and percentage Return on Capital Employed ROCE and 150% of base salary.
sustained alignment with shareholders safety.
These have the highest weighting currently 70% of the total.
Individual performance is also assessed Plan BSP The Committees practice has been to apply a limit through a deferred component.
against suitable objectives, and currently has a 30% weighting.
of 150% for the chief executive, and 120% i. e. below The policy gives the Committee the authority to select suitable performance metrics, aligned to Mondis the policy maximum for other executive directors.
strategy and shareholders interests, and to assess the performance outcome.
Half of the award is delivered in cash and half in deferred shares which normally vest after three years subject to service conditions, and with no matching element.
On vesting of deferred shares, participants receive a bonus of equivalent value to the dividends that would have been payable on those shares between the date when the awards were granted and when they vest.
Clawback provisions apply to awards made since January 2011.
Individuals are considered each year for an award of shares that normally vest after three years to the extent The maximum grant limit in the plan rules and under To provide incentive and reward for the Long-Term that performance conditions are met and in accordance with the terms of the plan approved by shareholders.
this policy is 200% of base salary face value of delivery of the Groups strategic objectives, shares at grant, to any individual in a single year.
and provide further alignment with Incentive Under the plan rules, the Committee has the ability to cash-settle awards, if necessary, in exceptional shareholders through the use of shares.
There is no current intention for awards to the executive directors to be delivered in this way.
Individual awards, up to this limit, are determined Plan LTIP each year by the Committee.
The Committees Awards are granted subject to continued employment and satisfaction of challenging performance conditions practice has been to make grants below this policy measured over three years, which are set by the Committee before each grant.
maximum as detailed in the annual report on For awards to be granted in 2015, metrics comprise Total Shareholder Return against a suitable peer group, remuneration.
and percentage ROCE, each with a 50% weighting.
The vesting outcome can also be reduced, if necessary, 25% of the grant is available for threshold to reflect the underlying or general performance of the Group.
Performance is measured over three calendar performance, rising on a straight-line scale to 100% years, starting with the year of grant.
of the grant for performance at the stretch level.
For awards granted from 2013 onwards, an amount equivalent to dividends that would have been payable on the unvested share awards are rolled up and paid out in cash and or additional shares at the end of the vesting period based on the proportion of the award that actually vests.
To align the interests of executive directors The chief executive officer is required to build a shareholding, in unfettered shares, equivalent to at least Not applicable.
Share with those of shareholders.
150% of base salary, and other executive directors equivalent to 100% of base salary, over a period of not more than five years from the date of appointment to the Boards.
ownership Executive directors are required to retain at least 50% of any vested shares, other than as necessary to meet policy tax obligations, under Mondis various share plans until the requirement is met.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Governance 97 Component Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity To recruit and reward executives of a suitable Reviewed annually by the Committee, taking account of Group performance, individual performance, changes There is no prescribed maximum salary or annual Base salary calibre for the role and duties required.
However, increases will normally be no more than the general level of increase in the UK Reference is also made to market median levels in companies of similar size and complexity.
market or the market against which the executives The Committee considers the impact of any base salary increase on the total remuneration package.
On occasions a larger Salaries and other elements of the remuneration package may be paid in different currencies as appropriate increase may be needed to recognise, for example, to reflect their geographic location.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
