62 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 63 reMunerAtIon report A StAteMent to SHAreHolDerS FroM tHe CHAIrMAn oF tHe reMunerAtIon CoMMIttee I am pleased to present the Directors report on remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2014. this is my first report to shareholders since I became Chairman of the remuneration Committee in April 2014. you will have seen earlier in this report the good progress achieved by management this year, which has been built on the strong leadership of the last few years.
I have certainly seen the determination of management to build sustainable high performance and growth since I joined the Board, and sound results are being achieved despite testing global economic conditions.
I am keen to ensure the remuneration policy will be appropriate and Since its introduction for the 2012 ltIp, the roCe measure has provided relevant throughout the range of market conditions the group will face.
a useful focus within the business.
to ensure that the roCe targets also I believe remuneration policy and performance targets must ensure proper support the sustainable long-term growth objectives of the group, the incentivisation of management to achieve group strategies for growth Committee concluded that a performance range of 27%-33% for the whilst being aligned with shortand long-term interests of shareholders.
2015 ltIp cycle will provide the best balance between growth and returns over the next three years, and continues to represent an appropriately Against these considerations, the Board has reflected on the implications demanding roCe target.
of a change of Chief executive officer as well as shareholder feedback questioning that despite strong performance compared with direct over the last 12 months, we have engaged with our shareholders, competitors, executive management incentives have not paid out in and we value the views and feedback we have received.
We have again 2012 and 2013. the lack of prior-year bonus payouts has also precluded written to those with the largest shareholdings about our annual participation in the groups Bonus Deferred Share Matching plan incentive arrangements.
BDSMp, a key retention tool for the Company.
During the year, the Committee met four times, and its activities Although some bonus will be paid for 2014 performance, none of the included: prior-year longer-term incentives will vest in 2014. the relative tSr A review of the groups overall remuneration policy to support component of the long-term Incentive plan ltIp has not vested for the groups business strategy.
each of the last three cycles.
this is despite Morgans strong absolute A review of external benchmarking of executive remuneration tSr performance over the past five years circa 19% pa and relative packages.
outperformance of the groups closest listed competitors over the Determination of the remuneration packages for the executive last one, three, and five years.
Directors and other group executives.
A review of whether the measures for the bonus and share the record in the last two years of management not being rewarded incentive schemes remain appropriate.
for above-average performance relative to listed and non-listed sector Determination of appropriate performance targets for bonus peers in difficult market conditions has caused us to consider the and share incentive schemes.
motivational effectiveness of our suite of incentives and the ability to Determination of whether targets for the bonus and share incentive retain our key executive talent.
In this context, we have reviewed the schemes were achieved.
calibration of performance measures and incentive targets to ensure they more closely align with our strategic aims, motivate and reward the remuneration Committee discussed and agreed to designate the management for delivering sustainable above-peer performance, and outgoing Ceo, Mark robertshaw as a good leaver with regard to his support retention.
this was in recognition of his leadership and significant contribution to re-shaping Morgan over the past eight years, I wrote to our major shareholders in January 2015 to explain that improving the resilience and quality of the group, and leaving a strong although we were maintaining the same structure of incentives within legacy for the future.
our policy, we would change the cash measure in the bonus to Cash generation, and give it a higher weighting from 20% to 40%.
For the pete raby has now been announced as the groups new Ceo, and he ltIp there would be changes to the target ranges for the epS and joins in August 2015.
Full details of his remuneration and the buyout of roCe measures.
his incentive awards forfeited on leaving his former employer are shown in this report within the section on implementation of remuneration the epS range for the 2015 ltIp now has a threshold of 6% CAgr policy for 2015. previously 8%, with the top end of the range continuing to be set at 15% CAgr to ensure stretching targets and to demonstrate our this report is intended to be consistent with the current reporting expectation for management to be ambitious.
However as this incentive regulations for executive remuneration.
I hope we have been successful has not been attained in the last three award cycles, owing to challenging in achieving the clarity and transparency that will be of help to our market conditions, there is good reason to review its start point, which shareholders.
has been set taking into account Morgans strategic plan, as well as broker forecasts for Morgan and its peers.
dOUGlAS CASter We are not altering the existing epS range for the BDSMp, to reinforce CHAIrMAn oF tHe reMunerAtIon CoMMIttee our expectation that senior executives should have a mind-set of innovation and determination to do even better.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 64 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 65 reMunerAtIon report continued Compliance statement this report covers the period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 and provides details of the remuneration Committee and remuneration policy of Morgan Advanced Materials.
the Company has complied with the principles and provisions relating to Directors remuneration in the uK Corporate governance Code, and this remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the large & Medium-sized Companies and groups Accounts and reports Amendment regulations 2013. the Directors remuneration policy remains unchanged from that approved by shareholders at the 2014 AgM and hence, in accordance with Section 439A of the Companies Act, only an advisory resolution to approve the Annual report on remuneration will be proposed at the AgM on 8 May 2015. remuneration Committee the remuneration Committee is responsible for developing group policy on executive remuneration and for determining, on behalf of the Board, specific remuneration packages for the executive Directors and the Chairman.
the Committees terms of reference are available on the groups website.
the remuneration Committee consults the Chief executive officer Ceo and invites him to attend meetings when appropriate.
the Director of Human resources attends meetings of the Committee by invitation.
the Committee also had access to advice from the Chief Financial officer.
the Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
no executive Director or other attendee is present when his own remuneration is being discussed.
Membership of the Committee is shown on page 71.
POliCy rePOrt Key principles of the executive directors remuneration policy the remuneration Committee aims to ensure that all the remuneration packages offered are competitive and designed to attract, retain and motivate executive Directors and senior executives of the right calibre in order to run the group successfully, and to create value for shareholders.
the policy of the Committee is to ensure that a significant proportion of the total remuneration opportunity is performance-related, with particular emphasis on long-term performance, and based on the achievement of measurable targets that are relevant to and support the business strategy.
the Committee believes that the current remuneration policy for executive Directors which is set out over the following pages and is intended to apply for a period of three years, having been approved by shareholders at the 2014 AgM remains appropriate for 2015. the remuneration Committee will keep remuneration policy under periodic review to ensure it remains aligned with the groups strategy, and in line with the principles set out in the uK Corporate governance Code in relation to Directors remuneration, as well as the guidance of institutional investors and their representative bodies.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 64 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 65 Summary of Morgan Advanced Materials remuneration policy for executive directors this section of our report summarises the key components of remuneration for executive Directors.
It remains unchanged from that published in last years remuneration report and approved by shareholders at the 2014 AgM, other than the following minor changes: pay scenario charts have been updated to reflect the 2015 packages for executive Directors.
rationale for the selection of annual bonus measures has been moved to the Annual report on remuneration.
page references have been updated.
purpoSe AnD perForMAnCe lInK to StrAtegy operAtIon opportunIty MetrICS Fixed pay Base salary Base salaries are generally reviewed Base salary increases are applied not applicable.
provides the fixed element of the each January, with reference to the in line with the outcome of the annual remuneration package.
Set at salary levels at companies of similar review.
Salaries in respect of the year competitive levels against the market.
sector, size and complexity in the FtSe under review and for the following 350. the Committee also considers year are disclosed in the Annual individual contribution and the range report on remuneration.
of salary increases applying across the group when determining increases.
Salary increases for executive Directors will normally be within the range of increases for the general employee population over the period of this policy.
Where increases are awarded in excess of those for the wider employee population, for example in instances of sustained strong individual performance, or if there is a material change in the responsibility, size or complexity of the role, the Committee will provide the rationale in the relevant years Annual report on remuneration.
Pension Defined benefit scheme subject to opportunities vary depending not applicable.
provides post-retirement benefits for a notional earnings cap with an on the scheme in which an executive participants in a cost-efficient manner.
above-the-cap allowance for current participates.
Details for the executive executive Directors.
Directors are set out in the Annual report on remuneration on pages Defined contribution scheme and or 73 and 74. a cash allowance in lieu thereof for future external hires.
Above-the-cap pension allowances will be established in line with our principle to be broadly cost-neutral.
For future hires, defined contributions or cash in lieu thereof will be up to 20% of salary.
Benefits Can include company car car Benefits values vary by role and are not applicable.
Designed to be competitive in the allowance, health insurance and, reviewed periodically relative to market.
market in which the individual is where appropriate, relocation employed.
It is not anticipated that the cost of benefits provided will change materially year-on-year over the period for which this policy will apply.
the Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances eg relocation expenses, expatriation allowances, etc or in circumstances where factors outside the groups control have changed materially eg market increases in insurance costs.
Benefits in respect of the year under review are disclosed in the Annual report on remuneration.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 66 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 67 reMunerAtIon report continued purpoSe AnD perForMAnCe lInK to StrAtegy operAtIon opportunIty MetrICS variable pay Annual bonus performance measures are set by the Between 0% and 100% of salary, Bonuses for the Ceo, CFo and Incentivises the achievement of Committee at the start of the year depending on performance.
Coo may be based on a combination specific goals over the short-term and are weighted to reflect a balance of financial and non-financial measures.
that are also aligned to the long-term of financial and strategic objectives.
the payout for threshold performance the weighting of non-financial business strategy.
may vary year-on-year, but will not performance will be capped at 20% At the end of the year, the exceed 25% of the maximum of the maximum opportunity.
the extent to which these have been Further details are set out in the achieved.
Annual report on remuneration on page 72.
Bonus deferral Share Matching Plan participants can elect to voluntarily up to 75% of the annual bonus may the vesting of awards is usually subject BdSMP defer a proportion of their annual be voluntarily deferred into shares for to: Designed to encourage long-term bonus into shares for three years and three years.
continued employment profitable growth and to retain key receive a matching opportunity based the groups performance individuals over this time period.
Whilst the plan maximum is 75%, the currently epS growth against provides an opportunity for individuals policy is to make awards allow deferral stretching targets over a to invest in Company shares and Award levels and performance of 50%, unless exceptional three-year performance period.
receive matching shares based on conditions on which vesting depends, circumstances apply.
are reviewed prior to the start of each the Committee has discretion to cycle to ensure they remain A matching award of up to three shares adjust the measures, their weighting, appropriate.
for each deferred share may be earned and performance targets prior to the based on group performance.
At start of each cycle to ensure they Dividend shares may accrue on the threshold levels of performance, no continue to align with the groups invested and matching shares during the matching shares vest.
performance period and are released to participants at the end of the vesting Further details of the measures period depending on the level of attached to the BDSMp in the year performance.
under review and the coming year are set out in the Annual report on remuneration on pages 75 and 76. long-term incentive Plan ltiP the remuneration Committee has the ltIp provides for a conditional the vesting of awards is usually subject Aligns the interests of executives and the ability each year to grant an award award of shares up to an annual limit to: shareholders by delivering shares to under the ltIp.
continued employment executive Directors and other senior the groups performance over a executives as a reward for outstanding the award levels and performance 30% of an award vests for achievement three-year performance period, long-term performance.
conditions on which vesting depends at threshold level of performance.
currently a combination of total are reviewed prior to the start of each Shareholder return tSr, award cycle to ensure they remain earnings per Share epS, and appropriate.
return on Capital employed roCe.
the Committee has discretion to adjust the measures, their weighting, and performance targets prior to the start of each cycle to ensure they continue to align with the groups strategy.
Further details of the measures attached to the ltIp awarded in the year under review and the coming year are set out in the Annual report on remuneration on pages 75 and 77.
Sharesave An HMrC approved scheme where up to the savings limit as determined none.
A voluntary scheme open to all uK employees may save up to a monthly by HMrC from time to time, across all employees which aligns the interests of savings limit out of their own pay Sharesave schemes in which an participants with shareholders through towards options granted at up to a 20% individual has enrolled.
any growth in the value of shares.
options may not be exercised for three years.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 66 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 67 Payments under existing awards the Company will honour any commitment entered into, and Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award granted, prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed in this report ie before 9 May 2014, even if these commitments and or awards fall outside the above policy.
the Company will also honour any commitment entered into at a time prior to an individual becoming a Director if, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
Details of these awards are, and will be, disclosed in the Annual report on remuneration.
difference in policy between executive directors and other employees the remuneration policy for other employees is based on broadly consistent principles as those described in this report for the executive Directors.
Annual salary reviews across the group take into account business performance, local pay and market conditions, and salary levels for similar roles in comparable companies.
All executives are eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme.
opportunities and performance measures vary by organisational level, geographical region and an individuals role.
other members of the executive Committee participate in the BDSMp and ltIp on similar terms to the executive Directors, although award sizes may vary according to each individual, and by organisational level.
Below this level, executives are eligible to participate in the ltIp and other share-based incentives, by annual invitation.
Use of discretion to ensure fairness and align executive Director remuneration with underlying individual and group performance, the Committee may exercise its discretion to adjust, upwards or downwards, the outcome of any shortor long-term incentive plan payment within the limits of the relevant plan rules for corporate or exceptional events including, but not limited to: corporate transactions, changes in the groups accounting policies, minor or administrative matters, internal promotions, external recruitment, terminations, etc.
Any adjustments in light of corporate events will be made on a neutral basis, ie to not be to the benefit or detriment of participants.
Any use of discretion by the Committee during the financial year will be detailed in the relevant Annual report on remuneration.
Performance measure selection the Committee considers carefully the selection of performance measures at the start of each performance cycle, taking into consideration the macro-economic environment as well as specific group strategic objectives.
Annual bonus measures are selected to closely reinforce Morgans short-term KpIs.
Because these can change from year-to-year in line with the approved remuneration policy, rationale for the selection of bonus measures for each year has been moved to the Annual report on remuneration.
ltIp performance measures are reviewed periodically to ensure they continue to align with the Companys strategy, as well as provide an appropriate balance between growth and returns, internal and external performance, and absolute and relative performance.
the tSr comparator group comprises the circa 110 constituents of the FtSe All-Share Industrials Index.
this benchmark is robust to M&A activity and comprises companies that are subject to the same market influences as Morgan Advanced Materials.
the vesting performance range is calibrated to be stretching and in line with common market practice for FtSe tSr-based long-term incentives.
epS targets are set taking account of multiple relevant reference points, including internal forecasts, external expectations for future epS performance at both Morgan Advanced Materials and its closest sector peers, and typical epS performance ranges at other FtSe 350 companies.
ltIp epS performance ranges are set to represent demanding and challenging performance targets over the three-year performance period.
roCe targets are set using a similar approach referring to external reference points and reflecting the returns required to meet and exceed the groups internal strategic plan.
For the BDSMp, the epS performance range is set at very demanding levels of stretch for full vesting in recognition of the maximum matching opportunity awarded on an executive Directors own investment in the plan.
Share ownership guidelines In order to encourage alignment with shareholders, individual shareholding guidelines are operated for executive Directors.
under such guidelines, executive Directors are encouraged to build and maintain over time a shareholding in the Company equivalent to at least 100% of basic salary.
this policy is supported by the BDSMp under which participants are encouraged to invest their bonus in Company shares.
From 2013, the shareholding guideline for the Ceo was increased to at least 150% of basic salary.
Current executive Director shareholdings are set out in the Annual report on remuneration on page 80. external appointments With the approval of the Board in each case, and subject to the overriding requirements of the group, executive Directors may accept external appointments as non-executive Directors of other companies and retain any fees received.
Details of external directorships held by executive Directors along with fees retained are provided on page 75.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 68 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 69 reMunerAtIon report continued Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis the graphs below provide detailed illustrations of the potential future reward opportunity for executive Directors, and the potential mix between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Below threshold, target and Stretch.
these have been updated to illustrate the potential opportunity under the 2015 packages agreed for our executive Directors, including the annualised, ongoing package agreed for our new Ceo on his joining Morgan Advanced Materials plc in 2015.
PETE RABY CEO FROM 1 AUGUST 2015 KEVIN DANGERFIELD CFO Stretch 2,223k Stretch 1,549k Target 954k Target 683k Below Below 578k 427k threshold threshold 000 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 000 0 500 1000 1500 2000 ANDREW HOSTY COO 1,661k Stretch 733k Target Below 461k threshold Fixed Pay base salary, pension and benefits 000 0 500 1000 1500 2000 Annual bonus BDSMP LTIP potential reward opportunities illustrated above are based on the policy which will apply in the forthcoming financial year, applied to the annual base salary in force at 1 January 2015 1 August 2015 for the new Ceo.
note that, for the Chief Financial officer CFo and Chief operating officer Coo, this excludes the temporary allowance being paid pro rata to reflect the additional responsibilities being assumed by each executive Director until such date as the new Ceo starts at Morgan.
For the new Ceo, the potential reward opportunities exclude specific one-off arrangements made in connection with his recruitment.
For the annual bonus, the amounts illustrated are those potentially receivable in respect of performance for 2015.
For the BDSMp, the award opportunities assume full voluntary investment in Morgan Advanced Materials shares.
the ltIp is based on the face value of awards to be granted in 2015.
It should be noted that any awards granted under the BDSMp and ltIp in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant.
this illustration is intended to provide further information to shareholders on the relationship between executive pay and performance.
the values of the BDSMp and ltIp assume no increase in the underlying value of the shares, and actual amounts delivered will be further influenced by changes in factors such as the Companys share price and the value of dividends paid.
Further, the BDSMp requires an investment from an individuals annual bonus payment.
In years where the bonus is zero, no BDSMp opportunity will be available for the subsequent three-year period.
the following assumptions have been made in compiling the above charts: Scenario Annual bonus BDSMp ltIp Fixed pay Stretch Maximum annual bonus.
performance warrants performance warrants full full vesting 3x match.
performance warrants performance warrants latest disclosed threshold vesting threshold vesting 30%.
Below threshold no annual bonus payable.
threshold not achieved threshold not achieved no match.
normally up to 50% bonus deferral.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 68 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 69 details of executive directors service contracts the executive Directors are employed under contracts of employment with Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
Contracts may be terminated on 12 months notice given by the Company or on six months notice given by the executive Director concerned.
Contracts end on each executive Directors anticipated normal retirement date.
the following table shows the date of the contract for each executive Director who served during the year: notice period Date of service executive Director position Date of appointment agreement From employer From employee Mark robertshaw Ceo 4 August 2006 15 August 2008 12 months 6 months Kevin Dangerfield CFo 4 August 2006 15 August 2008 12 months 6 months Andrew Hosty Coo 28 July 2010 17 August 2010 12 months 6 months Mark robertshaw left the group on 31 December 2014. exit payments policy the groups policy is to limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements comprising base salary and benefits only.
In the event that the employment of an executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
the group may terminate the employment of executive Directors by making a payment in lieu of notice equal to base salary, together with the fair value of any other benefits to which the executive is contractually entitled under his service agreement, for the duration of the notice period.
the remuneration Committee will exercise discretion in making appropriate payments in the context of settling legal claims or potential legal claims by the departing executive Director, including any other amounts reasonably due to the executive Director, for example to meet the legal fees incurred by the executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement and the individual must seek independent legal advice.
on termination of an executive Directors service contract, the remuneration Committee will consider the departing Directors duty to mitigate his loss when determining the timing of when any payment in lieu of notice will be made.
there is no automatic entitlement to bonus or the vesting of long-term incentives on termination.
However, the table below summarises the policy on how awards under the annual bonus and ltIp will normally be treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to Committee discretion: treatment of awards on cessation of employment and a change of control reason for cessation Calculation of vesting payment time of vesting Annual bonus All reasons the Committee may determine that a bonus is payable on cessation of employment.
the amount of bonus payable will be determined in the context of the time served during the performance year, the performance of the group and of the individual over the relevant period, and the circumstances of the Directors loss of office.
If group or individual performance has been poor, or if the individuals employment has been terminated in circumstances amounting to misconduct, no bonus will be payable.
LTIP awards and BDSMP matching awards Injury, disability, death, Awards will normally be pro-rated for time and will vest based on At the normal vesting date, redundancy, retirement, or other performance over the original performance period unless the Committee unless the Committee decides such event as the Committee decides to measure performance to the date of cessation.
that awards should vest earlier determines eg in the event of death.
Change of control ltIp awards made after 10 May 2013: will be pro-rated for time and will on change of control.
vest subject to performance over the performance period to the change of control.
ltIp awards made before 10 May 2013: the Committee has discretion on the extent to which awards vest, but will normally pro-rate awards for time and performance.
ltIp awards may alternatively be exchanged for equivalent replacement awards, where appropriate.
BDSMp matching awards will normally vest subject to performance over the performance period to the change of control and will be pro-rated for time.
All other reasons Awards normally lapse.
n a the remuneration Committee retains discretion, where permitted by the scheme rules, to alter these default provisions on a case-by-case basis, following a review of circumstances and to ensure fairness for both shareholders and participants.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 70 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 71 reMunerAtIon report continued Approach to recruitment remuneration External appointment In cases of hiring or appointing a new executive Director from outside the group, the Committee may make use of all existing components of remuneration, as follows: pay element policy on recruitment Maximum Salary Based on the size and nature of the responsibilities of the proposed role: current market pay levels for comparable roles: the candidates experience: implications for total remuneration: internal relativities: and the candidates current salary.
pension option to join the Defined Contribution Scheme, and or to receive a cash allowance.
Benefits As described in the policy table and may include, but not limited to, car, medical insurance, and relocation expenses and or allowances.
Sharesave new appointees will be eligible to participate on identical terms to all other In line with HMrC limits.
Annual bonus As described in the policy table and typically pro-rated for proportion of 100% of salary.
year served: performance measures may include strategic and operational objectives tailored to the individual in the financial year of joining.
BDSMp As described in the policy table.
ltIp new appointees may be granted awards under the ltIp on similar terms 200% of salary.
other the remuneration Committee may make an award under a different structure under the relevant listing rule to replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Any such award would have a fair value no higher than that of the awards forfeited, taking into account relevant factors including performance conditions, the likelihood of those conditions being met and the proportion of the vesting period remaining.
Details of any such award will be disclosed in the first Annual report on remuneration following its grant.
Assumes maximum bonus awarded and maximum deferral of 75% of bonus into shares, with a maximum match of 3x deferred shares.
Internal promotion to the Board In cases of appointing a new executive Director by way of internal promotion, the policy will be consistent with that for external appointees detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to executive Director, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements even if there are instances where they would not otherwise be consistent with the prevailing executive Director remuneration policy at the time of promotion.
Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration policy purpose and link to strategy operation opportunity performance metrics Annual fee Annual fees paid to the Chairman Annual fees are applied in line none.
to attract and retain high-calibre and non-executive Directors are with the outcome of the review.
An additional fee is payable for the Senior Independent Director, and also in respect of Committee chairmanship.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 70 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 71 none of the non-executive Directors has a service contract with the Company.
they do have letters of appointment.
the non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the incentive, share or share option plans.
the dates relating to the Chairmans and non-executive Directors appointments who served during the reporting period are as follows: non-executive Director position Date of appointment Date of letter of appointment Date of election re-election Andrew Shilston Chairman 8 May 2012 30 March 2012 9 May 2014 Douglas Caster non-executive Director 14 February 2014 15 January 2014 9 May 2014 Martin Flower non-executive Director 10 December 2004 16 november 2004 Andrew given non-executive Director 7 December 2007 20 november 2007 9 May 2014 Simon Heale non-executive Director 18 February 2005 1 February 2005 Victoire fide Margerie non-executive Director 8 May 2012 1 March 2012 9 May 2014 Andrew reynolds Smith non-executive Director 10 May 2013 14 February 2013 9 May 2014 rob rowley non-executive Director 14 February 2014 15 January 2014 9 May 2014 Martin Flower retired from the Board on 9 May 2014.
Andrew given retired from the Board on 31 December 2014.
Simon Heale retired from the Board on 31 March 2014.
Consideration of employment conditions the group seeks to promote and maintain good relations with employee representative bodies including trade unions and works councils as part of its broader employee engagement strategy, and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the group operates.
In making remuneration decisions, the remuneration Committee also considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the group, but the Committee does not currently consult with employees specifically on executive remuneration policy and framework.
prior to the annual salary review, the remuneration Committee is briefed by the Director of Human resources about pay increase data that individual business units will consider when deciding local pay awards for their specific businesses and countries.
this also forms part of the considerations for determining executive Director remuneration.
Consideration of shareholder views the Committee considers shareholder views received during the year and at the Annual general Meeting each year, as well as guidance from investor representative bodies more broadly, in shaping remuneration policy.
the Committee keeps the remuneration policy under regular review, to ensure it continues to reinforce the groups long-term strategy, and aligns executive Directors with shareholders interests.
It is the remuneration Committees policy to consult with major shareholders prior to any major changes to its executive remuneration policy.
AnnUAl rePOrt On reMUnerAtiOn the following section provides details of how the remuneration policy was implemented during the year.
remuneration Committee membership in 2014 the remuneration Committee is currently composed of five non-executive Directors.
each of the non-executive Directors is regarded by the Board as independent, except the Chairman of the Company who was considered independent upon appointment.
Douglas Caster and rob rowley joined the Committee on appointment to the Board on 14 February 2014. the remuneration Committee met four times during the year.
Attendance at meetings by individual members is detailed in the Corporate governance report on page 51.
Summary of shareholder voting at the 2014 AGM the following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2013 remuneration report at the 2014 AgM.
resolution For Against Withheld remuneration policy 97.84% 2.16% 421,245 remuneration report 99.62% 0.38% 406,586 Votes withheld are not votes in law and, therefore, have not been included in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or against the resolution.
Committee members: Douglas Caster Chairman Andrew Shilston rob rowley Andrew given Martin Flower Victoire fide Margerie Simon Heale Andrew reynolds Smith Committee member from 14 February 2014, Chairman of the remuneration Committee from 1 April 2014.
Martin Flower retired from the Board on 9 May 2014.
Simon Heale retired from the Board on 31 March 2014, Chairman of the remuneration Committee until 31 March 2014.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 72 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 73 reMunerAtIon report continued Single total figure of remuneration for executive directors The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
the table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2014 and the prior year.
Mark robertshaw Kevin Dangerfield Andrew Hosty 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 1.
Base salary: amount earned for the year.
Benefits: the taxable value of benefits received in the year.
Includes private medical insurance and a company car or car allowance.
Annual bonus: the total bonus earned on performance during the year.
Includes the value of any bonus deferred into shares for three years under the BDSMp.
Deferred bonus shares are not forfeitable and are not subject to any further performance measures.
BDSMp: the estimated value on 31 December 2014 of 2012 BDSMp matching shares and dividend equivalents vesting in 2015 subject to performance over the three-year period ended 31 December 2014. the 2013 value represents the actual value including dividend equivalents of 2011 BDSMp matching shares at vesting on 23 March 2014.
5. ltIp: the estimated value on 31 December 2014 of 2012 ltIp shares vesting in 2015 subject to performance over the three-year period ended 31 December 2014. the 2013 value represents the actual value of 2011 ltIp shares at vesting on 23 March 2014.
6. pension: 20x the increase in the value of their accrued benefit net of inflation over the year, less Directors contributions, plus the value of any Company contribution.
7. other: comprises the value of Sharesave options granted in the year, based on the embedded value at grant 20% of the grant-date share price multiplied by the number of options granted.
Full details of executive Director Sharesave options are available on page 81 to 83 of the Annual report on remuneration.
incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 december 2014 Annual bonus in respect of 2014 performance targets for the annual bonus are set by the remuneration Committee, taking into account the shortand long-term requirements of the group.
Challenging goals are set, which must be met before any bonus is paid.
this approach is intended to align executive reward with shareholder return by rewarding the achievement of stretch targets.
For 2014, the bonus targets for the Ceo, CFo and Coo were split between group eBItA before restructuring weighted 60% : third-party operating Working Capital to sales % weighted 20% : individual Strategic personal objectives weighted 20%.
the targets were set to incentivise the executive Directors to deliver stretching profit and cash performance for the group.
In addition to the achievement of the targets set, in considering any awards to be made, the Committee also takes into account the quality of the overall performance of the group.
the table below sets out retrospectively the assessment of performance relative to the 2014 bonus targets for the Ceo, CFo and Coo.
Actual bonus payments are shown in the single total figure of remuneration table, above.
Annual Bonus in respect of 2014 performance group eBItA operating working capital sales % personal objectives Max bonus % max % payout % salary % max % payout % salary % max % payout % salary total Director % salary bonus of element earned bonus of element earned bonus of element earned payable Mark robertshaw 100% 60.0% 61.5% 36.9% 20.0% 51.5% 10.3% 20.0% 90.0% 18.0% 330,890 Kevin Dangerfield 100% 60.0% 61.5% 36.9% 20.0% 51.5% 10.3% 20.0% 90.0% 18.0% 205,380 Andrew Hosty 100% 60.0% 61.5% 36.9% 20.0% 51.5% 10.3% 20.0% 87.5% 17.5% 224,380 note: the target for a maximum payout against the group profit eBItA before restructuring element was 131.4 million, with the threshold for any payment of that profit element set at 121.5 million, both calculated using 2014 budgeted exchange rates.
For the operating Working Captial Sales % element, the four quarterly targets for a maximum payout were 23.72%, 22.75%, 24.20% and 21.45% respectively with each quarter being measured independently.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 72 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 73 2012 BDSMP award vesting the performance period for the 2012 BDSMp awards ended on 31 December 2014. over the period Morgan Advanced Materials actual epS reduced by a compound annual amount of 8.4 %, compared to the threshold annual growth rate of 8% pa. this is below the threshold performance target and, accordingly, matching shares and matching dividend shares will lapse.
Maximum Matching Matching potential Matching Matching dividend Matching dividend Investment matching dividend Match shares shares shares shares Director shares shares shares earned released released lapsed lapsed Date of vesting Mark robertshaw 70,347 211,041 21 March 2015 Kevin Dangerfield 11,346 34,038 21 March 2015 Andrew Hosty 44,988 134,964 21 March 2015 C alculated using the award price of 3.305 the market value of one Morgan Advanced Materials ordinary share on 20 March 2012, the dealing day immediately preceding the grant date.
Shares in this table are stated on a pre-tax basis.
Shares awarded on a pre-tax basis are subject to tax when sold.
2012 LTIP award vesting Awards granted to all executive Directors in 2012 were subject to relative tSr performance, epS growth and group average roCe over a three-year period ended 31 December 2014. the epS target applying to one third of each award required three-year epS growth of 8% pa for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting for epS growth of 15% pa or higher.
over the period Morgan Advanced Materials actual epS compound annual growth was 8.4 % pa, compared to the threshold annual growth rate of 8% pa. this was below the threshold performance target and accordingly none of the award will vest under this criterion.
the tSr target applying to one third of each award required Morgan Advanced Materials three-year tSr performance to rank at median against constituents of the FtSe All-share Industrials Index for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Advanced Materials tSr ranked at or above the upper quartile against this Index.
Morgan Advanced Materials tSr was 23.2%, which was below median versus the FtSe All-share Industrials Index.
Accordingly, none of the award will vest under this criterion.
the group average roCe target applying to the remaining one third of each award required three-year group average roCe of 33% for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting for group average roCe of 37% or higher.
Morgan Advanced Materials group average roCe was 27%, which was below the 33% threshold for this part of the award, and therefore none of the award will vest under this criterion.
this combined performance resulted in none of the 2012 ltIp awards vesting.
Maximum Maximum potential ltIp-CSop potential ltIp ltIp-CSop ltIp award ltIp-CSop award Director award award vested award vested exercised Date of vesting Mark robertshaw 134,907 27 February 2015 Kevin Dangerfield 80,101 27 February 2015 Andrew Hosty 87,830 27 February 2015 Calculated using the award price of 3.558 the average share price over the five dealing days from 20 February 2012 to 24 February 2012.
From the vesting date, participants have seven years to exercise ltIp-CSop awards.
Pensions In the year under review, the three executive Directors participated in the Morgan group Senior Staff pension and life Assurance Scheme which is a contributory, HMrC-registered, defined benefit, funded occupational pension scheme.
With effect from 6 April 2006 the basis of the scheme switched from final salary to career average and the normal pension age increased by five years.
Its main features are now: A normal pension age of 65. pension at normal pension age based on two-thirds career average pensionable salary, for those with at least 20 years 26 years and eight months for joiners since 2006 potential service to age 65 on joining.
life assurance of four times basic salary.
pensionable salary is the members basic salary restricted to an earnings cap of 117,375 for Kevin Dangerfield, 128,200 for Andrew Hosty and 88,350 for Mark robertshaw.
prior to April 2014, the earnings caps were 140,400 for Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty and 110,437 for Mark robertshaw.
the 20% reduction in April 2014 was for the 2014-15 tax year in response to the reduction in HMrCs Annual Allowance from 50,000 to 40,000.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 74 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 75 reMunerAtIon report continued The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
Additional information 2014 2013 Value of increase Value of increase in scheme benefit in scheme benefit Accrued pension Accrued pension less Directors less Directors 31 December 31 December contributions contributions 2014 2013 executive Director 000 000 000 pa 000 pa Mark robertshaw 39 39 37 33 Kevin Dangerfield 41 41 46 42 Andrew Hosty 39 36 59 55 note: the accrued benefit entitlement for Mark robertshaw, Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty is the pension which would be paid annually on retirement based on service at the end of the year.
the value of the increase in accrued pension in excess of inflation, less each Directors own contributions, is included in the Directors single figure remuneration table on page 72 of this report.
Mark robertshaw, Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty also received a pension allowance derived from the employer contributions based notionally on the registered pension scheme pensionable salary in excess of the earnings cap.
these pension allowances are calculated as a fixed percentage of basic salary.
the percentages are 22.1% for Mark robertshaw, 16.8% for Kevin Dangerfield and 16.5% for Andrew Hosty.
prior to April 2014 the percentages were 20.9% for Mark robertshaw, 14.5% for Kevin Dangerfield and 15.2% for Andrew Hosty.
the change in April 2014 arose from the reduction in pensionable salary covered by the career average pension scheme in response to the reduction in HMrCs Annual Allowance for the 2014-15 tax year.
total pension allowances paid in the year are set out in the Directors single figure remuneration table on page 72 of this report.
Single total figure of remuneration for non-executive Directors The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
the table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each non-executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2014 and the prior year.
Appointed Senior Independent Director in May 2014: retired as Audit Chair in June 2014: retired from the Board on 31 December 2014. retired from the Board on 31 March 2014.
Includes correction of underpayment from 2013.
Appointed on 14 February 2014: appointed Audit Chair in June 2014.
Appointed on 14 February 2014: appointed remuneration Chair in April 2014.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 74 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 75 Scheme interests awarded in 2014 2014 BDSMP awards no BDSMp award was granted to the Ceo, CFo or Coo in 2014 as their bonuses for 2013 based on group performance only were nil.
2014 LTIP awards granted In February 2014 Mark robertshaw, Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty were granted awards as follows:.
Value of awards at grant number of number of ltIp ltIp-CSop as % 2013 executive Director shares granted shares granted salary earliest date of vesting Mark robertshaw 166,697 8,866 594,000 120% 28 February 2017 Kevin Dangerfield 81,436 7,232 300,000 100% 28 February 2017 Andrew Hosty 93,101 315,000 92.6% 28 February 2017 C alculated using the award price of 3.3834 the average share price over the five dealing days from 21 February to 27 February 2014.
the Committee discusses and reviews the performance criteria for new three-year ltIp awards before they are granted.
For the awards granted in 2014, the Committee considered the balance of measures in light of the groups business plan and shareholder feedback, and decided to maintain the equal one-third weighting of the three performance criteria introduced in 2012. performance targets for each measure were unchanged from those attached to 2013 ltIp awards, as follows: % of award % of award % of award tSr against FtSe All-Share Industrials Index that vests epS growth that vests group roCe that vests upper quartile 33.33% 15% pa 33.33% 37% 33.33% Median 10% 8% pa 10% 33% 10% Below median nil 8% pa nil 33% nil exit payments made in year The auditors are required to report on this information.
Mark robertshaw resigned from the group and left on 31 December 2014. other than his remuneration for 2014, which is set out fully in the single figure of remuneration table, Mark robertshaw will retain an interest in the 2013 and 2014 ltIp cycles.
this approach is consistent with the default treatment of long-term incentive awards for good leavers, and recognises the significant contribution Mark robertshaw made to re-shaping Morgan over the past eight years, improving the resilience and quality of the group and leaving a strong legacy for the future.
His award opportunities will be pro-rated for time served since the commencement of the three-year performance period and, to the extent warranted by the achievement of performance conditions attaching to the awards over the full performance period, these awards will vest on their normal vesting dates.
Details of his retained interests are set out in the table on page 81. these arrangements are in line with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AgM and the rules of the incentive plans.
Payments to past directors The auditors are required to report on this information.
no payments were made to past Directors in the year.
external appointments Details of external appointments held by executive Directors and the fees retained in 2014 are provided in the table below: executive Director Company role Fees retained Mark robertshaw Segro plc non-executive Director 53,000 Kevin Dangerfield e2v technologies plc non-executive Director 43,000 Andrew Hosty Consort Medical plc non-executive Director 18,100 British Ceramic research ltd non-executive Director 8,000 Appointed as a director on 14 July 2014.
F ees retained are for the period 14 July 2014 to 31 December 2014.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 76 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 77 reMunerAtIon report continued implementation of remuneration policy for 2015 Base salary In line with remuneration policy and the approach being taken across the organisation, executive Directors salaries will be increased in 2015, with effect from 1 January.
In considering the level of increase, the Committee has been mindful of the range of increases to be awarded across the group of 2% on average, as well as the positioning of individual roles against the market.
Increases for all employees take into account local business unit commercial and market considerations.
the table below shows the salaries in 2014, and those which took effect from 1 January 2015: Base salary at: executive Director position 1 January 2015 1 January 2014 Increase Kevin Dangerfield CFo 322,500 315,000 2.4% Andrew Hosty Coo 354,000 346,800 2.1% In view of the need to make interim arrangements during the completion of the search and appointment of a new Ceo, the Committee considered it appropriate to award temporary additional allowances to Kevin Dangerfield, as Interim Ceo, and Andrew Hosty, for the additional responsibilities they would each undertake.
these payments of 138,750 pa and 46,000 pa to Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty respectively will be paid in monthly instalments from 1 January 2015, and will be paid until the new Ceo starts in the role.
the additional payments made during the year will be taken into account when determining the reference salary for the 2015 annual bonus, but not for any other remuneration or contractual purposes.
Annual bonus For 2015, Cash generation will replace third-party operating Working Capital sales percentage and will be weighted 40% of the total bonus opportunity.
Cash generation is defined as eBItA plus depreciation and adjusted for the impact of working capital movements.
the eBItA measure will be weighted 40%, with the remaining 20% of the bonus opportunity continuing to be based on strategic personal objectives.
the Committee believes that introducing the Cash generation target will more clearly incentivise management to maintain their focus on operating efficiency in difficult markets, as generating cash continues to be an important aspect of group performance.
Down-weighting profit addresses previous shareholder feedback about the focus on earnings across Morgans incentives, and will also help reinforce the Boards strategy of targeting sustainable, steady profit growth over the medium to long term.
the actual performance targets set at the beginning of the performance period are not disclosed as they are considered commercially sensitive at this time, given the close link between performance measures and the groups longer-term strategy.
this is particularly relevant in the context of some of the groups close and unlisted competitors who are not required to disclose such information, and for whom the assumptions in our targets would provide valuable information in the current trading year.
We will disclose these targets retrospectively, a practice we have implemented in both the 2014 and 2013 reports, at such time as these targets have become less commercially sensitive.
BDSMP award For the bonus earned in 2014, executive Directors will have the opportunity to participate in the BDSMp for 2015, and voluntarily defer up to 50% of their bonus.
the targets and vesting are as follows: BDSMP matching shares epS performance Vesting of matching shares compound annual growth as a multiple of shares under a Deferred Award 3.0x 20% pa 3x match 16% pa 2x match 2.0x 12% pa 1x match 8% pa zero 1.0x Awards will vest on a straight line between these points 0.0x 8% 12% 16% 20% Three-year EPS growth pa Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 Matching shares 76 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 77 LTIP award In February 2015 Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty will be granted awards of shares under the 2015 ltIp with face values at grant as set out below.
the three-year performance period over which performance will be measured began on 1 January 2015 and will end on 31 December 2017.
the number of shares awarded, will be disclosed in next years report.
the measures and their weightings will remain unchanged from those attached to the 2014 ltIp awards see page 84.
Awards will normally be eligible to vest on 27 February 2018. the Committee has made changes to the epS and roCe performance target ranges, as explained in the introduction to this report, to better align with the groups long-term strategic plan, analyst forecasts and external expectations for the performance of markets in which Morgan operates and competes.
the epS performance range has been widened to 6%-15% pa from 8%-15% pa. this range, set taking into account Morgans strategic plan as well as broker forecasts for Morgan and its peers, is considered by the Committee to be more appropriate, but still very stretching, in the prevailing macro-economic environment.
the roCe performance range has been set at 27-33% to support the groups strategy for sustainable long-term growth over the next three years whilst continuing to represent an appropriately demanding target.
For both of these measures, awards will continue to vest on a straight line between the thresholds and maximum points.
Value of awards at grant as % earliest date 2014 salary of vesting Kevin Dangerfield 315,000 100% 27 February 2018 Andrew Hosty 315,000 91% 27 February 2018 Malus and clawback the Committee has been keeping abreast of recent developments in best practice, notably the revisions by the FrC to its uK Corporate governance Code, and has agreed the following refinements to the operation of our remuneration policy for 2015: Malus and clawback provisions will apply to ltIp awards from 2014, and to BDSMp awards from 2015.
Clawback provisions will apply for a period of at least two years post-vesting.
Circumstances in which malus and clawback may be applied will include: A material misstatement in the published results of the group.
Misconduct on the part of the participant concerned.
Where, as a result of an appropriate review of accountability, a participant has been deemed to have caused in full or in part a material loss for the group as a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions or inappropriate values or behaviour.
the Committee will continue to review developments in this area.
Pension no changes to pension arrangements for 2015 are currently proposed.
However, the Committee is mindful that the tax treatment of pension provision could change in 2015 as a result of the general election.
Any changes to pension provision made as a consequence would be consistent with the principle that the impact of any changes should be broadly cost-neutral.
Chairman and non-executive Director fees the Chairmans and non-executive Directors fees were reviewed in December 2014. they were increased by 2% for the Chairmans fee, and 2.2% for the non-executive Directors base fee the non-executive Directors fees being reviewed and proposed by the Chairman and Ceo, and approved by the Board.
other fees were not changed.
Fees will be reviewed again in December 2015. the following fees will apply in 2015: role Fee pa Chairmans fee 178,500 non-executive Director base fee 47,000 Committee chairman additional fee 8,000 Senior Independent Director additional fee 8,000 AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 78 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 79 reMunerAtIon report continued Remuneration of new CEO As announced on 30 January, pete raby will join Morgan Advanced Materials plc as Ceo with effect from 1 August 2015. pete rabys package on joining Morgan Advanced Materials, details of which are set out below, is consistent with our approved remuneration policy and the approach to recruitment remuneration outlined earlier in this report.
element Details Base salary 470,000 per annum pension 20% of salary contribution or cash allowance in lieu thereof Benefits Car allowance 12,000 per annum, health insurance, life cover and income protection Annual bonus up to 100% of salary pro-rated in the first year, subject to the same terms as the 2015 annual bonus for other executive Directors BDSMp eligibility to participate in the 2016-18 cycle on identical terms as other executive Directors, if a bonus is paid for 2015 performance ltIp An award with a face value of 100% of salary i. e. 470,000 will be made on joining.
this award may vest after three years subject to the same performance conditions as are attached to the 2015 ltIp cycle for other executive Directors.
to reflect outstanding incentive awards forfeited on leaving his former employer, a one-off award of shares with a face value on 3 August 2015 of 400,000 will be made to pete raby on his joining Morgan Advanced Materials.
this award, the structure of which replicates that of the award forfeited, will vest 50% on 31 December 2016 and 50% on 31 December 2017, subject to pete raby not having resigned from Morgan Advanced Materials or having been dismissed in specified circumstances, including for serious misconduct.
Vesting is not conditional on further performance conditions.
In addition, he will be entitled on vesting to receive an amount equal to any dividends that would have been paid on the shares that vest, between the award date and the relevant date of vesting.
A one-off cash sum of 50,000 will be paid to pete raby on joining to reflect the fair value of the bonus opportunity forfeited on leaving his former employer and the cost of his relocation.
no further relocation allowances will be payable.
Further details will be disclosed in next years remuneration report.
Percentage change in CeO remuneration the table below shows the percentage change in Ceo remuneration 2014 on 2013 compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for other uK-based group employees.
the uK employee workforce was chosen as a suitable comparator group as the Ceo is based in the uK albeit with a global role and responsibilities and pay changes across the group vary widely depending on local market conditions.
Although similar remuneration principles apply across the wider group, pay decisions for this subset are impacted by similar external market forces eg wage inflation, local practice with respect to the provision of benefits, etc.
Ceo % change in 2014 vs 2013 for other elements of remuneration 2014 2013 % change employees Base salary received during the year 507,500 492,500 3.0% 2.0% taxable benefits excluding pension 13,462 14,080 -4.4% 2.5% Annual bonus 330,890 nil 79.3% the actual pay rate rise awarded was 2.5% but the higher figure of 3% shown above is as a result of a change in the date for the pay award, from 1 March 2013 to 1 January 2014, which resulted in the actual amount received shown for 2013, which is lower than the annual base pay rate.
the increase cannot be expressed as a percentage as the figure for 2013 was nil.
relative importance of spend on pay the graphs below show shareholder distributions ie dividends and share buybacks and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014, and the percentage change.
SHAREHOLDER DISTRIBUTIONS TOTAL EMPLOYEE PAY EXPENDITURE 35m 1.0% change 350m 0% change 29.9m 30.2m 294.3m 294.3m 30m 300m 25m 250m 20m 200m 15m 150m 10m 100m 5m 50m 0m 0m 2013 2014 2013 2014 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 78 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 79 Advisers Kepler Associates was appointed by the Committee in 2010 as its executive remuneration adviser and was retained during the most recent financial year.
In 2014 Kepler Associates provided independent advice on performance measurement, the setting of incentive targets, tSr analysis, the structure of long-term incentives, and provided market data in respect of senior executive remuneration and non-executive Director fees.
Kepler Associates reports directly to the Chairman of the remuneration Committee and does not provide any other material services to the group, and is considered to be independent.
Kepler Associates is a signatory of the Code of Conduct for remuneration Consultants.
Fees paid during the year to our adviser for advice to the remuneration Committee, charged on a time and materials basis, were as follows: Adviser nature of advice Fees incl.
VAt Kepler Associates Appointed Committee adviser 44,100 Comparison of Company performance the graph below shows the value, at 31 December 2014, of 100 invested in Morgan Advanced Materials plc shares on 31 December 2008 compared with the current value of the same amount invested in the FtSe All-Share Industrials Index.
the FtSe All-Share Industrials Index is chosen because this is the current comparator group for tSr-based long-term incentives.
400 358 350 Morgan Advanced Materials plc 300 FTSE All-Share Industrials Index 250 Data source: Bloomberg 198 200 150 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 the table below details the Ceos single figure of remuneration over the same six-year period.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Ceo single figure 676,512 1,045,984 3,371,302 1,285,556 648,932 1,001,448 Annual bonus % max 20% 100% 100% 0% 0% 65% BDSMp vesting % max n a 0% 60% 100% 0% 0% ltIp vesting % max n a 0% 100% 50% 0% 0% AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 80 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 81 reMunerAtIon report continued directors interests in shares The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
the interests of each person who was a director of Morgan Advanced Materials plc as at 31 December 2014 together with interests held by their connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the Company: As at As at As at 1 January 2014 31 December 2014 12 February 2015 Executive Directors Mark robertshaw 770,037 879,173 879,173 Kevin Dangerfield 254,366 273,306 273,306 Andrew Hosty 154,488 144,988 144,988 Non-executive Directors Andrew Shilston 30,000 30,000 30,000 Douglas Caster Martin Flower 25,000 Andrew given 10,000 10,000 10,000 Simon Heale 18,000 Victoire fide Margerie 2,000 2,000 2,000 Andrew reynolds Smith 5,000 5,000 rob rowley the date of this report.
Mark robertshaw and Andrew given stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2014.
Appointed to the Board on 14 February 2014.
Directors qualifying shareholding requirement removed when the Companys current Articles of Association were approved by shareholders at the 2013 AgM.
As at 3 March 2015, the Directors interests in shares had not changed since the end of the period under review.
executive directors shareholding requirements the table below shows the shareholding of each executive Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2014. performance Shareholding Shares Shares tested but Shares subject options Current requirement owned subject to unvested to BDSMp vested but shareholding guideline % 2014 salary outright performance shares deferral unexercised % 2014 salary met?
2012 ltIp and ltIp-CSop awards and 2012 BDSMp matching shares for the three-year performance period that ended on 31 December 2014. the 2012 ltIp vests on 27 February 2015 and the 2012 BDSMp vests on 21 March 2015. estimated net number of shares voluntarily deferred under the BDSMp.
options granted under the Sharesave scheme.
Based on an executive Directors 2014 salary and the share price at 31 December 2014, comprising shares owned outright and shares subject to deferral estimated net number of shares voluntarily deferred under the BDSMp.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 80 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 81 unless otherwise stated, figures given in the tables on pages 81 to 83 are for shares or interests in shares.
Mark robertshaw The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
LTIP As at Allocations released lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status plan 2014 the year the year the year 2014 allocation release performance period no further performance 2011 171,068 171,068 292.28p 03.01.11 - 31.12.13 conditions, lapsed no further performance conditions, not yet released 2012 134,907 134,907 355.80p 02.01.12 - 31.12.14 2013 172,006 57,335 114,671 279.06p 01.01.13 - 31.12.15 Subject to 2014 166,697 111,131 55,566 338.34p 01.01.14 - 31.12.16 performance 2014 conditions 8,866 8,866 338.34p 01.01.14 - 31.12.16 Funding Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan As at Allocations released lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status plan 2014 the year the year the year 2014 allocation release performance period 2011 74,875 74,875 300.50p 346.00p Investment no further performance 2011 conditions, released 224,625 224,625 300.50p 03.01.11 - 31.12.13 Matching lapsed 2011 7,397 7,397 Various 346.00p Dividend 2012 70,347 70,347 330.50p no further performance Investment conditions, not yet 02.01.12 - 31.12.14 2012 released 330.50p Matching 211,041 211,041 Share options As at Allocations released lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status plan 2014 the year the year the year 2014 allocation release performance period exercisable eSoS 200,000 200,000 145.27p 339.15p 01.01.04 - 31.12.06 Subject to performance 2014 ltIp conditions CSop 8,866 5,911 2,955 338.34p 01.01.14 - 31.12.16 Total interests in share plans As at 1 January 2014 As at 31 December 2014 1,258,869 598,353 Mark robertshaw left Morgan Advanced Materials plc on 31 December 2014. Dividend shares received on 2011 Investment shares.
the price used for BDSMp dividend shares is the closing share price of one Morgan Advanced Materials ordinary share trading on the london Stock exchange on the dividend payment date.
the 2013 and 2014 ltIp awards and 2014 ltIp-CSop award outstanding as at 31 December 2014 have been pro-rated for time served up to the date of leaving as a proportion of the performance period.
Includes a funding award that is not transferable to Mark robertshaw.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 82 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 83 reMunerAtIon report continued Kevin dangerfield The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
LTIP As at Allocations released lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status plan 2014 the year the year the year 2014 allocation release performance period no further performance 2010 5,390 1,627 3,763 205.10p 339.94p 04.01.10 - 31.12.12 conditions, released Funding 2011 84,185 84,185 292.28p 03.01.11 - 31.12.13 no further performance 2011 conditions, lapsed 6,481 6,481 292.28p 03.01.11 - 31.12.13 Funding no further performance conditions, not yet 2012 80,101 80,101 355.80p 02.01.12 - 31.12.14 released 2013 100,147 100,147 279.06p 01.01.13 - 31.12.15 2013 1,981 1,981 279.06p 01.01.13 - 31.12.15 Funding Subject to performance conditions 2014 81,436 81,436 338.34p 01.01.14 - 31.12.16 2014 7,232 7,232 338.34p 01.01.14 - 31.12.16 Funding Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan As at Allocations released lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status plan 2014 the year the year the year 2014 allocation release performance period 2011 22,046 22,046 300.50p 357.20p Investment no further performance 2011 conditions, released 66,138 66,138 300.50p 03.01.11 - 31.12.13 Matching lapsed 2011 2,176 2,176 Various 357.20p Dividend 2012 11,346 11,346 330.50p no further performance Investment conditions, not yet 02.01.12 - 31.12.14 2012 released 34,038 34,038 330.50p Matching Share options As at Allocations released lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status plan 2014 the year the year the year 2014 allocation release performance period 2010 ltIp exercisable 2,695 2,695 205.10p 339.94p 04.01.10 - 31.12.12 CSop no further performance 2011 ltIp 6,481 6,481 292.28p 03.01.11 - 31.12.13 conditions, lapsed CSop 2013 ltIp 1,981 1,981 279.06p 01.01.13 - 31.12.15 CSop Subject to performance conditions 2014 ltIp 7,232 7,232 338.34p 01.01.14 - 31.12.16 CSop 2011 4,225 4,225 213.00p 299.70p 01.12.11 - 30.11.14 Subject to continued Sharesave service only 2014 3,515 3,515 256.00p 01.12.14 - 30.11.17 Sharesave Total interests in share plans As at 1 January 2014 As at 31 December 2014 427,235 329,009 Dividend shares received on 2011 Investment shares.
Includes funding awards that are not transferable to Kevin Dangerfield.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 82 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 83 Andrew hosty The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
LTIP As at Allocations released lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status plan 2014 the year the year the year 2014 allocation release performance period no further performance 2011 102,641 102,641 292.28p 03.01.11 - 31.12.13 conditions, lapsed no further performance conditions, not yet 2012 87,830 87,830 355.80p 02.01.12 - 31.12.14 released 2013 101,233 101,233 279.06p 01.01.13 - 31.12.15 Subject to performance 2013 10,750 10,750 279.06p 01.01.13 - 31.12.15 conditions Funding 2014 93,101 93,101 338.34p 01.01.14 - 31.12.16 Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan As at Allocations released lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status plan 2014 the year the year the year 2014 allocation release performance period 2011 39,933 39,933 300.50p 357.25p Investment no further performance 2011 conditions, released 119,799 119,799 300.50p 03.01.11 - 31.12.13 Matching lapsed 2011 3,943 3,943 Various 357.25p Dividend 2012 44,988 44,988 330.50p no further performance Investment conditions, not yet 02.01.12 - 31.12.14 2012 released 134,964 134,964 330.50p Matching 2013 7,474 7,474 286.40p Investment Subject to performance 01.01.13 - 31.12.15 conditions 2013 22,422 22,422 286.40p Matching Share options As at Allocations released lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status plan 2014 the year the year the year 2014 allocation release performance period Subject to performance 2013 ltIp 10,750 10,750 279.06p 01.01.13 - 31.12.15 conditions CSop 2011 3,380 3,380 213.00p 01.12.11 - 30.11.14 Sharesave Subject to continued 2012 841 841 214.00p 01.12.12 - 30.11.15 service only Sharesave 2014 2,812 2,812 256.00p 01.12.14 - 30.11.17 Sharesave Total interests in share plans As at 1 January 2014 As at 31 December 2014 687,005 520,545 Dividend shares received on 2011 Investment shares.
Includes a funding award that is not transferable to Andrew Hosty.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 84 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 85 reMunerAtIon report continued details of plans LTIP plan Details Awards granted to the Ceo and CFo in 2012 are subject to relative tSr, epS and roCe.
the epS target applying to a third of each award requires three-year epS growth above a threshold of 8% pa of that element to vest, commencing at 30% vesting for that element, rising to full vesting for epS growth of 15% pa or higher.
the tSr target applying to another third of each award requires Morgan Advanced Materials three-year tSr performance to rank at median against the FtSe All-Share Industrials Index for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Advanced Materials tSr ranks at or above the upper quartile against the companies in this Index.
For the Ceo and CFo, the roCe element has been set for a 33-37% pa range, vesting on a straight line basis, with 30% of the measure vesting at the 33% threshold.
roCe is measured as the average annual roCe over the three-year performance period.
For the Coo who, at the time of the award was Ceo Morgan Ceramics, one third of the award was to vest on relative tSr, with the remaining two thirds to vest on a divisional eBItA roCe matrix.
For the eBItA roCe element, there would 2012 have been no vesting unless eBItA growth in Morgan Ceramics was at least 6% pa and roCe was 41.0% in 2014: full vesting would have occurred for eBItA growth of 15% pa and roCe of 43.5%.
In May 2013, following the announced change in divisional structure, and following consultation with shareholders, it was decided to change these targets for Andrew Hosty to make them relevant to his new role as Coo.
prior to the announcement of the reorganisation, just over one year of the three-year 2012 ltIp performance period had elapsed.
to reflect the group-wide remit of his new role as Coo, and to help ensure his interests are aligned with those of the Ceo, CFo and shareholders, it was agreed that the Ceramics divisional targets attached to his 2012 ltIp be replaced by group targets aligned with those attached to the 2012 ltIp awards awarded to the Ceo and CFo, as detailed above.
It was also agreed that for the purpose of alignment across the executive Directors, performance against these revised targets will be assessed over the full, original three-year performance period ie 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014.
Awards granted to executive Directors in 2013 and 2014 are subject to relative tSr, epS and roCe.
the tSr target applying to another third of each award requires Morgan Advanced Materials three-year tSr performance to rank at 2013 and 2014 median against the FtSe All-Share Industrials Index for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Advanced Materials tSr ranks at or above the upper quartile against the companies in this Index.
the roCe element has been set for a 33-37% pa range, vesting on a straight-line basis, with 30% of the measure vesting at the 33% threshold.
roCe is measured as the average annual roCe over the three-year performance period for the 2013 cycle and as the roCe in the final year of the performance period for the 2014 cycle.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 84 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 85 details of plans continued Bonus Deferral Matching Plan plan Details 2012 Deferral of bonus on a gross basis.
Matching awards granted to executive Directors in 2012, 2013 and 2014 are subject to three-year epS growth.
the epS target requires three-year epS growth above a threshold of 8% pa before any matching, 2013 12% pa for a 1x match, 16% pa for a 2x match, and 20% pa or higher for a 3x match.
there is straight-line vesting between 2014 these points.
Share options plan Details the performance measure for the executive Share option Scheme awards was based on the Companys tSr performance against the FtSe 350.
30% of the awards vested for median-ranked performance with full vesting for eSoS  performance.
For performance between median and upper quartile, awards vested on a straight-line pro-rata basis.
Following the exercise of options under the eSoS by Mark robertshaw in 2014, there are no outstanding options held by the executive Directors.
ltIp 2013: For the CFo and Coo awards were structured as an Approved performance Share plan ApSp and comprise three elements: i HM revenue & Customs HMrC approved options CSop over shares to the value of up to 30,000 with an exercise price of 279.06 pence per share: ii an ltIp award in the form of a conditional award of free shares to the value of the remainder of the award above this limit: and iii a funding award, also in the form of a conditional award of free shares, over such numbers of shares whose value at exercise at the approved option equals up to 30,000.
For the Ceo, the 2013 award was structured as an ltIp award in the form of a conditional award of free shares.
2013 and 2014 the provisions of these CSop options, funding awards and ltIp awards was linked so that the maximum aggregate ltIp CSop number of shares that could be acquired on exercise of ltIp and CSop awards the funding award being used to pay the exercise price arising on exercise of the CSop was limited to that number of shares that had a market value on the date of the awards equal to 100% of Kevin Dangerfields 2012 base salary and 100% of Andrew Hostys 2012 base salary.
Vested funding awards were not transferable to the participant.
ltIp 2014: For the Ceo and CFo awards were structured as an Approved performance Share plan ApSp as described under the 2013 ltIp above.
For the Coo, the 2013 award was structured as an ltIp award in the form of a conditional award of free shares.
2012 Sharesave HMrC approved all-employee Sharesave scheme.
exercise price set at 20% discount to share price on date of grant.
2013 Sharesave options vest after three years of continuous service and must be exercised within six months of vesting.
Details of options 2014 Sharesave held by Directors under Sharesave are outlined in the individual Director shareholding tables above.
other transactions involving Directors are set out in note 26 related parties to the Financial Statements.
this report was approved by the Board on 12 February 2015.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
dOUGlAS CASter CHAIrMAn oF tHe reMunerAtIon CoMMIttee AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW
