Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report Chairman of the Remuneration Committees Annual Statement Company highlights for the 2014 financial year Remuneration Committee The following financial results were achieved in 2014: overview Group revenue of 1.87bn, a 2% increase on 2013 on a constant currency basis: Dear shareholder, Normalised Group profit before tax of 145.4 million, which was As the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Committee, a7% increase on a constant currency basis from the prior year: Iampleased to present the report of the Board covering the Statutory Group profit before tax of 66.5 million, which was a Remuneration Policy and its implementation for 2014.
The 10%increase on a constant currency basis from the prior year: Committee has undertaken a significant amount of work during Free-cash flow was 190 million and net debt was 664.3 million, thelast year to review the remuneration arrangements for the whichwas 81.8 million lower than in 2013.
Executive team and we present a revised policy which will be puttoshareholders for a binding vote at the 2015 AGM.
Remuneration highlights for the 2014 financial year The following remuneration events and decisions for 2014 took place: Membership The Groups financial performance for 2014 was considerably better The membership of the Committee during the year ended than budgeted despite the unanticipated headwinds and Executive 31December 2014 is set out below.
Attendance at meetings Directors performed strongly against the non-financial targets set for heldduring the year is shown on page 48: 2014.
Bonuses equal to 138.75% of salary were therefore determined Name of Director Position by the Remuneration Committee for the year to reflect the overall strong performance of the Executive Directors.
Sir Andrew Foster Committee Chair Some of the long term incentive awards granted in 2012 reached the Lee Sander Independent Non-Executive Director end of their performance period at 31 December 2014.
None of the Jane Kingston Independent Non-Executive Director awards vested under the EPS or TSR conditions attached to these appointed 26 February 2014 awards.
The Committee determined that the comparator group for the TSR Tim Score Senior Independent Director condition attached to the 2014 long term incentive awards should be resigned 25 February 2014 amended to link more closely to the Companys comparators and to assess performance against a broader market index.
Biographies appear on pages 44 and 45.
As a result of the feedback received from shareholders and the Other attendees at Committee meetings: significant vote against our Remuneration Policy, the Committee has undertaken a full review of Executive remuneration during 2014 Other attendees Position which completed at the beginning of 2015.
The review has been Dean Finch Group Chief Executive undertaken to ensure effective alignment of the reward strategy withthat of shareholders and to reward for the long term success Mike Goddard Human Resources Director ofNational Express.
Further details of this review and the outcomes Michael General Counsel and Company Secretary are provided below.
Hampson until 30 May 2014 Key activities of the Remuneration Committee Sandra Forbes General Counsel and Company Secretary During the year, the Committee undertook the following: from 2 June 2014 Conducted an extensive shareholder consultation in connection with PwC LLP Independent Remuneration Consultants the formulation of a revised Directors Remuneration Policy including the simplification of the long term incentive arrangements into a single plan.
Considered and approved a new long term incentive arrangement plan for the Executive Directors 2015 Long Term Incentive Plan, including the types and range of performance conditions to be used, which is to be approved at the 2015 AGM.
Approved the new remuneration arrangements for the incoming Group Finance Director and agreement as to treatment of the outgoing Group Finance Director, Jez Maiden.
Reviewed Executive Directors and senior executives salary levels: Approved annual bonus payments having duly considered the overallstrong financial performance of the Company including theexceptional items based on the clear business case and justification for the exceptional items incurred.
Considered and approved performance targets to apply to the 2014 Long Term Incentive Plan awards including the total shareholder return comparator group used and the range of earnings per share targets set.
60 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Approved 2014 award levels under the Companys share plans.
At a glance Tested performance conditions and approval of vesting of Long Term Introduction Incentive Plan awards granted in 2011.
In this section, we summarise the purpose of our Remuneration Policy, Set targets for the Groups 2014 bonus scheme.
its linkage to our corporate strategic objectives and we highlight the Reviewed and approved the draft Directors Remuneration Report performance and remuneration outcomes for the 2014 financial year.
for the year ended 31 December 2014.
More detail can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Reviewed advisors and fees paid to them.
Our principles of remuneration I hope that you find the information in this Report helpful and I look The Remuneration Policy is based on the following broad principles set forward to your support at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
by the Committee to: I am always happy to hear from the Companys shareholders and provide a competitive remuneration package to attract and retain youcan contact me via the Company Secretary if you have any quality individuals: questions on this Report or more generally in relation to the align remuneration to drive the overall objectives of the business: Companysremuneration.
align the interests of management with the interests of shareholders: and provide the foundation for overall reward and remuneration beyondthe specific roles falling within the direct remit of the Remuneration Committee.
In implementing its policy, the Committee gives full consideration to the Sir Andrew Foster principles set out in the Code with regard to Directors remuneration and Chair of the Remuneration Committee due regard is given to the guidance issued by investor protection bodies 26 February 2015 and institutional investors more generally.
Remuneration policy is reviewed on an ongoing basis against the Committees broad principles and in light of emerging best practice incorporate governance.
Revised policy for Executive Directors We have revised the policy approved at the 2014 AGM in response toshareholder feedback received.
The following changes have beenmade: Three long term incentive arrangements have been simplified to a single plan.
Awards under the Share Matching arrangement will cease and the Five Year Awards will no longer be granted to the Group Chief Executive.
The remuneration package of the Group Chief Executive has been rebalanced to give less weighting to long term incentives and reduce the overall quantum.
The aggregated opportunity under long term plans for the Group Chief Executive has been reduced from 320% of salary to 200% of Notes salary and the Committee has introduced a two year holding period This Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in post-vesting.
accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized The maximum annual bonus for the Group Chief Executive has Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment increased from 150% to 200% of salary, with 75% of the additional Regulations 2013 the Regulations and the provisions of the 2012 50% subject to compulsory deferral.
In preparing the report, the Company The shareholding requirement has been increased from 100% to has also taken into account the September 2014 Corporate 200% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and from 100% to Governance Code in order to comply with both Codes on a 150% of salary for the Group Finance Director.
forward-looking basis and the Listing Rules.
The unfunded pension arrangement for the Group Chief Executive The report consists of the following sections: will cease to accrue upon the completion of a 12 month noticeperiod.
The Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman.
The At a glance section providing a summary overview.
The Annual Report on Remuneration which sets out payments made to the Directors and details the link between Company performance and remuneration for the 2014 financial year.
The Remuneration Policy report which sets out the Companys Remuneration Policy for Directors and the key factors that were taken into account in setting the policy.
This policy will apply for three years from its date of approval at the 2015 AGM.
The Chairmans Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
ThePolicywill be subject to a binding vote.
com 61 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy report Changes to policy for 2015 Performance metrics used, weightings Element Operation of element Potential value andtimeperiod applicable Salary No change.
n a The incoming Group FD will have astarting salary set at 300,000 which will be increased to median based upon development in role.
n a Pension Removal of ongoing accrual of the Group No change to existing salary n a CEOs unfunded pension promise.
The new Group FD will receive a salary supplement of 25% in line with previous Group FD.
Annual bonus No change to structure with exception of: The maximum bonus opportunity Performance conditions for the 2015 for 2015 will increase to 200% of financial year and their weighting: 75% of the additional bonus opportunity salary for the Group CEO.
for the Group CEO will be subject to Normalised PBT 50% : The new Group FD will have a deferral in shares for one year.
Free cash flow 25% : and maximum opportunity of 150% Non-financial objectives 25%.
Deferral into shares of: ofsalary.
25% of bonus earned up to 125% ofsalary: 50% of bonus earned between 125% and 150% of salary: and 75% of bonus earned above 150% of salary applies for Group CEO only.
Long-Term Matching Shares removed Overall quantum reduced from Performance conditions and Incentive Plan 320% of salary to 200% of salary weightings will be: Chief Executives Five Year Award for Group CEO and from 220% removed 1 3 Earnings Per Share ofsalary to 150% of salary for 1 3 Return On Capital Employed Group FD.
Introduction of new performance share 1 3 Total Shareholder return split plan measured over a three year between 50% FTSE 250 comparator performance period group and 50% competitors.
Two year holding period added to Performance Shares.
Link to strategy Our focus is to deliver sustainable growth and profitability and we seek to achieve this through the following strategic initiatives: Strategic initiatives Measurement through the Incentives Revenue growth Short term through the profit targets in the annual bonus plan and longer term through EPS growth targeted by the LTIP.
Cost efficiency and better margins Targeted through ROCE metric under the Performance Shares and indirectly through relative TSR condition attached to Performance Shares.
Operational excellence safety, Measured by non-financial metrics in the annual bonus plan.
customers, people, community Superior cash and returns Measured by free cash flow metric in the annual bonus plan and ROCE and TSR conditions attached to the Performance Shares.
Creating new business opportunities Measured by non-financial metrics in the annual bonus plan.
How we have performed in 2014 Bonus KPIs Threshold Target Maximum Actual Normalised PBT m 128.4 135.2 148.7 145.4 Net debt m 671.7 664.3 62 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors for 2014 Pension Taxable Performance Value of related 000 Base salary benefits related bonus LTIP vested benefits 2014 Total 2013 Total Group Chief Executive Dean Finch 561 27 778 0 196 1,562 1,553 1 Group Finance Director Jez Maiden 428 25 594 0 107 1,154 1,155 1 A portion of the bonus will be deferred in shares for one year although, as he was not treated as a good leaver, the shares will not vest.
PwC are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and the Remuneration Committee composition and voluntary code of conduct of that body is designed to ensure objective termsofreference and independent advice is given to remuneration committees.
The individuals who served on the Remuneration Committee during 2014, and those individuals who attended Remuneration Committee The Committee is satisfied that advice received was appropriate, meetings, are set out on page 60. objective and independent.
Role and responsibilities Advisor Fees in relation to remuneration advice 000s The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: 1 PwC 112 determine the fees of the Chairman: 1 This fee includes advice to management on remuneration issues as well as advice determine the remuneration and conditions of employment including tothe Remuneration Committee.
any termination arrangements of the Executive Directors and Company Secretary: Remuneration structure from 2015 review the remuneration and conditions of employment of the senior The table below sets out the key elements of the Companys management team: and Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors with effect from the select and appoint any remuneration consultants who advise 2015 AGM and will apply for the period of three years from the date theCommittee.
The changes to the policy below reflect the detailed review The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on the of the existing policy and balance the desire to align remuneration to the Companys website at www.
long term success of the business and shareholders whilst also enabling the Company to effectively recruit and motivate key individuals.
Meetings The Committee met twice on a formal basis in 2014 and held a number The Remuneration Policy in force during 2014 is set out in the of additional informal meetings during the year in relation to the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013. remuneration restructuring for the Group Chief Executive and the shareholder engagement on remuneration which was carried out.
Consideration of shareholder views Details of attendance at the formal Committee meetings can be found The Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders on page 48. and seeks shareholder views when any significant changes are being made to remuneration arrangements.
In particular, the Committee The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information that consulted with a number of major shareholders in the formulation of it requires from any employee of the Group.
thisRemuneration Policy to understand their views and to inform the Committees approach.
The Committee believes that the feedback The Committee members and management attendees did not receivedhas been crucial in the development of the new structure participate in any discussions directly relating to their own remuneration for2015.
or performance during the year.
In addition to the components described below, it is the policy of Advisors to the Committee theCompany to honour any commitments made to a Director before Material advice or services were provided to the Committee during the thispolicy takes effect or before he she became a Director.
Such year by: commitments include the Group Chief Executives unfunded pension  LLP PwC Independent Remuneration arrangement, which isdescribed on page 69, and his Five Year Award, Consultants: which is described in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Dean Finch Group Chief Executive: Mike Goddard Group HR Director: Michael Hampson General Counsel, and Company Secretary until30 May 2014 : and Sandra Forbes General Counsel, and Company Secretary from 2June 2014.
The Group Chief Executive attends meetings of the Committee to make recommendations relating to the performance and remuneration of his direct reports.
The Group HR Director guided the Committee on reward matters relating to the Executive Directors and senior Executives and the broader Group HR strategy and policy.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
During 2014, PwC provided advice to the management of the Group onvarious matters including pensions, international taxation and business consulting.
From time to time, the Company submits the remuneration consultant function to tender.
com 63 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy report continued Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors How element supports Element businessstrategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment Base salary To provide a competitive The salary of individual Executive Directors is paid monthly in cash and is normally The Committees policy is to set base salary at an appropriate Not applicable.
level of salary as the main reviewed annually.
level taking into account the factors outlined in this table.
component of fixed In determining base salaries, the Committee considers: The maximum annual salary increase will not normally exceed remuneration.
Enables the the average increase which applies across the wider workforce.
Group to recruit and retain pay levels at companies of a similar size and complexity in the FTSE 250: However, larger increases may be awarded in certain Executive Directors of the external market conditions: circumstances including but not limited to: calibre required to fulfil general performance of the Company: therole and is key increase in scope of responsibilities of the role: pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group: and todeveloping and to apply salary progression for a newly appointed Director: and individual performance, skills, experience in post and potential.
implementing business where a Directors salary has fallen significantly below strategy without paying When considering pay increases the Committee will use comparator groups that will marketposition.
more than is necessary bebased on groups of transport leisure and general sector companies of a similar todo so.
The Committee retains discretion to amend the comparator groups as necessary In these circumstances, subsequent increases may be staged over a number of years until the target positioning and desired in order to remain relevant.
Any changes to the comparator group will be disclosed in the part of the report setting In such circumstances, the increase will not exceed RPI 10%.
out the operation of the policy for the future year.
The Company will set out in the section headed Statement ofImplementation of Remuneration Policy in the following financial year the salaries for that year for each of the Executive Directors see page 82.
Pension related To provide competitive Executive Directors are provided a cash allowance in lieu of a pension provision in line The Committees policy is that the maximum cash allowance Not applicable.
benefits benefits in line with market with market practice.
payable in lieu of a pension will be 35%.
Provide funds to The Group CEO receives a cash supplement in lieu of pension at 35% of salary.
allow Executives to save for retirement.
Pension The Group FD receives a pension contribution or a cash supplement in lieu of pension benefits are a fixed at 25% of salary.
Only basic salary counts for the purpose of the allowance.
Benefits To provide competitive Executive Directors receive family private healthcare, death in service and life The cost to the Company of providing the benefits may vary Not applicable.
benefits as part of fixed assurance cover 4 x base salary, long term sickness and disability insurance, from year to year in accordance with market conditions and remuneration in line with acashalternative to a fully expensed car, free travel on the Companys services will, therefore, determine the maximum amount that would be market practice to enable andprofessional membership subscriptions.
paid in the form of benefits during the policy period.
the Group to recruit and The Committee has discretion to provide additional benefits or remove benefits in order retain talent.
to remain competitive or to meet the needs of the business, for example to provide relocation expenses, including financial tax and legal advice if applicable.
Any change to benefit provision will be detailed on an annual basis.
64 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors How element supports Element businessstrategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment Base salary To provide a competitive The salary of individual Executive Directors is paid monthly in cash and is normally The Committees policy is to set base salary at an appropriate Not applicable.
com 65 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy report continued How element supports Element businessstrategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment Performance To incentivise delivery of Bonus payments are based on the achievement of specified corporate financial and Maximum 200% of base salary.
The targets for the bonus in respect of 2015 are as follows: related bonus performance objectives non-financial objectives over a one-year performance period.
75% bonus is subject to normalised profit and free cashflow targets.
which are directly linked to A proportion of the bonus payments is subject to mandatory deferral into shares for 25% is subject to non-financial targets.
the financial and strategic one year from award as follows: priorities of the business.
The Committee retains discretion in exceptional circumstances to 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% of salary: amend the weightings of the financial and non-financial elements of A portion of bonus is 50% of the bonus earned from 125% to 150% of salary: and the bonus from year to year and for each Executive as appropriate.
deferred into shares, 75% of the bonus earned above 150% of salary applicable to Group CEO only.
assisting retention of The targets attached to the financial condition will typically relate to Executive Directors and Dividends or dividend equivalents which may assume notional reinvestment are paid profit and or cash generation, are set on an annual basis and are aligning their financial intended to be achievable at threshold and stretching at maximum.
interests with those The numerical values of the target will not be disclosed in advance ofshareholders.
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to standardise the percentage of asthe Committee considers this information commercially sensitive.
the bonus deferred into shares if this is deemed appropriate in the future.
Unless the Actual targets, performance achieved and awards will be published Committee determines otherwise, the market price per share on the date of the award atthe end of the performance period in order that shareholders can will be calculated on basis of the average market price share in the five days preceding fully assess the basis for any pay-outs under the annual bonus.
The non-financial targets will be set annually based on strategic Bonus payments are paid following year end and are not pensionable.
The non-financial targets include safety, customer, operational excellence and people objectives and will be Only the Executive Directors currently participate in the Companys bonus deferral determined by the Committee on an annual basis.
Other employees may be invited to participate in future years at the the bonus determined by performance against non-financial targets Committees discretion.
will only become payable when the Company achieves a threshold Achievement of each element of the bonus is assessed independently.
Provisions exist that require the deferred shares to be forfeited or repaid should it be It is a pre-condition to the award of any bonus that the Remuneration necessary for the Company to restate materially the financial results upon which the Committee has determined that there has been an improvement in bonus was awarded within a two-year period following the deferred bonus being safety processes, procedures and outcomes during the year in the awarded.
The proportion of the bonus that would be subject to this provision would relevant business unit before any bonus is paid.
depend on the extent to which the original bonus payment turned out to be false For further details on the measures and targets which applied to following the publication of corrected results.
bonuses in 2014, please see page 74.
The annual bonus contains malus and clawback provisions.
Long Term To drive performance, aid Performance Share Awards in the form of conditional awards, nil-cost options or The Group CEO is eligible to receive a conditional award of Awards will be subject to stretching performance targets over a period Incentive Plan retention and align the forfeitable shares are granted annually and vesting is dependent on the achievement Performance Shares up to an equivalent of 200% of salary of three years.
Performance interests of Executive of performance conditions measured over a three-year period.
The Committee may change the balance of the measures, or use Shares Directors with An additional two year holding period has been introduced to increase alignment with The Group FD is eligible to receive a conditional award of different measures for subsequent awards, as appropriate.
Dividend equivalents can be paid on these shares.
Performance Shares up to an equivalent of 150% of base material change will be made to the type of performance conditions The performance salary per annum.
Awards are reviewed annually to ensure that grant levels, performance criteria and conditions are aligned with other features remain appropriate to the Companys current circumstances.
For 2015, the Awards will be based equally as follows: the long term performance of the business, thereby Malus and clawback provisions are attached to awards made under the LTIP which 1 3 Earnings Per Share driving participants to apply over a two year period post vesting.
1 3 Return On Capital Employed achieve outcomes that 1 3 Total Shareholder return split between 50% FTSE 250 comparator realise shareholder value.
Achievement of threshold performance results in 30% vesting for each part of the Award.
There is no ability to retest any of the performance conditions.
The Committee retains discretion under the rules of the LTIP to amend existing performance conditions to take account of any events that may arise which would mean, in its opinion, if such adjustments were not made, the performance condition would not constitute a fair measure of the Companys performance over the period.
Shareholding Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a shareholding over a five year period from 2015.
The requirement requirement for the Group CEO will be equivalent to 200% of salary and for the Group FD the requirement will be 150% of base salary.
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements.
This policy ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned.
66 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information How element supports Element businessstrategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment Performance To incentivise delivery of Bonus payments are based on the achievement of specified corporate financial and Maximum 200% of base salary.
com 67 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy report continued Elements of remuneration applying under the previous policy applicable for 2014 How element supports Element businessstrategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment Long Term To drive performance, aid Executive Directors are eligible to receive awards of Matching Shares that are based The maximum value of investment in any year is 30% of Half of any award will be subject to EPS growth.
The remaining half Incentive Plan retention and align the basesalary.
will be subject to the relative total shareholder return TSR of the ona personal investment in National Express Group PLC shares funded either through Matching interests of Executive using an annual bonus award to purchase shares or through the pledging of shares Company measured against an appropriate group of companies.
Shares Directors with held not already allocated to the LTIP.
Matching awards are made on the basis of up Achievement of threshold performance results in 30% vesting for each shareholders.
tofour Matching Shares being awarded based on the value of the investment for part of the Award.
eachNational Express share pledged or purchased.
Participants only receive There is no ability to retest either performance condition.
Matching Shares subject Reviewed annually to ensure that grant levels, performance criteria and other features to investing into the remain appropriate to the Companys current circumstances, and to ensure that there The Committee retains discretion under the rules of the LTIP to amend business and therefore are no features of the plans that could inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviour.
existing performance conditions to take account of any events that this mechanism adds may arise which would mean in its opinion, if such adjustments were anelement of buy-in to not made, the performance condition would not constitute a fair the remuneration.
measure of the Companys EPS or TSR growth over the period.
The performance conditions are aligned with the long term performance of the business, thereby driving participants to achieve outcomes that realise shareholder value.
LTIP performance conditions for the 2015 LTIP Comparison with approach to remuneration EPS, TSR and ROCE have been chosen for the LTIP as appropriate acrossthe Group measures of the Groups long term performance.
The table below National Express Group operates internationally and accordingly, the summarises the rationale for the inclusion of these measures in the remuneration policy for employees generally reflects the legislative and newLTIP: labour market requirements in each separate jurisdiction.
The Group will always meet or exceed national minimum standards for terms and Measure Rationale for performance measure conditions of employment in each of our business areas, offering pay, EPS Important growth measure considered within the terms and conditions that are appropriate to each labour market in Company and a driver of shareholder value which we operate.
Base pay is set at a level that allows us to recruit and Provides a transparent and accessible method of retain staff in each relevant labour market and performance related pay gauging the financial performance of the Company arrangements are based on the achievement of business unit and Ensures the annual profit performance targeted by individual goals, objectively assessed.
Other than for a small number of theannual bonus plan flows through to long-term senior Executives in each business unit, long term incentive plans are sustainable EPS growth only applicable at Executive Director level.
The Company calculates performance against this Approach to recruitment remuneration measure by reference to the earnings per share ofExecutiveDirectors figures reported in the Companys audited accounts In the event that the Company recruits a new Executive Director either TSR Improves shareholder alignment from within the organisation or externally, when determining appropriate Consistent with the Companys objective of providing remuneration arrangements, the Committee will take into consideration superior long term returns to shareholders all relevant factors including but not limited to quantum, the type of ROCE Added to the LTIP for 2015 remuneration being offered and the jurisdiction the candidate was Demonstrates how efficiently the Company is recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests operating with the resources available ofboth the Company and its shareholders without paying more than isnecessary to recruit an Executive of the required calibre.
If the Committee changes the performance conditions within the life The Committees policy is for all Executive Directors to have rolling ofthe policy, it will inform shareholders of the changes made and the service contracts with a notice period of 12 months, unless on an reason for making any change.
exceptional basis to complete an external recruitment successfully, On a change of control, Performance Shares will vest, except to the when a longer initial period reducing to 12 months may be used.
extent they are exchanged for awards over shares in the acquiring The Committee would generally seek to align the remuneration of any company.
Vesting will be subject to any performance conditions and will new Executive Director following the same principles as for the current normally be reduced to reflect early vesting, unless the Remuneration Executive Directors set out in the table above.
Committee determines that a reduction in the number of vested shares is considered inappropriate.
The number or class of shares under award The elements that would be considered by the Company for inclusion may be adjusted on a rights issue, variation of capital, demerger or inthe remuneration package for a new Director are: similar transaction.
salary and benefits including defined contribution pension participation or a salary supplement in lieu of pension provision: participation in the performance related bonus pro-rated for the year of recruitment to reflect the proportion of the year for which the new 68 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Elements of remuneration applying under the previous policy applicable for 2014 How element supports Element businessstrategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment Long Term To drive performance, aid Executive Directors are eligible to receive awards of Matching Shares that are based The maximum value of investment in any year is 30% of Half of any award will be subject to EPS growth.
recruit was in post maximum of 200% of salary.
If the The service contract of Dean Finch, which is a rolling contract, contains commencement date is after 1 September in the year, no award a provision, exercisable at the option of the Company, to pay an amount would normally be made for that year: on termination of employment equal to one years salary, salary participation in the Long Term Incentive Plan.
The performance supplement in lieu of pension and car allowance.
The Director will not be shares granted will be in line with the grant levels for that grade.
In the obliged to mitigate his loss in relation to any payment in lieu of notice.
case of the appointment of a new Group Chief Executive, this grant The Company will use the payment in lieu of notice provisions when the would be a maximum of 200% and for any other position a grant of speed, certainty and protection of restrictive covenants afforded by such 150% would be made.
The grant may be pro-rated depending on clauses are thought to be in the best interests of the Company and the the time of appointment through the year: and circumstances surrounding the departure of the Director justify their use.
costs relating to but not limited to relocation: London Allowance: The service contracts for the current Executive Directors are available legal, financial, tax and visa advice and pre-employment toview on request from the Company Secretary.
The Committee continuously reviews its policies on Executive The Committee may make awards on appointing an Executive Director remuneration and severance in the best interests of shareholders.
to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous Guidance on best practice expectations is taken into account prior employer.
The Committee would take into account both market practice toagreeing Directors contractual provisions.
and any relevant commercial factors in considering whether any enhanced and or one-off annual incentive or long term incentive award The Group Chief Executive is entitled, under an unfunded pension was necessary.
Awards made by way of compensation for forfeited arrangement, to a pension based on the value of notional contributions awards would be made on a comparable basis, taking account of of 25% of his salary, plus a 5% per annum notional return.
The Group performance achieved or likely to be achieved, the proportion of Chief Executive will be given 12 months notice, at the end of which this theperformance period remaining and the form of the award.
The pension normally becomes payable, at Compensation could be in cash or shares.
All or part of it may be paid as a lump sum.
In the event of recruitment or retention other than buy out awards as Executive Directors are also provided with Directors and Officers described above, the Committee may also grant awards to a new or insurance and are indemnified by the Company against certain liabilities existing Executive Director under the Listing Rule 9.4.
2 up to an incurred in the course of their duties, including the costs of defending equivalent of 200% of salary per annum.
Executive Directors The contract dates and notice periods for the Executive Directors are shown in the table below: Executive Directors service contracts and notice periods Notice period from Notice period from Director Contract date the Company the Director Dean Finch 16 December 12 months 6 months 2009 Matthew Ashley Note 1 6 months 6 months 1 As at the date of this report, the new service contract for Matthew Ashley is being agreed and his notice period will be aligned to that of the Group Chief Executive.
com 69 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy report continued Executive Directors external appointments Under the terms of their service agreements, Board approval is required before any external appointment may be accepted by an Executive Director.
The Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services.
Details of fees received by Executive Directors in 2014 are shown below: Director Fee External appointment Dean Finch 10,275 Royal Free London NHS Trust Jez Maiden 55,000 Synthomer PLC Executive Directors termination payments The Company may at its discretion pay in lieu of notice.
Payment in lieuof notice could potentially include up to 12 months base salary, benefits and pension which may be payable in instalments and subjectto mitigation.
The table below sets out the treatment of other elements of remuneration that would normally apply for Executive Directors whoseservice with National Express terminates: Unvested Salary and Performance related deferred bonus Unvested Long Term Incentive Reason for termination contractual benefits bonus awards awards Plan awards Other Payment equal to the Bonus awarded Award vests on Awards vest on the date of Fees for Retirement, disability, aggregate of the subject to satisfaction the date of cessation of employment, outplacement redundancy, death, basic salary and of performance cessation of unless the Remuneration and legal sale of part of thevalue of any targets for the employment Committee determines it should advice may Company that employs participant, or contractual benefits relevant financial year vest at normal vesting date bepaid any other reason that for the notice period The amount of award vesting will the Remuneration including any accrued be subject to the satisfaction of Committee decides but untaken holiday performance conditions as at the date the award is deemed tovest Awards will normally be reduced time pro rata to reflect time elapsed between grant and cessation of employment Other leavers Paid to date of No award for year of Award lapses on Awards lapse in full on 1 termination, including termination cessation of leavingemployment any accrued but employment untaken holiday pay 1 Pursuant to Dean Finchs service contract dated 16 December 2009, if his contract is terminated for reasons other than for an event of default by the Executive such as gross misconduct, he is entitled, subject to the applicable performance conditions, to a pro rata bonus calculated up to the termination date from the commencement of the relevant bonus year in which termination takes place.
Subject to the circumstances surrounding the termination, the Committee in its discretion may treat the individual as an approved leaver ieunderthe first section in the table above.
The Committee will consider factors such as personal performance and conduct, overall Company performance and the specific circumstances of the Executives departure including, but not restricted to, whether the Executive is leaving by mutual agreement with the Company.
In addition, the Committee will consider the above circumstances in considering whether awards in respect of approved leavers should be pro-rated to reflect the service completed.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith: in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
70 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors appointments The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company and do not participate in the Groups pension scheme, annual bonus scheme or long term incentive schemes.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment and are appointed for an initial three-year term.
Non-Executive Directors are typically expected to serve for two three-year terms, although their appointment can be terminated either by them or the Company on one months written notice.
It is open to the Company to invite a Non-Executive Director to serve for a further period afterthe expiry of two three-year terms.
The letters of appointment for the current Non-Executive Directors can be found on the Companys website, www.
Non-Executive Directors are also provided with Directors and Officers insurance and are indemnified by the Company against certain liabilities incurred in the course of their duties, including the costs of defending actions against them.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, all Directors are required to stand for election or re-election by shareholders each year.
Theoriginal appointment dates of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are shown in the table below.
The remuneration of any new Non-Executive Director will be determined following the same principles as for the current Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors appointment dates Notice period by either Director Date of appointment Company or Director Sir John Armitt 1 January 2013 3 months Joaqun Ayuso 1 June 2011 1 month Jorge Cosmen 1 December 2005 0 months Sir Andrew Foster 1 August 2004 1 month Jackie Hunt 13 September 2012 1 month Chris Muntwyler 11 May 2011 1 month Lee Sander 1 June 2011 1 month Jane Kingston 26 February 2014 1 month 1 Tim Score 21 February 2005 1 month 1 Tim Score resigned from his position on 25 February 2014.
The table below sets out the Companys Remuneration Policy for the Non-Executive Directors with effect from the 2015 AGM: Element Purpose Operation Maximum potential value Non-Executive fees To attract and retain The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board The Committees persons of a suitable as a whole and those of the Chairman are set by the policy is to set base calibre for a group Remuneration Committee.
The fees are reviewed at fees at an appropriate ofthis size and to appropriate intervals normally once every year.
The review level taking into pay fees which takes account of fees paid for similar positions in the market, account the factors arereflective of the time commitment required from the Director estimated to outlined in this table.
responsibilities, be 60 days per year for the Chairman and 20 days per year competitive with forthe other Non-Executive Directors and any additional peer companies responsibilities undertaken, such as acting as Chairman to without paying more oneof the Board Committees or fulfilling the role of Senior than is necessary.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to receive pension entitlements or bonuses and may not participate in long term incentive arrangements.
A travel allowance may be paid to Non-Executive Directors for attendance at Board meetings held outside the continent in which the Non-Executive Director is resident.
com 71 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy report continued Illustrations of application of Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors The chart below illustrates the remuneration that would be paid to each of the Executive Directors under three different performance scenarios: i Minimum: ii On-target: and iii Maximum: Remuneration 000 3,500 PSP variable Annual variable Fixed 3,000 2,500 37% 2,000 1,500 20% 37% 1,000 33% 35% 18% 35% 500 30% 47% 26% 100% 52% 30% 100% 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Dean Finch Matthew Ashley The elements of remuneration have been categorised into three components: i Fixed: ii Annual variable: and iii Multiple reporting period, which are set out in the future policy table below: Element Descriptions Fixed Total amount of salary, pension and benefits Annual variable Performance related bonus including deferred element Multiple reporting variable Long Term Incentive Plan Assumptions used in determining the level of payout under given scenarios are as follows: Salaries are as at 31 December 2014 for the Group Chief Executive and on appointment at 28 January 2015 for the Group Finance Director.
Benefits are as at 31 December 2014 for the Group Chief Executive and in line with the benefits received by the previous Group Finance Director during 2014.
Performance Share Awards are granted at the maximum level permitted under the policy.
Minimum performance scenario assumes fixed pay only and no variable payments.
On-target performance scenario assumes performance in line with the Companys expectations, resulting in 30% of maximum vesting in respect of long term incentive awards and 50% of maximum payout, assuming 50% achievement of personal objectives, in respect of the annual bonus.
Whilst the bonus scheme has targets for threshold, on-target and maximum, the LTIP only has targets for threshold and maximum.
The value shown above in the on-target scenario includes the values for on-target bonus and threshold LTIP performance.
Maximum performance scenario assumes outstanding level of performance ie maximum bonus and full vesting of long term incentives.
Share price appreciation is not allowed for.
Statement of conditions elsewhere in the Group The Group operates across a number of countries and accordingly sets terms and conditions for employees which reflect the different legislative and labour market conditions that operate in each of our jurisdictions.
We set Global People Standards to provide a framework for recognition and rewards internationally.
We will always meet or exceed national minimum standards for terms and conditions of employment in each of our business areas.
Pay arrangements in our businesses also reflect local performance with personal increases based on achievement, individually assessed.
National Express believes in the value of continuous improvement, both for the individual and for the Company.
The Company did not consult with employees in drawing up the Directors Remuneration Policy.
When determining the remuneration of Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee takes into account business unit performance, including both financial performance and safety improvements in the year.
Because of the wide variety in labour market conditions and in exchange rate movements, pay rates locally are not normally considered when considering Executive Director base pay reviews.
The Remuneration Committee reviews and notes the salaries of senior Executives within the Group.
LTIP awards are cascaded down below Executive level to senior management, aligning the senior team to deliver value for the Group.
72 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration The following sections of the report explain how the Remuneration Policy approved in 2014 was implemented during the year.
Following a thorough review, the Committee is proposing significant changes to this policy for 2015 onwards to simplify remuneration arrangements and to reflect changes in corporate governance best practice.
The relevant sections of this report have been audited, as required by the Regulations.
Single total figure of remuneration Executive Directors The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director in post during the 2014 financial year.
Comparative figures for 2013 have also been provided.
2014 2013 Performance Value of Pension Value of Pension Base Taxable related LTIP related Base Taxable Performance LTIP related 1 1 000 salary benefits bonus vested benefits Total salary benefits related bonus vested benefits Total 2 2 Dean Finch 561 27 778 0 196 1,562 550 26 785 0 192 1,553 3 Jez Maiden 428 25 594 0 107 1,154 420 25 605 0 105 1,155 1 Taxable benefits comprise a cash alternative to a fully expensed car 20,000 for each of Dean Finch and Jez Maiden, health insurance and death in service and life assurancecover.
2 In addition, Dean Finch has an entitlement under an unfunded pension arrangement as described on page 69.
3 A portion of the bonus will be deferred in shares for one year although, as he was not treated as a good leaver, the shares will not vest.
Base salary No increases were awarded to base salary for the Executive Directors for 2013.
The Committee decided to award a base salary increase for 2014 to the Executive Directors of 2%, in line with the typical salary increases across Group employees.
The rates of base salary for 2014 were: Group Chief Executive: 561,000: Group Finance Director: 428,000.
Performance related bonus A summary of the 2014 performance related bonus scheme is summarised below.
The maximum potential bonus payable to Executive Directors in 2014 was 150% of salary for both Executive Directors: For the Group Chief Executive, 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% of salary and 50% of the bonus earned from 125% to 150% of salary was to be deferred.
For the Group Finance Director, 25% of the bonus earned up to 112.5% of salary and 50% of the bonus earned from 112.5% to 150% of salary was to be deferred.
The amounts deferred under the bonus plan in 2014 are deferred into shares awarded under the Executive Deferred Bonus Plan EDBP for one year.
Receipt of the deferred shares is subject to continued service and the same good leaver provisions and other terms as noted for the Long Term Incentive Plan below.
The 2014 bonus also includes provisions that require the deferred shares to be forfeited or repaid should it be necessary for the Company to restate materially its 2014 results within a two-year period following the deferred bonus being awarded.
The proportion of the bonus that would be the subject to these provisions would depend on the extent to which the original bonus payment turned out to be false following the publication of corrected results.
The Committee has reviewed the performance against the conditions attached to the performance related bonus and in addition, made an assessment of the performance of the Group as a whole during 2014.
The Committee determined that the 2014 bonus for Jez Maiden should be paid as he left the employment of the Group on 31 December 2014.
The Committee has full discretion in the payment of annual bonuses.
For any financial element to be payable, the Group must have achieved a threshold level of normalised profit target for the year.
In addition, it is a pre-condition to the award of any bonus that the Remuneration Committee has determined that there has been an improvement in safety processes, procedures and outcomes during the year before any bonus is paid.
In respect of the targets applying to the annual bonus for 2014 for the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, a maximum of 105% of salary was payable based on achievement against a sliding scale of challenging financial targets and a maximum of 45% of salary was payable based on non-financial targets that encompassed customer, operational excellence and people objectives.
The targets set in relation to non-financial performance are key strategic Group objectives that are tailored to the responsibilities of each individual Executive Director and, in aggregate, are considered to be similarly challenging to the range of financial targets set.
The table below summarises the performance conditions attaching to the 2014 awards and the actual performance and bonus value achieved.
com 73 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Bonus structure for 2014 % of salary Details Maximum bonus potential 150% Proportion of bonus subject to mandatory deferral into Company shares for one year from award Bonus potential at threshold normalised profit before tax PBT 22.5% On-target bonus potential at 100% of budgeted normalised PBT 45% Awarded on achieving budget Stretch bonus for 110% of budgeted normalised PBT 90% Awarded on achieving a stretch target of 110% ofnormalised PBT Net debt 15% Non-financial targets underpinned by achievement of threshold 45% Awarded on meeting key strategic Group objectives normalised PBT tailored to each Executive Directors responsibilities A summary of performance during 2014, the targets set and the extent to which the targets were met is set out in the following tables: Summary of bonuses paid Bonus value achievable for meeting threshold and Actual bonus Threshold On-target Maximum maximum value performance performance performance Actual performance achieved Performance condition Weighting required required required performance % salary % salary Dean Finch Jez Maiden Normalised profit 60% 128.4m 135.2m 148.7m 145.4m 22.5%- 78.75% 90% Net debt 10% 671.7m 664.3m 3.75%- 15% 15% Non-financial targets 30% See detail 0%-45% 45% 45% below Total awarded 138.75% 138.75% salary salary 778,388 593,850 Of which deferred 38.13% 41.25% inshares salary salary 1 213,882 176,550 Of which paid in cash 100.62% 97.50% salary salary 564,506 417,300 1 As Jez Maiden was not treated as a good leaver, the shares will not vest.
74 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Summary of non-financial conditions for 2014 Dean Finch Objective Performance 1 Support long term growth of Group through effective leadership of Key contracts retained in Britain, Spain and North America the re-bidding of current contracts and successfully win at least Announced as preferred bidder for the Nuremberg S-Bahn one contract in a new market contracts over a 12 year period Bahrain Bus bid won as joint venture with partners AMA 2 Successfully bid for and retain the Essex Thameside franchise Won 15 year Essex Thameside franchise, which commenced in November 2014 3 Continue to lead to effective implementation of the Driving out FWI improved by 18% during the year Harm initiative.
Achieve 5% reduction in the overall responsible Maintenance audits independently conducted in all divisions harm index Fatalities and Weighted Injuries Index against 2013 Comprehensive programme of additional work initiated in NorthAmerica Additional training of 500,000 hours delivered Exceeded target safety hours 4 Maintain ability of North American employees to exercise freedom Programme of briefings held with shareholders prior to AGM of choice in deciding matters of representation Reduced number of petitions for representation two in 2014, down from four in 2013, eight in 2012 and ten in 2011 Employee satisfaction increased during 2014 5 Lead talent management and succession planning processes Continued development of key individuals in Spain and NorthAmerica Implementation of a talent assessment process in all divisions Continued management graduate programmes 6 Continue to improve the Groups reputation through driving our All divisions progressed towards delivery of Operational Excellence agenda.
Achieve external accreditations  torecognise achievement Further accreditations included award of four-star rating for UKCoach by the British Quality Foundation, winning two industry partnership awards for Bus and c2c being the most punctual UK Rail operating company for the third year insuccession Jez Maiden Objective Performance 1 Group responsible harm index Fatalities and Weighted Injuries FWI improved by 18% during the year Index to improve on 2013 Number of responsible fatalities lower in 2014 than in 2013 Fewer responsible major injuries and passenger Injuries 2 Secure at least one rail bid win Won 15 year Essex Thameside franchise, which commenced in November 2014 3 Secure at least one international bid win Contract In Bahrain secured 4 Identify and deliver cost saving opportunities within divisions and Divisional profit protection initiatives delivered in North America deliver savings from corporate costs Exceeded cost saving target for corporate costs delivered in IT cost savings, lower staffing and licence costs Shared service function created to deliver financial transaction processing efficiently Group financial reporting process improved 5 Deliver more customer-centric UK organisation and improve Coach improvements delivered to ensure systems resilience resilience of systems for UK businesses and affordable roadmap for customer systems development Bus and Rail roll out of smartcard solution during 2014 Initial phase of data centre upgrade implemented successfully Based on the above assessment against the objectives set, the Committee determined that the performance of Jez Maiden and Dean Finch warranted maximum payout for the non-financial elements of the bonus.
com 75 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued LTIP awards Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards granted under the LTIP in 2012 are scheduled to vest in 2015.
The performance period relating to these Awards ended on 31 December 2014.
Details of the performance conditions and the extent to which they have been satisfied are set out below: Performance Shares LTIP value achievable for meeting threshold and maximum Actual LTIP value Performance Threshold performance Maximum performance performance achieved condition Weighting required required Actual performance % salary % salary 1 TSR 50% Median of 20th percentile of Below median of 15%-50% 0% comparator group comparator group comparator group EPS 50% 2014 EPS of 23.7p 2014 EPS of 26.4p 22.7p 15%-50% 0% Total 100% 30%-100% 30%-100% 0% salary nil Matching Shares LTIP value achievable for meeting threshold and maximum Actual LTIP value Performance Threshold performance Maximum performance performance achieved condition Weighting required required Actual performance % salary % salary 1 TSR 50% Median of 20th percentile of Below median of 18%-60% 0% comparator group comparator group comparator group EPS 50% 2014 EPS of 23.7p 2014 EPS of 26.4p 22.7p 18%-60% 0% Total 100% 36% 36% 0% salary 36%-120% 36%-120% nil 1 TSR was measured against a bespoke comparator group of transport companies taken predominantly from the FTSE Industrial Transportation and FTSETravel&Leisuresectors.
LTIP Awards held by Jez Maiden lapsed on 31 December 2014 upon cessation of employment.
Pension entitlements and cash allowances Under the terms of their service agreements, Executive Directors are not entitled to become members of one of the Group pension schemes.
The Group Chief Executive receives a 35% salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
The Group Chief Executive has agreed to a one year notice period to stop any further accruals in respect of the unfunded pension arrangement.
The Group Finance Director received a 25% salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
76 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Long term incentives awarded in 2014 The tables below set out the details of any long-term incentive award granted in the 2014 financial year where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future reporting periods: Dean Finch Percentage of Face value of award vesting Performance 1 Basis on which award at threshold period end Grant date Award type award made, 000 performance date Performance conditions 09.04.14 LTIP Performance 100% of salary 572 30% 31.12.16 TSR and EPS Shares equally weighted 09.04.14 LTIP Matching Shares 120% of salary 686 30% 31.12.16 TSR and EPS equally weighted 09.04.14 Chief Executives Five 100% of salary 572 30% 31.12.18 TSR and EPS Year Award equally weighted Jez Maiden Percentage of award vesting Performance Basis on which Face value of at threshold period end 1 Grant date Award type award made award, 000 performance date Performance conditions 2 09.04.14 LTIP Performance 100% of salary 437 30% n a TSR and EPS Shares equally weighted 2 09.04.14 LTIP Matching Shares 120% of salary 524 30% n a TSR and EPS equally weighted 1 The face value in the tables above has been calculated by multiplying the maximum number of shares that could vest by the closing share price at the date of grant.
The share price was 279.5p on 9 April 2014.
2 Awards lapsed on 31 December 2014 upon cessation of employment.
Performance conditions for LTIP awards made in 2014 Performance Shares and Matching Shares Part B TSR Condition v FTSE 1 250 comparator group rank over Part C TSR Condition v Index Part A EPS Condition three years to 31 December over three years to 31 December Performance level 50%ofthe award 2016 25% of the award 2016 25% of the award Vesting percentage of the award Below Threshold Less than 21.3p Below median Below Index 0% Threshold 21.3p Median Equal to Index 30% Maximum 23.9p or above 20th percentile Equal or above Index 100% 10% pa Threshold Maximum Between 21.3p Between median and Between Index and 30%-100% pro rata and23.9p 20th percentile Index 10% pa Performance conditions for the Chief Executives Five Year Award made in 2014 Part B TSR Condition v FTSE 1 250 comparator group rank over Part C TSR Condition v Index Part A EPS Condition five years to 31 December 2018 over five years to 31 December Performance level 50%ofthe award 25% of the award 2018 25% of the award Vesting percentage of the award Below Threshold Less than 23.3p Below median Below Index 0% Threshold 23.3p Median Equal to Index 30% Maximum 28.2p or above 20th percentile Equal or above Index 100% 10% pa Threshold Maximum Between 23.3p Between median Between Index and 30%-100% pro rata and28.2p and20th percentile Index 10% pa 1 Index comprising of the total returns of three comparator companies.
com 77 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Indicative percentage of LTIP awards vesting based on performance to 31 December 2014 The table below sets out the percentage of each extant award that would have vested if the performance conditions had been tested at 31December 2014 without making any allowance for pro rata reduction for any period of less than three years.
Part A: EPS element Part B and C 2014 only : Year of award 50% of award TSRelement 50% of award Total max 100% 2012 Chief Executives Five Year Award 0% 0% 0% 2013 Performance Shares and Matching Shares 46.2% 0% 23.1% 2013 Chief Executives Five Year Award 0% 0% 0% 2014 Performance Shares and Matching Shares 67.7% 0% 33.8% 2014 Chief Executives Five Year Award 0% 0% 0% The National Express Group Executive Deferred Bonus Plan Executive Deferred Bonus Plan Deferred bonuses awarded in 2014 based on performance to 31 December 2013 will vest on 28 February 2015 as set out in the table below: During year As at 1 At 31 Market price January December at date of Date of 2014 Granted Vested Lapsed 2014 vesting Date of grant vesting Dean Finch 2013 79,523 79,523 0 304.0p 28.02.13 28.02.14 2014 73,378 73,378 28.02.14 28.02.15 Jez Maiden 2013 62,981 62,981 0 304.0p 28.02.13 28.02.14 1 2014 61,220 61,220 0 28.02.14 n a 1 Awards lapsed on 31 December 2014 upon cessation of employment.
The market price per share on the date of award was calculated on the basis of the average market share price in the five days preceding the date of the grant.
Deferred shares will be required to be forfeited or repaid should it be necessary to restate materially the Companys 2013 and 2014 results within a two-year period following the award of the bonus.
The proportion of the bonus subject to these provisions would depend on the extent to which the original bonus turned out to be false following the publication of corrected results.
Non-Executive Directors The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director serving during 2014.
The table includes only those columns in respect of elements of remuneration received by Non-Executive Directors.
2014 fees 2013 fees 000 Total 000 Total Notes Sir John Armitt 225 225 225 225 Joaqun Ayuso 51 51 49 49 Jorge Cosmen 47 47 45 45 Sir Andrew Foster 57 57 55 55 Jackie Hunt 60 60 45 45 Jane Kingston 40 40 Appointed on 26 February 2014 Chris Muntwyler 61 61 59 59 Lee Sander 71 71 73 73 Tim Score 10 10 60 60 Resigned on 25 February 2014 In addition, a travel allowance of 4,000 is payable to Joaqun Ayuso, Chris Muntwyler and Lee Sander for attendance at Board meetings held outside the continent in which the Non-Executive Director is resident.
With effect from 1 January 2014, it was agreed that the fees for the Non-Executive Directors would increase to 47,000 but there would be no increase in the fees payable to the Chairman.
78 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Payments to past Directors No payments were made to past Directors during the period.
Payments for loss of office All loss of office payments to any person who has served as a Director of the Group will be disclosed in this report.
Jez Maidens employment with the Group ceased on 31 December 2014.
The treatment of his remuneration was agreed by the Committee asfollows: Salary, pension and benefits paid up to cessation of employment: No further loss of office or termination payments were made: Annual bonus for 2014 given that Jez Maiden was in service for the whole of 2014, the Committee decided to award a bonus as disclosed on page 73.
A portion of the bonus will be deferred in shares for one year although, as he was not treated as a good leaver, the shares will not vest: Long term incentives including deferred shares all outstanding awards lapsed as at 31 December 2014 as Jez Maiden was not treated asagood leaver.
Statement of Directors shareholdings Directors shareholdings Executive Directors interests and share ownership guidelines In order to align the interests of the Directors more closely with the shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has determined that the Executive Directors are expected to build up a share fund as set out in the share ownership guidelines as described on page 66 of the Policy.
This guideline has been increased this year from 100% to 200% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and from 100% to 150% of salary for the Group FinanceDirector.
The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Executive Directors in office and their connected persons as at 31 December 2014 and the details of long term incentive interests are shown below: Shares held directly Other shares held Current shareholding EDBP interests LTIP interests Shareholding as at 31 December not subject to subject to requirement 2014 performance performance Shareholding 1 % salary % salary Beneficially owned conditions conditions requirement met?
Executive Directors Dean Finch 100% 163% 294,598 73,378 319,967 Yes 2 Jez Maiden 100% 98% 168,919 0 0 Yes 1 The share price of 248.4p as at 31 December 2014 has been taken for the purpose of calculating the current shareholding as a percentage of salary.
2 Jez Maidens EDBP and LTIP interests lapsed on 31 December 2014 at cessation of employment.
Please see the appendix on page 83 for more information on outstanding LTIP awards.
Directors shareholdings Non-Executive Director interests Non-Executive Directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
Details of their interests in shares and those of their connected persons as at 31 December 2014, all of which are held outright with no attaching performance conditions, are shown below: At 31 December 2014 Sir John Armitt 6,000 Joaqun Ayuso 0 1 Jorge Cosmen 88,860,685 Sir Andrew Foster 22,893 Jackie Hunt 5,000 Chris Muntwyler 0 Lee Sander 0 Jane Kingston 0 1 Jorge Cosmens holding includes shares held by European Express Enterprises Ltd which are shown on page 86 in the list of major shareholdings in the Company.
The Register of Directors interests maintained by the Company contains full details of the Directors holdings of shares and options over shares in the Company.
The closing price of the Companys ordinary shares at 31 December 2014 was 248.4 pence 2013: 275p and the range during the year ended 31 December 2014 was 220 pence to 304.9 pence.
Changes since year end There have been no changes in the shareholdings of the Directors between 31 December 2014 and the date of signing of this Annual Report.
com 79 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued History of CEOs pay The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive over the last six years, valued using the methodology applied to the single total figure of remuneration: Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2 Chief Executive R Bowker D Finch D Finch D Finch D Finch D Finch Total remuneration 000 465 1,356 1,454 1,701 1,553 1,562 Annual bonus payment 0% 100% 100% 78% 95% 93% % maximum opportunity 1 LTIP vesting level achieved n a n a n a 32.5% 0% 0% % maximum opportunity 1 The incumbent Chief Executive during each of 2009, 2010 and 2011 did not have entitlement to any LTIP awards with attaching performance conditions whose final year ofperformance ended during that year.
2 R Bowker resigned as Chief Executive on 10 July 2009.
Comparison of overall performance The graph below shows a comparison of National Express Group PLCs six-year total cumulative shareholder return against that achieved by the FTSE 250 Index.
This index has been selected because the Company is a constituent of this index and the Committee, therefore, feels that this is the most appropriate index with which to represent the Companys relative performance.
Shareholder returns six year history National Express Group Annual return National Express Group Cumulative return FTSE 250 Annual return FTSE 250 Cumulative return 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 -20 -40 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 The Group has achieved a strong performance during 2014, beating the budgeted profit before tax by over 7%, despite continuing austerity in Spain, adverse weather conditions in North America and continued strong competitive pressure in all markets.
Strong focus was brought to all divisions to convert profits to cash and, as a result, the Groups free cash-flow and net debt performance was improved on 2013 and budget for both measures.
Significant progress was made in the development of a number of UK and international bids.
The Essex Thameside franchise was won which, together with two rail contracts won in Nuremberg, Germany, has secured National Express presence in rail until 2030.
In addition, acompetitive tender for new bus operations in Bahrain was awarded providing a platform for further growth in the Middle East.
80 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Group Chief Executive pay increases compared with total remuneration for UK employees The following table sets out the change in certain elements of the remuneration paid to the Group Chief Executive from 2013 to 2014 compared with the average percentage change for the UK employee population.
The Group uses the UK workforce who receive taxable benefits and bonus as an appropriate comparator group as this avoids complicated exchange rate adjustments that would have to be used if we included employees in the Groups overseas operations in the calculation.
The Group Chief Executives remuneration disclosed in the table below has been calculated to take into account base salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus including any amount deferred on the basis used for determining the single figure.
The UK employee remuneration is based on the base salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus of those UK employees that received taxable benefits and bonuses.
Average percentage increase from 2013 to 2014 Base salary Taxable benefits Performance related bonus Group Chief Executive 2% 0% -1% UK employee remuneration 2% -2% -5% Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below sets out the total spend on pay in the 2014 financial year and 2013 financial year compared with distributions to shareholders: 2014 2013 % increase m m from 2013 to 2014 Overall Group spend on pay including Directors 850.3 856.2 0.7% 1 Profit distributed by way of dividend 51.6 50.3 2.6% Profit distributed by way of share buyback 1 2013 figure has been restated.
Statement of voting at 2014 AGM At the AGM held on 14 May 2014, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors remuneration were as follows: For Against % of issued % of proxy %of proxy share capital 1 2 Resolution text Number of votes votes cast Number of votes votes cast Total votes cast voted Votes withheld 2.
To approve the Annual 271,319,309 64.04 152,348,719 35.96 423,668,028 82.79 5,315,790 Report on Remuneration 1 The total voting rights in the Company as at the date of the meeting were 511,738,648 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, each carrying one vote on a poll.
2 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolutions.
The Committee was pleased that the majority of shareholders voted in 2014 in favour of the 2013 Remuneration Report and Directors Remuneration Policy whilst remaining sensitive to those who voted against.
Given that a significant proportion of shareholders voted against the approval of the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Committee has undertaken an extensive review of Executive remuneration during 2014 and 2015.
This review has comprised consultations with major shareholders to understand their concerns, a survey of market practice including remuneration benchmarking and a further round of investor consultations to propose new remuneration arrangements.
As a result of the review, anumber of amendments are proposed in a revised Directors Remuneration Policy for 2015 and the Committee hopes that shareholders will agreethat the changes should be approved.
com 81 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2015 Executive Directors base salaries The Committee determined that the salary for the Group Chief Executive should remain unchanged at 561,000 for 2015.
Matthew Ashley was appointed to the role of Group Finance Director on 28 January 2015.
His base salary was set at 300,000, which will be increased to median based upon development in role.
Pension entitlements and cash allowances The Group Chief Executive will receive a 35% salary supplement and the Group Finance Director will receive a 25% salary supplement in lieu ofpension contributions.
The Group Chief Executive has agreed to a one year notice period to stop future accrual in respect of the unfunded pension arrangement described on page 69.
Performance related bonus The annual bonus for the 2015 financial year will operate on a revised basis relative to the arrangements in place during 2014.
The structure of the annual bonus for 2015 will be as follows: An increased maximum bonus from 150% to 200% of salary for the Group Chief Executive the maximum bonus for the Group Finance Director will remain at 150% of salary : The proportion of the bonus linked to non-financial measures will reduce to 25% previously 30% for the Group Chief Executive based on operational excellence, safety standards and other strategic objectives: The remaining 75% of the bonus will be based on achievement of financial targets, namely normalised profit before tax and free cash flow: and A greater proportion of bonus earned will be deferred in shares for one year.
For 2015, 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% of salary, 50% of the bonus earned from 125% to 150% of salary and, for the Group Chief Executive, 75% of bonus earned above 150% of salary will be deferred.
When setting the bonus target for 2015, the Committee have taken into account: stock market consensus for 2015 profit: the Directors commitment to record all bid costs as normalised operating expenses: the significant increase in rail franchise premium in c2c compared with 2014: and the increased competitive pricing pressure from Renfe in Spain.
The Committee will set calibrated targets for the bonus measures and intends to disclose actual performance against these targets in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
As a matter of commercial sensitivity, the Committee has decided not to disclose performance targets in advance.
Long term incentives Long term incentive awards granted in the 2015 financial year will be granted in accordance with the policy detailed in the Remuneration Policy section of this report.
Awards will be made worth 200% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and 150% of salary for the Group Finance Director.
No further grants will be made in 2015 of the Chief Executives Five Year Award or the Matching Shares.
The performance measures, their weightings and targets for the 2015 awards will be as follows: Measure Weighting Performance required Threshold 30% vesting Maximum 100% vesting Relative Total Shareholder Return 1 6 Median Upper quintile FTSE 250 comparator group Relative Total Shareholder Return 1 6 Equal to Index Equal to Index 10% pa Index of three comparators Earnings Per Share for 2017 1 3 EPS target to be confirmed in Notice of AGM Average Return on Capital Employed 1 3 ROCE target to be confirmed in Notice of AGM Straight line vesting will occur between threshold and maximum levels of performance.
Performance will be measured over a three year period and awards will be subject to a two year holding period post vesting.
82 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Non-Executive Directors fees With effect from 1 January 2015, it was agreed that there would be no increase in the fees for the Non-Executive Directors or for the Chairman.
The current fees for the Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2015 are as follows: Role Fees 000 Non-Executive Director 47 Chairman 225 Senior Independent Director 5 Chairman of Board Committee 10 In addition, a travel allowance 4,000 is payable to Joaqun Ayuso, Chris Muntwyler and Lee Sander for attendance at Board meetings held outside the continent in which the Non-Executive Director is resident.
2 The aggregate gain on the shares which were exercised in 2014 was 0.
By order of the Board Sir Andrew Foster Remuneration Committee Chair 26 February 2015 www.
