ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT This report sets out the remuneration of NEXTs directors for the year to January 2014 and is in three parts: 1 Remuneration Committee Chairmans statement, 2 directors remuneration policy, and 3 annual report on remuneration, each prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the new regulations, UK Listing Rules and UK Corporate Governance Code.
Separate resolutions to approve the directors remuneration policy and to approve the directors remuneration report excluding the directors remuneration policy will be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
PART 1: REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT This years Remuneration Report for NEXT is the first prepared in accordance with the new regulations.
Whilst its format has changed to reflect the greater complexity of the regulations, the approach of the Remuneration Committee has remained consistent with previous years.
We seek to avoid significant increases in base salaries and associated costs and prefer to offer annual and longer term incentives which reward strong business and financial performance, measured against challenging benchmarks and reflecting the experience of shareholders.
During the year NEXT has achieved record pretax profits of 695m and EPS of 366.1p, representing annual growth of 11.8% and 23% respectively: over the past 3 years EPS have grown by a compound annual average of 18.2%.
We consider thatthisconsistently strong EPS performance fully justifies the bonuses and long term incentives earned by the executive directors and other senior executives during the year.
This performance has also been aligned with shareholders as dividends have grown by a compound annual average of 18% and the share price has risen 215% from 19.94 to 62.80 over the past 3 financial years.
The Committee has addressed the following areas over the past year: Annual bonus and base salaries At the start of the year, the Committee set targets for EPS growth, details of which are shown on page43.
This years strong growth in EPS resulted in a maximum pay-out under the annual bonus for executive directors.
Base salaries for executive directors were increased by2%inFebruary 2014 having increased by 2.5% in 2012and 2.0% in 2013, in line with wider company cost of living awards and our general approach of restraint.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Since 2008 NEXT has granted smaller awards twice a year, rather than annually, and accordingly this year the Committee approved two further grants.
In addition, two awards matured.
Over the performance periods for these awards, i. e. between August 2010to January 2014, NEXTs share price rose from21.50to62.80 andits market capitalisation grew from 4.0billion to 9.7 billion.
492m was paid in dividends and a further 894m was returned to shareholders through share buybacks.
The LTIP for the three year performance period to July 2013 vested 100% when NEXTs TSR ranked fourth out of 21 companies in the comparator groupand100% of the LTIP for the three year performance period to January 2014has also vested asNEXTs TSRrankedthird in the comparator group.
The estimated total value of these twoLTIPs is substantial see the Single Total Figure of Remuneration table on page 56.
However, as there was nochange in the basis of grant, this is largely due to the 192% rise in share price over the performance periods.
In 2011wedecided that the maximum value of LTIPsvesting for any participant in any oneyear, irrespective of the underlying strength of performance or share price growth, would be capped at 2.5m.
The cap will be applied again this year and as a resultLord Wolfsons and Christos Angelides LTIP payments are expected to be reduced by an estimated 1,097kand762k respectively based on the calculation method prescribed by the new regulations.
In recognition of wider investor concern over the complexity of some annual and long term incentive plans, the Committee decided that executive directors should only participate in the LTIP and will not be granted any further awards under the NEXT Share Matching Plan.
Instead, the maximum value of LTIP awards granted to executive directors each year will now be 200% of base salary previously 200% for Lord Wolfson and 150% for other executive directors, thereby consolidating the maximum value of awards that may otherwise be received if executive directors continued to participate in both plans.
The combined level of awards for each executive director falls in consequence.
38 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 To further align the interests of executive directors with shareholders, the Committee determined that any LTIP awards granted to executive directors after January 2014 will be subject to the condition that any vesting on maturity will only be settled in shares and that, after payment of tax and NIC, the net shares received should ordinarily be retained for a period of two further years.
Executive directors will retain dividend and voting rights during this holding period.
In light of the changes noted above, the Committee reviewed the cap on the maximum value of LTIPsvesting for any participant in any oneyear and decided it is appropriate to remove the cap for LTIP awards granted to executive directors after January 2014.
The 2.5m cap will remain in force for LTIPs with performance periods ending in the financial years to January 2015 and 2016.
Share Matching Plan SMP Although the Committee decided that executive directors should no longer participate in the SMP, the Committee considers that the SMP still continues to meet its objectives for other members of the senior management team and intends to invite senior executives below Board level to participate in 2014.
We closely monitor the level of pay-outs under the SMP and over the past 2 years we have made a number of changes to the original SMP which have reduced the amounts that can be invested as well as the maximum level of matching award.
The 2011 SMP will vest in full in April 2014, subject to the continued employment of participants.
Lord Wolfson has waived his potential entitlement under the 2011 SMP as he also did last year with his 2010 SMP on the understanding that all NEXT employees who have been employed since April 2011 will share an equivalent amount by way of a special bonus in May 2014, pro rata to their annual salary.
The estimated value of the amount waived by Lord Wolfson based on the average NEXT share price over the last 2013 14 financial quarter of 56.47 is 3.8m.
EPS and performance measurement The Committee reviews each year the basis and performance measures used for the annual bonus, LTIP and SMP.
The performance measures for both the annual bonus and the SMP have hitherto been based solely on growth in EPS pre-tax EPS for the annual bonus and fully diluted post-tax EPS for the SMP.
The principal reasons for using the EPS measure have been set out in previous Remuneration Reports.
They are: it is consistent and transparent to participants and shareholders: NEXT is predominantly a single business selling products through a number of channels under the NEXT brand.
No significant earnings are derived from uncorrelated businesses and therefore a group metric such as EPS is logical and consistent with strategy: EPS continues to be the core financial measure by which the Board assesses overall performance: and the use of EPS is complemented by the application of TSR and consideration of the general economic underpin condition for the LTIP.
As explained in previous years, we consider it right that the impact of share buybacks on EPS should be included in performance measurement as, for more than a decade, share buybacks have been one of NEXTsprimary strategies in generating value for shareholders.
Share buybacks are regularly considered by the Board and are subject to prior approval as to timing, price and volume.
Shares are only bought after the Board is fully satisfied that the ability to invest in the business and to continue to grow the regular dividend would not be impaired.
Following the Boards decision to set a minimum required return from any share buybacks as described in detail in the Chief Executives Review and to make special dividend payments where the return cannot be met, the Committee felt that some changes were needed to the performance measure for the annual bonus.
The Committee concluded that the basis of calculation for this purpose should incorporate an appropriate adjustment to reflect the benefit to shareholders from any special dividends paid in the period.
This is in order to ensure that there is no unintentional reward or penalty for management arising from one means or another of returning value to shareholders.
The Board will maintain the same robust discipline over the level of special dividends as it does with regard to share buybacks.
39 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT The policy vote As referred to earlier, this report is split between a remuneration policy section and an annual report which sets out actual remuneration.
Each section will be subject to a separate vote at the AGM.
If approved, the policy section will become binding on the Board which means that payments outside the policy would be unauthorised.
We believe that our policy, as set out in this report, strikes a balance between having the legal authority to make payments which we consider to be in shareholders interests, whilst limiting the Committees discretion appropriately.
Our policy therefore focuses on our actual approach to pay but includes the required formal caps at higher levels than we envisage needing, so as to preserve some flexibility.
The Committee believes that it has demonstrated an appropriately conservative approach to pay decisions over many years and I wish to reassure shareholders that we will continue to do so.
Recommendation Each year the Committee carefully reviews the level of performance-related remuneration earned by the executive directors.
The Committee considers that the remuneration earned is a reflection of NEXTs strong operating and financial performance over the past three years.
Moreover, we believe that NEXTs remuneration strategy, and the structures implementing that strategy, have contributed positively to maintaining the stable and highly motivated management team at NEXT who have continued to deliver consistently strong performances for shareholders.
We pay close attentionto ensuring that there is an appropriate balance in the remuneration structure between annual and long termrewards, as well as between cash and share-based payments, to ensure that the way NEXT remunerates its senior executives drives the right behaviours and rewards the right outcomes.
We believe that the present weighting towards rewarding sustainable long term performance is well aligned with shareholders interests.
This is evident from the high proportion of directors performance-related pay in the year that derived from growth in EPS and share price.
I hope very much that shareholders will support the Committees continuing overall approach to remuneration and, on behalf of the Committee, I commend both the policy and our report to you.
Jonathan Dawson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 40 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 PART 2: REMUNERATION POLICY It is the Companys intention that the directors remuneration policy as set out in this part of the report should apply from the date of the Companys 2014 Annual General Meeting, subject to its approval by shareholders at that meeting.
Background The Committees objective is to ensure that the remuneration paid to senior executives is appropriate in both amount and structure, is directly linked to the Companys annual and long term performance and aligned with the interests of shareholders.
We believe that stable and transparent remuneration structures are key elements in a fair system for rewarding personal and collective contribution across the business.
There are bonus structures throughout the Company, including Head Office, stores, call centres and warehouses.
The focus is on ensuring that a competitive and appropriate base salary is paid to directors and senior managers, together with incentive arrangements that are: appropriate in both amount and structure: directly linked to the Companys annual and long term performance: in alignment with the interests of shareholders and our long term strategy: and stable and transparent.
Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group are considered to ensure that differences for directors are justified.
Remuneration policy does not conflict with the Companys approach to environmental, social and corporate governance matters and we believe the current arrangements do not encourage directors to take undue business risks.
The table below summarises the Companys policies with regard to each of the elements of remuneration for existing directors and the approach to payments on external recruitment and termination.
41 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT Changes for 2013 and 2014 ELEMENT this column is to provide information and is not Purpose and link to formally part of the directors remuneration policy but is strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance measures and targets part of the annual report on remuneration Salary Reviewed annually, generally effective 1 February.
The There is no guaranteed annual increase.
Base salaries of the executive directors increased by 2% in February To provide a satisfactory Committee focuses particularly on ensuring that an considers it important that base salary increases are 2014, in line with the wider company cost of living awards.
base salary within a total appropriate base salary is paid to directors and senior kept under tight control given the multiplier effect of Base salaries for the executive directors from February 2014 are: package comprising managers.
The Committee considers salaries in the such increases on future costs.
In recent years, increases salary and performancecontext of overall packages with reference to market in executive directors salaries have been in line with the related pay.
data, individual experience and performance, and the wider company cost of living awards.
000 level and structure of remuneration for other employees Performance-related Under the new regulations the Company is required to Lord Wolfson 743 and the external environment.
External benchmarking components and certain specify a maximum potential value for each component analysis is only occasionally undertaken and the Christos Angelides 539 benefits are calculated of pay.
Accordingly, for the period of this policy no salary Committee has not adopted a prescribed objective of David Keens 496 by reference to base paid to an executive director in any year will exceed setting salaries by reference to a particular percentile salary.
The level of salary the median base salary of FTSE 100 Chief Executives Michael Law 306 or benchmark.
broadly reflects the value as confirmed by independent advisers.
Currently this is Jane Shields 306 of the individual, their role, circa 850,000 per annum.
Annual bonus Performance measures and related performance At present Company policy is to provide a maximum While the Committee reserves flexibility to apply different performance For the year to January 2014, performance targets were set targets are set at the commencement of each financial bonus of 150% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% measures, it currently uses stretching pre-tax EPS growth targets set requiring pre-tax EPS of 408p before any bonus became payable, To incentivise delivery year by the Committee.
Company policy is to set of salary for other executive directors.
annually, which take account of factors including the Companys being growth of 4.3% on the prior year.
Maximum bonus of 150% of stretching annual such measures by reference to pre-tax EPS but the budgets and the wider background of the UK economy.
Pre-tax EPS and 100% of salary for the Chief Executive and the other executive financial goals.
Although the Committee has no current plan to make Committee retains flexibility to use different performance has been chosen as the basic metric to avoid executives benefitting directors respectively was payable if pre-tax EPS exceeded 446p, any changes, for the period of this policy the Committee measures during the period of this policy if it considers it from external factors such as reductions in the rate of corporation being growth of 14%.
To provide focus on reserves flexibility to: appropriate to do so.
There has to be growth in EPS before any bonus is payable to the Companys key Actual pre-tax EPS achieved was 460p, growth of 17.6%.
By contrast the threshold for staff bonuses is set financial objectives.
increase maximum bonus levels for executive At the threshold level of performance, 20% of the a bonus of 150% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% for the at a lower level than for directors.
The Committee reserves flexibility directors in any financial year to 200% of salary.
maximum bonus may be earned.
A straight sliding other executive directors was earned.
to apply discretion in the interests of fairness to shareholders and To provide a retention This flexibility would be used only in exceptional scale of payments operates for performance between executives by making adjustments it considers appropriate.
element in the case circumstances and where the Committee considered Bonus performance targets for the year ahead have been set but the minimum and maximum levels.
There is no in-line of the Chief Executive any such increase to be in the best interests of are not disclosed in advance for reasons of commercial sensitivity.
target level although, for the purposes of the scenario As noted in the Committee Chairmans Statement on page 39, the as any annual bonus shareholders and after appropriate consultation with The targets and performance will be disclosed in next years charts on pages 52 and 53, 50% of maximum bonus basis of performance measurement is changing to incorporate in excess of 100% of key shareholders: Remuneration Report.
has been assumed because it is the mid-point.
an appropriate adjustment to EPS growth to reflect the benefit to base salary is payable shareholders from special dividends paid in any period.
in shares, deferred for a lessen the current differentials in bonus maximums period of two years and which exist between the Chief Executive and other subject to forfeiture if executive directors: and he voluntarily resigns introduce or extend an element of compulsory prior to the end of that deferral of bonus outcomes if considered appropriate period.
LTIP A variable percentage of a pre-determined maximum Since 2008, the maximum aggregate annual award Performance is measured over periods of three years, which The grant that matured in July 2013 vested 100% as the TSR To incentivise managenumber of shares can vest, depending on relative allowed under the current plan rules has been over commence in February and August, by measuring NEXTs TSR against ranked fourth out of 21 in the comparator group.
The Committee ment to deliver superior TSR performance against the comparator group the shares worth 200% of base salary and up to 300% in a group currently 20 other UK listed retail companies which are, also assessed the performance of NEXT during the performance total shareholder Committee selects at grant current practice is to exceptional circumstances.
With effect from 2012, in the view of the Committee, most comparable with NEXT in size or period and determined that the economic underpin performance returns TSR over select a comparator group of retail companies shown the maximum value of any LTIP awards that vest for a nature of their business.
Comparison against such a group is more condition had been satisfied.
three year performance on page 64. participant in a year has been capped at 2.5m.
likely to reflect the Companys relative performance against its peers, The grant that matured in January 2014 also vested at 100% as the periods relative to a thereby resulting in grants being made on an appropriate basis.
The maximum number of shares that may be awarded Within this maximum, the Chief Executive and other TSR ranked third out of 21 in the comparator group.
The Committee selected group of retail to each director is a percentage of each directors executive directors receive grants equal to 100% and also determined that the economic underpin performance companies.
Relative performance Percentage vesting base salary at the date of each grant, divided by 75% of annual salary respectively every six months.
The condition had been satisfied.
Retention of key NEXTs average share price over the three months prior Committee reserves the right to vary these levels within Below median 0% For recent policy related changes please see commentary in the employees over threeto the start of the performance period.
the overall annual limits described above.
Median 20% Maximum potential value column to the left.
year performance LTIP awards are made twice a year to reduce the For 2014 onwards, the Committee has decided that the periods.
Upper quintile 100% volatility inherent in the TSR performance measure and maximum possible aggregate value of awards granted to enhance the portfolio effect for participants of more to all executive directors will be 200% of annual salary If no entitlement has been earned at the end of a three year frequent, but smaller, grants.
The Committee reserves performance period then that award will lapse: there is no retesting.
the right to vary these levels within the overall annual The Company has the option to settle vested LTIP limits described above.
In addition, awards granted to Before any of the awards vest, the Committee must have regard to the awards in cash.
executive directors which vest must be taken in shares performance of the Company in the light of underlying economic and and the net shares after payment of tax and NIC other circumstances, including EPS performance of the Company and The LTIP does not credit participants with additional must be held for a minimum period of two further years.
of other UK retailers over the period.
Whilst not disclosed in advance, value in respect of dividends paid over any vesting The Committee reserves the right to lengthen but not the factors taken into account for these purposes are disclosed in the period except that the Committee has discretion to reduce the performance period and to introduce a relevant years Remuneration Report.
award such credit for special dividends.
retention period or to further increase this holding period.
The Committee reserves flexibility to apply different performance In light of the cessation of further grants under the SMP measures and targets in respect of new grants for the period of this see below, the Committee has reviewed the cap on policy.
the maximum value of LTIPsvesting for any participant in any oneyear and has decided it is appropriate to remove the cap for LTIP awards granted to executive directors after January 2014.
The 2.5m cap will remain in force for vesting LTIPs with three year performance periods ending in financial years to January 2015 and January 2016.
42 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 Changes for 2013 and 2014 ELEMENT this column is to provide information and is not Purpose and link to formally part of the directors remuneration policy but is strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance measures and targets part of the annual report on remuneration Salary Reviewed annually, generally effective 1 February.
43 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT Changes for 2013 and 2014 ELEMENT this column is to provide information and is not Purpose and link to formally part of the directors remuneration policy but is strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance measures and targets part of the annual report on remuneration Participants who invest a proportion of any annual The maximum matching ratio available under SMP is 3:1, Although the Company reserves flexibility to apply different Participants i. e. senior executives below Board level only can SMP cash bonus in NEXT shares can receive up to a matching the pre-tax equivalent of the amount invested performance measures, the Committee currently uses measures invest all of their post-tax bonus in the SMP in 2014.
In 2013 the To encourage greater maximum of two times the original number of shares in shares.
based on stretching fully diluted post-tax EPS targets.
Chief Executive was allowed to invest 200,000 and other executive ownership of NEXT they purchase with their bonus.
The matching award remains at a maximum of shares by senior Within this maximum matching ratio, a match of up to 2:1 conditional upon achieving performance measures The targets for awards in each year will be detailed in the report and two times the number of shares purchased by the participants.
executives, excluding based on the actual number of investment shares has over the following three years.
executive directors, been offered in practice, although the Company retains The minimum match of 0.5 of a share requires fully diluted EPS and thereby further The Committees policy is to set such performance flexibility within the period of this policy to offer a different growth of 12% and the maximum match of two times requires align their interests measures by reference to fully diluted post-tax matching ratio within the scope of the maximum ratio growth of 30% over the three year performance period with shareholders.
earnings per share but the Committee retains flexibility set out above.
to use different measures during the period of this policy if it considers it appropriate to do so, including adjustments to reflect the benefit to shareholders from special dividends.
As noted in the Committee Chairmans statement, executive directors will no longer be granted awards under the SMP after January 2014 and participation will be restricted to senior executives below Board level, although the Committee reserves flexibility to reintroduce executive director participation within the period of this policy if it considers it appropriate to do so.
The SMP does not credit participants with additional value in respect of dividends paid over any vesting period except that the Committee has discretion to award such credit for special dividends.
All executive directors are deferred members of the Under the DB section and the SPA, the maximum Not applicable.
Pension defined benefit DB section of the 2013 NEXT Group potential pension is only achieved on completion of at To provide for Pension Plan the Plan.
least 20 years pensionable service at age 65, when two retirement through thirds of the executive directors annual pensionable Company sponsored In addition to being deferred members of the salary at October 2012 could become payable.
The schemes or a cash DB section of the Plan, Lord Wolfson and Christos lump sum payable on death is four times base salary.
alternative for personal Angelides are members of the unfunded, unapproved pension planning.
No DC contributions, or equivalent salary supplement supplementary pension arrangement SPA, payments, will be made to an executive director in any described on page 59.
Their future pensions will be year that will exceed the median level of contributions calculated by reference to their October 2012 salaries, or payments made to FTSE 100 Chief Executives as at rather than final earnings, and future salary changes the time the rate is set, as confirmed by independent will have no effect.
Jane Shields and David Keens ceased to contribute to the Plan in 2011 and Michael Law in 2012.
Their pensions are no longer linked to salary and will increase in line with statutory deferred revaluation only i. e. in line with CPI.
Executive directors receive salary supplements of 15% in lieu of past changes to their pension arrangements, in line with other senior employee members of the DB benefit section of the Plan.
New employees of the Group can join the defined contribution DC section of the NEXT Plan or the statutory Auto-Enrolment plan, described on page 59.
Bonuses are not taken into account in assessing pensionable earnings in the Plan.
44 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 Changes for 2013 and 2014 ELEMENT this column is to provide information and is not Purpose and link to formally part of the directors remuneration policy but is strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance measures and targets part of the annual report on remuneration Participants who invest a proportion of any annual The maximum matching ratio available under SMP is 3:1, Although the Company reserves flexibility to apply different Participants i. e. senior executives below Board level only can SMP cash bonus in NEXT shares can receive up to a matching the pre-tax equivalent of the amount invested performance measures, the Committee currently uses measures invest all of their post-tax bonus in the SMP in 2014.
45 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT Changes for 2013 and 2014 ELEMENT this column is to provide information and is not Purpose and link to formally part of the directors remuneration policy but is strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance measures and targets part of the annual report on remuneration Executive directors receive benefits which may include During the policy period, the value of benefits other Not applicable.
Other benefits the provision of a company car or cash alternative, than relocation costs paid to an executive director To provide market private medical insurance, subscriptions to professional in any year will not exceed 100,000.
In addition, the competitive non-cash bodies and staff discount on Group merchandise.
A Committee reserves the right to pay up to 250,000 benefits.
driver is also made available to the executive directors relocation costs in any year to an executive director for business purposes.
if considered appropriate to secure the better performance by an executive director of their duties.
The Committee reserves discretion to introduce new benefits where it concludes that it is in the interests During the policy period, the actual level of taxable of NEXT to do so, having regard to the particular benefits provided will be included in the Single Total circumstances and to market practice and reserves Figure of Remuneration.
flexibility to make relocation related payments.
Whilst not considered necessarily to be benefits, the Committee reserves the discretion to authorise attendance by directors and their family members at the Companys cost if required at corporate events and to receive reasonable levels of hospitality in accordance with Company policies.
Executive directors can participate in the Companys Investment currently limited to a maximum amount of Not applicable.
Monthly savings limit may be increased to 500 in line with new Save As You Save As You Earn Sharesave scheme which is HMRC 250 per month but may increase in line with new limits limits set by HMRC.
Earn Scheme approved and open to all employees.
Option grants set by HMRC.
To encourage all are generally made annually, with the exercise price employees to make a discounted by a maximum of 20% of the share price at long term investment in the date an invitation is issued.
Options are exercisable the Companys shares.
three or five years from the date of grant.
Alternatively, participants may ask for their contributions to be returned.
46 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 Changes for 2013 and 2014 ELEMENT this column is to provide information and is not Purpose and link to formally part of the directors remuneration policy but is strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance measures and targets part of the annual report on remuneration Executive directors receive benefits which may include During the policy period, the value of benefits other Not applicable.
47 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT Changes for 2013 and 2014 ELEMENT this column is to provide information and is not Purpose and link to formally part of the directors remuneration policy but is strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance measures and targets part of the annual report on remuneration The Committee will consider the need for and quantum Each of the executive directors has a rolling service Not applicable.
No compensation payments on termination of employment were Termination of any termination payments having regard to all of contract which commenced on either 14 March 2013 made during the year.
payments the relevant facts and circumstances at that time.
or, for Michael Law and Jane Shields, on 1 July 2013.
The Consistent with market contract is terminable by the Company on giving one practice, to ensure Future service contracts will take into account relevant years notice.
The Company has reserved the right to NEXT can recruit and published guidance.
make a payment in lieu of notice on termination of an retain key executives, executive directors contract equal to their base salary whilst protecting the and contractual benefits excluding performanceCompany from making related pay.
If notice of termination is given immediately following a change of control of the Company, the executive director may request immediate termination of his contract and payment of liquidated damages equal to the value of his base salary and contractual benefits.
In normal circumstances executives have no entitlement in respect of loss of performance bonuses and all share awards would lapse following resignation.
However, under certain circumstances e. g. good leaver or change in control, and solely at the Committees discretion, annual bonus payments may be made and would ordinarily be calculated up to the date of termination only.
In addition, awards made under the LTIP and SMP would in those circumstances generally be time pro-rated and remain subject to the application of the performance conditions at the normal measurement date.
The Committee also has a standard discretion to vary the application of time pro-rating in such cases.
Good leaver treatments are applied in exceptional cases only.
In the event of any termination payment being made to a director including any performance-related pay elements, the Committee will take full account of that directors duty to mitigate any loss and, where appropriate, may seek independent professional advice and consider the views of shareholders as expressed in published guidance prior to authorising such payment.
Consistent with market practice, in the event of removal from office of an executive director, the Company may pay a contribution towards the individuals legal fees and fees for outplacement services as part of a negotiated settlement and such other amounts as the Committee considers to be necessary, having taken legal advice, in settlement of potential claims.
Any such fees would be disclosed with all other termination arrangements.
The Committee reserves the right, if necessary, to authorise additional payments in respect of such professional fees if not ascertained at the time of reporting such termination arrangements up to a maximum of 10,000.
A departing gift may be provided up to a value of 1,000 plus related taxes per director Claw-back provisions are in service contracts of Not applicable.
No claw-back or malus adjustments made in period.
Claw-back all executive directors and will be enforced where malus appropriate to recover performance-related To ensure the remuneration which has been overpaid due to: a Company can recover material misstatement of the Companys accounts: any payments made errors made in the calculation of an award: or a or potentially due to directors misconduct.
These provisions allow for the executive directors recovery of sums paid and or withholding of sums to under performancebe paid.
Remuneration of the non-executive directors is reviewed The total of fees paid to the Chairman and the nonNon-executive directors receive staff discount on Group merchandise The fees of the Chairman and non-executive directors were Chairman and annually and determined by the Chairman and the executive directors in any year will not exceed the but do not participate in any of the Groups bonus, pension, share increased by 2% in February 2014, in line with the wider company non-executive executive directors.
The Chairmans fee is determined maximum level for such fees from time to time prescribed option or other incentive schemes.
The Chairman will be paid an annual fee by the Committee excluding the Chairman.
by the Companys articles of association currently of 260,100 2013 14: 255,000.
The basic non-executive director director fees 750,000 per annum.
fee is 53,550 2013 14: 52,500, with a further 10,710 2013 14: To ensure fees paid Additional fees are paid to non-executive directors who 10,500 paid to the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration to the Chairman and chair the Remuneration and Audit Committees, and Committees, and to the Senior Independent Director.
non-executive directors act as the Senior Independent Director.
The structure are competitive and of fees may be amended within the overall limits.
comparable with other companies of External benchmarking is undertaken only occasionally equivalent size and and there is no prescribed policy regarding the complexity.
benchmarks used or any objective of achieving a prescribed percentile level.
48 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 Changes for 2013 and 2014 ELEMENT this column is to provide information and is not Purpose and link to formally part of the directors remuneration policy but is strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance measures and targets part of the annual report on remuneration The Committee will consider the need for and quantum Each of the executive directors has a rolling service Not applicable.
49 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT The following principles will be applied on an internal appointment, or the recruitment of an external candidate, to the Board.
The policies as set out above would apply to the promotion of an existing group employee to the Board.
For such appointments, and unless agreed otherwise with the new director, the Company will honour the contractual entitlements and other incentives e. g. options granted under the NEXT Management Share Option Plan awarded prior to the board appointment.
For external recruits, the Committee will also aim to structure and agree a package which is in line with the same policies for existing executive directors as set out above.
However, consistent with the new regulations, the Committee reserves the right not to apply the caps contained within the policy for fixed pay, either on joining or for any subsequent review within the life of this policy, although the Committee would not envisage exceeding these caps in practice.
In addition, the Committee may offer cash or share-based incentives when considered to be necessary to secure a candidate and in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
It may be necessary to make such awards on more bespoke terms which differ from NEXTs existing annual and share-based pay structures.
However, the Committee will not authorise the payment of more than it considers necessary and will abide by the caps for such elements within the general policy.
Additional awards may be made to compensate for forfeiture of incentive awards in the previous employer, and may not be subject to the caps applied to NEXTs annual bonus plan or the LTIP.
All such awards for external appointments, whether made under the annual bonus plan, LTIP or otherwise, will be limited to the commercial value of the amounts forfeited and will take account of the nature, time periods and performance requirements of those awards.
In particular the Committees starting point will be that any forfeited awards which are subject to continued service or performance requirements are replaced by NEXT awards with broadly equivalent terms.
However, the Committee may relax these requirements in exceptional circumstances and where the Committee considers it to be less expensive for shareholders, for example where service periods are materially complete and or the replacement awards are materially discounted to reflect the conditions on forfeited awards.
The Committee will only authorise guaranteed or non pro-rated awards under the annual bonus plan where the Committee considers it is necessary to secure a recruitment.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree the Company will meet such relocation expenses it considers appropriate and or make a contribution towards legal fees in agreeing employment terms.
The Company has not made an external appointment of an executive director for over 25 years and therefore no recruitment awards were made during the year.
All such appointments during this time have been through internal promotions, so it is challenging to set out principles for an event that has not occurred in practice.
Therefore the above principles, particularly for external appointments, represent guidelines considered reasonable by the Committee and the Committee will consider their application in practice, taking account when appropriate of evolving best practice.
50 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 Share ownership guidelines Share ownership guidelines do not form part of directors remuneration but the Committee has determined that these should be observed by executive directors.
The Chief Executives minimum shareholding is 1.5 times salary and for other executive directors 1 times salary.
An executive director has up to five years from date of appointment to acquire the minimum shareholding and only shares owned beneficially are counted.
All executive directors, including the new appointees, have met the minimum shareholding and Lord Wolfson, Christos Angelides and David Keens each hold numbers of NEXT shares with a value significantly in excess of the applicable guidelines.
Service contracts Executive directors The Companys policy on notice periods and in relation to termination payments is set out above.
Apart from their service contracts, no director has had any material interest in any contract with the Company or its subsidiaries.
Non-executive directors Letters of appointment for the Chairman and non-executive directors do not contain fixed term periods: however they are appointed in the expectation that they will serve for a minimum of six years, subject to satisfactory performance and re-election at Annual General Meetings.
Dates of appointment and notice periods for non-executive directors are set out below: Date of appointment Notice period Chairman John Barton 17 May 2006 12 months Non-executive directors Steve Barber 1 June 2007 1 month Christine Cross 19 January 2005 1 month Jonathan Dawson 13 May 2004 1 month Caroline Goodall 1 January 2013 1 month Francis Salway 1 June 2010 1 month 51 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT ILLUSTRATION OF APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY The Committees objective is to ensure that the remuneration paid to senior executives is appropriate in both amount and structure, is directly linked to the Companys annual and longer term performance and aligned with the interests of shareholders.
Careful consideration is given to ensuring there is an appropriate balance in the remuneration structure between annual and long term rewards, as well as between cash and share-based payments.
The charts below indicate the level of remuneration that could be received by each executive director in accordance with the directors remuneration policy in the first year to which the policy applies i. e. year to January 2015 at different levels of performance.
Fixed Pay LORD WOLFSON Annual bonus LTIP multiple period Fixed pay 100% Total 1,063k Mid-point 55% 30% 15% Total 1,918k median Maximum 29% 30% 41% Total 3,664k 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 AMOUNT 000 CHRISTOS ANGELIDES Fixed Pay Annual bonus LTIP multiple period Fixed pay 100% Total 793k Mid-point 62% 21% 17% Total 1,278k median Maximum 33% 22% 45% Total 2,410k 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 AMOUNT 000 Fixed Pay DAVID KEENS Annual bonus LTIP multiple period Fixed pay 100% Total 592k Mid-point 57% 24% 19% Total 1,039k median Maximum 28% 24% 48% Total 2,080k 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 AMOUNT 000 52 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 3,500 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 Fixed Pay MICHAEL LAW Annual bonus LTIP multiple period Fixed pay 100% Total 375k Mid-point 58% 23% 19% Total 650k median Maximum 29% 24% 47% Total 1,293k 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 AMOUNT 000 Fixed Pay JANE SHIELDS Annual bonus LTIP multiple period Fixed pay 100% Total 381k Mid-point 58% 23% 19% Total 656k median Maximum 29% 24% 47% Total 1,299k 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 AMOUNT 000 In the above scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: FIXED AND PERFORMANCE-RELATED PAY ASSUMPTIONS Fixed Base salary for 2014 see page 43 : Benefits as at February 2014: Pension-related salary supplements calculated at 15% of base salary for 2014: and Pension amounts based on 2013 14 single total figure of remuneration pension values for Lord Wolfson and Christos Angelides only.
Mid-point Includes the performance-related pay a director would receive in the scenario where: median 50% of maximum annual bonus is earned being the mid-point : and 1 LTIP pay out is at median and therefore 20% of the maximum award would vest.
LTIP values apply to both awards made in the year.
Maximum Includes the performance-related pay a director would receive in the scenario where performance equalled or exceeded maximum targets: 100% of the annual bonus: and 1 100% vesting of LTIP.
1 The LTIP is a share-based award and the scenario charts use the face value of shares at the date of the award and do not make any assumptions for share price movement.
The LTIP scheme does not allow for the benefit of dividend gross-up.
53 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT The table below illustrates when the various payments in the charts above would actually be made or released to executive directors.
SETTLEMENT OF REMUNERATION AWARDED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR TO JANUARY 2015 TO BE SETTLED DURING FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING JAN JAN JAN 2015 JAN 2016 2017 JAN 2018 2019 JAN 2020 Base salary Annual performance for LTIP awards vest and are LTIP shares which vested in Benefits the year to January 2015 is payable in shares if TSR is the year to January 2018 measured against targets at or above median for the are released after two year and any annual cash comparator group and retention.
For the general economic underpin Chief Executive, any bonus condition satisfied.
Directors in excess of 100% of base must retain these shares salary is deferred for two after payment of tax and years and payable in shares NIC for a further two years.
Any bonus earned by the Chief Executive for the Jan 2015 year in excess of 100% of base salary, payable in shares, is released.
54 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 NEXT EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS GENERALLY The remuneration policy operates for the executive directors and senior management of the Group.
Pay structures and employment conditions for other Group employees are driven by market and role comparatives and are also considered by the Committee to ensure that any differences for directors are justified.
Salary increases for the wider employee group are taken into consideration when determining increases for executive directors and senior management.
For the last 3 years, the base salary increases for the executive directors have generally been in line with wider company awards.
In common with executive directors, all other employees are eligible to participate in annual bonus arrangements.
The targets for these are linked to performance of the group, their operating function or personal performance.
These other employees are provided with a competitive package of benefits that includes the opportunity to participate in the Groups pension arrangements and staff discount on Group merchandise.
In addition, the NEXT Management Share Option Plan provides for options over shares, exercisable between three and ten years following their grant, to be allocated to Group employees.
This plan is primarily aimed at middle management and senior store staff.
Options are set at the prevailing market price at the time of grant, and are generally granted annually.
In order to encourage wider employee share ownership, the Company also operates all-employee Save as You Earn share schemes in the UK and Ireland, in which all permanent employees including executive directors are eligible to participate.
The Company did not consult with employees when drawing up the directors remuneration policy.
The Committee does not generally use any formal internal comparison metrics when setting directors remuneration, other than the consideration of employee pay as described above, but has sought advice from FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP from time to time on the appropriateness and competitiveness of remuneration structures in place within the Company.
No formal benchmarking exercise was undertaken during the year.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Remuneration Committee has written to and consulted with major shareholders on a pro-active basis when any significant change in remuneration policy has been considered and has taken full account of their feedback.
Shareholder views about remuneration are also communicated to the Committee on an on-going basis through inclusion in Board reports of shareholder feedback and statements made by representative associations.
In addition, the Committee Chairman and the Chairman of the Board have from time to time engaged directly with shareholders and representative bodies on any particular matters they may have raised.
Shareholders and representative bodies are able to contact the Committee Chairman directly if they have any concerns regarding remuneration.
55 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports 56 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT PART 3: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Sections of the annual report on remuneration which have been subject to audit are noted accordingly.
Lord Wolfson also waived his entitlement to the June 2010 SMP award which matured in 2013 and would have had a value at that date of 3m.
Had he not done so, Lord Wolfsons total remuneration would have been 8,435,000 for 2013 14 and 7,601,000 for 2012 13.
Andrew Varley stepped down from the Board on 31 May 2013: since then he has continued in his role as Group Property Director and received the same rate of salary.
Michael Law and Jane Shields joined the Board on 1 July 2013.
The values disclosed for salary, benefits and salary supplement for these three Directors relate only to the period of their executive directorship.
LTIP remuneration of 631,000 was paid to Andrew Varley after he stepped down from the Board and relates to the three year performance period ending July 2013.
Performance-related remuneration for Michael Law and Jane Shields in the above table includes pay relating to the period before they became executive directors but paid after their appointment.
Total emoluments paid to directors salary fees, benefits, salary supplements and annual bonus for the year to January 2014 were 5,828,000 2013: 5,245,000.
57 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Note 1: Benefits Note 5: LTIP The performance targets for the LTIP are set out on page 43.
In April 2013, the Committee reviewed the Companys Medical insurance financial performance for the three year performance period to January 2013 in light of underlying economic & NEXT clothing and other conditions the economic underpin.
During this period, the Companys compound annual growth Car cash allowance Fuel allowance Total in underlying EPS and pre-tax profits was 16.5% and 7.1% respectively, well ahead of RPI 4.1%.
Dividends had also increased in line with EPS and some 736m was returned to shareholders through share buybacks.
As 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 the Companys performance also compared favourably against its principal retail competitors and FTSE100 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 companies, the Committee confirmed that the economic underpin performance condition had been satisfied.
As Lord Wolfson 40 36 7 7 2 2 49 45 a consequence, 98% of the award for this period vested.
Christos Angelides 24 24 7 7 2 2 33 33 For the three year performance period to July 2013, TSR ranked fourth in the comparator group of 21 and 100% of the grant made in the second half of 2010 vested.
The Committee assessed the performance of the Company and David Keens 19 18 2 1 21 19 noted that EPS compound annual growth of 16.2% and pre-tax profit compound annual growth of 6.4% over the Michael Law 13 N A 2 N A 1 N A 16 N A three year period were significantly ahead of RPI 3.7%.
In addition, dividends had continued to increase in line Jane Shields 11 N A 4 N A 2 N A 17 N A with EPS and 768m had been returned to shareholders through buybacks.
The Committee also assessed earnings growth against selected comparable major UK retailers and concluded that NEXT had performed favourably.
Andrew Varley 5 19 2 7 1 7 27 Taking these factors into account, the Committee determined that the economic underpin performance condition for the award had been satisfied.
The awards were cash settled for all executives.
Note 2: Pension For the performance period to January 2014, TSR ranked third against the comparator group of 21 which corresponds Pension values are calculated using the method required by the new regulations, i. e. the total pension accrued at to an expected vesting of 100% of the maximum award made in January 2011.
In March 2014 the Remuneration January 2014 less the total pension accrued at the end of the previous year, adjusted for inflation and multiplied by Committee assessed the performance of the Company on the same basis as described above and noted that a factor of 20.
It does not necessarily represent the economic value of the pension rights accrued and this benefit EPS compound annual growth of 18.2% and pre-tax profit compound growth of 8% over the three year period were is not immediately available to the director.
In addition, dividends had continued to increase in line with EPS and 827m had been returned to shareholders through buybacks.
The Committee also assessed earnings growth against selected In summary, the pension entitlements of the directors are as follows: comparable major UK retailers and concluded that NEXT had performed favourably.
Taking these factors into account, the Committee determined that the economic underpin performance condition for the award had been Change in Increase satisfied and it should vest in full.
Transfer value accrued decrease LTIP values for the January 2014 single figure table comprise the actual value of awards that have vested and been of accrued paid for the performance period ending in July 2013, together with the estimated value of awards that will vest for the Change in annual in transfer annual performance period ending in January 2014, based on the average NEXT share price over the last financial quarter of Accrued accrued pension value less 56.47.
For January 2013 these are the actual values of the LTIP awards that vested in respect of performance periods pension Age at Years of annual annual net of directors ending in that financial year.
January pensionable pension pension inflation 2014 2013 contributions The maximum value of LTIP awards that vest for a participant in a year is capped at 2.5m.
This cap was applied 2014 service 000 000 000 000 000 000 to awards that vested in the year to January 2013 for Lord Wolfson and Christos Angelides and payments to them were reduced by 397k and 75k respectively.
For the awards vesting in the year to January 2014 the cap will again Lord Wolfson 46 19 324 16 8 4,370 4,333 1 be applied and payments to Lord Wolfson and Christos Angelides will be reduced by an estimated 1,097k and Christos 762k respectively.
Angelides 50 21 286 14 7 4,805 4,802 23 Note 6: SMP David Keens 60 25 188 6 4,832 5,696 864 The SMP was introduced to encourage ownership of NEXT shares amongst executive directors and other senior 1 Michael Law 52 25 122 3 2,295 2,335 40 executives and to act as a further retention incentive.
It also continues to support the Committees approach of 1 Jane Shields 50 19 118 3 2,003 2,013 10 ensuring close long term alignment of managements interests with shareholders.
For the 2011grant, which is due to vest inApril2014, some 25 senior executives were able to reinvest part, or all, of their annual cash bonus 1 Mic hael Law and Jane Shields were promoted to the Board on 1 July 2013.
As they were already employed by in NEXT shares.
NEXT the transfer value disclosed above is calculated at the year start.
The performance targets for the SMP are set out on page 68.
SMP values for January 2014 assume a maximum Years of pensionable service shown above may include bought-in service from the transfer of other pension vesting in April 2014 and are based on the average NEXT share price over the last financial quarter of 56.47.
The entitlements into the Plan.
Directors pension arrangements are subject to the same actuarial reduction as other strong growth in EPS means the maximum performance target for the SMP has been exceeded and thereforethe employees on termination or early retirement.
2011SMP will vest in full in April2014, subject to the continued employment of participants.
Executive directors will no longer be granted awards under the SMP after January 2014 and participation will be Note 3: Salary supplement in lieu of pension restricted to senior executives below Board level.
Supplements of 15% of base salary are paid in lieu of pension provision after the directors became deferred As noted below the Single Figure of Remuneration table, Lord Wolfson waived his entitlement to the April 2011 SMP members of the defined benefit section of the NEXT Group Pension Plan.
David Keens, Jane Shields and Andrew award and to the June 2010 SMP award.
In respect of the SMP award which will vest in April 2014, the estimated Varley received this supplement from 2011, Michael Law from April 2012 and Lord Wolfson and Christos Angelides total 2014 pre-tax value for the other executivedirectors is 6.2m, of which 3.7m 60% derives from the growth in from November 2012.
NEXTs share price since investment in 2011.
Note 4: Annual bonus The SMP values for January 2013 are actual values at the date of vesting.
The performance targets for the annual bonus are set out on page 43.
For the year to January 2014 actual pretax EPS achieved was 460.0p, growth of 17.6%.
Accordingly, a bonus of 150% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for the other executive directors was earned.
To provide a retention element in the case of the Chief Executive, any annual bonus in excess of 100% of base salary is payable in shares, deferred for a period of two years and subject to forfeiture if he voluntarily resigns prior to the end of that period.
Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT Executive directors external appointments No current executive director holds any non-executive directorships outside the Group.
Andrew Varley, who stepped down from the Board in 2013, is a non-executive director of LondonMetric Property plc and the Committee approved his retention of the directors fee of 50,000 per annum for this appointment.
PENSION ENTITLEMENTS AUDITED In October 2013 all active members of the NEXT Group Pension Plan the NEXT Plan, were transferred to the new 2013 NEXT Group Pension Plan the 2013 Plan so that pensioners of the NEXT Plan could be issued with individual policies with Aviva.
Most deferred pensioners and pensioners who had not previously been subject to a buy-in through Aviva were also transferred to the 2013 Plan.
Benefits within the 2013 Plan mirror those in the NEXT Plan.
Executive directors are now members of the 2013 Plan which has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs and consists of defined benefit and defined contribution sections.
The trustee of both Plans is a limited company, NEXT Pension Trustees Limited the Trustee.
The Board of the Trustee includes members of the 2013 Plan, a pensioner member and a Chairman who is an independently appointed person with no other association with NEXT.
Two of the directors are member nominated directors and cannot be removed by NEXT: the other directors, including the independent director, are appointed by and can be removed by NEXT.
All directors of the Trustee receive a fee for their services, including those directors who are also employees of NEXT.
No director of the Company is a director of the Trustee.
The Plans investments are kept separate from the business of the NEXT Group and the Trustee holds them in separate trusts.
Responsibility for investment of the Plans funds has been delegated to professional investment managers.
The Group operates a salary sacrifice scheme whereby members from either section can elect to receive a reduced gross salary in exchange for enhanced employer pension contributions.
The participation of members in the salary sacrifice scheme does not result in any overall increase in costs to the Group.
Defined contribution section Employees of the Group can join the defined contribution section of the 2013 Plan.
Members elect to pay either 3% or 5% of their pensionable earnings which is matched by the Company.
For death prior to retirement, a lump sum of three times the members base salary at the previous April is payable along with the current value of the members fund.
58 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 Defined benefit section The defined benefit section was closed to new members in 2000.
In 2012 the Group reviewed this section for remaining employee members and following a consultation process the future accrual of pension benefits has been based on pensionable salary frozen at October 2012, rather than final earnings.
In addition, those employees can elect to receive up to a 15% salary supplement or additional contributions to the defined contribution section.
The defined benefit section now provides members with a retirement benefit of one sixtieth or one eightieth depending on the members chosen contribution rate of pensionable earnings at October 2012 for each year of pensionable service.
Lord Wolfson, Christos Angelides and a small number of senior employees, on completion of at least 20 years pensionable service at age 65, receive a retirement benefit of two-thirds of pensionable earnings at October 2012, which accrues uniformly throughout their pensionable service.
The deferred pensions for David Keens, Jane Shields and Michael Law are based on their pensionable earnings at the time they became deferred pensioners and accrued uniformly throughout their pensionable service.
The defined benefit section provides a lump sum death in service benefit and dependants pensions on death in service or following retirement.
Pensions are only payable to deceased members children after death in service.
In the case of ill-health retirement, only the accrued pension is payable.
All benefits are subject to 2013 Plan limits.
Increases to pensions in payment are at the discretion of the Trustee although pensionable service post-1997 is subject to limited price indexation.
From 2006, sales and profit related bonuses were excluded from pensionable earnings and the normal retirement age under the Plan was increased from 60 to 65.
There are no additional benefits which become receivable by a director in the event of early retirement.
Members contribute 3% or 5% of pensionable earnings, whilst the Company currently makes contributions at the rate of 17.5%.
The last full triennial valuation of the NEXT Plan was carried out as at March 2013, and the first triennial valuation of the 2013 Plan was carried out as at October 2013.
As calculated in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, the surplus in the 2013 Plan at January 2014 was 70.3m: further details are given in Note 21 to the financial statements.
Certain members including Lord Wolfson and Christos Angelides whose accrued or projected pension fund value exceeds their personal lifetime allowance are provided with benefits through an unfunded, unapproved arrangement.
The relevant members contribute towards the additional cost of providing these benefits by a payment of 5% on all pensionable earnings.
Since April 2011, where existing members have reached either the annual or lifetime pension contributions limits, the Company has offered those members the choice of leaving the defined benefit section and either joining the defined contribution section with an enhanced Company contribution or taking a salary supplement, in both cases equal to 10% or 15% of their salary depending on their existing contributions and benefits.
Auto-Enrolment Following the introduction of Auto-Enrolment A-E in 2012, most employees now have the option of joining the 2013 Plan, the statutory A-E plan or opting out of pension provision through the Company.
Contributions to A-E commenced in February 2013.
59 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDING AND SHARE INTERESTS AUDITED Directors interests The Company has a formal share ownership requirement for executive directors, as set out on page 51.
All executive directors have met this requirement.
2 The LTIP and SMP amounts above are the maximum potential awards that may vest subject to performance conditions described on pages 42 to 45.
3 Executive directors can participate in the Companys Sharesave scheme see details on page 46 and the amounts above are the options which will become exercisable at maturity.
4 As disclosed on page 39 Lord Wolfson has waived his potential entitlement under the 2011 SMP 67,098 options.
5 Andrew Varley stepped down from the Board in May 2013.
The Companys 2013 5.25% corporate bonds were redeemed during the year so David Keens no longer has a beneficial bond holding 2013: 83,000 nominal value.
Save for the waiver of Lord Wolfsons 2011 SMP entitlement, there have been no other changes to directors interests in the shares of the Company from the end of the financial year to 19 March 2014.
Full details of directors interests in the shares and share options of the Company are contained in the Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection.
60 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 The table below summarises those share awards made to executive directors that have not yet vested or, in the case of awards made under historic share option schemes, have not yet been exercised.
2 For LTIP awards, the date in this column is the end of the three year performance period.
Actual vesting will be the date on which the Committee determines whether any Performance Condition has been satisfied.
3 The market value of shares at the time the deferred bonus vested was 44.08.
4 For LTIP awards made prior to February 2014 the maximum value of LTIP awards that vest for a particular year is capped at 2.5m.
The cap was applied to the awards that vested in the year to January 2013 for Lord Wolfson and Christos Angelides.
The impact of this cap was to reduce the shares vested by 9,196 and 1,735 respectively.
5 See page 57 for details of the performance conditions and vesting levels applicable to the LTIP schemes vesting in the year.
6 The LTIP price at award date is NEXTs average share price over the three months prior to the start of the performance period.
7 Christos Angelides, David Keens and Andrew Varley exercised their SMP options at the date of vesting when the market price for the shares was 45.58.
8 The market price for the shares at the date of Sharesave exercise was 54.00 for Lord Wolfson and Jane Shields and 54.95 for David Keens.
9 Within the above table, all awards are subject to pre-vesting performance conditions except for Sharesave options and Deferred Bonus Shares.
63 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT The LTIP performance periods which mature after January 2014 are not yet complete and no entitlement has yet been earned.
A charge of 26,845,000 for the year 2013: 23,368,000 has been made in the accounts in respect of these LTIP grants, of which approximately 10,962,000 2013: 9,554,000 related to the executive directors.
For all LTIP participants, the total maximum shares receivable at January 2013 was 1,084,471 January 2012: 1,364,175.
During the year, grants over 385,956 shares vested 2013: 517,192, grants over 52,296 shares, including 10,931 shares subject to the maximum cap, lapsed 2013: 57,545 in total, including 23,344 capped shares and further grants over 217,087 shares were issued 2013: 295,033.
At January 2014 the total maximum shares receivable was 863,306 excluding the impact of any cap on the total value which may apply with an average remaining contractual life of 1.6 years 2013:1.6 years.
The aggregate gains of directors arising from the exercise of options granted under the SMP and Sharesave scheme and LTIP awards that vested in the year totalled 14,150,000 2013: 7,011,000.
SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED DURING THE YEAR TO JANUARY 2014 AUDITED LTIP Face value In respect of the LTIP awards granted during the year to January 2014, the maximum face value of awards i. e. the maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance measures are met multiplied by the average share price used to determine the award is summarised below: Mar 2013 Sep 2013 Total 000 000 000 Lord Wolfson 729 729 1,458 Christos Angelides 397 397 794 David Keens 365 365 730 1 Michael Law 180 225 405 1 Jane Shields 180 225 405 2 Andrew Varley 271 271 542 1 March 2013 award granted prior to promotion to Executive director and therefore at 60% of annual salary.
2 LTIP award prior to Andrew Varley stepping down from the Board.
Vesting if minimum 20% of the entitlement will be earned for relative TSR at median and full vesting requires performance relative TSR at upper quintile.
achieved Performance March 2013 grant: period from February 2013 to January 2016. period September 2013 grant: period from August 2013 to July 2016.
Performance The LTIP performance measures are detailed on page 43.
The Companies in the TSR measures comparator group for the awards granted during the financial year are: 1 ASOS Dixons Retail JD Sports N Brown 1 Burberry Dunelm Kesa Supergroup Carpetright Halfords Kingfisher Ted Baker Carphone Home Retail Marks & Spencer Tesco Warehouse Group Morrisons W H Smith Debenhams J Sainsbury Mothercare 1 JD Sports replaced Kesa in the comparator group for the three year performance period commencing July 2013.
64 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 SMP Face value In respect of the SMP awards granted during the financial year, the maximum potential face value of awards i. e. the maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance measures are met multiplied by the average share price used to determine the number of shares awarded is summarised below 000 Lord Wolfson 403 Christos Angelides 302 David Keens 302 1 Michael Law 108 1 Jane Shields 108 1 2013 award granted prior to promotion to Executive director and therefore a lower bonus was earned and capped.
Further details of these awards are provided on page 62.
Vesting if minimum For each investment share 0.5 matched share will be earned at the end of a three year performance performance period for fully diluted EPS for the financial year ending January 2016 of 314.5p achieved and 2 matched shares will be earned for EPS of 365.0p.
Performance February 2013 to January 2016. period Performance The SMP performance measures are detailed on page 45. measures Deferred bonus In addition to the scheme interests detailed above, any annual bonus in excess of 100% of base salary payable to the Chief Executive is deferred for a period of two years and subject to forfeiture if he voluntarily resigns prior to the end of that period.
The value of the deferred bonus 364k is included in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 56.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED There were no payments to past directors during the financial year ending January 2014.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AUDITED There were no payments made to any director in respect of loss of office.
PAY AND PERFORMANCE Performance graph The graph below illustrates the performance of the Company when compared with the FTSE All Share and FTSE General Retailers index.
These have been selected to illustrate the Companys total shareholder return performance against a wide UK index and a sector specific index for the five year period ending January 2014.
NEXT plc Performance Chart 2009-2014 Total Shareholder Return 660 580 500 420 340 260 180 100 20 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Re-based to 31 January 2009 100 NEXT FTSE General Retailers FTSE All Share 65 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT Analysis of Chief Executives pay over 5 years Single figure of total Annual bonus pay-out Financial Year to remuneration against maximum LTIP pay-out against SMP pay-out against 1 2 January 000 opportunity maximum opportunity maximum opportunity 3 2014 4,646 100% Two semi-annual Entitlement waived awards vested at 100% each, however total value capped at 2.5m 3 2013 4,630 99% Two semi-annual Entitlement waived awards vested at 96% and 98%, however total value capped at 2.5m 2012 4,106 72% Two semi-annual N A awards vested at 100% and 83%, however total value capped at 2.5m 2011 3,010 100% 65% N A 2010 2,833 100% 100% N A 1 The maximum bonus for the Chief Executive is 150% of salary.
2 The first of semi-annual, rather than annual, awards vested in July 2011 3 Lord Wolfson waived his entitlement to these SMP awards.
Had he not done so, his total remuneration would have been 8,435,000 for January 2014 and 7,601,000 for 2013.
The Remuneration Committee continues to focus strongly on the alignment of executive remuneration and long term growth in shareholder value.
The graph below charts total annual remuneration of Lord Wolfson against TSR over the last 10 years and shows that TSR grew by 440% more than the Chief Executives remuneration, or by 260% excluding the SMP waivers.
10 Year CEO Pay and NEXT TSR 700 600 500 400 8.4m 7.6m 300 200 4.6m 4.5m 4.1m 100 2.8m 3.0m 2.0m 1.9m 1.8m 1.5m 1.2m 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total Remuneration Total Remuneration before SMP waiver TSR 66 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE The table below shows the percentage changes in Lord Wolfsons remuneration i. e. salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus between 2013 14 and 2012 13 compared with the percentage changes in the average of each of those components of pay for Group employees in the UK and Eire.
This group has been selected as the most appropriate comparator and represents almost 90% of the Groups workforce.
Annual Taxable Salary bonus benefits increase % increase % increase % Lord Wolfson 2.0% 2.7% 8.9% UK Eire Employees average per FTE 2.6% 18.7% 2.2% RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The graph below illustrates for the years ended January 2014 and 2013 the relative and actual spend on total remuneration paid to all employees of the Group together with other significant distributions and payments i. e. for share buybacks and dividends.
All Employee Remuneration Compared with Other Disbursements 2014 2013 531.9m 510.1m 295.8m 241.3m 164.8m 147.7m Total wages & salaries Buybacks Dividends IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR TO JANUARY 2015 The Committee will implement the policy set out on pages 41 to 55 subject to approval by shareholders of that policy at the 2014 AGM.
The policy table sets out the performance targets for SMP and LTIP awards which will be made during the year to January 2015 and summarised below is that same information for all outstanding awards made under the LTIP and SMP schemes: LTIP Details of potential awards granted to executive directors for outstanding performance periods are as follows: Maximum potential award granted % of base salary Christos Angelides & Jane Shields & 3 year performance periods commencing Lord Wolfson David Keens Michael Law August 2011, February 2012, August 2012, and February 2013 100% 75% 60% August 2013 100% 75% 75% The comparator group for the LTIP three year performance periods ending January 2015, July 2015, January 2016 and July 2016 is the same as the group detailed on page 64.
For the three year performance period ending July 2014, HMV was included in place of Dunelm.
67 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT Share Matching Plan Vesting of awards is dependent solely on achieving the fully diluted post-tax EPS targets detailed below.
Required fully diluted EPS pence Date of grant For 0.5:1 match For 1:1 match For 2:1 match April 2011 for this award the matching 231.3 240.2 258.1 ratio is after grossing up for income tax and employees national insurance April 2012 for this award no grossing up 267.2 281.5 310.2 was applied prior to the matching award April 2013 for this award no grossing up 314.5 331.3 365.0 was applied prior to the matching award These targets require a minimum three year growth in EPS of 12% before any shares vest and a maximum award is only achieved if EPS growth reaches 25% 2011 award and 30% 2012 and 2013 awards over three years.
The effective matching ratio will be calculated on a straight line basis for EPS falling between each of the threshold points.
Details of the calculation of fully diluted EPS are provided in Note 9.
Dilution of share capital by employee share plans The Company monitors and has complied with dilution limits in its various share scheme rules and has not issued a significant number of new or treasury shares in satisfaction of share schemes in the last 10 years.
Share-based incentives are usually satisfied from shares purchased and held by the ESOT see Note 26.
CONSIDERATION OF MATTERS RELATING TO DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Remuneration Committee During the year the Committee comprised the following independent non-executive directors: Jonathan Dawson Committee Chairman Steve Barber John Barton Christine Cross Francis Salway Caroline Goodall The Committee met six times during the year under review.
All meetings were fully attended except that Christine Cross and Jonathan Dawson were each unable to attend one meeting.
Role of Remuneration Committee The Committee determines the remuneration of the Groups Chairman and executive directors, and reviews that of senior executives.
It is also responsible for determining the targets for performance-related pay schemes, approves any award of the Companys shares under share option or incentive schemes to employees and oversees any major changes in employee benefit structures.
The Committee members have no conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no director is permitted to be involved in any decisions as to his or her own remuneration.
The remuneration of non-executive directors is decided by the Chairman and executive directors of the Board.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
co. uk or on request from the Company Secretary.
68 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 Assistance to the Committee During the period the Committee received input from the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Aon Hewitt and FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP also provided independent external advice, mostly of a technical nature and related to share plans and the implementation of the new Directors Remuneration reporting regime.
These advisers have no other connection with the Company and were appointed by the Committee based on their expertise in the relevant areas of interest.
Based on the nature of the advice, the relatively small fees and no other connection existing with these advisers, the Committee was satisfied that the advice received was objective and independent.
 provided independent verification services of total shareholder returns for NEXT and the comparator group of companies under the long term incentive plan.
Each of these firms is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group, being the professional body for remuneration consultants and have confirmed to us that they adhere to its code of conduct.
During the year Aon Hewitt, FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP and , were paid less than 20k each and their fees were charged at an hourly rate.
VOTING AT GENERAL MEETING A resolution to approve the directors remuneration report was passed at the Companys 2013 AGM.
Of the total votes cast 109m, 99.7% were voted for the resolution and 0.3% against: 1.8m votes were withheld which represented 1.1% of the total number of shares in issue at the date of the AGM.
% % Total Votes Votes Votes For For Votes Against Against Cast Withheld To approve the directors remuneration report 108,929,272 99.7% 357,212 0.3% 109,286,484 1,837,922 On behalf of the Board Jonathan Dawson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 69 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports
