Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 87 Directors remuneration policy This sets out the remuneration policy the Policy for Risk management the Board which, if approved by shareholders at the AGM, The committee will review incentive arrangements regularly willtake effect from the date of that meeting and will be to ensure that they comply with the risk management effective until the Companys 2018 AGM, unless a further systems, and that controls are operating effectively.
The policy is proposed by the Company and approved by committee also ensures that inappropriate operational or shareholders in the meantime.
financial risk-taking is neither encouraged nor rewarded through the Companys remuneration policies.
Instead, Policy coverage asensible balance will be struck between fixed and variable This policy applies automatically to the following: 1 all pay, short and long term incentives and cash and equity.
executive directors of the Company and the company secretary, 2 any other senior members of the executive The committee has access to the Audit Committee and management of the Group, 3 any other member of the senior executive management as and when required to executive management of the Group as may be required discuss any matters of risk assessment.
bythe Board, and 4 any grant of shares, options or similar Nostrum operates in an industry that is inherently subject securities or rights relating to more than 10,000 Company to operational risks.
Particular emphasis is therefore shares.
placed on ensuring that health and safety best practice is Policy objectives reinforced by this policy.
The committee consults regularly This policy is designed to: to ensure that this is the case.
3URYLGH D VWUXFWXUH DQG OHYHO RI SD WKDW DWWUDFWV DQG Ongoing review of policy retains high calibre directors, managers and employees The committee will periodically review whether this policy capable of delivering the Companys strategic objectives.
Any actions arising from this review will be assigned to an appropriate person with a 3URYLGH FOHDU DQG WUDQVSDUHQW SHUIRUPDQFH LQFHQWLYHV deadline to report back to the committee.
The level and in a manner that is consistent with best practice and structure of the compensation system will also be reviewed aligned with the interests of the Companys shareholders.
$OLJQ WKH UHPXQHUDWLRQ RI H[HFXWLYHV DQG VHQLRU The remuneration policy table managers with the interests of the Companys The table on page 88 sets out the key components of the shareholders, and ensure that rewards are justified reward package for executive directors.
QVXUH WKDW WKH SD RI WKH H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV DQG VHQLRU members of the executive management takes into account: i pay and conditions throughout the Company: and ii corporate governance best practice including health & safety, environmental, social and governance risks.
Peer group For the purposes of benchmarking appropriate compensation, the committee currently regards the following companies as the most relevant peer group for Nostrum: 76 FRPSDQLHV RI D VLPLODU VL]H WR 1RVWUXP 2LO DQG JDV 3 FRPSDQLHV JOREDOO ZKLFK FRPSHWH forscarce skills within the industry.
&RPSDQLHV RSHUDWLQJ SUHGRPLQDQWO LQ WKH 68 whichcompete for expatriate and local staff.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 88 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Directors remuneration policy Executive Directors remuneration policy table Element of pay Purpose and Maximum Operation Performance link to strategy opportunity criteria 7R SURYLGH 7KHUH LV QR %DVH VDODU LV UHYLHZHG DQQXDOO DQG 1RQH Base pay marketprescribed fixed for12 months.
competitive base maximum annual salaries.
The Committee takes into account remuneration levels at peer group companies together with the performance of the Company and each individuals personal contribution.
7R UHIOHFW PDUNHW 7KH DJJUHJDWH %HQHILWV LQFOXGH 1RQH Benefits practice and value of such medical provided in benefits should life insurance linewith peer not constitute companies.
a significant permanent health insurance long proportion of term disability or income protection any employees insurance compensation.
a company car is provided to the CEO [HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV, Q JHQHUDO 7KH DQQXDO ERQXV LV GHWHUPLQHG RRG SHUIRUPDQFH DVbGHWHUPLQHGb Annual may beeligible maximum by reference to performance in the at the Boards discretion.
In exercising for anannual cash opportunity prior calendar year.
its discretion to determine whether bonus bonus for good of 40% of there has been good performance by $QQXDO ERQXVHV DUH JHQHUDOO SDLG performance base salary executive directors the Board shall have incash inAugust of each year.
regard primarily to the extent to which at the Boards the performance target set by the Board $Q ODUJHU ERQXV discretion.
for such executive directors have been will be set based achieved.
on specific medium term 7DUJHWV IRU ERQXVHV DUH WKRVH WR ZKLFK objectives that individuals can personally contribute by have been agreed strong performance and not based on in advance by the macro variables such as market cap, committee.
that are not within the control of individuals.
7KH %RDUG SODFHV 6KDUH DZDUGV ZLOO OLDQ PSOR HH %HQHILW 7UXVWHH LPLWHG Phantom great importance only be made administers the Plan and is responsible on minimising on the basis of for granting rights under the Plan.
share option dilution of existing achieving concrete DFK ULJKW HQWLWOHV KROGHUV WR UHFHLYH shareholders.
long term onexercise, a cash amount equal to the plan Share awards will objectives defined excess of the market value on the therefore only be in advance by the exercise date of the ordinary shares of made to senior committee.
Share the Company to which it relates over management awards will vest a base value set at the date of grant.
who are able to over several years.
$OO H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV RI WKH &RPSDQ make a material are eligible to participate in the Plan at contribution to the discretion of the Board.
shareholder value that substantially $ZDUGV YHVW RQ WKH EDVLV GHVFULEHG exceeds the value in the notes opposite.
of any share awards RQJ WHUP REMHFWLYHV DUH WR EH UHYLHZHG made.
atevery committee meeting to ensure that they are appropriate, relevant and rigorous.
6KDUH DZDUGV PDGH LQ IXWXUH PD EH reduced at any time prior to vesting, at the discretion of the committee, following events such as but not restricted to a material misstatement of results, failure of risk management, breach of health and safety regulations or serious reputational damage to the Company.
$OLJQV LQWHUHVWV [HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV 7KH &RPPLWWHH PRQLWRUV WKH KROGLQJV Shareholding of executive are encouraged to of executive directors.
directors with maintain a holding those of in the Company to shareholders.
align their interests with shareholders.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 89 Phantom share option plan whether any options will be issued under the Phantom The Company operates the Plan in accordance with Share Option Plan in 2015 as described in the Executive thePlanrules, the Listing Rules, the Disclosure and Directors remuneration policy, option awards will only be Transparency rules and other applicable rules.
In order made on the basis of achieving concrete long term toretain talent, options are generally granted in tranches objectives defined in advance by the committee and will exercisable at the following times: vest over several years : and DV WR RI WKH RUGLQDU VKDUHV LQ UHVSHFW RI ZKLFK DQ ii as at the date of this annual report, any options vesting in option is granted, from the first anniversary of the date 2015 in respect of awards made from prior years would not ofgrant: generate proceeds to the executive directors at the current share price.
DV WR D IXUWKHU RI WKH RUGLQDU VKDUHV LQ UHVSHFW RI which an option is granted, from the second anniversary Kai-Uwe Kessel, Chief Executive Officer of the date of grant: amounts in USD thousand 1,600 DV WR D IXUWKHU RI WKH RUGLQDU VKDUHV LQ UHVSHFW RI 1,350 which an option is granted, from the third anniversary 1,400 1% 1,207 ofthe date of grant: 1% 28% 1,200 968 20% DV WR D IXUWKHU RI WKH RUGLQDU VKDUHV LQ UHVSHFW RI 1% 1,000 which an option is granted, from the fourth anniversary 99% 79% 71% 800 ofthe date of grant: and 600 DV WR WKH UHPDLQLQJ RI WKH RUGLQDU VKDUHV LQ UHVSHFW 400 of which an option is granted from the fifth anniversary 200 ofthe date of grant.
0 The Board retains discretion over a number of areas relating Minimum On target Maximum to the operation and administration of the Plan, which include, but are not limited to: i who participates: ii the Salary Bonus Benets timing of the grant of award: and iii the size of the award.
Frank Monstrey, Chairman of the Board Treatment of existing arrangement amounts in USD thousand For the avoidance of doubt, authority is given to the 1,600 Company to honour any commitments entered into with 1,400 current or former directors notwithstanding the approval 1,275 ofthe Policy.
This will last until the existing incentives vest 1,200 1,138 29% or lapse or the benefits of any contractual arrangements 20% 1,000 911 no longer apply.
800 100% 80% 71% Remuneration scenarios for executive directors 600 The bar charts below provide estimates of the potential 400 remuneration of the executive directors for 2015.
Three 200 scenarios are presented for each executive director: i minimum remuneration, reflecting no bonus award: 0 Minimum On target Maximum ii on target remuneration, where the Boards expectations for the executive directors performance have been met and a bonus of 25% of base salary is awarded: Salary Bonus and iii maximum remuneration, where the Boards Jan-Ru Muller, Chief Financial Officer expectations for good performance by the executive amounts in USD thousand director have been exceeded and a bonus of 40% of base salary is awarded.
At present, the executive directors do 1,600 notreceive any pension or any long term compensation.
1,400 According to the policy of the Boards, benefits are not 1,200 expected to be a significant component of remuneration.
1,000 In2015, only Mr Kessel is expected to receive benefit 790 800 payments directly.
Benefits are not paid to Mr Monstrey and 705 29% 600 564 20% Mr Muller.
Instead, Mr Monstrey and Mr Muller are paid 100% 80% 71% abase salary out of which they may arrange any benefits 400 themselves.
200 The bar charts below do not include any amounts in relation 0 Minimum On target Maximum to the Phantom Share Option Plan because: i as at the time of this annual report the Board is not able to determine Salary Bonus Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 90 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Directors remuneration policy Recruitment Service agreements The committee expects any new executive directors to be Summary details of each directors service agreement are engaged on terms that are consistent with this Policy but as follows: the committee acknowledges that it cannot always predict Service Salary as at the circumstances under which any new executive director agreement 1 January 1 date 2015 US$ may be recruited and so accordingly, in each case, the committee will consider: Frank Monstrey 19 May 2014 911,216 Kai-Uwe Kessel 19 May 2014 955,996 7KH REMHFWLYH RI DWWUDFWLQJ PRWLYDWLQJ DQG UHWDLQLQJ WKH Jan-Ru Muller 19 May 2014 564,409 highest calibre directors in a manner that is consistent with best practice and aligned with the interests of the 1 The executive directors are remunerated in EUR, the EUR amounts are converted to USD using EUR USD exchange rate 1.33.
The appointment of each of the executive directors 6DODU EHQHILWV DQQXDO ERQXV DQG ORQJ WHUP LQFHQWLYHV continues until the Companys AGM and their ongoing will be determined within the framework of the appointment is subject to being re-elected as a director remuneration policy table on page 88. at each subsequent AGM.
Each executive director may :KHUH DQ LQGLYLGXDO ZRXOG EH IRUIHLWLQJ YDOXDEOH be required to resign at any time in accordance with the remuneration in order to join the Company, the need to Companys Articles or for any regulatory reason such as retain flexibility should be considered in order for the therevocation of any approvals required from the Financial committee to be able to set base salary at a level Conduct Authority FCA.
The Company may lawfully necessary to facilitate the hiring of the highest calibre terminate the executive directors employment in the candidates including awards or payments to compensate following ways: for remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving DW DQ WLPH XSRQ PRQWKV ZULWWHQ QRWLFH aprevious employer.
The committee would require reasonable evidence of the nature and value of any ZLWKRXW QRWLFH LQ FLUFXPVWDQFHV ZKHUH WKH &RPSDQ forfeited compensation and would, to the extent is entitled to terminate for cause.
practicable, ensure any compensation awarded was no The lawful termination mechanisms described above are more valuable than the forfeited award.
without prejudice to the employers ability in appropriateXGJHPHQW ZLOO EH H[HUFLVHG WR GHWHUPLQH WKH circumstances to terminate in breach of the notice period appropriate measure of compensation for any forfeited referred to above, and thereby to be liable for damages award by taking account of relevant factors such as the tothe executive director.
value of any lost award, performance conditions and the The executive directors are not permitted to take up any time over which they would have vested or been paid.
office or employment with, or have any direct or indirect :KHUH DQ H[LVWLQJ HPSOR HH RI WKH &RPSDQ LV SURPRWHG interest in any firm or company which is in direct or indirect to the Board, the Company will honour any commitment competition with the Company or any other member of to remuneration made in respect of a prior role including theGroup or any company in which any member of the any outstanding awards of options under the Plan.
Group has an interest, without the consent of the Board.
7KH QHHG LQ RUGHU WR UHFUXLW WKH EHVW FDQGLGDWHV IRU In addition, the executive directors are subject to certain theCompany to offer forms of sign-on remuneration restrictive covenants in their service agreements relating thenecessity and level of which will depend on toshare dealings and non-competition and non-solicitation circumstances.
covenants in relation to relevant Group companies for sixmonths from the date of termination of the relevant :KHUH DQ LQGLYLGXDO LV UHORFDWLQJ LQ RUGHU WR WDNH XS D executives service contract.
role, the Company may provide certain one-off benefits including, but not limited to, reasonable relocation Copies of the executive directors service agreements expenses, accommodation, housing allowance and andthe non-executive directors letters of appointment assistance with visa applications.
areavailable for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
In making any decisions on remuneration for new joiners the committee will endeavour to balance the expectations of shareholders with current market and corporate governance best practice and the requirements of any newjoiner and would strive to pay no more than is necessary to attract the right talent to the role.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 91 Payments for departing executive directors Provision Policy Notice period and PRQWKV QRWLFH IURP WKH &RPSDQ WR WKH H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRU compensation for loss of 8S WR PRQWKV EDVH VDODU LQ OLQH ZLWK QRWLFH SHULRG 1RWLFH SHULRG SD PHQWV ZLOO HLWKHU office in service contracts be made as normal ifthe executive director continues to work during thenotice period or ison gardening leave or they willbe made as monthly payments in lieu of notice subject tomitigation if alternative employment isfound.
Treatment of annual 1R HQWLWOHPHQW bonus on termination Treatment of unvested $Q H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV DZDUG ZLOO JHQHUDOO ODSVH WR WKH H[WHQW WKH KDYH QRW YHVWHG RQ WKH share option awards date of voluntary cessation of employment and any portion that remains outstanding but unexercised after 12 months following such cessation will lapse.
In particular circumstances, an arrangement may be agreed to facilitate the exit of a particular individual.
Any such arrangement would be made bearing in mind the desire tominimise costs for the Group and only in circumstances where it is considered in the best interests of shareholders.
Non-executive directors remuneration policy table Fee structure Approach to setting fees Other remuneration 1RQ H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV 7KH FKDLUPDQ RI WKH %RDUG %XVLQHVV H[SHQVHV LQFXUUHG LQ UHVSHFW RI WKH receive a fixed annual fee and the executive directors performance of a non-executive directors duties will for their directorship.
determine the remuneration be reimbursed by the Company.
Such expenses could of all non-executive include travel between the home and office or $GGLWLRQDO DQQXDO IHHV directors, including between the home and the location of a Board are payable to any director members of or committee meeting.
who serves as senior thecommittees.
independent director or as a 1RQ H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV DUH QRW HOLJLEOH WR SDUWLFLSDWH Board committee chairman.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors are not permitted to take up any office or employment with, or have any direct or indirect The Chairman and executive directors set the remuneration package for non-executive directors in line with the interest in any firm or company that is in direct or indirect competition with the Company without the consent of the non-executive directors Remuneration Policy Table above Board.
Upon termination of the appointment and where and subject to the Companys Articles of Association such termination is for any reason other than due to the theArticles.
non-executive directors gross misconduct, material breach Non-executive director appointment letters of the terms of the appointment, act of fraud or dishonesty All non-executive directors of the Company were appointed or wilful neglect of the non-executive directors duties, the on 19 May 2014.
The Company intends to comply with non-executive director will be paid a pro rated amount of provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code and their fees in respect of the period between the beginning accordingly all directors will stand for re-election by of the quarter in which termination took place and the shareholders at future AGMs until the Board determines termination date.
Otherwise none of the non-executive otherwise.
directors are entitled to any damages for loss of office and no fee shall be payable in respect of any unexpired portion Each appointment is for an initial term of three years, of the term of the appointment.
subject to being re-elected at each Annual General Meeting, save that a non-executive director or the Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company Company may terminate the appointment at any time upon We have not consulted with employees on the executive one months written notice, or that a non-executive director remuneration policy.
However, when determining the policy may be required to resign at any time in accordance with for executive directors we have been mindful of the pay the Articles of the Company, the UK Corporate Governance andemployment conditions of employees across the Code or for any regulatory reason such as the revocation Group asa whole.
of approvals required from the FCA.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views Each of the non-executive directors is entitled to an annual Senior executive management of the Company regularly fee paid quarterly and to reimbursement of reasonable meets with shareholders and solicits their views on the expenses.
There is no entitlement for non-executive Companys policies in relation to director and executive directors to participate in the Plan.
remuneration, and takes such views into account when formulating remuneration policies and remuneration levelsin specific cases.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report
