Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued COMPLIANCE WITH THE 2012 CODE AND 2014 CODE The Company has complied with the 2012 Code in respect of the Directors remuneration policy and this Directors remuneration report, to the extent explained in the Statement of corporate governance on page 66.
The 2014 Code does not apply to the Companys reporting period ended 30 November 2014.
However, the Board has, where appropriate and feasible, adopted some of the new provisions in the 2014 Code earlier than required and provides disclosure against these requirements in this Directors remuneration report.
Clawback and Malus The Remuneration Committee reviewed the Directors remuneration policy and existing remuneration arrangements in light of the proposed changes under the 2014 Code.
As noted in the Directors remuneration policy, all of the rules of the Executive Director share schemes and incentives contain clawback and malus provisions or equivalent bad leaver provisions, which allow the Company to potentially recover sums paid or withhold payment of any amount in certain circumstances.
To this extent, the Company is compliant with the new provisions of the 2014 Code.
Deferral The 2014 Code provides that for share schemes, directors should be required to hold shares for a period after vesting or exercise including for a period after leaving the Company.
While some of the share schemes do not contain any requirements for share deferral or additional holding periods, the Remuneration Committee feels that their absence is materially mitigated by the existing large shareholdings held by the Executive Directors in the Company and by the lengthy five-year vesting period that applies to the GIP.
Such factors help create a longer-term focus for the business from the Executive Directors and stronger alignment with shareholders.
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT INTRODUCTION This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out the Companys policy for the remuneration of its Directors.
The Directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting which took place on 7 May 2014 and took effect from that date.
Since then the Remuneration Committee reviewed the Directors remuneration policy and concluded that it remained appropriate for the foreseeable future.
Given there were no proposals to revise the policy it remains valid and will not be put for shareholder approval at the AGM.
It is expected that the Company will next propose a resolution to approve the Directors remuneration policy at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2017, or sooner in the event of proposed revisions to the policy.
The Directors remuneration policy is extracted in full from the 2013 annual report, without amendment except: i this introduction: ii to reflect shareholder approval of the GIP and 2014 ESOS: and iii minor amendments such as page or cross references and changed defined terms.
It is in the form approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting which took place on 7 May 2014.
REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES FOR SENIOR EXECUTIVES The Directors remuneration policy and reward strategy is underpinned by the remuneration principles.
These principles relate to the core values of the Company.
The main principles of senior executive remuneration are set out below: Support long-term success and sustainable long-term shareholder value.
Be aligned to the business strategy and achievement of planned business goals.
Be compatible with the Groups risk policies and systems.
Link maximum payout to outstanding results.
Ensure that performance related pay constitutes a significant proportion of the overall package.
Provide a balance between attracting, retaining and motivating the right calibre of candidates, and taking into account the entrepreneurial culture of the business.
LINK WITH STRATEGY The Companys reward strategy continues to evolve in parallel with the Companys development.
The key objective to be achieved through the Directors remuneration policy is to support the Groups main strategic objectives of expansion and high growth.
The AIP, the LTIP and the GIP contain specific performance measures designed to support the objectives of accelerating core business performance 96 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report www.
com in the short and medium term for example, EBITDA and sales growth targets and the objectives of creating long-term success and sustainable long-term shareholder value for example, EPS target and share price growth targets.
The Directors remuneration policy, outlined on the following pages, provides the detailed structure of each element of remuneration and how each element is determined.
The remuneration package of the Executive Directors is made up of elements of fixed and variable remuneration.
Reects the value of the individual, their role, skills, Base Salary experience and contribution to the business.
Fixed Benets Aligned with all other employee arrangements.
Pension Ensures remuneration is comprehensive.
Annual Incentive Plan Incentivises achievement of annual objectives.
Deferred Bonus Aligns Director and shareholder interests by delivering Under AIP bonus payments in deferred shares.
Long-Term Incentives Incentivises generation of long-term shareholder value.
One-Off Motivates key individuals to achieve specic long-term Plans Variable targets and exceptional levels of performance.
The Remuneration Committee is mindful of the weighting of fixed and variable pay and balance of short and long-term awards, and sought to position a larger proportion of the remuneration package as equity based and performance related, in order to support the Companys strategic objectives of high growth and expansion and to create shareholder alignment.
The balance of the remuneration of the Executive Directors is set out at Illustration of Directors remuneration policy on page 110.
The Remuneration Committee introduced 97 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued share deferral in the AIP, minimum shareholding requirements and the GIP to help ensure a longer-term focus for the business from the Executive Directors.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE DISCRETION AND JUDGEMENT In formulating the Directors remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee has sought to allow it sufficient operational flexibility over Director remuneration for the next three years.
While the policy provides the boundaries for remuneration arrangements, the policy is intended to provide some isolated discretion for the Remuneration Committee to use in various circumstances relating to particular components of remuneration.
The Directors remuneration policy does not provide for the exercise of discretion over any aspect of the policy.
The Remuneration Committee may not use any discretion outside the policy without separate shareholder approval.
The Remuneration Committee operates the share schemes according to their respective rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules and other rules and regulations, where relevant.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion, in a number of regards to the operation and administration of these plans.
The discretions include, but are not limited to, those set out in the table below.
Area of discretion AIP LTIP JSOS GIP The participants Y Y Y Y The timing of grant of an award or payment Y Y Y Y The size of an award up to a predetermined maximum Y Y Y Y The determination of vesting or payment Y Y N Y Discretion required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group Y Y Y Y Determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen Y Y Y Y Adjustments required in certain circumstances for example, rights issues, corporate restructuring events and dividends Y Y Y Y Adjust or change the performance conditions if anything happens which causes the Remuneration Committee reasonably to consider it appropriate for example, Board approved strategic initiative or transaction provided that any changed performance condition will be equally difficult to satisfy as the original condition would have been had such circumstances not arisen Y Y N Y The annual review of performance measures and weighting, and targets from year to year Y Y Y N Adjustment to level of payments, even when targets met for example, to reflect individual or Company performance Y N N N Application of malus and clawback Y Y N Y In addition, the terms of the Chairmans Share Matching Award provide that the Board has discretion with respect to dealing with change of control and treatment of leavers.
The use of discretion in relation to the Companys ESOS, Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan will be as permitted under HMRC rules and the other relevant rules and regulations.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Directors remuneration report and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee may also apply judgement or a qualitative assessment, for example in assessing achievement against role specific objectives under the AIP.
98 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report www.
com DEVELOPMENT OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Shareholder context The Remuneration Committee has sought alignment between the Directors remuneration policy and shareholder interests.
When proposing changes to the Executive Directors remuneration arrangements, the Remuneration Committee has sought the views of the Companys largest shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee sought shareholder input on the Directors remuneration policy and new incentive arrangements for 2013 and 2014.
Changes have been made to incentive arrangements in response to the feedback received for example, changes to the design and performance measures for the LTIP and changes to the GIP.
The Company is committed to ongoing dialogue with shareholders on the Directors remuneration and will continue to seek their views on any significant changes to the remuneration arrangements or exercises of discretion.
Employee context The Directors remuneration policy is designed in line with the remuneration principles outlined on page 96, which reflect the remuneration principles for the Group.
A key remuneration principle for the Group is that share schemes be used to recognise and reward good performance and attract and retain employees, wherever possible and appropriate.
This is reflected by the operation of the ESOS which allows all employees an opportunity to share in the Groups success via share ownership.
This philosophy will be maintained via awards to all employees under the Share Incentive Plan, rather than the ESOS.
The remuneration arrangements for employees below Board level reflect the seniority of the role.
The components and levels of remuneration for different employees differ from the remuneration framework for the Executive Directors.
The Group operates some tailored bonus and long-term incentive arrangements for certain groups of employees, but has not adopted a universal approach to these elements of remuneration for all employees.
The Remuneration Committee receives an annual report from management on Group-wide remuneration.
This review covers changes to pay, benefits, pension and share schemes for all employees in the Group, including the percentage increases in base pay for monthly and hourly paid employees.
The Remuneration Committees work includes monitoring and commenting on the level and structure of remuneration for the Management Committee in relation to various changes to base pay and incentive plans.
This provides some of the context for the Remuneration Committees decisions concerning changes to base pay and other elements of remuneration for the Executive Directors.
The Company did not consult with employees when drawing up the Directors remuneration policy, nor take into account any remuneration comparison measurements.
99 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE: ELEMENTS OF DIRECTOR REMUNERATION The Directors remuneration policy as it applies to the Executive Directors consists of the elements set out in the table below: Purpose and link Recovery or to strategy How it operates Performance conditions Maximum opportunity withholding Fixed pay Base pay Paid monthly in cash.
To avoid setting the expectations No contractual Attract and retain the of Executive Directors and other provisions for Reviewed annually by the Remuneration right calibre of senior employees, no maximum salary is set clawback or Committee, with any changes normally executive required under the policy.
becoming effective in April each year.
to support the longmaximum salary increases for Executive The review takes into account a number term interests of the Directors will be within the normal of factors including: the Groups annual business.
percentage range and guidelines review process, business performance, that are applied to the monthly paid total remuneration, appropriate market employees of the Company in that year.
data for comparable roles for companies Where appropriate and necessary, of equivalent size and complexity larger increases may be awarded in similar sectors and geographical in exceptional circumstances: for locations to the Company, and an example, if a role has increased individuals contribution to the Group.
significantly in scope or complexity.
Larger awards may also be considered appropriate and necessary to bring a recently appointed executive in line with the market and the other executives in the Company where their initial salary has been positioned below the market.
Benefits The Company provides a range of Not performance linked.
Benefits for Executive Directors are No contractual Attract and retain the benefits which are aligned with those set at a level which the Remuneration provisions for right calibre of senior provided to monthly paid employees.
Committee considers to be clawback or executive required These may include: private medical appropriate against appropriate malus.
to support the longinsurance, life assurance, travel insurance, market data for comparable roles term interests of the critical illness cover, travel allowance, free for companies of equivalent size business.
parking, access to financial and legal and complexity in similar sectors advice and Company-wide employee and geographical locations to the benefits including an employee assistance Company.
programme, staff product discount and subsidised staff canteens and discounts.
Any travel arrangements or travel costs required for business purposes will be provided by the Company.
Additional benefits or payments in lieu of benefits may also be provided in certain circumstances, if required for business needs.
Any benefits allowances will be paid in cash monthly and will not form part of pensionable salary.
100 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report www.
com Purpose and link Recovery or to strategy How it operates Performance conditions Maximum opportunity withholding Pension Contributions, allowances and pension Not performance linked.
Contributions to the defined No contractual Attract and retain the choices for the Executive Directors are on contribution scheme for Executive provisions for right calibre of senior the same terms as for other employees.
Directors will normally be in line clawback or executive required with the other scheme participants: malus.
Executive Directors can choose to to support the longhowever, the Remuneration participate in the defined contribution term interests of the Committee may exceed this standard Group personal pension scheme or an business.
maximum in order to be market occupational money purchase scheme.
competitive and attract and retain Where lifetime or annual pension the right calibre of senior executive allowances have been met, employer talent needed to support the long-term contributions may be paid into a interests of the business.
These Pension contributions for UK Executive will not be treated as salary for the Directors will not exceed 30% of purposes of incentive awards.
The Groups contributions under the For Executive Directors outside defined contribution scheme are set as the UK, provision for an executive a percentage of salary based on length pension will be set taking into of scheme membership.
Contributions account local market rates.
under the occupational money purchase scheme are aligned with the legislative minimum.
Variable pay: Short-term incentives Annual Incentive Measures and targets are set annually The Remuneration Committee sets The maximum bonus is 200% The AIP rules Plan AIP and bonus payments are determined by annual targets that are closely of base salary.
provide for Provide a direct link the Remuneration Committee following aligned to the delivery of the clawback and For the 2014 performance year, the between measurable the year-end based on performance Groups strategic objectives for malus for three maximum bonus is 100% of base and predictable against the targets.
years from date salary for the Executive Directors and annual Company of payment Bonus payments, if made, are payable These will be a mix of strategic 125% for the Chief Executive Officer.
and or role specific of a bonus in cash after the results of the Group and financial targets with the performance and or grant of a have been audited.
deferred award To the extent that an Executive Director For threshold performance, 25% in certain Incentivise the does not meet the minimum shareholding of the maximum opportunity exceptional achievement requirement, up to 50% of any bonus will be earned.
of outstanding payment will be deferred into shares, performance, the maximum results aligned to the vesting after a period of three years.
straight-line sliding scale applies between the threshold and the maximum.
The performance conditions for the relevant financial year are described in the Annual report on remuneration.
101 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Purpose and link Recovery or to strategy How it operates Performance conditions Maximum opportunity withholding Variable pay: Longer-term incentives Long Term Incentive An award over a fixed number of The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee may Clawback and Plan LTIP shares is granted annually.
Awards sets targets that are closely grant awards, with a maximum total malus provisions Attract, retain and made in the form of nil-cost options or aligned to the delivery of the market value of 150% of annual may be applied incentivise senior conditional share awards will ordinarily Groups strategic objectives base salary of a participant.
In the to LTIP awards executives.
vest three years from award, subject to for the performance period.
case of the Chief Executive Officer, in certain continued service and the achievement These may be a mix of strategic the maximum total market value of exceptional Align the interests of performance conditions and other and financial targets with the an LTIP Award is 200% of annual circumstances.
Dividend equivalents may be paid For threshold performance, 25% In exceptional circumstances, the in cash or additional shares on LTIP of the maximum opportunity will Remuneration Committee may awards that vest.
For stretch performance, grant awards with a maximum total the maximum opportunity market value of 300% of annual The award may be satisfied either by will vest.
Vesting will be on a base salary of a participant or, a new issue of shares, the transfer of straight-line basis between the in the case of the Chief Executive treasury shares or shares held in the threshold and the maximum.
Officer, 400% of annual base Companys EBT or by market purchase salary.
The measurement period for performance conditions will ordinarily comprise at least three financial years of the Company.
The performance conditions for the final year of the three-year vesting period are described in the Annual report on remuneration.
Joint Share The JSOS was established prior to the Interests in shares vest annually The JSOS rules contain a 7.5% Certain leaver Ownership Scheme Companys listing on the London Stock over a four-year period subject to issued share capital limit for the provisions JSOS Exchange in 2010. leaver provisions.
The participant cumulative total of awards under described on Attract, retain and benefits from the increase in the plan and the ABIs 5% and 10% page 108 The participants and Appleby Trust incentivise senior value of the shares above a in ten year dilution limit for total allow the Jersey Limited, the EBT Trustee, executives.
predetermined market price for awards, which constrain the number Company acquire separate beneficial interests in each tranche the hurdle price.
of interests that may be issued under to recover Align the interests ordinary shares of the Company.
share interests of the senior participant may lose his interest in the Awards under the JSOS will have in certain executives and the shares.
no value unless the hurdle price circumstances.
No future annual awards will be made driving share price under the JSOS to Executive Directors.
Interests in the Companys shares growth over four are granted in tranches, with years.
a different hurdle rate for each tranche.
102 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report www.
com Purpose and link Recovery or to strategy How it operates Performance conditions Maximum opportunity withholding Growth Incentive Awards will be granted on a one-off Options will be subject to a Four million shares will be awarded Clawback and Plan GIP basis.
An Executive Director will be single performance condition to to the Chief Executive Officer.
malus provisions Attract, retain and granted options over shares in the be satisfied over the five years may be applied One million shares will be awarded incentivise senior Company with a nil exercise price.
to GIP awards to each of the other participating executives.
in certain While all Executive Directors are The share price of the Executive Directors.
exceptional Align the interests eligible to participate in this plan, Company is the sole Awards to new participating circumstances.
of senior executives only the Chief Executive Officer and performance measure and Executive Directors will not exceed and shareholders, by two existing Executive Directors will will be assessed relative to the the proposed award levels to existing incentivising senior receive an initial grant.
New Executive growth of the FTSE 100 Share participants.
executives to deliver Directors may be invited to participate Index over that period.
exceptional levels of at a level dependent on the point Performance will be assessed growth and return to during the performance period at based on the three month the shareholder over which they joined.
average share price of the the long term.
To participate, the Executive Directors Company and of the FTSE 100 are required to hold a level of shares Share Index at the beginning throughout the performance period.
and end of the performance For the Chief Executive Officer, this period.
shareholding must be at least one The performance target times salary and for other Executive schedule is as follows: Directors, this shareholding must be at Growth of less than the least half times salary.
FTSE 100 Share Index plus 5% p. a. : 0% of the award vests.
Growth in FTSE 100 Share Index plus 5% p. a. : 25% of the award vests.
Growth in FTSE 100 Share Index plus 10% p. a. : 50% of the award vests.
Growth in FTSE 100 Share Index plus 15% p. a. : 75% of the award vests.
Growth in FTSE 100 Share Index plus 20% p. a. or more : 100% of the award vests.
All-employee share plans Sharesave All employees are eligible to Not performance linked.
Options may be granted at a The scheme Provide all participate in this HMRC approved maximum discount to the market rules do not employees, including employee share scheme.
The price up to a maximum amount in provide for Executive Directors, Company grants options over line with HMRC limits.
malus or the opportunity to shares in the Company to employees, clawback Employees are limited to saving a voluntarily invest in including the Executive Directors.
maximum in line with these HMRC Company shares To obtain an option an eligible limits.
and be aligned individual must agree to save a fixed with the interests of monthly amount for three years up to shareholders.
the maximum monthly amount in line with HMRC limits.
The amount saved will determine the number of shares over which the option is granted.
Options are granted at a discount to the market price at the time of grant.
Options may be exercised in a six month period three or five years from the date of grant, subject to continued service.
103 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Purpose and link Recovery or to strategy How it operates Performance conditions Maximum opportunity withholding Share Incentive Plan All employees are eligible to Not performance linked.
Maximum opportunity for awards The scheme SIP participate in this HMRC approved will be in line with HMRC limits.
rules do not Provide all employee share scheme.
The SIP provide for employees, including allows for: malus or Executive Directors, clawback the Company to grant free the opportunity to provisions.
shares to all employees receive and invest allocated on an equal basis: in Company shares all employees to buy partnership and be aligned shares monthly from their gross with the interests of salary: and shareholders.
the Company may offer matching shares to employees who purchase partnership shares.
Dividend shares are also covered by the SIP arrangements.
Executive Share All employees are eligible to If awards are made the Maximum opportunity for awards The scheme Option Scheme participate in this HMRC approved Remuneration Committee will will be in line with HMRC limits for rules do not ESOS employee share scheme and the set targets.
Targets will be the HMRC approved part of the provide for Provide all unapproved part of the scheme.
closely aligned to the delivery scheme.
malus or employees, including The Company grants options over of the Groups strategic clawback Maximum opportunity for awards Executive Directors, shares in the Company to employees.
under the unapproved part of the the opportunity to There are currently no plans to make mix of strategic and financial scheme are limited by the scheme receive Company awards to the Executive Directors under targets with the majority being rules which limit an award to 300% share options and this plan.
of annual base salary, except in be aligned with Options over shares vest on the For threshold performance, exceptional circumstances.
the interests of third anniversary of grant, subject to up to 25% of the maximum shareholders.
continued service and satisfaction of opportunity would be received.
If vested, the options may be exercised at any time between the third and tenth anniversaries of grant at the executives discretion.
2014 Executive The 2014 ESOS was approved by Same as for ESOS Same as for ESOS described Same as Share Option shareholders at the 2014 annual described above.
for ESOS Scheme 2014 general meeting.
The 2014 ESOS is described ESOS based on the ESOS, described above.
Provide all There are currently no plans to make employees, including awards to the current Executive Executive Directors, Directors under this plan.
the opportunity to receive Company share options and be aligned with the interests of shareholders.
104 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report www.
com The Directors remuneration policy as it applies to Non-Executive Directors consists of the elements set out in the table below: Purpose and link to strategy How it operates Non-Executive Director fee Paid monthly in cash.
Core element of Fee structure includes an annual base fee for a Non-Executive Director and a Senior Independent Director, remuneration, paid for and additional fees for being a Board Committee chair.
fulfilling the role in question.
Reviewed annually by the Executive Directors and Chairman, with any changes normally becoming effective in April each year.
The review takes into account a number of factors including: the Groups annual review process, business performance and appropriate market data for comparable roles for companies of equivalent size and complexity to the Company.
Non-Executive Directors are not usually eligible for annual bonus, all-employee share incentive schemes, pensions or other benefits with the exception of the staff product discount offered to all employees.
Chairman fee Paid monthly in cash.
Core element of Reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee, with any changes normally becoming effective in remuneration, paid for April each year.
Chairmans Share The Chairman is not usually eligible for annual bonus, any incentive schemes, pensions or other benefits.
Matching Award The current Chairman received a one-off initial share award upon his appointment as Chairman.
Shares To attract and retain the will not vest until the Chairman has served for three years.
The Chairman will not be entitled to sell any right calibre of Chairman shares awarded to him until the first anniversary of when he ceases to be a member of the Board.
The necessary to support the award is not subject to performance conditions.
Certain leaver provisions described on page 108 allow long-term interests of the business.
the Company to recover the award in certain circumstances.
Notes to the Policy table: 1.
No other items in the nature of remuneration are provided by the Company to its Non-Executive Directors, save for the amounts paid to Robert Gorrie as described on page 117.
The Non-Executive Directors are entitled to be reimbursed for out of pocket expenses incurred in carrying out their responsibilities to the Company.
Other than as described in the policy table, there are no components of the Executive Directors remuneration that are not subject to performance measures.
In the case of the Sharesave and SIP, these HMRC approved all-employee schemes are subject to rules constrained by legislation and so awards are made on the same terms not comprising performance conditions to all employees including Executive Directors.
Prior to the Companys listing in 2010, some option awards were made to the Executive Directors under the ESOS without performance conditions.
Although awards will not usually be made to existing Executive Directors, the rules of the ESOS and 2014 ESOS require the Remuneration Committee to impose performance conditions on any awards made to a Director under each plan.
The Chairmans Share Matching Award was a one-off award of shares made to the Chairman on appointment.
No performance conditions attached to the receipt of the award only continued service as Chairman until the end of the three-year vesting period.
In structuring the Chairmans Share Matching Award without any performance related elements, the Remuneration Committee complied with the 2012 Code and sought to ensure the Chairmans independence on appointment.
The Chairman is not entitled to sell any awarded shares until a year after he leaves the Board.
The award was approved by shareholders at the 2013 annual general meeting.
Performance targets apply to the AIP, LTIP and GIP.
a. AIP The Remuneration Committee adjusts the design including measures and weightings of the AIP each year to incentivise the delivery of key business objectives and individual performance for that financial year.
Management proposes suitable metrics and levels of performance to form the threshold and stretch levels of performance.
Any individual objectives applicable for the AIP are linked to the Executive Directors role and or his business area s and are in line with the Groups strategy.
The measurable objectives are agreed between the Executive Director and the Chief Executive Officer or in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, between him and the Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the proposed targets to assess whether they are appropriately aligned with the strategy and shareholders interests and whether the reward that would accrue to the Executive Director is appropriate in the circumstances.
Usually, full vesting will only occur where exceptional performance levels have been achieved and significant shareholder value created.
Details of the performance measures applying to the 2014 AIP are outlined in the Annual report on remuneration.
b. LTIP The Remuneration Committee reviews the design of the LTIP each year to ensure that the performance conditions remain relevant to the Companys key strategic objectives.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance measures in light of the long-term strategic plan and agrees the threshold and stretch conditions that must be achieved.
Full vesting will only occur where exceptional performance levels have been achieved and significant shareholder value created.
In light of shareholder feedback from the shareholder consultation conducted in March 2013, the Remuneration Committee revised the targets from 2013 and decided to put in place two performance objectives for the 2014 awards.
The underlying measurement period for performance conditions will ordinarily comprise at least three financial years of the Company.
In the case of the 2013 and 2014 awards the measurement period is the last financial year.
c. GIP the GIP performance measure was designed to incentivise outstanding growth in value of the Group over the five-year performance period.
The performance measure requires the growth in the Company share price to be significantly more than the growth of the FTSE 100 Share Index over that period.
This helps to ensure alignment with shareholders, as full vesting will only occur where outstanding shareholder value is created.
The GIP was approved by shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting.
The Directors remuneration policy contains formal components for short and long-term incentives with performance conditions attached.
While the Group has a policy of remunerating its employees through share scheme participation, it does not have formal arrangements for all employees akin to the components of Directors remuneration.
Senior management participate in an annual bonus plan and the long-term incentive schemes including the LTIP and JSOS, with award levels set at lower percentages of salary than those of the Directors.
The performance conditions and other terms of these schemes are the same as for the Executive Directors.
The bonus plan does not include provision for share deferral of a payment.
The Group operates some tailored bonus and long-term incentive arrangements such as the JSOS for other small groups of employees but aside from the JSOS and the all-employee share schemes the SIP, the ESOS and the Sharesave, the variable remuneration of employees is not closely aligned with that of Directors.
105 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued DIRECTOR SHAREHOLDING OBLIGATION It is the policy of the Company that the Directors are expected to build up over a period of time, and hold, a minimum level of shareholding in the Company.
This is considered an effective way to align the interests of the Executive Directors and shareholders in the long term.
These shareholding requirements are outlined in the table below.
Director Shareholding requirement Executive Executive Directors are required to hold 100% base salary 150% for the Chief Executive Officer in shares.
This can be Directors built up over three years from appointment.
Share awards may count if vesting is not subject to any further performance conditions or other conditions such as continued employment.
Share interests and share awards which are vested, but remain subject to a holding period and or clawback, may count towards the holding requirement.
Until the minimum shareholding is met, an Executive Director must defer up to 50% of any cash bonus payable under the AIP as an award of shares.
NonNon-Executive Directors are required to hold the equivalent of one years annual fee in shares.
This can be built up over Executive three years.
Directors Chairman The Chairman is required to hold the equivalent of one years annual fee in shares.
This can be built up over three years from appointment.
Should the requirement be achieved but the market value of the Companys shares subsequently fall below the required level, compliance with this requirement will be based on the higher of the original share purchase price or current market price.
APPROACH TO REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS ON RECRUITMENT Recruitment of Executive Directors When determining the remuneration of a newly appointed Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will apply a number of principles.
The Remuneration Committee will seek to align the remuneration package of a newly appointed Executive Director with the Directors remuneration policy outlined above.
However, the Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to include any other remuneration component or award in the remuneration package which it considers to be appropriate.
In determining the remuneration arrangements for a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will take into account all relevant factors including but not limited to the specific circumstances, the calibre of the individual, the market practice for the candidates location, the nature of the role they are being recruited to fulfil and any relevant market factors, including any competing offers the candidate may be considering.
The Remuneration Committee is at all times conscious of the need to pay no more than is necessary.
The Remuneration Committees considerations would be subject to the overall limit on variable remuneration outlined below.
Where promotion to an Executive Director role is from within the Company, any performance-related pay element arising from their previous role will continue on its original terms, provided such element was not made in contemplation of such person becoming an Executive Director.
To facilitate recruitment, the Remuneration Committee may, to the extent permitted by relevant plan rules or Listing Rules, make a one-off award to buy out incentives or any other compensation arrangements forfeited by the appointee on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Remuneration Committee will ensure that any such awards offered should be on a comparable basis, taking into account all relevant factors including any performance conditions, the likelihood of those conditions being met, the proportion of the vesting or performance period remaining and the form of the award.
In determining whether it is appropriate to use such judgement, the Remuneration Committee will ensure that any awards made are in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders.
In addition, one-off payments in respect of relocation or ongoing relocation allowances may be made to a newly appointed Executive Director.
However, these payments must reflect actual financial loss or cost of moving the Executive Director, their family or assets, and the market practice in the geographical location to which the Executive Director is moving to or from.
The Company may provide relocation costs by funding services or cash payment or a combination of both.
The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded upon recruitment excluding any buy out awards or costs and allowances on relocation and awards made to appointees under the GIP is 600% of base salary.
GIP awards will be subject to the award limits set out in the remuneration policy table.
106 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report www.
com Recruitment of Non-Executive Directors The remuneration package for newly appointed Non-Executive Directors will be in line with the structure set out in the remuneration policy table for Non-Executive Directors.
LOSS OF SERVICE OR TERMINATION POLICY Service contracts for Executive Directors Each of the Executive Directors is employed pursuant to a service contract with Ocado Central Services Limited.
The Directors remuneration policy provides that an Executive Directors employment may be terminated by the Company giving to the Executive Director not less than 12 months notice or by the Executive Director giving to the Company not less than six months notice.
The Directors remuneration policy provides that if an Executive Directors service contract is terminated without cause, Ocado Central Services Limited can request that the Executive Director work their notice period, take a period of garden leave or pay an amount in lieu of notice equal to one times their basic salary, benefits and pension for the remainder of their notice period.
While the service contracts do not specify this, the Companys remuneration principles provide that any payments should be reduced in certain circumstances where the Executive Directors loss has been mitigated, for example, where he moves to other employment.
The service contracts do not contain any specific provisions relating to a change of control of the business.
If employment is terminated by the Company, the Remuneration Committee retains a discretion to settle any other amounts reasonably payable to the Executive Director including legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment and obtaining independent legal advice on a settlement or compromise agreement, and the relocation costs for returning the departing Executive Director and his family to their original country of origin.
The Company may provide relocation costs by funding services, or cash payment or a combination of both.
Other than described above, there are no relevant contractual provisions that are, or are proposed to be, contained in any Executive Director service contract that could give rise to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office, but which are not disclosed elsewhere in the Directors remuneration policy.
Letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors Each of the Non-Executive Directors has a letter of appointment with the Company.
The Directors remuneration policy provides that a Non-Executive Directors appointment may be terminated by either party giving to the other not less than one month notice, or in the case of the Chairman, not less than six months notice.
Other than described above, there are no relevant contractual provisions that are, or are proposed to be, contained in any NonExecutive Directors letter of appointment that could give rise to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office, but which are not disclosed elsewhere in the Directors remuneration policy.
Payments on cessation of employment for Executive Directors The Executive Director service contracts do not oblige the Company to pay a bonus if the Executive Director is under notice of termination.
But under the rules of the AIP, the Executive Director may receive a proportion of the bonus or deferred award that the Remuneration Committee determines would otherwise have been payable or granted to him under the rules for the financial year.
The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant scheme rules, all of which have been approved by shareholders.
The table on page 108 provides a summary of these leaver provisions.
The Remuneration Committee generally has discretion to determine the treatment of a leaver, but will be conscious of the remuneration principle that it should not reward poor performance or behaviour.
Payments on cessation of service for Non-Executive Directors The table on page 108 provides a summary of the leaver provisions applicable to the Chairmans Share Matching Award.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion in defining the type of leaver category applicable to the departing Chairman.
107 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued SHARE SCHEME LEAVER PROVISIONS Remuneration element Bad leavers Good leavers JSOS If a participant is a bad leaver The participants interest shall continue to vest on the same dates i. e. he is neither a good leaver as if that participant had remained in employment so long as the nor a very bad leaver, he would participant remains a good leaver.
retain his vested interests but unvested Should the participant die before a tranche vests, the participants interests may be acquired by the EBT interest will vest entirely on the date of death.
Trustee for the lower of the market value and the initial subscription price.
In the case of a very bad leaver i. e. has or could have been dismissed for cause or is in material breach of an obligation binding after termination, both vested and unvested interests may be acquired by the EBT Trustee for the lower of the market value and the initial subscription price.
LTIP Generally, unvested LTIP awards and If a participant ceases to be an employee of the Group for a good vested LTIP options will lapse on the leaver reason e. g. ill health, injury or permanent disability, then date the participant ceases to be an his awards which have not vested will vest on the vesting date or employee.
earlier as the Remuneration Committee shall determine but only to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied subject to operation of malus and clawback provisions.
Unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise, the award will be reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed to the date of cessation of employment.
If a participant dies, his LTIP awards will vest on the date of his death and the performance conditions will not apply but unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise the LTIP award will be reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed at the date of death.
To the extent that LTIP options vest in accordance with the above provisions, they may usually be exercised for a period of 12 months following vesting and will otherwise lapse at the end of that period.
To the extent that a participant who leaves in circumstances other than dismissal for cause or who dies holding vested LTIP options, they may be exercised at any time during the usual exercise period and will otherwise lapse at the end of that period.
GIP See LTIP above, as the same leaver See LTIP above, as the same leaver rules apply.
Deferred shares Deferred share awards will lapse on An Executive Director will retain his deferred share award on ceasing under the AIP the date the Executive Director ceases employment with the Group and will receive the award at the usual to be an employee.
vesting date in accordance with the plan rules, subject to the operation of clawback and malus provisions.
All-employee share Leavers will be treated within the Leavers will be treated within the HMRC approved scheme rules.
plans HMRC approved scheme rules.
Chairmans Share If the Chairman ceases to be a If the Chairman ceases to be a Director of the Company prior to Matching Award Director of the Company prior to vesting for a good leaver reason death, illness, injury or disability or vesting for any reason other than a any other reason determined by the Board then a pro rata proportion good leaver reason, the share award of the share award will vest and the remainder shall lapse.
108 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report www.
com CHANGE OF CONTROL The incentive schemes contain change of control provisions, as set out in the relevant scheme rules.
Under the LTIP, in the event of a takeover of the Company, LTIP awards will vest early subject to: i the extent that the performance and other conditions have been satisfied at that time, ii the operation of malus or clawback, and iii unless the Remuneration Committee decides that prorating would be inappropriate in the particular circumstances prorating to reflect the proportion of the normal performance period that has elapsed at the date of that event.
Under the GIP, if there is a change of control of the Company, options may be exercised early subject to the performance target being satisfied, and in proportion to the amount of the performance period that has elapsed.
Under the AIP, deferred share awards vest early on a change of control, though the Remuneration Committee has discretion to not release the award early and instead roll the award into an equivalent award in the acquiring company.
Under the terms of the Chairmans Share Matching Award, in the event of a change of control a pro rata proportion of the share award will vest, subject to the Boards discretion to determine that a greater number of shares should vest.
Under the terms of the JSOS rules, in the event of an offer a participant may request the EBT Trustee to accept the offer with respect to shares that have vested under the JSOS.
For further information on agreements impacted by a change of control see the Directors report on page 86.
OTHER REMUNERATION External appointments for Executive Directors It is the Companys policy and a requirement of the contract of employment that the Executive Director may not take up non-executive directorships or other appointments without the approval of the Board.
Any outside appointments are considered by the Nomination Committee or the Board to ensure they would not cause a conflict of interest and are then approved by the Board.
The Board would not usually agree to an Executive Director taking on more than one non-executive directorship of a listed or public company or the chairmanship of such a company.
It is the Companys policy that remuneration earned from such appointments may be kept by the individual Executive Director.
Remuneration arrangements prior to policy The Remuneration Committee has the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Directors remuneration policy, where the terms of the payment were agreed either before the policy came into effect or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company, and in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
ILLUSTRATION OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The bar charts on page 110 provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for each of the Executive Directors based on the Directors remuneration policy outlined on pages 96 to 110.
Base salary, benefits and AIP LTIP pension Minimum Performance is below threshold on each metric.
Performance is below threshold on each metric.
Target or Threshold performance is reached on each metric.
Threshold performance is reached on each metric.
Maximum Maximum performance is achieved on each metric.
Maximum performance is achieved on each metric.
109 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued The figures use the prior year base salary and pension see 2013 annual report on pages 88 to 89 and value of benefits received for 2013 see 2013 annual report on page 89.
The performance related pay figures are based on the potential awards for 2014 see 2013 annual report on pages 102 to 103, but it should be noted that LTIP awards granted in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant.
For the purposes of illustrating the Directors remuneration policy, it is assumed that the LTIP awards granted in 2014 will also be vesting in 2014.
The impact of the GIP has not been included.
The estimated remuneration for each Executive Director is based on three different levels of performance, set out below.
In all scenarios, the impact of share price movements on the value of LTIP awards has been excluded.
TIM STEINER, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER MARK RICHARDSON, OPERATIONS DIRECTOR million million Minimum Minimum 93% 7% 93% 7% 3% 3% Target Target 39% 24% 34% 34% 25% 38% 2% 2% Maximum Maximum 28% 28% 42% 23% 29% 46% 0 0.5 1 1.5 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 Salary and Benets Pension AIP LTIP Salary and Benets Pension AIP LTIP JASON GISSING, COMMERCIAL DIRECTOR DUNCAN TATTON-BROWN, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER million million Minimum Minimum 93% 7% 97% 3% 3% 1% Target Target 39% 24% 34% 39% 25% 35% 2% 2% Maximum Maximum 28% 28% 42% 28% 28% 42% 0 0.5 1 1.5 0 0.5 1 1.5 Salary and Benets Pension AIP LTIP Salary and Benets Pension AIP LTIP NEILL ABRAMS, LEGAL AND BUSINESS AFFAIRS DIRECTOR million Minimum 93% 7% 3% Target 39% 24% 34% 2% Maximum 28% 28% 42% 0 0.5 1 1.5 Salary and Benets Pension AIP LTIP 110 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report www.
com ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 2014 INTRODUCTION This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out the Directors remuneration paid in respect of the 2014 Financial year.
It sets out actual payments to Directors and details on the link between Company performance and remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer.
This part, together with the Description of the Remuneration Committee section on pages 94 to 96 constitutes the Annual report on remuneration, and will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the Companys AGM.
HIGHLIGHTS FOR 2014 This table briefly summarises the highlights of the Directors remuneration arrangements for the Financial year.
Base pay and benefits Pension AIP Long-term incentives All-employee schemes Base pay increase of 3% No changes made to Total bonus earned Awards were granted No awards or options Company contributions to 3.6% for the Executive for 2014 based on under the LTIP and GIP.
vested under any allto pensions for Executive Directors and 22% for the 54% to 56% of target employee share schemes No LTIP awards vested Directors.
achievement resulting in during the period.
793,090 less aggregate Pay increases for the NonCertain options exercised bonus payments than Final tranche of JSOS Executive Directors.
under ESOS and 2013 for the Executive vested during the period.
Sharesave, where options No change to benefits.
No share interests were were due to expire.
sold or realised by the Executive Directors and Ongoing participation in remain in the EBT.
TOTAL DIRECTOR REMUNERATION AUDITED The total remuneration paid to all of the Directors during the period was 3,171,000 not including any amount attributable to the JSOS.
The detailed remuneration breakdown for the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors is set out separately on the next page.
111 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TOTAL REMUNERATION AUDITED The total remuneration for the period for each of the Executive Directors is set out in the table below.
Total remuneration excluding any amount attributable to the JSOS paid to the Executive Directors was 2,656,000, which was 21% lower than 2013 3,367,000.
Jason Gissing retired from the Board at the Companys annual general meeting on 7 May 2014.
Explanation of JSOS: The JSOS amounts set out in the total remuneration table represent a theoretical gain on interests in the fourth tranche of JSOS shares purchased by the Executive Directors.
None of the Executive Directors have realised any of their JSOS share interests and therefore no money has been received by any of the Executive Directors in this regard.
The JSOS scheme which was put in place prior to the Companys Admission in 2010, involves the Executive Directors investing their own funds to purchase a shared interest in the Companys shares at the market value at that time.
These investments were made in 2010 in the case of Tim Steiner, Neill Abrams and Mark Richardson and in 2012 in the case of Duncan Tatton-Brown and Mark Richardson again.
The Executive Directors invested from their own resources.
The purchased interests entitle the Executive Directors to a return only if, in the future, the share price exceeds the relevant hurdle rate.
If the share price remains below the hurdle until the end of the scheme, the Executive Directors will lose their investment.
For a detailed description of the JSOS scheme refer to pages 249 to 252 of the Prospectus.
The fourth and final tranche of JSOS shares vested in the period, on 1 January 2014.
The calculation of the amount shown in the total remuneration table is based on the Companys share price on the next trading day, 2 January 2014, being 447 pence per share.
This price was above the hurdle price of 228 pence per share for the fourth tranche and above the hurdle price of 180 pence per share in respect of the additional fourth tranche held by Mark Richardson and Duncan Tatton-Brown of JSOS share interests.
Consequently, amounts of JSOS remuneration for 2014 are shown in the total remuneration table.
This compares to zero in 2013 in respect of the third tranche of JSOS share interests, as on the equivalent vesting date in 2013 being 2 January 2013 the Companys share price was 84.75 pence per share, below the hurdle price of 208 pence per share for the third tranche and below the hurdle price of 170 pence per share in respect of the additional third tranche held by Mark Richardson and Duncan Tatton-Brown of JSOS share interests.
The third tranche of JSOS share interests at the 2013 vesting date had a value of zero and would have been rendered worthless had the share price remained at that level until the end of the scheme.
Consequently no remuneration is shown for JSOS in 2013 in the total remuneration table.
An explanation of each element of remuneration paid in the table is set out in the following section.
112 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report www.
com The Company has obtained a written confirmation from each Executive Director that they have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration from the Group, other than those already disclosed in the total remuneration table.
BASE SALARY AUDITED During the period, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the salaries of the Executive Directors.
After taking into account a number of relevant factors which are discussed in more detail below, the Remuneration Committee recommended that all basic salaries other than Jason Gissings be increased.
The following table shows the change in each Executive Directors salary.
Jason Gissing received no increase in base salary in light of his retirement on 7 May 2014.
The changes to base salary were made in line with the Directors remuneration policy.
The Executive Directors except the Chief Executive Officer received an increase in base pay of 10,000 each which was in line with the percentage salary increases for the monthly paid employees of the Group in the period.
The Remuneration Committee decided to increase the base salary of the Chief Executive Officer more significantly than this after taking into account the changes in the complexity and scale of the role due to the transaction with Morrisons, which was completed in July 2013.
The increases, which position the salaries broadly around the market median for a company of the Companys size and complexity, also aim to help retain the Executive Directors.
TAXABLE BENEFITS AUDITED The Executive Directors received taxable benefits during the period, notably private medical insurance.
The Executive Directors also received other benefits, which are not taxable, including life assurance and Group-wide employee benefits, such as an employee product discount.
The remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors do not include a company car or car cash allowance.
PENSIONS AUDITED The Company made pension contributions on behalf of the Executive Directors to the defined contribution Group personal pension scheme which is administered by Standard Life.
The employer contributions to the pension scheme in respect of each Executive Director are made in line with the Group personal pension scheme for all employees the rates being, for employees and Executive Directors joining the pension scheme before May 2013, from 3% up to 8%, and for employees joining the scheme after May 2013, from 3% up to 6%, depending on the number of years the employee or Executive Director has participated in the scheme.
The contributions during the period made on behalf of the Executive Directors were 8% of base salary, except in the case of Duncan Tatton-Brown, which was 6% of base salary during the period, and has subsequently increased to 7% effective from January 2015, in accordance with the generally applicable rules of the scheme.
These contributions were made in line with the Directors remuneration policy which allows the Company to make employer contributions of up to 30% of base salary.
During the period the Remuneration Committee reviewed this policy and the Companys pension arrangements, including the employer contribution rates for the Executive Directors.
The market data illustrated that the existing Company pension contributions are materially below the market median rate when compared with similar senior executive roles in companies of a similar size and complexity to the Company.
The Remuneration Committee recommended to the Board that all pension contribution rates for the Executive Directors not be changed.
In reaching its decision the Remuneration Committee took into account the Directors remuneration policy, relevant market data presented by Deloitte, the overall remuneration package of the Executive Directors presented by management and the recent changes made to the remuneration of the Executive Directors, including the introduction of long-term incentive arrangements.
The Companys overall policy is to seek to position a larger proportion of the remuneration package as equity-based and performance-related in order to support the Companys strategic objectives of high growth and expansion and to create shareholder alignment.
The recent introduction of the LTIP and the GIP supports this emphasis in the policy.
So while the alignment of the Companys pension arrangements with the market may become crucial in future to ensure the Company remains competitive, an increase in pension contributions for the Executive Directors was not considered appropriate at this time.
113 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued During the period, the Remuneration Committee agreed to allow pension contributions to be made to the Executive Directors as a cash allowance where the Executive Director has reached either the HMRC annual limit or HMRC lifetime allowance limit for pension contributions.
Such change was provided for in the Directors remuneration policy.
ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN AUDITED The Remuneration Committee re-examines the design of the AIP each year to incentivise the delivery of key business objectives and individual performance for that financial year.
The 2014 AIP was based on the performance targets and weightings set out below.
Financial performance measures, namely Gross sales and EBITDA, were the primary targets, with 80% of the annual bonus being determined by performance against targets set by the Remuneration Committee at the start of the financial year, by reference to the Companys budget for the period.
Of the balance, 20% related to individual objectives for each of the Directors, largely independent of the financial objectives.
Each target was discrete and could be earned separately.
The Chief Executive Officer had a maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of salary and the other Executive Directors had a maximum opportunity of 100% of salary.
Tim Steiner Duncan Tatton-Brown Mark Richardson Neill Abrams Financial objectives EBITDA % of total target 40 40 40 40 Gross sales % of total target 40 40 40 40 Individual objectives % of total target 20 20 20 20 1.
Develop strategic plans for the internationalisation of the Company 2.
Drive efficiency, Prepare and execute Improve productivity Implement capacity and financing strategy at CFC2 to recommendations increased capability to include UK agreed level of KPMG corporate Examples of business within the business and international governance review area objectives requirements 3.
Analyse and act Continue to operate Effectively lead Develop and on strategic an efficient and the technology implement a opportunities effective finance function CR policy function Financial targets and individual targets Each Executive Director had between five and eight individual objectives, with different weightings, under the plan.
They related to specific programmes relevant to each Executive Directors business area for which they have primary responsibility.
All of the Executive Directors had an individual objective which concerned the development of strategic plans for internationalising the business.
The Remuneration Committee also considered environmental, social and governance issues when setting the individual objectives, in particular for Neill Abrams who has responsibility for the Groups CR policy.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance of each Executive Director against the measurable performance metrics and based their assessment on a report by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman and on the Remuneration Committees judgement of the performance against these individual objectives.
The Groups Gross sales for the period were 1,026.5 million, which was above the threshold set under the 2014 AIP.
The Groups EBITDA for the period was 71.6 million, which was above the threshold set under the 2014 AIP.
The Remuneration Committee, in assessing performance, took into account the level of the Groups trading performance compared with UK grocery retail peers and the Groups progress against its strategic objectives.
Achievement against the objectives was between 54% and 56%.
Disclosure of targets The achievement against the AIP targets has been disclosed.
Although the Remuneration Committee is conscious of the 2014 Code requirement that performance targets should be transparent, the Remuneration Committee considers that the targets were and remain commercially sensitive to the Company and if disclosed could damage the Companys commercial interests.
The actual AIP targets, therefore, have not been disclosed.
The Remuneration Committee does not expect to disclose this information at a later date.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the targets were stretching and have been rigorously applied.
114 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report www.
com Summary of bonus earned The Remuneration Committee has, in accordance with the Directors remuneration policy and the rules of the 2014 AIP, recommended an aggregate bonus payment of 912,415 2013: 1,705,505 under the plan for the period.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the level of bonus payment appropriately reflects the performance of the business and individual performance during the period, which saw strong trading performance for the Group in a very competitive market and good progress with the development of the Groups strategic objectives.
The table below summarises the bonus payments for each Executive Director for the 2014 AIP.
The cash payments are expected to be made in February 2015.
No amount has been deferred to a later date given that under the rules of the AIP deferral does not apply as all of the Executive Directors have met the minimum shareholding requirements under the Directors remuneration policy.
Achievement against Total Maximum objectives bonus 1 Opportunity % earned Director % of salary 000 Tim Steiner 125 55.98 385 Duncan Tatton-Brown 100 54.18 184 Neill Abrams 100 54.88 156 Mark Richardson 100 54.98 187 1.
The applicable salary used for calculating the bonus payment under the rules of the 2014 AIP is the applicable base salary on the date of payment.
SHARE PLANS AUDITED Awards granted under long-term incentive plans only count towards the total remuneration figure for the period in which they vest.
Awards under most of the Companys share plans are subject to three-year vesting periods and therefore awards made or exercised during the period will not necessarily be reflected in the total remuneration figure for this period.
Further details on all the existing share incentives held by the Executive Directors are set out below.
JSOS The fourth and final tranche of JSOS shares vested in the period, on 1 January 2014.
All four tranches of the JSOS share interests in the scheme have been retained by each Executive Director and no money has been received by the Executive Directors in this regard.
An explanation of the JSOS is set out on page 112.
LTIP As the second year of operation for the LTIP was 2014, no awards vested during the period.
Therefore no value is shown in the total remuneration table for the period.
GIP The awards made under the GIP are expected to vest in May 2019 if and to the extent that the vesting criteria are met.
ESOS No awards under the ESOS vested during the period.
Accordingly, no value is shown in the total remuneration table for the period.
2014 ESOS No awards have been granted to the Executive Directors under the 2014 ESOS, and the Remuneration Committee does not have any intention of making an award of options under the 2014 ESOS scheme to the Executive Directors.
115 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued SIP Free and matching shares awarded under the SIP are subject to a three-year forfeiture period starting from the date of grant.
This means that if an Executive Director ceases to be employed by the Group during the three-year period, the free and matching shares will be forfeited.
As 2014 was the first year of operation for the SIP, no such forfeiture period had expired in respect of free or matching shares awarded to the Executive Directors.
Partnership shares purchased under the SIP are not included in the total remuneration table as these are purchased by the Executive Directors from their salary, rather than granted by the Company as an element of remuneration.
Therefore, no value is shown in the total remuneration table for the period.
Sharesave No awards under the Sharesave vested during the period.
RECOVERY OF SUMS PAID AUDITED No sums paid or payable to the Executive Directors were sought to be recovered by the Group.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TOTAL FEES AUDITED The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman during the period are set out in the remuneration table below.
With the exception of the Chairman who has received the Chairmans Share Matching Award, which is noted on page 124 and Robert Gorrie who receives other remuneration as set out below, the Non-Executive Directors received no remuneration from the Group other than their annual fee.
Lord Rose was paid 40,000 per annum for the period from appointment as an independent Non-Executive Director on 11 March 2013 to the date of becoming Chairman on 10 May 2013, and 200,000 per annum thereafter.
As explained in the 2013 annual report, the remuneration arrangements for the Non-Executive Directors except the Chairman were reviewed by the Executive Directors and the Chairman during the period.
It was recommended that all base fees and certain Board committee chairman fees be increased, with such changes to take effect in April 2014.
The following table shows the change in each Non-Executive Directors annual fees.
Committee chair Senior Independent Base element element Director element Total 000 000 000 000 Non-Executive Director 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 David Grigson 48 40 7 7 15 15 70 62 Ruth Anderson 48 40 12 10 60 50 Robert Gorrie 48 40 48 40 Jrn Rausing 48 40 48 40 Douglas McCallum 48 40 12 8 60 48 Alex Mahon 48 40 48 40 The review was carried out by the Executive Directors and Chairman in accordance with the Directors remuneration policy and accordingly took into account the increased responsibility and time commitments of the roles of the Non-Executive Directors and Board committee chairmen given the growth of the Group, the improved financial position and trading performance of the business, and the appropriate benchmark data obtained from third party providers for comparable roles for companies of equivalent size and complexity to the Company.
The Chairmans fees were not subject to review in 2014 as it was agreed on appointment that the Chairmans fee would not be reviewed by the Remuneration Committee for a minimum of three years from appointment.
116 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report www.
com OTHER REMUNERATION AUDITED In addition to the fees, the Non-Executive Directors are entitled to the staff product discount in line with the Groups employees.
The Chairman received the Chairmans Share Matching Award on becoming Chairman in May 2013.
The details of the award are outlined on page 124.
Robert Gorrie provides consultancy services to the Group and chairs the meetings of the Ocado National Council, in addition to his role as a Non-Executive Director.
He provides these services through Robert Gorrie Limited of which he is the sole shareholder and is paid a per diem fee for these services.
These fees are included in the related party transactions with key management personnel in Note 5.4 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company has obtained a written confirmation from each Non-Executive Director that they have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration from the Group, other than those already referred to in this report.
RECOVERY OF SUMS PAID AUDITED No sums paid or payable to the Non-Executive Directors were sought to be recovered by the Group.
OTHER REMUNERATION DISCLOSURES AUDITED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract with the Group.
The terms of these contracts are consistent with the Directors remuneration policy, though the contracts provide for payment in lieu of notice of one times basic salary only and do not include other fixed elements of pay, which are permitted by the policy.
The service contracts for each of the Executive Directors are continuous until terminated by either party on 12 months notice if terminated by the Company, or six months notice if terminated by the Director.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts and were appointed by letter of appointment for an initial period of three years, subject to annual reappointment at the annual general meeting.
There are no provisions in the letters of appointment for payment for early termination.
A Non-Executive Director appointment may be terminated on one months notice, except in the case of the Chairman, which requires six months notice.
A copy of a pro forma Non-Executive Director letter of appointment is available on the Companys corporate website.
Copies of the letters of appointment and the service contracts of the Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
DIRECTOR RETIREMENT ARRANGEMENTS Jason Gissing, a founder of the business and Commercial Director, retired from the Board at the Companys annual general meeting on 7 May 2014.
The Remuneration Committee determined, in accordance with the Directors remuneration policy, that the arrangements set out in the table below should apply in relation to Jason Gissings remuneration on retirement.
Element of remuneration Treatment Remuneration payments All outstanding salary and pension entitlements were paid up to 7 May 2014 in accordance with Jason Gissings terms of employment.
There were no payments, pension contributions, provision of benefits or pay in lieu of benefits made after the date of Jason Gissings retirement.
There is no intention to make any such payments in the future.
The staff product discount has been retained by Jason Gissing post retirement date.
Payment for loss of office No payment for loss of office or other remuneration payment was made or is to be made.
AIP Payment of 306,900 was made in March 2014 in respect of the 2013 AIP.
This bonus payment was accrued in respect of the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 and was paid at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee provided pursuant to the terms of 2013 AIP rules.
Jason Gissing was not a participant in the 2014 AIP.
LTIP The award of 533,536 conditional shares made to Jason Gissing under the 2013 LTIP had not vested prior to retirement and consequently were forfeited.
Jason Gissing had no other LTIP awards.
JSOS All four tranches of JSOS share interests had vested prior to retirement and so were retained by Jason Gissing after his retirement subject to the rules of the scheme including with respect to leavers.
ESOS The 200,000 ESOS options held by Jason Gissing had vested and were exercised by Jason Gissing in April 2014.
Jason Gissing had no other ESOS options outstanding.
Sharesave The 9,846 options held by Jason Gissing under the Sharesave had not vested and so lapsed on his retirement.
Accumulated savings made under the Sharesave were returned to Jason Gissing as required by the Sharesave scheme rules.
No other options or amounts were held by Jason Gissing under the Sharesave.
117 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS The Company does not have any arrangements for payments to any former Directors of the Company, including Jason Gissing, who retired during the period.
PAYMENTS OUTSIDE THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The Company has not made any payments to a Director outside of the Directors remuneration policy.
EXTERNAL REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS As at the date of this Annual Report: In addition to his role as Executive Director of the Company, Neill Abrams is an alternate non-executive director of Mr Price Group Limited, listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
The role does not involve any remuneration paid or payable to Neill.
In addition to his role as Executive Director of the Company, Duncan Tatton-Brown was, up until May 2014, an independent nonexecutive director of Rentokil Initial plc, listed on the London Stock Exchange.
For his services to Rentokil Initial plc Duncan was paid a fee of 70,000 per annum.
On 1 May 2014 Duncan became an independent non-executive director, senior independent director and audit committee chairman of Zoopla Property Group plc, listed on the London Stock Exchange.
For his services to Zoopla Property Group plc Duncan is paid a fee of 50,000 per annum.
DIRECTOR SHAREHOLDINGS AUDITED The beneficial interests in the Companys shares of Directors serving at the end of the period, and their connected persons, as shareholders and as discretionary beneficiaries under trusts, were: Ordinary shares of 2 pence Ordinary shares of 2 pence each each held at 30 November 2014 held at 1 December 2013 Director Direct holding Indirect holding Direct holding Indirect holding Tim Steiner 14,404,145 14,291,314 14,396,400 14,291,200 Lord Rose 750,000 750,000 Robert Gorrie 415,660 690,660 1 Neill Abrams 560,054 1,313,853 557,054 1,308,900 Douglas McCallum 10,000 68,000 2 Duncan Tatton-Brown 97,865 60,163 50,000 60,000 Ruth Anderson 80,000 55,000 David Grigson 35,000 15,000 Alex Mahon 11,099 2,000 Jrn Rausing 69,015,602 69,015,602 Mark Richardson 208 Former Directors 3 Jason Gissing 9,857,600 5,276,200 9,657,600 8,326,200 1.
This includes a holding by Caryn Abrams wife of Neill Abrams who holds 79,745 2013: 75,000 ordinary shares, and is a discretionary beneficiary of a trust holding 133,100 2013: 133,100 ordinary shares.
This includes a holding by Kate Tatton-Brown wife of Duncan Tatton-Brown who holds 60,000 2013: 60,000 ordinary shares.
The 2013 annual report erroneously showed Duncan Tatton-Brown as holding 60,000 shares and Kate Tatton-Brown as holding 50,000 shares, rather than as correctly stated in the table above, in respect of 2013.
This shows Jason Gissings interests in the Companys shares as at the date of his retirement, being 7 May 2014.
Additional disclosure: There have been no changes in the Directors interests in the shares issued or options granted by the Company and its subsidiaries between the end of the period and the date of this Annual Report, except shares held pursuant to the SIP, as set out on page 123.
There have been no changes in the Directors beneficial interests in trusts holding ordinary shares of the Company.
No Director had an interest in any of the Companys subsidiaries at the beginning or end of the period.
On 17 May 2013, in respect of various contracts for the transfer of shares as described on pages 235 and 238 of the Prospectus, Tim Steiner, Jason Gissing and Neill Abrams delayed the date on which completion under the contracts for transfer would take place to 30 June 2016, or such later date as the parties may agree.
Where applicable, the above indirect holdings include partnership shares held under the SIP, which are held in trust.
118 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report www.
com DIRECTOR SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENT AUDITED The table below shows current compliance with the Director shareholding requirements in the Directors remuneration policy as at the date of this Annual Report.
Minimum shareholding Complied with requirement % of shareholding Director base salary or fee requirement?
Basis for compliance Tim Steiner 150 Yes Indirect and direct shareholdings Duncan Tatton-Brown 100 Yes Indirect and direct shareholdings Neill Abrams 100 Yes Indirect and direct shareholdings Mark Richardson 100 Yes JSOS and SIP interests Lord Rose 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Robert Gorrie 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Douglas McCallum 100 No Direct shareholdings Ruth Anderson 100 Yes Direct shareholdings David Grigson 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Alex Mahon 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Jrn Rausing 100 Yes Indirect shareholdings The assessment for compliance is based on the current annualised salary or fee as set out in the total remuneration tables which applied on 20 January 2015 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report and the higher of the original purchase price s or the current market price being 403.4 pence per share on 20 January 2015, of the relevant shareholdings.
Mark Richardson satisfies the requirement through his holding of vested JSOS share interests in the EBT, based on the share price on 20 January 2015.
Douglas McCallum sold shares during the period, on 25 February 2014.
At the time of the share sale Douglas McCallum remained compliant with the Director shareholding requirement in the Directors remuneration policy.
But owing to a subsequent decline in the Company share price and an increase in his annual base fee in April 2014 the result of which is to increase the minimum shareholding, his current shareholding falls below the minimum Director shareholding requirement as at 20 January 2015.
Douglas McCallum expects to purchase additional Company shares in due course which would be intended to satisfy the Director shareholding requirement.
The Remuneration Committee does not, as at the date of this Annual Report, have any intention of making a further award of share interests under the JSOS scheme to the Executive Directors.
Most share interests held by the Executive Directors under the JSOS were granted prior to the Companys listing in 2010.
Vested: Details of JSOS interests which vested during the period can be found on page 112.
Sold: No JSOS share interests have been sold by an Executive Director since inception of the scheme.
LTIP AUDITED At the end of the period the Executive Directors total LTIP awards were as follows: Basis on which award End of is made % of Number of performance Director Type of interest Date of grant salary shares Face value period Tim Steiner Conditional shares 23 07 13 400 1,371,951 1,800,000 29 11 15 Conditional shares 05 02 14 200 174,588 900,000 03 12 16 Mark Richardson Conditional shares 23 07 13 280 469,512 616,000 29 11 15 Conditional shares 05 02 14 150 96,023 495,000 03 12 16 Neill Abrams Conditional shares 23 07 13 200 304,878 400,000 29 11 15 Conditional shares 05 02 14 120 64,016 330,000 03 12 16 Duncan Tatton-Brown Conditional shares 23 07 13 300 685,975 900,000 29 11 15 Conditional shares 05 02 14 150 96,023 495,000 03 12 16 In its first year of operation, LTIP awards were made in respect of both 2012 and 2013.
533,536 conditional shares awarded under the LTIP were forfeited by Jason Gissing on his retirement on 7 May 2014.
120 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report www.
com Granted: LTIP awards were made in respect of 2014 of up to 150% of annual base salary and in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, an LTIP award with a total market value of 200% of annual base salary.
Such awards were made in accordance with the Directors remuneration policy.
The number of shares subject of an LTIP award was determined based on a price of 515.5 pence per share, being the volume weighted average price of the Companys ordinary shares on the three trading days prior to 5 February 2014 being the LTIP grant date.
The 2014 LTIP awards are conditional awards under the rules of the LTIP, which are a right to receive free shares in the Company, subject to the achievement of two equally weighted performance conditions over a three-year performance period, which are the levels of earnings per share and Group Revenue.
These measures replace the EBIT measure that was used for the 2013 awards and were selected following feedback from the shareholder consultation carried out in March 2013.
The Remuneration Committee believes that these two measures provide a more balanced basis for judging performance and earnings per share in particular, better reflecting shareholder interests.
The rationale for, and basis of measurement of, the performance metrics was as follows: Performance target Commercial rationale Basis of measurement Group Revenue 50% Rewards top line sales growth in line with the Group Revenue for the Group for the 2015 2016 Groups strategy: is the primary management financial year.
Earnings per share 50% Rewards the creation of financial returns to Diluted and adjusted earnings per share for shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee has agreed threshold and maximum conditions that must be achieved.
No LTIP award will vest unless a threshold level of the performance condition has been achieved.
At threshold performance, 25% of an LTIP award will vest and at maximum performance, 100% of an LTIP award will vest.
The actual performance conditions are not disclosed due to their commercial sensitivity on the basis that if disclosed it would be likely to damage the Companys commercial interests.
The Company will disclose the extent to which the performance conditions are met after the end of the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee is conscious of the Regulations and the new 2014 Code requirement for transparent performance targets so will consider at a later date whether it remains appropriate not to disclose such targets in future.
The performance conditions for the 2014 LTIP awards will be tested in relation to the financial year ending in 2016 to determine what percentage of the LTIP awards has been achieved, and will vest during 2017 to the extent that the performance condition has been achieved.
Vested: No LTIP awards vested during the period.
Sold: As no awards under the LTIP have vested, no shares held under the LTIP have been sold by an Executive Director.
Lapsed: The award of 533,536 conditional shares made to Jason Gissing under the 2013 award had not vested prior to Jasons retirement and consequently lapsed.
GIP AUDITED At the end of the period the Executive Directors total GIP awards were as follows: Number End of Date of of share Face value performance Director Type of interest grant options period Exercise period Tim Steiner Option with nil exercise price 08 05 14 4,000,000 12,744,000 08 05 19 08 05 19 31 05 24 Mark Richardson Option with nil exercise price 08 05 14 1,000,000 3,186,000 08 05 19 08 05 19 31 05 24 Duncan Tatton-Brown Option with nil exercise price 08 05 14 1,000,000 3,186,000 08 05 19 08 05 19 31 05 24 Granted: One-off awards under the GIP were made to three of the Executive Directors during the period, as approved by shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting and made in accordance with the Directors remuneration policy.
The GIP awards are options over shares in the Company with a nil exercise price.
The face value of the options which are the subject of a GIP award was determined based on a price of 318.60 pence per share, being the closing price of the Companys ordinary shares on 8 May 2014 being the GIP award grant date.
121 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued A condition of vesting is that each participant holds, and retains throughout the performance period, shares in the Company.
The Chief Executive Officer is required to hold shares equivalent, at the date of the award, to the value of his annual salary.
All other participants are required to hold shares equivalent, at the date of the award, to the value of half of their annual salary.
The GIP award is subject to the achievement of a single performance condition to be satisfied over five years commencing on the date of grant of the awards.
The share price of the Company is the sole performance measure, and will be assessed relative to the growth of the FTSE 100 Share Index over that period assessed using a three-month averaging period.
The performance schedule is set out in the table below.
Performance target Percentage of award vesting % Growth of less than the FTSE 100 Share Index 5% p. a.
0 Growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index 5% p. a.
25 Growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index 10% p. a.
50 Growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index 15% p. a.
75 Growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index 20% p. a. or more 100 The Remuneration Committee considered that the GIP would aim to incentivise and reward truly exceptional levels of performance over a five-year period.
The potential for greater rewards for the Executive Directors was only if shareholders benefited from significant outperformance of the FTSE 100 sustained over a five-year period.
GIP awards will normally become exercisable following the end of the performance period to the extent that any applicable performance and other conditions have been satisfied and to the extent permitted under any operation of malus or clawback provisions.
GIP awards will normally remain exercisable until 31 May 2024.
Vested: No awards under the GIP vested during the period.
The awards are expected to vest in May 2019 if and to the extent that the vesting criteria are met.
Sold: As no awards under the GIP have vested, no shares held under the GIP have been sold by an Executive Director.
ESOS AUDITED The Directors have, as at period end, the following options over ordinary shares in the Company which they were awarded without payment under the Groups ESOS: 30 November Exercise price 1 December Exercise price Director Date of grant 2014 2013 Exercise period Tim Steiner 16 05 05 200,000 1.15 200,000 1.15 16 05 08 15 05 15 Neill Abrams 16 05 05 100,000 1.15 100,000 1.15 16 05 08 15 05 15 Mark Richardson 31 05 09 70,000 1.20 70,000 1.20 31 05 12 30 05 19 Duncan Tatton-Brown 12 08 13 9,923 3.02 9,923 3.02 08 07 16 07 07 23 Former Directors Jason Gissing 16 05 05 1.15 200,000 1.15 16 05 08 15 05 15 Granted: The Remuneration Committee does not, as at the date of this Annual Report, have any intention of making a further award of options under the ESOS scheme to the existing Executive Directors.
Existing options held by the Executive Directors under the ESOS were granted prior to the Companys listing in 2010 except those granted in 2013 to new appointee Director, Duncan Tatton-Brown.
Vested: No awards under the ESOS vested during the period.
Exercised: Jason Gissing exercised 200,000 ESOS options with an exercise price of 115.00 pence per option.
The gain made by Jason Gissing on the exercise of share options was 470,100.
Number of Exercise price Date of Director options exercise Gain Jason Gissing 200,000 1.15 26 03 2014 470,100 During the period, Tim Steiner and Neill Abrams each signed an irrevocable instruction electing to exercise, on 13 May 2015, any remaining options held under the ESOS which were granted to them in May 2005, provided that the share price is higher than the exercise price on that date.
They also elected to subsequently sell a sufficient number of shares to meet the cost of the exercise and any taxes and other related costs, and retain the balance of the shares outstanding from the exercise of the option and subsequent sale.
The options are due to lapse on 16 May 2015.
The instructions do not prevent the earlier exercise of the options.
As at 20 January 2015, being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report, the options had not been exercised earlier.
122 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report www.
com Minimum Number of Exercise price share price for Date irrevocable Director Date of grant options Date to be exercised sale signed Tim Steiner 16 05 05 200,000 1.15 13 05 2015 1.16 28 11 2014 Neill Abrams 16 05 05 100,000 1.15 13 05 2015 1.16 28 11 2014 SIP AUDITED At the end of the period, interests in shares held by the Executive Directors under the SIP were as follows: Total Partnership Matching Total face value of free SIP shares unrestricted shares shares Free shares shares and matching Total SIP that became SIP shares 1 acquired in awarded in awarded in shares awarded in the shares held unrestricted held 2 Director the year the year the year year 30 11 2014 in the period 30 11 2014 Tim Steiner 114 16 1,161 3,640 1,291 Duncan Tatton-Brown 163 23 1,097 3,462 1,283 Mark Richardson 208 29 1,097 3,484 1,097 Neill Abrams 208 29 919 2,932 1,156 1.
Unrestricted shares which are included in the total shares held as at 30 November 2014 are those which have been held beyond the three-year forfeiture period.
The value of the share awards made under the SIP is based on the middle market quotation of a share on the trading day immediately preceding the date of grant.
Granted: The SIP was implemented by the Company during the period and made available to all employees.
The SIP allows for the grant of a number of different forms of awards.
An award of free shares was made to the Executive Directors in September 2014 under the terms of the SIP and the Directors remuneration policy.
Free shares are where up to 3,600 of ordinary shares may be allocated to any employee in any year.
Free shares are allocated to employees equally on the basis of salary, as permitted by the relevant legislation.
An award of matching shares was made to those Executive Directors who purchased partnership shares using deductions taken from their gross basic pay under the terms of the SIP and in accordance with the Directors remuneration policy.
Partnership shares are where employees are invited to purchase ordinary shares directly from their earnings.
The market value of such partnership shares which an employee can purchase in any tax year currently may not exceed 1,800 or 10% of the relevant employees remuneration, if lower.
Matching shares are additional free shares which may be allocated to an employee who purchases partnership shares.
The rules of the SIP reflect current UK legislation and allow for a maximum match of two to one.
The matching ratio adopted by the Company for the SIP during the period was a ratio of one matching share for every seven partnership shares purchased, considerably lower than the maximum permitted ratio.
There are no performance conditions attached to awards made under the SIP, although free and matching shares are subject to a threeyear forfeiture period, which is described in more detail on page 104.
Partnership shares are purchased by the employees and therefore forfeiture does not apply.
Free and matching shares awarded under the SIP are subject to a holding period of no less than three years but no more than five years.
Partnership shares purchased by employees will not be subject to a holding period.
The Executive Directors continued their membership in the SIP after the end of the period and were therefore awarded further matching shares pursuant to the SIP rules.
Since the end of the period and 20 January 2015, being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report, the Executive Directors acquired or were awarded further shares under the SIP as set out in the table below.
Face value of Partnership Matching free shares Total SIP shares shares Free shares and matching shares held Director acquired awarded awarded shares 20 01 2015 Tim Steiner 78 11 41.78 1,380 Duncan Tatton-Brown 79 11 41.78 1,373 Mark Richardson 78 11 41.78 1,423 Neill Abrams 78 11 41.78 1,245 Vested: No awards under the SIP vested during the period.
Sold: No shares held under the SIP have been sold by an Executive Director.
123 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued SHARESAVE SCHEME AUDITED At the end of the period the Executive Directors option interests in the Sharesave scheme were as follows: 30 November Exercise price 1 December Exercise price Director Date of issue 2014 2013 Exercise period Tim Steiner 01 10 13 2,987 3.01 2,987 3.01 01 12 16 31 05 17 01 10 10 1.16 7,745 1.16 01 12 13 01 06 14 Neill Abrams 01 10 13 2,987 3.01 2,987 3.01 01 12 16 31 05 17 01 10 10 1.16 7,745 1.16 01 12 13 01 06 14 Duncan Tatton-Brown 01 10 13 2,987 3.01 2,987 3.01 01 12 16 31 05 17 Former Directors Jason Gissing 19 03 12 0.91 9,846 0.91 01 05 15 01 11 15 Granted: No awards under the Sharesave were granted during the period.
Maturity: No awards matured under the Sharesave scheme during the period.
Exercised: Tim Steiner and Neill Abrams both exercised their options under the Sharesave scheme which matured on 1 December 2013, as set out in the table below.
The options were originally issued at an option price which was discounted by 10% from the applicable market value of the Companys shares at the date of grant.
Like all HMRC approved Save As You Earn schemes, options are issued on the same terms to all employees and therefore are not issued subject to performance conditions as they are not provided for under the scheme rules.
Share price Number of Exercise on date of Value at date Director options price Date of exercise exercise of exercise Tim Steiner 7,745 1.16 26 03 2014 4.492 34,791 Neill Abrams 7,745 1.16 26 03 2014 4.492 34,791 Neither Tim Steiner nor Neill Abrams sold shares as a result of such option exercises.
No other Executive Directors exercised Sharesave options during the period.
Lapsed: Jason Gissing retired from the Company in May 2014 and consequently the 9,846 Sharesave options held by him lapsed prior to their maturity date of 1 May 2015.
CHAIRMANS SHARE MATCHING AWARD AUDITED At the end of the period, the Chairmans Share Matching Award was as follows: Number of Face value End of vesting 1 Director Type of interest Date of grant shares period Lord Rose Restricted shares 17 May 2013 452,284 400,000 10 05 2016 1.
The face value of the award has been calculated using a price of 88.44 pence per share, being the volume weighted average share price of the Companys ordinary shares on the three trading days prior to 22 January 2013 the date of the announcement of the Chairmans appointment.
The basis for the award was to match up to 400,000 of Company shares where such shares were acquired by the Chairman.
The award is not subject to any performance conditions other than continued service.
SHARE PRICE AND OTHER OPTION INFORMATION The closing market price of the Companys shares as at 28 November 2014, being the last trading day in the period ended 30 November 2014, was 325.00 pence per ordinary share 2013: 409.00 pence and the share price range applicable during the period was 220.60 pence to 617.00 pence per ordinary share.
No other Directors have options over shares of the Company outside one of the Companys recognised share schemes.
DILUTION DILUTION LIMITS Awards granted under the Companys Sharesave, ESOS, 2014 ESOS and SIP schemes are met by the issue of new shares when the options are exercised or shares granted.
The allocation of awards under the JSOS were met by the subscription for new shares by the 124 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report www.
com participant and the EBT.
Awards granted under the LTIP and GIP may be met by the issue of new shares, the transfer of shares from treasury, or the purchase or transfer of existing shares by the EBT.
The Chairmans Share Matching Award was met by the new issue of shares on the date of grant.
The share deferral provisions in the AIP have not been approved by shareholders and accordingly awards will be satisfied only by the purchase of existing shares by the EBT until such shareholder approval is obtained.
There are limits on the number of shares that may be allocated under the Companys share plans.
These dilution limits were recommended by the Remuneration Committee and incorporated into the rules of the various share schemes, which have been approved by the Companys shareholders.
The dilution limits restrict the commitment to issue new ordinary shares or reissue treasury shares under all share schemes of the Group to 10% of the nominal amount of the Companys issued share capital and under the JSOS, the LTIP and the GIP and any other selective share scheme to 5% of the nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company in any rolling ten year period.
These limits are consistent with the guidelines of institutional shareholders.
The JSOS rules have additional overriding limits on the number of shares that may be allocated under the JSOS.
Up to 7.5% of the Companys ordinary issued share capital may be held under the JSOS.
IMPACT ON DILUTION The Company monitors the number of shares issued under these schemes and their impact on dilution.
The charts below show the Companys commitment, as at the last practical date prior to the publication date of this Annual Report, to issue new shares in respect of its share schemes assuming all performance conditions are met, all award holders remain in employment to the vesting date and all awards are settled in newly issued shares.
For these purposes, no account is taken of ordinary shares allocated prior to the Companys Admission.
ALL SHARE PLANS DISCRETIONARY SHARE PLANS Actual 4.82% Actual 2.88% Limit 10.00% Limit 5.00% REVIEW OF CHANGES IN REMUNERATION AND COMPANY PERFORMANCE This part of the report provides some context for the Directors remuneration arrangements including information concerning the Companys performance, shareholder returns and the Groups total expenditure on employee pay.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER HISTORICAL REMUNERATION The table below summarises in respect of the Chief Executive Officer the single figure of total remuneration, the AIP or bonus plan payment as a percentage of maximum opportunity, and the long-term incentives as a percentage of maximum opportunity for the current period and the previous four financial years.
Chief Chief Executive Executive AIP or bonus Long-term Officer Officer payment as Incentives as total total a percentage Value of a percentage remuneration remuneration of target AIP or bonus of maximum excluding JSOS including JSOS achievement payment opportunity Year 000 000 % 000 % 2014 944 6,447 56 385 100 2013 1,011 1,011 93.8 528 0 2012 483 483 29.7 104 0 2011 379 987 0 0 100 2010 599 599 n a 220 0 The Chief Executive Officer total remuneration figures prior to the 2013 period represent the previously presented audited information with necessary adjustments for amounts required to be included in the single total figure of remuneration such as pension amounts.
From 2010, the Company had the JSOS as the main form of long-term incentive plan.
For the 2012 and 2013 financial years, the JSOS interests did not have any value at the vesting date.
In 2014, the final tranche of JSOS shares vested in the period the value of such remuneration is noted in the single total figure of remuneration table.
In 2011, the first tranche of JSOS shares vested in that period.
The LTIP was implemented in 2013 but the first award has a performance period ending in 2015 and a vesting date in 2016.
The GIP and SIP were both implemented in 2014, but have vesting dates in 2019 and 2017 respectively.
For an explanation of JSOS and the theoretical remuneration represented in the Chief Executive Officers total remuneration, see page 112.
125 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PERCENTAGE CHANGE VERSUS REPRESENTATIVE EMPLOYEE GROUP To put the Directors remuneration into context, the table below sets out the change in salary, benefits, and bonus of the Chief Executive Officer and of all of the Groups UK employees from the preceding period to the current period.
Chief Executive All UK Officer employees 2 Percentage change in salary from 2013 to 2014 22.2% 3.58% 3 Percentage change in taxable benefits from 2013 to 2014 27.4% 27.3% 1 Percentage change in AIP earned from 2013 to 2014 27 % 0% 1.
Most of the Groups employees are not entitled to earn an annual bonus payment as part of their remuneration.
The change in salary data for the Groups UK employees is on a per capita basis.
The change in benefits is due to an increase in the cost of private medical insurance by this proportion.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The following table shows the Companys profit loss, and total Group-wide expenditure on pay for all employees for the period and last financial year.
The Company has not paid a dividend or carried out a share buyback in the current year or previous year.
The information shown in this chart is: Profit loss Group profit loss before tax taken from the table on page 139 of the financial statements.
Total gross employee pay total gross employment costs for the Group including pension, variable pay, share-based payments and social security as stated on page 149 of the financial statements.
30 November 1 December 2014 2013 m m Profit loss before tax 7.2 12.5 Total gross employee pay 190.5 156.7 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN The following graph shows the total shareholder return TSR performance of an investment of 100 in the Companys shares from its Admission to the end of the period compared with an equivalent investment in the FTSE 250 Index which was chosen because it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company is a constituent.
The TSR was calculated by reference to the movements in share price.
The Company has not paid a dividend since its Admission so the Companys TSR does not factor in dividends reinvested in shares.
com ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY FOR 2015 INTRODUCTION This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out implementation of the Directors remuneration policy for 2015.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS This table briefly summarises the proposals for the Directors remuneration arrangements for 2015 when compared to the arrangements for the period.
Base salary and benefits Pension AIP Long-term incentives All-employee schemes Base salary will be No changes proposed.
No change to the maximum No change to the maximum New invitation to participate subject to annual opportunity, measures or opportunity for LTIP awards.
structure of scheme except Additional financial target.
Ongoing participation in a change in weighting of the SIP.
BASE SALARY AND BENEFITS The Remuneration Committee expects to finalise its annual review of the Executive Directors base salaries later in 2015, in line with the timing of pay reviews for all of the Groups employees.
The benefits in kind offered to the Executive Directors are expected to remain unchanged.
PENSIONS Pension contributions, as described in the Directors remuneration policy, remain unchanged from the previous period.
2015 AIP The Remuneration Committee approved the implementation of an AIP for the Executive Directors applicable to the 2014 2015 financial year.
This plan broadly reflects the framework of the 2014 AIP and the Directors remuneration policy.
The bonus potential for the Executive Directors is 100% and for the Chief Executive Officer is 125% of base salary for maximum performance, which is the same as the 2014 AIP.
In order to align awards made under the AIP with the Groups focus on delivering key strategic objectives in 2015, the weighting towards the achievement of individual strategic objectives has been increased for the 2014 2015 financial year.
The performance measures have been amended to 35% for Gross sales, 35% for Group EBITDA and 30% for performance measured against role-specific objectives.
In 2015, the Gross sales target relates to the Groups retail sales and does not include any income or benefits from the Morrisons operation.
The rationale for setting these performance measures has not changed from 2014.
For an explanation, see the Annual report on remuneration on page 114.
The actual performance conditions are not disclosed due to their commercial sensitivity on the basis that if disclosed it would likely damage the Companys commercial interests.
The Company will disclose the extent to which they were met after the end of the performance period.
127 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued 2015 LTIP AWARDS The Remuneration Committee approved the making of awards under the LTIP for the Executive Directors for the 2014 2015 Financial year.
The amount of the LTIP awards is based on a percentage of salary, expected to be broadly in line with the percentages agreed for the 2014 LTIP awards and in line with the Directors remuneration policy.
In accordance with the Directors remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee proposes to make 2015 LTIP award grants subject to earnings per share and Revenue performance conditions, as well as a third performance condition.
The additional performance condition will be made-up of two measurable financial targets linked to the economic efficiency of the new proprietary infrastructure solution.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this performance condition encourages the delivery of a crucial strategic objective of the Group, and provides a better basis for assessing performance for the performance period than the two measures alone that were used for the 2014 LTIP awards.
The performance conditions concerning the financial performance of the Group, earnings per share and Revenue, will be focused on the Groups retail business performance only and will be weighted 25% each, while the new proprietary infrastructure solution performance condition will have a 50% weighting.
No LTIP award will vest unless a threshold level of performance condition has been achieved.
Full vesting will occur where exceptional performance levels have been achieved and significant shareholder value created.
SIP The Executive Directors are expected to continue their participation in the scheme in 2015.
SHARESAVE The Executive Directors will be invited to participate in the next offer of Sharesave, expected to be made in 2015.
In November 2014, all of the Executive Directors confirmed their intention to participate in the 2015 Sharesave.
CHANGES FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND CHAIRMAN The review of remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors will be finalised in line with the timing of pay reviews for all of the Groups employees.
There will be no change to the remuneration arrangements for the Chairman and currently no changes are expected for the Non-Executive Directors for 2015.
SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL AND VOTES AT AGM The 2014 Directors remuneration report will be subject to a shareholder vote at the AGM.
Entitlement of a Director to remuneration is not made conditional on this resolution being passed.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman is committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue on Directors remuneration and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
In the event of a substantial vote against a resolution in relation to the Directors remuneration report, the Directors remuneration policy or a new share scheme, the Company would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote and would detail in the announcement of the results of voting any actions it intends to take to understand the reasons behind the vote result and also note this in the next annual report.
The Remuneration Committee considers that a vote against that exceeds 20% should be considered significant and requires explanation.
The Directors remuneration report and the GIP resolutions received significant shareholder votes against them 19.96% and 26.76% respectively at the annual general meeting in May 2014 see the table on the next page for the voting outcomes for the resolutions regarding remuneration at the previous annual general meeting.
The Remuneration Committee had consulted with shareholders on the GIP and the Directors remuneration policy and other key remuneration changes prior to the 2014 annual general meeting.
The Remuneration Committee will continue to seek the views of shareholders on any significant changes to the Directors remuneration arrangements or any proposed exercises of discretion in relation thereto.
128 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report www.
com The table below sets out the actual voting in respect of resolutions regarding remuneration at the three previous annual general meetings.
It has been drawn up in accordance with the Companies Act and the 2012 Code, the Regulations, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The report also makes reference to the new requirements of the 2014 Code, where appropriate.
In accordance with section 497 of the Companies Act and the Regulations, certain parts of this Directors remuneration report where indicated have been audited by the Companys auditors,  LLP.
A copy of this Directors remuneration report will be available on the Companys corporate website.
This Directors remuneration report is approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Douglas McCallum Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Ocado Group plc 3 February 2015 129 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 COMPETITIVE PRICES The automation and aggregation of our operating model strips out costs and increases efficiency... cost savings allow us to offer products at competitive prices 130 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 OUR FINANCIALS Independent Auditors Report Group 132 139 Consolidated Income Statement 140 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Balance Sheet 141 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 142 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 143 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 144 Independent Auditors Report 188 Company Balance Sheet 190 Company Statement of Cash Flows 191 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 192 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 193 View the Independent Auditors Report on pages 132 to 138 View more information online at www.
