Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL STATEMENT FROM THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Douglas McCallum Remuneration Committee Chairman One of our key roles is to ensure that the DEAR SHAREHOLDER, KEY CHANGES TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR remuneration arrangements REMUNERATION On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to for the Executive Directors present the Directors remuneration report One of our key roles is to ensure that reward efforts that for 2014. the remuneration arrangements for the enhance the Companys Executive Directors reward efforts that Last year, the Remuneration Committee performance and promote enhance the Companys performance undertook an extensive review of the the long-term success of and promote the long-term success of the Companys remuneration policy for the Company.
We also need to ensure that the Executive Directors, which resulted the rewards received by the Executive in a number of changes to executive Directors are proportionate to the levels remuneration.
These changes received of performance achieved.
So we have to support from shareholders, both through give full consideration to the Companys the process of shareholder consultation and strategy, its performance and shareholders View more information about annual general meeting voting results.
This the Directors remuneration policy on interests when making decisions relating to support recognised our efforts to closely pages 96 to 110 the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
align the Executive Directors incentives View more information online at with the strategic growth objectives of A new long-term incentive plan, known www.
The Directors remuneration as the Growth Incentive Plan GIP, was policy was approved by shareholders at implemented after it received shareholder the annual general meeting which took approval at the 2014 annual general place on 7 May 2014 and will continue in meeting.
The GIP is intended to reward force until 2017.
There are no proposals to outstanding growth in value of the Group amend the Directors remuneration policy at relative to the FTSE 100 over five years.
Base salaries of the Executive Directors The Annual report on remuneration section were reviewed and increased in line with of the Directors remuneration report sets employee salary increases.
The base out the Directors remuneration policy, how salary of the Chief Executive Officer was the policy was implemented in 2014, and increased more significantly to reflect how it is proposed to be applied in 2015. the substantial change in the size and complexity of the business since the transaction with Morrisons.
92 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Directors Remuneration Report www.
com During the financial year, we undertook CHANGES TO NON-EXECUTIVE a review of the Executive Director Annual DIRECTOR REMUNERATION Incentive Plan AIP structure and The Non-Executive Directors annual fees concluded that the financial measures of were increased for the first time since 2010 EBITDA and Gross sales remained aligned to ensure that their remuneration reflects with the Companys strategy and should be the increased responsibility of the role.
This retained for 2015 in order to encourage change followed a comparative market strong growth.
The proportion allotted to review by the Executive Directors and the individual objectives for the 2015 AIP has Chairman.
been increased from 20% to 30%, to reflect 2014 CODE the increased importance of delivering key We reviewed the existing remuneration strategic objectives in 2015. arrangements and Directors remuneration Following consultation with our policy in light of the proposed changes shareholders and a review of the Long Term under the 2014 Code.
The Company Incentive Plan LTIP, the performance is compliant with the new provisions of measures for the 2014 LTIP awards the 2014 Code in a number of areas were changed from EBIT, to be equally including the requirements for clawback weighted between earnings per share and malus provisions.
Our response to and Group Revenue.
For the 2015 LTIP the 2014 Code changes is set out in awards an additional financial target this report.
will be included to reward delivering the REMUNERATION DISCLOSURE economic efficiency of the new proprietary infrastructure solution, which is intended to Each year, we review how shareholders help promote the success of this important voted on the remuneration report, together long-term strategic objective.
We are focused on providing clear reporting on Our Share Incentive Plan SIP was past remuneration and future policy, and launched for all employees in August this we welcome your feedback.
All of the Executive Directors elected to participate in the SIP, alongside their I will be available at the AGM to answer existing participation in the Companys any questions about the work of the other HMRC-approved share schemes.
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN PAY AND Douglas McCallum PERFORMANCE Remuneration Committee Chairman 3 February 2015 We have, in accordance with the Directors remuneration policy and the rules of the 2014 AIP, recommended an aggregate bonus payment of 912,415 under the plan for the period.
This recommendation is based on the achievement of targets which are set out in more detail in the Annual report on remuneration on page 114.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the level of bonus payment appropriately reflects the performance of the business and individual performance during the period, which saw strong trading for the Group in a very competitive market and good progress with the development of the Groups strategic objectives.
