Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Remuneration report Directors Remuneration Policy For the purposes of completeness and transparency, this part changes in remuneration practices between 2013 and 2014, these of the Directors Remuneration Report includes a summary of the have been removed with the relevant information relating to 2015 Remuneration Policy that was approved by shareholders at last included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Disclosures relating years AGM on 21 May 2014 and is currently intended to operate to specific Directors have been updated where required, for example until the AGM in 2017. where there have been changes to Board membership.
The full Policy Report approved by the Companys shareholders at last years AGM Where references were made in the Policy Report last year to i can be accessed in the 2013 Annual Report on the Companys website specific levels of pay in 2014 e. g. the base salaries set with effect at www.
from 1 January 2014 and the scenarios chart which was based on these salary levels or ii where explanations were provided as to Remuneration Policy The Committees policy is to adequately reward the Executive Directors if they meet or exceed the targets set under the variable components of their remuneration packages.
A key element of the Companys Remuneration Policy is to achieve a level of remuneration which will attract, motivate and retain executives of high The remuneration structure for Executive Directors is made up of calibre.
The Company operates in a sector where investment decisions two elements: fixed remuneration consisting of base salary, benefits have multi-year impacts.
For this reason the Committee has elected to including non-contributory health insurance and life assurance and adopt an executive Remuneration Policy which is structured so that a pension contributions and variable remuneration annual bonus significant proportion is made up of long-term share-based incentives.
scheme and long-term share incentives.
Policy table The table below sets out the key elements of Executive Director pay: Purpose and Framework used to Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity assess performance Base Salary To provide the core Reviewed annually and effective Salaries will be eligible for increases during the three-year period that the The Committee considers reward for the role.
Remuneration Policy operates from the Effective Date 21 May 2014. individual salaries at the appropriate Committee Sufficient level to Decision influenced by: During this time for the Chief Executive Officer once the increases detailed in meeting each year after help recruit and last years report have been implemented, salaries may be increased each year Role, experience and having due regard to the retain employees.
in percentage of salary terms in line with increases granted to the wider workforce personal performance factors noted in operating where they are based.
Reflects role and the salary policy.
Average change in total experience of Increases beyond those granted to the wider workforce in percentage of salary workforce salary in the individual.
terms may be awarded in certain circumstances such as where there is a change location where they in responsibility, experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role and or are based size, value and or complexity of the Group.
Total organisational Where new joiners or recent promotions have been placed on a below market rate salarybudgets of pay initially, a series of increases above those granted to the wider workforce Company performance and in percentage of salary terms may be given over the following few years subject other economic conditions to individual performance and development in the role.
Salaries are benchmarked periodically and are set by reference to companies of a similar size and complexity.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and Maximum Element link to strategy Operation opportunity Framework used to assess performance Benefits To recruit and retain Directors are entitled to health insurance, life assurance, The value of benefits n a employees.
medical evacuation insurance, travel insurance, holiday may vary from year to pay, sick leave and other Group-wide benefits offered year depending on the by the Company.
cost to the Company from third-party Other ancillary benefits including relocation expenses providers.
may be offered, as required.
Pension To provide longThe Company operates a defined contribution pension The Executive Directors n a term savings via scheme or may contribute directly into an Executive receive a Company pension provision.
Directors personal pension, or pay a salary supplement contribution into in lieu of pension.
the Group or their personal pension plan or a salary supplement in lieu of pension to the greater of the statutory minimum and 11% of salary.
Annual Bonus To incentivise Targets are renewed annually and relate to the business The maximum award Details of the performance measures used for the the execution of as a whole.
under the annual current year and targets set for the year under review business strategy.
bonus scheme is and performance against them is provided in the Bonus level, payable in cash, is determined by the Committee Rewards the 150% of salary.
following the end of the financial year and is based on achievement of performance against targets set at the start of the year.
The Companys bonus is based on the achievement annual financial against a range of business objectives and key Clawback provisions apply that enable the Committee and strategic performance indicators.
to claw back value overpaid in the event of a material business targets misstatement of the Companys results within a Given the constantly-evolving nature of our business, and delivery of two-yearperiod.
measures and their weightings may change each year personal objectives reflecting the changing business priorities.
The key performance measures may include and are not limited to the following: HSE CR performance Portfolio management new business Reserves and resources Financial objectives Personal objectives The Committee retains discretion to reduce the bonus payment in the event of a serious HSE incident or series of incidents.
For the bonus measures which operate using a sliding scale of targets, the proportion of maximum bonus earned for achieving threshold performance is typically 25% of that part of the bonus with 100% of the maximum opportunity payable for superior performance.
Bonuses for performance between threshold and maximum are determined on a pro rata basis.
Some elements of the current bonus structure include a subjective assessment of performance as opposed to operating on a sliding scale e. g. bonus earned in relation to HSE CR performance and some personal objectives.
72 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Purpose and Maximum Element link to strategy Operation opportunity Framework used to assess performance Long-Term To incentivise the The Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP was The maximum Awards vest based on the Companys Total Shareholder Incentive Plan achievement of approved by shareholders in 2011 and amended in 2012. annual award is 200% Return TSR performance over a three-year business strategy of salary, although the performance period compared to a comparator Annual awards of free shares in the form of conditional over the longer term.
Committee is able to group set on grant.
awards or nil nominal cost options are granted which vest grant an award of up after three years subject to challenging performance targets 25% of the award vests at median, rising on a straight to 300% in exceptional and continued service.
line basis to 100% for upper quartile performance.
No vesting occurs for below median performance.
Awards will be determined using the weighted average share price for the period for the three-month period up to the time An underpin applies that enables the TSR vesting result that the Committee normally approves the individual LTIP to be scaled back if the vesting result is not consistent allocations i. e. normally around February.
This is considered with underlying financial performance and or key to result in the number of shares comprising individual operational financial metrics have not been achieved.
awards to better reflect the information presented to the As the Company continues to develop and grow over Committee at the time of approving the awards in principle.
time, the Committee may introduce other measures Awards are granted as soon as the preliminary results are in conjunction with TSR which support the long-term announced or later if a close period continues to apply as business strategy.
These may, for example, include of that date.
strategic imperatives such as exploration and production targets or major project delivery.
As a The normal LTIP performance period is three calendar years minimum, the Committee would seek to consult with beginning on 1 January of the year of grant and ending on major shareholders before applying any changes to 31 December of the third year.
measures with any substantive change of policy To the extent that dividends were to be paid, a provision potentially giving rise to the Company seeking would operate which would enable dividends to accrue approval for a revised Policy Report.
on shares at the time of vesting.
A clawback provision exists that enables the Committee to claw back value overpaid in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys results within a two-year period in relation to the award.
Chief Executive Award structured to An exceptional one-off award of 1,017,568 shares was The award has three Tranche 1 is subject to an absolute TSR performance Officers Exceptional align the individual made to the Chief Executive Officer on 19 June 2012. separate tranches condition which will require compound TSR growth of Long-Term Incentive with the founders Tranche 1: at least 20% p. a. from a share price of 4.28 for 25% The performance period for each tranche is three years.
Award as approved of Ophir and reflect 277,518 shares, to vest through to 35% p. a. TSR growth for full vesting.
Clawback provisions apply that will enable the Committee by shareholders additional Tranche 2: Performance is measured from 19 June 2012 to to claw back value overpaid in the event of a material in 2012 responsibilities 370,025 shares and 18 June 2015. misstatement of the Companys results within a applying to the Tranche 3: Tranche 2 is subject to an equal split of relative TSR two-year period.
based on the same structure to the LTIP targets noted Officer following To the extent that dividends were to be paid, a provision The three tranches above and absolute TSR performance with the same the 2012 Board would operate which would enable dividends to accrue comprising the award growth rates that apply for Tranche 1 using a base share restructuring.
on shares during the vesting period which would be payable vest independently in price of 4.09.
Performance is measured from 19 June at the time of vesting.
2013 to 18 June 2016 for both the relative and absolute TSR performance targets.
25% of the relative and absolute TSR performance conditions vest at the threshold performance levels.
Tranche 3 will also operate based on an equal split of relative TSR based on the same structure to the LTIP targets noted above and absolute TSR performance based on the same growth rates that apply for Tranche1.
Performance will be measured from 19 June 2014 to 18 June 2017 for both relative and absolute TSR performance targets.
An underpin applies to all three tranches that enables the TSR vesting result to be scaled back if the vesting result is not consistent with underlying financial performance and or key operational financial metrics have not been achieved.
Dennis McShanes To compensate for To facilitate his recruitment as an Executive Director, Dennis The maximum number The award vests in full based on achieving a Recruitment Award value forfeit on McShane received a buy-out award which was calculated of shares eligible to minimum of median TSR performance against 2006 Share joining Ophir in a to compensate him for his lost profit and revenue growth vest under his award a group of sectorpeers.
Option Plan full time executive expectations relating to his consultancy business which is 360,127 which had While this feature was not part of the potential value capacity.
he was required to exit on joining the Company.
a face value of 1.7m forfeit on becoming an Executive Director, the Committee at grant.
This was The Remuneration Committee was provided with an wished to ensure the recruitment package took considered to have overview of prospective revenue generation of his business due account of Official List expectations in that the a broadly similar and its forecast revenues and these were discounted by 95% recruitment award should be subject to satisfying expected value to to determine a present value of the business.
This value was a Company specific performance target.
the consultancy then converted into an equivalent value in Ophir shares.
The exercise price of the option is 4.71. business he exited However, rather than offering free shares through a on joining Ophir.
conditional award or a nil cost option the compensation was structured as a market value option i. e. the free share amount was converted to a market value option grant with the same expected value so that the individual would only benefit from the growth in value of Ophir shares.
Since the value to the individual of his business relied on delivering future revenues, this structure of performance related compensation was considered to be the form most analogous to the value he had forfeited i. e. the Committee bought out on a like for like basis as far as practicable.
Furthermore, recognising Official List expectations, the market value options are also subject to a relative TSRcondition.
T he number of shares comprising the award originally 880,000 awards in total was adjusted to reflect the Rights Issue that became effective in March 2013.
There was no adjustment applied in respect of the March 2013 Placing.
T he share price targets were adjusted on the same basis as described above with a view to ensuring that the targets remained no more or less challenging in light of the Rights Issue that became effective in March 2013.
The adjustment resulted in the share price targets being reduced by a factor of 1.156329.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and Framework used to Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity assess performance Share ownership To align the The Chief Executive Officer has a 300% of salary holding n a n a interests of requirement and other Executive Directors are required directors with to build up a holding of 100% of salary.
those of the The Chief Executive Officer is required to retain 100% of the Companys vested or exercised shares net of tax until the shareholding shareholders.
Any other Executive Director is required to retain 50% of the vested or exercised shares net of tax until the shareholding guideline is met.
During the year ending 31 December 2014, the Committee increased the share ownership requirement for the Executive Directors so that any appointment from 12 November 2014 will be required to build and maintain a shareholding of equal value to 200% of their annual salary through the retention of 50% of the after tax number of shares vesting under the Companys LTIPs Non-Executive To provide a The fees for the Companys Chairman and Independent The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, with Directors competitive fee Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a reference to the time commitment of the role and which will attract whole with the relevant individuals absenting themselves market levels in companies of comparable size high calibre from discussions relating directly to their own remuneration.
individuals with The Boards policy in relation to the fee payable to the Fee levels will be eligible for increases during the threethe relevant skills Chairman of the Board is that it should be comparable to the year period that the Remuneration Policy operates and experience to median fee payable for Non-Executive Chairmen of from the Effective Date to ensure they appropriately enhance the Board.
companies of a comparable size and complexity.
recognise the time commitment of the role, increases Remuneration levels are agreed based on external advice to fee levels for Non-Executive Directors in general and give consideration to the time commitment and and fee levels in companies of a similar size and responsibilities of the role.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not Flexibility is retained to go above the fee levels set entitled to participate in the Companys executive at the start of the year if it is necessary to do so to Remuneration programmes or pension arrangements.
appoint a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director During the year, the Company did not issue options to any of an appropriate calibre.
of the Non-Executive Directors nor to any entity in which No benefits or other remuneration are provided to they are deemed to be interested.
74 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Remuneration report Annual Bonus Plan & Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Policy Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting The Committee will operate the Annual Bonus Plan and the LTIP The performance metrics that are used for annual bonus and according to their respective rules and in accordance with the Listing long-term incentive plans are a subset of the Companys Key Rules, and HMRC rules where relevant.
The Committee, consistent Performance Indicators KPIs.
with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas In terms of annual performance targets, a balanced scorecard relating to the operation and administration of these plans.
These of financial, operational, strategic, personal and health and safety include the following albeit with quantum and performance targets metrics is used.
As an upstream oil and gas exploration company, restricted to the descriptions detailed in the policy table above : reserves and resources targets are measures of our success: Who participates in the plans: commercialisation through portfolio management is important The timing of grant of award and or payment: in crystallising value at the right time: executives strategic choices The size of an award and or a payment: and delivery are appraised, and a good health and safety record The determination of vesting which may include making underpins the activities we undertake.
appropriative adjustments within the terms of performance These metrics, which form part of the Companys KPIs, are aligned conditions e. g. determining the treatment of a delisted comparator with the Companys underlying objective of creating value by in a TSR peer group : exploring and appraising oil and gas assets.
The precise metrics Discretion required when dealing with a change of control chosen and weighting ascribed to each may vary, as detailed in e. g. the timing of testing performance targets or restructuring the policy above, in line with the Companys strategy.
of the Group: Determination of a good leaver for incentive plan purposes based With regard to long-term performance targets, awards vest, on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: as a minimum, subject to a relative TSR condition which measures Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, our performance against a group of other oil and gas companies.
corporate restructuring, events and special dividends : and The Committee believes this measure creates alignment between The annual review of performance measures weighting, and shareholders and executives and that executives are only rewarded targets for the Annual Bonus plan and LTIP from year to year.
The Committee also retains the ability to adjust the targets and or Targets are set based on sliding scales that take account of internal set different measures and alter weightings for the annual bonus planning and external market expectations for the Company.
Only plan and to adjust targets for the LTIP if events occur e. g. material modest rewards are available for delivering threshold performance divestment of a Group business which cause it to determine that the levels with maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required of our challenging plans approved at the start of each year.
so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not The targets for awards to be granted under the LTIP are consistent materially less difficult to satisfy.
with the policy set out above and are set out in the Annual Report All historic awards that were granted under any current or previous onRemuneration.
share schemes operated by the Company but remain outstanding, Appropriately challenging performance targets would be set in remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.
relation to incentives each year as described above.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Differences in Remuneration policy for Executive Directors The Company, in line with current market practice, does not actively compared to other employees consult with employees on Executive Remuneration.
The Group has As noted above, the Committee is made aware of pay structures a diverse workforce operating in several different countries, with across the wider Group when setting the Remuneration policy for various local pay practices, which would make any cost-effective Executive Directors.
The Committee considers the general basic salary consultation impractical.
However, when setting the Remuneration increase for the broader Group with specific reference to the location Policy for Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account where an individual Executive Director is located when determining the pay and employment conditions for other employees within the annual salary review for the Executive Directors.
This process ensures that any increase to the basic pay Overall, the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors is more of Executive Directors is not out of proportion with that proposed heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees.
This ensures that there is a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the remuneration received by the Executive Directors given it is the Executive Directors who are considered to have the greatest potential to influence Group value creation.
The level of variable pay varies within the Group by level of employee and is informed by the specific responsibilities of each role and local market practice as appropriate.
76 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Remuneration report Recruitment and Promotion Policy For Executive Director recruitment and or promotion situations, the Committee will follow the guidelines outlined below: Element Policy Element Policy Base Base salary levels will be set in accordance with the Benefits Directors are entitled to health insurance, life assurance, Salary Companys Remuneration Policy, taking into account the medical evacuation insurance, travel insurance, holiday experience and calibre of the individual e. g. typically around pay, sick leave and other Group-wide benefits offered market rates prevalent in companies of comparable size and by the Company.
Where necessary, the Committee complexity or salary levels may be set below this level e. g. may approve the payment of relocation expenses to if the individual was a promotion to the Board.
is appropriate to offer a below market rate of pay initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may be given over the next few years subject to individual performance and development in the role.
Pension A defined contribution or cash supplement at the level Annual The Annual Bonus would operate as outlined for current provided to current Executive Directors as set in the Bonus Executive Directors i. e. to a maximum of 150% of base policytable.
salary, albeit pro-rated for the period of employment during the financial year.
Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the appointment it may be necessary to set different performance measures and targets initially.
Any increases in ongoing Annual Bonus opportunity above the limit detailed in the policy table above would be contingent on the Company receiving shareholder approval for an amendment to its approved policy at itsnext AGM.
Long-term Awards under the LTIP will be granted in line with the Buy out In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary to buy-out incentives policy outlined for the current Executive Directors in the awards incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be table set out on page 73.
An award may be made shortly forfeited on leaving the previous employer, this would be after an appointment subject to the Company not being in provided for taking into account the form cash or shares a prohibited period.
For an internal hire, existing awards and timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting would continue over their original vesting period and remain any existing performance criteria of the remuneration subject to their terms as at the date of grant.
if the grant of awards for that individual precedes his or Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using her appointment as a Board Director for that financial year, the Companys LTIP up to the exceptional limit of 300% the Committees policy would include flexibility to top up of salary.
Replacement awards may also be granted outside awards for that year in line with the policy detailed in the table of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the above based on the executives new salary.
in annual LTIP awards above the ongoing normal 200% of salary limit and 300% of salary in exceptional circumstances would be contingent on the Company receiving shareholder approval for an amendment to its approved policy at its next General Meeting.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Service Agreements and Loss of Office Payments The inclusion of the change of control provisions in Nick Cooper and The Executive Directors have rolling term service agreements with previously Jonathan Taylors Service Agreements is now considered the Company.
The notice period for current Executive Directors is a legacy issue by the Committee with Executives in post prior to the 12 months if notice is given by either the executive or the Company.
IPO having consistent provisions in this regard.
Such provisions did not For new hires, the Companys policy to set notice periods of up to form part of Dennis McShane or Lisa Mitchells Service Agreements 12months.
and do not form part of Bill Higgs Service Agreement following his appointment as an Executive Director and will not form part of any The Executive Directors Service Agreements each include the ability future Service Agreements for Executive Directors.
for the Company, at its discretion, to pay basic salary only in lieu of any unexpired period of notice.
A summary of the terms of the Service Agreements is set out below.
This disclosure has been updated from last year to reflect Board Payments may be made as either a lump sum or in equal monthly changes during the period under review: instalments until the end of the notice period at the discretion of the Service Remuneration Committee.
In the case of the Executive Directors, the Continuous Agreement Notice by Notice by executive will be required to seek alternative income during the period Name employment date Company executive which monthly instalments are paid and notify the Company after Nicholas Cooper 1 June 26 May 12 months 12 months securing alternative income.
Should alternative employment be 2011 2011 found, the instalment payments shall then be reduced by the amount Dennis McShane 18 February 18 February 12 months 12 months 2013 2013 of alternative income or cease if the alternative income exceeds the Lisa Mitchell 5 September 26 April 12 months 12 months monthly instalment payment.
2011 2013 The Service Agreements contain a provision enabling the relevant Bill Higgs 10 September 10 September 12 months 12 months employer to put the Executive Director on garden leave for up to six 2014 2014 months at any time after notice to terminate the Service Agreement L isa Mitchell and Dennis McShane stood down as Executive Directors on 17 October 2014 has been given by the Executive Director or the relevant employer or and 4 November 2014 respectively and left the Company on 19 November 2014.
B ill Higgs was appointed as an Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer on the Executive Director has resigned without giving due notice and 10 September 2014. the relevant employer has not accepted the resignation.
During the garden leave period, the executive will be entitled to receive salary Copies of the service agreements for current Executive Directors, and contractual benefits excluding bonuses.
At the end of the together with the Letters of Appointment for the Non-Executive garden leave period, the Company may, at its sole discretion, pay the Directors detailed above, are available for inspection during normal Executive Director basic salary alone in respect of the balance of business hours at the Companys registered office.
any period of notice given by the Company or Executive Director.
Treatment of incentives These payments will be reduced to the extent alternative income If an individual is i under notice at the bonus payment date or is received.
For new hires, the same broad policy would apply.
ii not in employment, the default position is that no bonus will The Service Agreement of Nick Cooper only, provides that if there is be payable.
However, in certain good leaver circumstances death: a change of control, and within three months following the change of retirement: ill-health, injury or disability: redundancy: employment control, the relevant employer or the Executive Director serve notice to ceasing as a result of a sale of a Group company or for any other terminate employment, Nick Coopers employment will be terminated reason at the Committees discretion after taking into account the with immediate effect and the Company shall pay 12 months salary.
circumstances prevailing at the time, a pro-rata bonus will become Nick Cooper will not be entitled to any other payment or notice or payable for the period of employment.
The Committee, acting fairly payment in lieu of notice in addition to this payment.
and reasonably, may decide not to reduce the bonus pro-rata if, in the circumstances, it considers it appropriate to do so for example in the case of, but not limited to, death.
78 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Remuneration report The treatment for share-based incentives previously granted to an Non-Executive Directors Letters of appointment and fees Executive Director will be determined based on the relevant plan rules.
Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment from The default treatment will be for outstanding awards to lapse on the Company.
The Letters of Appointment do not specifically cessation of employment.
provide for terms of appointment, termination notification periods or entitlement to payment on termination, however there is an In relation to awards granted under the LTIP, awards will lapse on expectation that all independent Non-Executive Directors will serve the date of cessation of employment unless an executive leaves for an initial three-year term.
The Company may terminate the under certain good leaver circumstances, such as ill-health, injury, appointment under each Letter of Appointment if the Non-Executive disability, redundancy, transfer or sale of the employing company, Director has committed a serious or repeated breach or non-observance or any other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee of their obligations to the Company.
reflecting the circumstances that prevail at the time.
If treated as a good leaver, the default is for the award to vest at the normal vesting Consideration of shareholder views date.
However, the Committee may decide that awards will vest The Committee remains committed to shareholder dialogue and instead on the date of cessation.
In making a vesting determination, takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
The Committee consults the Committee will assess the extent to which performance extensively with our major shareholders when setting the remuneration conditions have been achieved and the number of awards that policy.
If there are any particular shareholders opposed to our policy, would vest will be reduced pro-rata to reflect the proportion of members of the Committee would endeavour to meet with them, the performance period actually served unless the Committee as appropriate, to understand any issues they may have.
If treated as a good leaver as a result of a death, then the award will vest in full on the date of death.
With regards to awards granted under the 2006 Share Option Plan the plan under which Dennis McShanes recruitment award was granted, if the award holder is dismissed for cause or resigns in circumstances in which he could have been dismissed for cause had those circumstances been known at the time, the award shall lapse.
For other leaver reasons other than death, awards shall lapse on the date of cessation to the extent it has not otherwise become exercisable.
If awards are exercisable, then they will remain exercisable until the tenth anniversary of the grant date.
Upon death, awards may be exercised to the extent they have vested within 12months of the date of death.
With regards to the recruitment award granted to Dennis McShane, detailed on page 73, this lapsed in full on his cessation of employment with the Company on 19 November 2014.
External appointments With the prior permission of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to accept external directorships and to retain any fees payable in respect of those roles.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 79 Annual Report on Remuneration The Chief Executive Officer and advisors to the Committee may also Unaudited information be invited to attend meetings as necessary.
During the year, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Company Secretary, This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with the Large Director of Human Resources and representatives from New Bridge and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Street NBS, part of Aon plc and Eversheds LLP attended meetings Amendment Regulations 2013 and the Listing Rules.
The Annual and provided guidance and advice as necessary.
Statement and Annual Report on Remuneration combined will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM.
The information Executive Directors and other attendees are not entitled to vote on pages 83 to 91 inclusive has been audited.
on any matter put before the Committee and do not participate in any discussion relating to their own remuneration or remit.
Consideration of remuneration matters Role and responsibilities of the Committee The role of the Committee is to determine the Remuneration Policy Membership and attendance of the Company in order to facilitate the recruitment, retention and The members of the Committee during the year ended 31 December motivation of the Executive Directors and key senior management.
2014, together with details of their individual attendance at committee The policy is reviewed at least annually in order to ensure that it meetings held during the year, are set out below: is consistent with business strategy.
The Committee also monitors Meeting the overall remuneration structure across the Group to ensure Committee members attendance that a balanced approach is adopted in relation to all employees.
Vivien Gibney, Committee Chairman 8 8 The Committees full terms of reference, which are reviewed Ronald Blakely 8 8 annually, are available on the Companys website.
Alan Booth 8 8 Advisor to the Committee 1 Lyndon Powell 8 8 NBS is appointed as independent consultants to the Committee in Nicholas Smith 8 8 relation to advice on remuneration and share incentives.
NBS provides 2 John Lander 0 1 services to the Company on a called on rather than retained basis.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies 1 L yndon Powell is not standing for annual re-election and will step down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
Details of the terms of engagement for NBS 2 J ohn Lander stepped down as a Non-Executive Director and a member of the Committee with are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Neither NBS, effect on 28 February 2014. nor any other Aon plc company, provide other services to the Company.
The Committee regularly reviews the external advisor relationship and Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board and all of is comfortable that NBS advice remains objective and independent.
its members are considered to be independent.
The Chairman of the For the year under review NBS total fees charged were 113,971 as Company, Nicholas Smith, who is a member of the Committee, was at 31 December 2014 excluding VAT.
Other advice provided to the Committee was received from Eversheds LLP who provided technical advice in relation to the operation of the Companys share plans and employment law advice in relation to Directors Service Agreements.
80 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Remuneration report Annual Bonus Implementation of Remuneration Policy The Annual Bonus plan has been designed to provide reward for for2015 above-average performance.
The performance targets for the bonus plan, linked to agreed Key Performance Indicators KPIs, are reviewed Base Salaries by the Committee annually.
As disclosed in last years report, the Committee reviewed Executive For the year ending 31 December 2015, the maximum annual bonus Director remuneration during the final quarter of 2013 and found opportunity for Executive Directors is 150% of basic salary.
No bonus that the Chief Executive Officers base salary was significantly below is payable for below-target performance with bonuses earned on market levels.
Accordingly, following prior consultation at the time a sliding scale where appropriate based on the Committees with the Companys major shareholders and leading shareholder assessment of achievement against the targets set.
advisory bodies, it was decided to increase his base salary from 407,530 to 481,950 with effect from 1 January 2014 and to For 2015, the Committee has set the following KPI targets for all Executive 550,000 with effect from 1 January 2015 subject to continued Directors.
These have been refreshed for 2015 vis--vis the targets set in appropriate levels of performance.
The Committee is satisfied that 2014 to better reflect the revised business and strategy of an enlarged the Chief Executives performance during the year warrants the Ophir following the successful acquisition of Salamander Energy plc: implementation of the second increase to 550,000 and in arriving at its decision, considered both his performance and the performance Percentage of total bonus of the Company during the year.
At a difficult time for E&P companies, 1 Measure opportunity the Company is well placed to move forward and exploit the Exploration opportunities available.
Metrics include the capture of high quality exploration acreage and drillable prospects 15% As Bill Higgs appointment commenced on 10 September 2014, Operations the Committee considered whether to award him the standard 2% Metrics include exploration success, protection cost of living increase that had been given to employees in the Group.
of intellectual property and health and safety 13% The Committee agreed they were satisfied his performance to date Financial strength & returns merited such an increase.
Metrics include optimisation of Ophirs capital Salary as at and commercial returns generated 15% 1 January Business model Salary as at 2014 or on Metrics include level of revenue generation 1 January appointment and operating cash flow 11% Role 2015 to the Board Increase Stakeholder Engagement Chief Executive 550,000 481,950 14.1% Metrics include CR targets, employee engagement, 1 Chief Operating Officer 382,500 375,000 2.0% retention and succession planning and diversity 13% Leadership 1 T he Chief Operating Officer was appointed to the Board as an Executive Director on 10September 2014 and his salary has been pro-rated from this date.
Metrics include delivery of agreed Group strategy and high levels of governance across the Group 33% Pension and Benefits 1 F igures have been rounded down to the nearest whole number.
The Committee retains discretion to reduce the total bonus payment to Executive Directors in the event of a serious The Executive Directors receive Company contributions towards HSE incident or series of incidents.
personal pension plans or salary in lieu of pension at a rate of 11% of base salary, or on a pro-rated salary for those executives who were The Committee considers that the targets themselves are not in post for the full year.
commercially sensitive and therefore plans to disclose them only on a retrospective basis.
Details of the targets and actual out turn will be In addition to pension benefits, the Executive Directors also receive disclosed in next years Annual Report on Remuneration, save where health insurance, life assurance, holiday pay and sick leave cover.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Clawback provisions will enable the Committee to correct the bonus The constituents of the comparator group were reviewed during the in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys results so year and for the 2015 award.
The constituents of the LTIP comparator that it reflects the value that should have been paid had it not been group for 2015 award are for the misstatement.
Clawback can be achieved through withholding Africa Oil Corp Bowleven plc of future incentive payments or through the recovery of the value Cairn Energy plc Chariot Oil & Gas Limited overpaid on a net of tax basis from the individual.
Circle Oil plc Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Dragon Oil plc EnQuest plc The maximum normal annual award limit under the LTIP is 200% Faroe Petroleum plc Genel Energy plc of salary and it is intended that awards will be granted in 2015 at this Gulf Keystone Petroleum Limited JKX Oil & Gas plc level to Nick Cooper and Bill Higgs.
When granting awards under the Kosmos Energy Ltd Maurel & Prom.
LTIP, the Committee generally takes into consideration i the need Noble Energy Inc Petroceltic International plc to motivate and retain the Executive Directors and other participants Premier Oil plc Rockhopper Exploration plc and ii the number of shares comprising individual awards when SOCO International plc Tullow Oil plc they are expressed as a multiple of salary given the share price.
In relation to the awards to be granted in 2015, a 200% of salary award was agreed at the time of recruitment with the Chief Operating Clawback provisions will apply that will enable the Committee to Officer.
With regards to both the Chief Operating Officer and the claw back value overpaid in the event of a material misstatement Chief Executive Officer, given the importance of maximising the of the Companys results within a two-year period in relation to opportunities available to the enlarged Group following the theaward.
Clawback can be achieved through withholding of future acquisition of Salamander, granting awards at our policy level is incentive payments or through the recovery of the value overpaid considered important to assist in their retention and motivation on a net of tax basis from the individual.
during the next critical three year period in the Companys Non-Executive Directors remuneration development.
As per the Remuneration Policy, to smooth fluctuations in Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in short or the Companys share price, the number of shares awarded will be long-term incentive plans or to receive any pension from the Group.
based on 139.75p, being the three month average share price over The fees payable to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are the period from 14 November 2014 to 13 February 2015. asfollows: The Committee believes relative TSR performance against other oil 2015 2014 and gas companies remains the most appropriate metric for use by Chairman 140,000 140,000 the Company in relation to LTIP awards.
Non-Executive Director basic fee 70,000 70,000 Awards will vest on a straight line basis relative to the Companys Committee Chairmanship fee 5,000 5,000 TSR performance over a three-year period compared to a comparator group set on grant.
No vesting occurs for below-median performance.
At median, 25% of the award vests, with full vesting at the upper quartile.
In addition, the Committee may reduce the number of shares in respect of which an award would otherwise vest based upon TSR performance if it considers that he TSR achieved over the three-year period does not reflect the underlying financial performance of the Company or that key operational metrics have not been met.
82 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Remuneration report Audited information Single Total Figure of Remuneration The detailed emoluments for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014 are detailed below: Payment Base Long-term for loss Total 1 2 3 4 000 Salary Fees Benefits Pension Bonus incentives of office 2014 Executive Directors Nick Cooper 482 9 53 419 2,007 2,970 5 Dennis McShane 344 9 38 279 316 986 5,6 Lisa Mitchell 353 8 35 247 125 286 1,054 7 Bill Higgs 115 3 13 100 231 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Nicholas Smith 140 140 Ronald Blakely 75 75 Alan Booth 75 75 Vivien Gibney 75 75 8 John Lander 12 12 Lyndon Powell 75 75 Bill Schrader 70 70 1,816 29 139 1,045 2,132 602 5,763 1 Benefits in kind include health insurance, life assurance, holiday pay and sick leave cover.
2 Pension comprises an 11% contribution to personal pension plans or cash provided in lieu of pension at a rate of 11%.
3 Annual bonus to be paid in March 2015.
Further details set out below on pages 84 to 86.
4 T he value provided for Nick Cooper was based on the awards which were granted to him in 2011 and 2012 under the Companys LTIP.
The total shareholder return measures attached to these awards was achieved resulting in full vesting for the 2011 awards and is expected to be 95% vesting for the 2012 award.
The value attributed to Lisa Mitchell is the anticipated value of the 2012 LTIP award vesting at 95%.
Further details of the vesting values are given on page 86.
5 D ennis McShane and Lisa Mitchell stood down as Executive Directors on 4 November 2014 and 17 October 2014 respectively and left the Company on 19 November 2014.
Salaries paid on a pro-rata basis from 1 January 2014 until the date of cessation of employment, 19 November 2014.
For Lisa Mitchell, salary includes 35,859 paid in lieu of holiday entitlement, to which she was contractually entitled.
A pro-rata bonus of 54% of the maximum bonus payable for Dennis McShane and 52% of the maximum bonus payable for Lisa Mitchell for the period from 1 January 2014 to 19 November 2014. iii.
Dennis McShane and Lisa Mitchell commenced their respective notice periods on 5 September 2014 and were paid salaries and benefits up to the 19 November 2014 departure date.
Following their departures, the Company will be making monthly payments of salary for the balance of the 12 month notice periods up to 5 September 2015 which is subject to mitigation if alternative income is secured.
This figure has been included in the above table under payment for loss of office to provide more relevant and reliable information to our shareholders when reviewing and approving the Directors Remuneration for 2014.
Additional disclosure, including the treatment of share awards held is provided in the Payments for Loss of Office section on pages 88 and 89.
6 B efore becoming an Executive Director, Lisa Mitchell was granted non-performance based options in 2012 under the 2006 Share Option Plan.
This award vested on 19 June 2014 prior to cessation of employment.
For completeness, there was no notional gain on vesting as the option exercise price 5.504 per share was above the market price on the day of vesting 2.367p.
7 B ill Higgs joined the Company and was appointed to the Board on 10 September 2014 and his emoluments are for the period from this date to the year end.
He was appointed on an Annual Salary of 375,000.
8 John Lander retired from the Board on 28 February 2014.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83 Annual Report on Remuneration continued The detailed emoluments for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013 are detailed below: Payment Base Long-term for loss Total 000 Salary Fees Benefits Pension Bonus incentives of office 2013 Executive Directors Nick Cooper 408 12 45 562 1,027 1 Dennis McShane 389 6 36 456 887 2 Lisa Mitchell 240 9 26 309 584 3 Jonathan Taylor 256 3 18 190 190 657 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Nicholas Smith 140 140 Ronald Blakely 75 75 4 Alan Booth 50 50 5 Vivien Gibney 27 27 John Lander 75 75 Lyndon Powell 75 75 6 Bill Schrader 61 61 1,796 30 125 1,517 190 3,658 1 D ennis McShane was a Non-Executive Director of the Company from 1 January 2013 until 17 February 2013 and was appointed Director of Corporate Strategy on 18 February 2013.
His base salary on appointment as Director of Corporate Strategy was 380,363 pa. Full details of his fees for 2013 are contained on page 83 of the 2013 Annual Report & Accounts.
2 Lisa Mitchell was promoted to the Board on 26 April 2013.
Her remuneration relates to the period of the year under review when she was an Executive Director.
3 Jonathan Taylor retired as an Executive Director on 6 June 2013.
Full details of his remuneration for 2013 are contained on pages 88 and 89 of the 2013 Annual Report & Accounts.
4 From 26 April 2013, date of appointed to the Board.
5 From 14 August 2013, date of appointed to the Board.
6 From 18 February 2013, date of appointment to the Board.
Additional information in respect of the single figure table Annual bonus plan outturn For 2014, the Committee set KPI targets for the Executive Directors in respect of: HSE performance: reserves and resources: finance: portfolio management new business: and personal objectives.
84 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Remuneration report Whilst the precise targets are considered to remain price sensitive, an overview of the extent of achievement for each Executive Director against their performance objectives is detailed below: Extent of achievement Percentage of overall target met Metric Targets Applicable to all Executive Directors pro-rata for the relevant proportion of the financial year served HSE No significant incidents reported Fully achieved: No significant incidents reported 20% out of a maximum 30% of salary Upgrading HSE policy in line with Ophir Partially met with strong progress achieved against specific requirements the relevant requirements Achieving total recordable injury rate of less Not met rate recorded: 4.1 than two Initiate complete CR projects in key Fully achieved: CR projects initiated in key operational countries operational countries with two project phases completed in separate counties Portfolio Management 1 Monetise agreed proportion of targeted assets Partially achieved 20% out of a maximum 30% of salary 1 Partner in line with 2014 planning Partially achieved Rework existing exploration footprint and secure Majority achieved through the exit from Ghana, additional footprints in line with planning Somaliland, SADR, AGC and acquisition of basin footprints in Myanmar, Indonesia and Seychelles Finance Compliance within approved budgeted spend, Partially achieved 16% out of a maximum 30% of salary cash flow and working capital Three year average finding costs based on 32% achieved $1.32 targets set at the start of 2014 financial year : $1.50: 25%, $1.25: 50%, $1.15: 100% Reserves and Resources 2 Net 2P reserves and 2C resources Threshold achieved 97mmboe being within 7% out of a maximum 30% of salary 2 independent verified where practical : -5% tolerance of the target 100mmboe addition: 25% 140mmboe addition: 50% 180mmboe: addition 75% 210mmboe: addition 100% Personal targets: Chief Executive Officer & Chief Operating Officer Deliver on agreed Group strategy Majority achieved 24% out of a maximum of 30% of salary Build an effective leadership team Key outcomes considered by the Committee included: Continued development of external relationships Group footprint transformed with the acquisition of and set appropriate leadership tone within the Salamander, completed a Board restructuring, Company Ensure best practice execution in the including rebalancing of the skills required to lead the Companys key business areas e. g. exploration, organisation through its next phase of development.
capital raising and M&A 1 The specific details of progress in the above areas remains commercially sensitive and the Board will consider further disclosure in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
2 E stimation of reserves and resources by the Committee has, and will continue to be, undertaken typically within a -5% tolerance of the reported result.
This is considered relevant by the Committee to reinforce the Companys open and honest reporting culture and working effectively with independent verification experts in an area that relies on a combination of scientific and informed estimation.
In light of this discretion and the 97mmboe achieved, the Committee awarded 7% as opposed to 7.5% out of 30% performance.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85 Annual Report on Remuneration continued With regards to Dennis McShane and Lisa Mitchell, they in part shared common objectives as detailed above e. g. delivering on Group strategy but also were subject to role specific targets.
Dennis McShanes targets included improving specific functions within the Group e. g. Corporate Services and providing support and mentoring as appropriate.
The Committees overall assessment of his performance was 18% out of 30%.
Lisa Mitchells role specific targets included restructuring the Groups finance function, managing in tandem with the Chief Executive relations with institutional investors and banks.
Her targets were assessed to have been partially achieved at 15% out of 30%.
Overall, this resulted in bonuses becoming payable at 87% of basic salary in the case of the Nick Cooper and Bill Higgs, being 58% of the maximum bonus payable time pro-rated from date of appointment in the case of the Bill Higgs, and 81% of basic salary in the case of Dennis McShane, being 54% of the maximum bonus payable and 78% of basic salary in the case of Lisa Mitchell, being 52% of the maximum bonus payable figures pro-rated for the relevant part of the year employed.
Long-Term Incentive awards vesting Nick Cooper was granted LTIP awards in 2011 which were subject to a relative TSR performance condition.
Based on a three year performance to 1 June 2014, the Company was ranked in the upper quartile third out of the group of 18 and therefore, this award vested in full.
The Committee also considered the Companys safety record, financial and operating performance over the performance period and approved the vesting result.
Nick Cooper and Lisa Mitchell were granted LTIP awards in 2012 which were subject to a relative TSR performance condition.
Based on a three year performance to 31 December 2014, the Company was ranked approximately fifth out of the group of 17 the full peer group is as previously disclosed in the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report based on TSR performance over the performance period.
This ranking placed the Company marginally below the upper quartile of the Comparator Group and it is anticipated that 95% of the shares originally awarded to Nick Cooper and Lisa Mitchell will vest on 13 April 2015, being the third anniversary of the date of grant.
As the performance period finished in 2014 an estimated value for this vesting is included in Nick Cooper and Lisa Mitchells emoluments for 2014 on page 83.
The awards vested at 100% following full satisfaction of the Performance Condition.
Nick Cooper exercised all the options resulting from this vesting on 27 June 2014, when the share price was 2.1619, resulting in an actual gain of 1,124,938.
He retained 274,804 shares post exercise.
2 T he value of awards vested is based on a share price of 1.7243, the average of the share price in the three months to 31 December 2014, as the share price at 13 April 2015 the expected day of vesting is not yet known and the awards vesting at 95%, which is the extent to which it is expected the Performance Condition will have been met.
For Lisa Mitchells 2012 LTIP Award, 11,610 shares lapsed on 19 November 2014 when she left the Company, as the Committee applied a time pro-rating to the Award for the proportion of the Performance Period she served as an employee of the Company.
The number of awards in the above table was adjusted for the March 2013 rights issue as disclosed in last years Remuneration Report.
Before becoming an Executive Director, Lisa Mitchell was granted non-performance based options in 2012 under the 2006 Share Option Plan.
These awards vested on 19 June 2014 prior to cessation of employment.
Further details are provided in the Payments for Loss of Office section.
86 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Remuneration report Long-Term Incentive awards granted in the year As part of the terms of Nick Coopers Exceptional LTIP award granted on 19 June 2012, Nick Cooper did not receive an award under the LTIP in 2014.
Tranche 3 of the Exceptional LTIP has a three-year performance period which commenced on 19 June 2014.
Bill Higgs did not receive a LTIP award during the year.
The LTIP award levels granted to the other Executive Directors in the year under review calculated based on the three-month average share price for the period from 15 November 2013 to 14 February 2014 were: Chief Financial Officer Lisa Mitchell : 200% of salary: and Director of Corporate Strategy Dennis McShane : 200% of salary: These awards were in line with the Companys policy as detailed in the Policy Report.
The awards to the Executive Directors during the year were as follows: % of award that vests at the threshold performance level performance Face value Share price Number is measured to of award at date Exercise of shares 31 December Type of Award Basis of award granted of grant price awarded 000 2016 1 Lisa Mitchell LTIP Nominimal cost option 200% of salary 2.54 228,526 718 25% 1 Dennis McShane LTIP Nominimal cost option 200% of salary 2.54 248,351 778 25% 1 I n line with the Companys policy set out on page 73, the share price used to determine the number of awards was 3.13968, being the average share price during the period from 15 November 2013 to 14 February 2014.
The performance targets applying to the 2014 LTIP awards are based on relative TSR against other oil and gas companies.
Awards vest on a straight line basis relative to the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance over a three-year period compared to a comparator group set on grant.
At median 25% of the award vests, with full vesting at the upper quartile.
In addition, the Committee may reduce the number of shares in respect of which an award would otherwise vest based upon TSR performance if it considers that the TSR achieved over the three-year period does not reflect the underlying financial performance of the Company or that key operational metrics have not been met.
The constituents of the 2014 LTIP comparator group are as set out on page 82 save that for the 2014 award Afren plc, Essar Energy plc, Heritage Oil plc and Salamander Energy plc were included in the 2014 LTIP comparator group, whilst Africa Oil Corp, Circle Oil plc, Dragon Oil plc and Noble Energy Inc were not then included.
Clawback provisions will apply in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys results within a two-year period in relation to theaward.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Payments for Loss of Office The Group undertook a reorganisation of the business during the year under review that covered all levels of the Company.
This exercise was designed to reduce costs, and adjust to the future needs of the business.
Part of this process included a restructuring and streamlining of the senior management team.
The restructuring resulted in a smaller Board with the number of Executive Directors reducing from three to two and Non-Executive Directors reducing from six to five.
As detailed in the Corporate Governance Report, the revisions to the Executive Boards individual responsibilities resulted in the roles of Chief Financial Officer and Director of Corporate Strategy no longer being Board positions and, as a result, these roles were made redundant.
The payments in connection with the subsequent cessation of employment of each individual, which were in line with their contractual provisions and their treatment as good leavers under the terms of the LTIP, are detailed below.
Lisa Mitchell Payment in lieu of notice Lisa Mitchell has a 12 month notice period and the Company commenced her notice on 5 September 2014.
Lisa Mitchell was paid her normal salary and benefits up to her departure date of 19 November 2014.
The Company is making monthly payments of salary for the balance of her unexpired notice period up to 5 September 2015 subject to mitigation if Lisa Mitchell secures alternative income in the period up to 5 September 2015.
Lisa Mitchells annual salary is 358,750 and therefore the maximum payment will be 284,010.
Redundancy payment As Lisa Mitchells role has been made redundant she received a statutory redundancy payment of 2,088.
2014 Annual bonus payment Lisa Mitchell received an annual bonus payment for 2014 as disclosed on pages 84 to 86.
The payment was reduced on a time worked basis to reflect her departure date of 19 November 2014.
Long-Term Incentive Awards The outstanding LTIP awards previously granted to Lisa Mitchell over an aggregate of 474,121 shares detailed on page 90 were retained by her in accordance with the good leaver provisions under the rules of the LTIP which include redundancy and shall vest on the normal vesting date for each of the respective awards.
The number of shares over which the awards shall be capable of exercise, subject to performance conditions being met, will be reduced on a time worked basis to reflect the period between the date of grant of the award and the 19 November 2014 as compared to the period from the date of grant of that award to the normal vesting date for each award made to Lisa Mitchell.
The 2012, 2013, and 2014 LTIP awards information will be further updated in the 2015, 2016 and 2017 Directors Remuneration Reports, as appropriate.
Employee Share Options Lisa Mitchell retained the options previously granted to her pursuant to the Companys 2006 Share Option Plan over an aggregate of 173,448 shares in the Company detailed on page 90 as they have vested in full and such options will remain exercisable until the 10th anniversary from the respective date of grant.
Pension related benefits Lisa Mitchell received a contribution to her pension, medical cover and life insurance until 19 November 2014 at which point these benefitsceased.
88 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Remuneration report Dennis McShane Payment in lieu of notice Dennis McShane has a 12 month notice period and the Company commenced his notice on 5 September 2014.
Dennis McShane was paid his normal salary and benefits up to his departure date of 19 November 2014.
The Company is making monthly payments of salary for the balance of his unexpired notice period up to 5 September 2015 subject to mitigation if Dennis McShane secures alternative income in the period up to 5 September 2015.
Dennis McShanes annual salary is 389,872 and therefore the maximum payment will be 316,170.
Redundancy payment While Dennis McShanes role has been made redundant, he does not qualify for statutory redundancy payment due to a lack of continuousemployment.
2014 Annual bonus payment Dennis McShane received an annual bonus payment for 2014 as disclosed on pages 84 to 86.
The payment was reduced on a time worked basis to reflect his departure date of 19 November 2014.
Long-Term Incentive Awards The outstanding LTIP awards previously granted to Dennis McShane over an aggregate of 419,979 shares detailed on page 90 will be retained by him in accordance with the good leaver provisions under the rules of the LTIP which include redundancy and shall vest on the normal vesting date for each of the respective awards.
The number of shares over which the awards shall be capable of exercise, subject to performance conditions being met, will be reduced on a time worked basis to reflect the period between the date of grant of the award and 19 November 2014 as compared to the period from the date of grant of that award to the normal vesting date for each award made to Dennis McShane.
The 2013 and 2014 LTIP awards information will be updated in the 2016 and 2017 Directors Remuneration Reports as appropriate.
Employee Share Options Pursuant to the rules of the Companys 2006 Share Option Plan, the option which Dennis McShane holds under the plan over an aggregate of 360,127 shares detailed on page 90 automatically lapsed on 19 November 2014.
Pension related benefits Dennis McShane received contributions to his pension, medical cover and life insurance until 19 November 2014 at which point these benefitsceased.
1 Nick Cooper was granted market value options under the 2006 Share Option Scheme and an award under the Long-Term Incentive Plan as part of the terms of his recruitment.
2 Dennis McShane stepped down from the Board on 4 November 2014 and left the Company on 19 November 2014.
3 Lisa Mitchell stepped down from the Board on 17 October 2014 and left the Company on 19 November 2014.
4 These options have vested and are currently exercisable.
90 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Remuneration report Share ownership To align the interests of the Executive Directors with shareholders, Directors are required to build up significant shareholdings in the Company.
Nick Cooper has a guideline equivalent to 300% of salary, to be achieved through retaining 100% of his vested or exercised awards net of taxes under the long-term incentive share plans until the guideline is met.
Other Executive Directors are required to build up shareholdings of at least 100% of salary increased to 200% of salary for Executive Director appointments after 14 November 2014 and are required to retain 50% of their vested or exercised awards net of taxes under share incentive schemes until the guideline is met.
Nick Cooper has met his share ownership requirements as at 31 December 2014.
Bill Higgs, who only joined in September 2014, has yet to meet his requirement.
Lower shareholding requirements apply for other members of the management team.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Company but are not subject to a formal shareholding guideline.
Details of the Directors interests in shares are shown in the table below.
Share ownership Beneficially Beneficially guideline Outstanding Outstanding owned as at owned as at met as at long-term options Outstanding 31 December 31 December 31 December incentive vested but options Target level 2014 2013 2014 awards unexercised unvested 1 Nicholas Smith n a 128,000 128,000 n a n a n a n a 2 Nick Cooper 300% 770,001 495,197 100% 1,390,758 578,164 0 3 Bill Higgs 100% 0 0 0% 0 0 0 4 4 Dennis McShane 100% 145,600 145,600 79% 148,809 0 0 5 5 Lisa Mitchell 100% 0 0 0% 201,515 173,448 0 6 Ronald Blakely n a 47,000 35,000 n a n a n a n a 7 Alan Booth n a 125,000 125,000 n a n a n a n a 9 Vivien Gibney n a 10,000 10,000 n a n a n a n a 8 John Lander n a 313,544 313,544 n a n a n a n a 9 Lyndon Powell n a 33,600 33,600 n a n a n a n a 9 Bill Schrader n a 10,200 10,200 n a n a n a n a 1 Nicholas Smith holds a beneficial interest in 128,000 Shares.
The legal interest is held by Vestra Nominees Limited.
2 N ick Cooper holds a beneficial interest in 669,201 Shares.
The legal interest is held by Goldman Sachs International.
The remaining beneficial interest in 800 Shares is held by Nick Coopers spouse, Alison Nightingale.
The legal interest of these shares are held in the name of James Capel Nominees Limited.
3 At 10 September 2014, date of appointment to the Board.
4 As at 4 November 2014, date of stepping down from the Board.
The beneficial interest was in 145,600 Shares.
The legal interest was held by Frank Nominees Limited.
5 As at 17 October 2014, date of stepping down from the Board.
6 R onald Blakely and members of his family hold a beneficial interest in 47,000 Shares.
The legal interest is held by RBC Dominion Securities.
7 A lan Booth holds a beneficial interest in 125,000 shares.
The legal interest is held by TD Direct Investing Nominees Europe Ltd. 8 A s at 28 February 2014, date of departure from the Board.
John Lander and his family held a beneficial interest in 313,544 shares.
The legal interest was held by WB Nominees Limited.
9 Vivien Gibney, Lyndon Powell and Bill Schrader hold the legal and beneficial interest in the Shares registered in their respective names.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Performance graph not subject to audit Chief Executive Officers remuneration table not subject to audit The following graph shows the Companys TSR performance since trading of the Companys shares began on the London Stock The table below details the single total remuneration figure earned by Exchange on 13 July 2011 against the FTSE All Share Oil and the Chief Executive Officer since the Company moved to the Official Gas Producers Index.
Total remuneration has been calculated to be consistent with the figures disclosed on pages 83 and 84 and the table also details the The graph also shows the Companys TSR performance since trading proportion of annual bonus and LTIP awards payable and or vesting of the Companys shares began on the London Stock Exchange on in the relevant year.
Ophir is a constituent of the index and therefore the Committee considers this equity index to be Total Annual LTIP Remuneration Bonus Vesting appropriate as a comparator.
Year Ending Executive 000 % of max % of max 1 31 12 2014 Nick Cooper 2,970 58% 95 & 100% Total shareholder returns TSR 2 31 12 2013 Nick Cooper 1,027 92% n a 31 12 2012 Nick Cooper 970 89% n a 250 3 31 12 2011 Nick Cooper 910 83% n a 1 I n the year ending 31 December 2014 performance was established for the LTIPs awarded 200 in 2011, which vested at 100% on 1 June 2014 and for the award made on 13 April 2012, which is currently expected to vest at 95% on 13 April 2015.
2 T he LTIP award and 2006 Share Option Plan awards that vested in 2013 related to 150 compensation agreed on joining the Company for awards forfeited at a previous employer.
Neither award was subject to performance targets and as a result is not included in the Single Total Remuneration Figure.
100 3 Reflects the fact that Nick Cooper was appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 1 June 2011 50 Percentage change in the remuneration of the 0 13 Jul 11 13 Dec 11 31 Dec 12 31 Dec 13 31 Dec 14 Chief Executive Officer not subject to audit Ophir FTSE 250 FTSE All Share Oil and Gas Producers Index The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration Source: Thomson Reuters salary, benefits and annual incentive from 2013 to 2014 for the Chief Executive Officer compared with the average UK Head Office employee.
1 Chief Executive Officer Average UK employee Salary 18.3% 13.8% Benefits -25.0% 8.2% Annual Bonus -25.4% 6.7% 1 T he comparator group chosen comprises 15 employees who are the Companys UK based employees, excluding the Executive Directors, who were employed continuously from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2014.
The Committee believes that this group is the most appropriate comparator group as these employees are based in the same geographical location as the Chief Executive Officer and allows for a like-for-like comparison.
92 Ophir Energy plc Value Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Remuneration report Relative importance of the spend on pay not subject to audit 2014 2013 % change Staff Costs m 28.1 22.2 26.6 1 Distributions to shareholders m 27.7 0 n a 1 V ia the share buyback programme.
Statement of shareholder voting not subject to audit At last years AGM, the Directors Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders: Votes in favour Votes against Remuneration Policy 98.9% 1.1% Annual Statement and Annual Report on Remuneration 74.2% 25.8% In relation to the votes cast against the Annual Statement and Annual Report on Remuneration, the Committee understood the primary reasons to relate to legacy issues.
Specifically, the treatment of a founders share incentive awards on his cessation of employment with the Company along with the recruitment terms of Dennis McShane and the salary increase awarded to the Chief Executive during the final year of his effective participation in an Exceptional Long-Term Incentive award introduced shortly after Ophirs move to the Official List Tranche 3 as detailed on page 73.
As a result of a comprehensive shareholder consultation during late 2013, these legacy issues were understood to be shareholder issues prior to the 2014 AGM and addressed, as appropriate, in the drafting of the Companys future Remuneration Policy which was overwhelmingly supported by shareholders at our 2014 AGM as detailed above.
By Order of the Board Vivien Gibney Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 18 March 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 93 Responsibility statement of Statement of Directors responsibilities the Directors in respect of the in relation to the Group financial Annual Report and Accounts statements and Annual Report I confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of their knowledge: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable The financial statements, prepared in accordance with United Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by Directors to prepare Group financial statements for each financial the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, year.
Under that law, the Directors are required to prepare Group liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Company financial statements under International Financial Reporting and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under as a whole: and Company Law the Directors must not approve the Group financial The Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair review statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair of the development and performance of the business and the view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss position of the Company and the undertakings included in the of the Group for that period.
In preparing the Group financial consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description statements the Directors are required to: of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
present fairly the financial position, financial performance Directors statement under the UK Corporate Governance Code and cash flows of the Group: The Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts taken select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and that it Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Errors and then apply them consistently: the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Approved by the Board on 18 March 2015. understandable information: Nick Cooper make judgements that are reasonable: Chief Executive Officer provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 18 March 2015 specific requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and state whether the Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Strategic Report, Directors Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable regulations, including the requirements of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Approved by the Board on 18 March 2015.
Nick Cooper Chief Executive Officer 18 March 2015 94 Ophir Energy plc
