Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Remuneration report Chairmans Annual Statement on Remuneration Remuneration Committee key activities in 2014 Performance and Reward At the same time as successfully changing the future scale of our business, 2014 was also a year in which substantial operational progress was achieved.
In what has been a challenging environment for E&P companies, the executive leadership team has delivered strong operational Vivien Gibney, Remuneration Committee performance.
We successfully fide-risked our exposure in targeted Chairman areas e. g. Tanzania, as well as discovering additional resources, achieved a three year historic finding costs of $1.34 boe and had exploration success in seven out of twelve wells.
Finally, and Dear Shareholder importantly, we achieved our successes safely.
As a result, annual I am delighted to have the opportunity to provide you, our bonuses payable pro-rata for the part year where relevant were shareholders, with an overview of the key activities of the in the region of 52% to 58% of the maximum amount payable.
Taking a longer-term view and reflecting our strong relative 2014 has been a transformational year for Ophir, which has performance during the three year period from our move seen both a successful restructuring of the Board and, more to the Official List through to May 2014, the Company was recently, the acquisition of Salamander Energy plc which ranked in the top quartile for each of the awards granted in 2011 changes our footprint, mix of activities and scale.
We have full details are included on page 86 and so these awards vested also monetised half of our stake in our LNG project in Tanzania.
The awards granted in the following financial year are From a remuneration perspective, in what has been a busy anticipated to vest in April 2015, with performance ranking our year, the Committee has worked to ensure that the policy relative Total Shareholder Return just below the top quartile, overwhelmingly approved by shareholders at our 2014 AGM against a basket of our sector peers.
The Committee is comfortable that the incentive outcomes over the Remuneration and Strategy relevant performance periods reflect the level of performance achieved As detailed in the reviews by the Chairman and the Chief Executive, in what has been a challenging and difficult external environment.
our Company, as enlarged by the combination with Salamander, remains an exploration focused upstream company.
Our strategy is to Changes to the Executive Board create shareholder value through the exploration and appraisal phase As noted above, and detailed in the Report of the Nomination of the E&P cycle which will now be supported by selectively re-investing Committee, a restructuring of the Board was undertaken during cash flow from Salamanders existing production.
During the E&P August 2014 to ensure the Board included the appropriate balance cycle, we will continue to seek to monetise value at the appropriate of skills to lead Ophir through the next phase of its development.
time to maximise shareholderreturns and exercise capital discipline.
As a result of this exercise, in light of the level of financial and strategy expertise on the Board, Bill Higgs was appointed as Chief With our strategy continuing to focus on long-term shareholder Operating Officer and Dennis McShane and Lisa Mitchell left the value creation and our activities impacting over more than a Board.
In line with our shareholder approved Remuneration Policy, single year, it therefore remains appropriate for our remuneration both Dennis and Lisa were treated as good leavers under the terms policy for our two Executive Directors to be weighted towards of the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan which included performance long-term variable pay, with fixed pay set at or below comparable conditions to be tested at the normal vesting date and rewards market benchmarks albeit at levels that are not considered likely being time pro-rated with payments in lieu of notice restricted to inadvertently create retention issues.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69 Chairmans Annual Statement on Remuneration continued to the balance of their notice period from the date that they To further improve the alignment between executives and ceased employment.
These payments were phased and subject to shareholders the Committee has decided that any future mitigation.
Full details of the payment relating to each executives Executive Director appointments should be subject to a minimum cessation of employment are set out on pages 88 and 89. shareholding guideline of 200% of salary, up from 100%.
The current Chief Executives guideline remains at 300% of salary.
The remuneration of Bill Higgs, who was appointed on 10 September 2014, was structured wholly in line with our shareholder approved Full details of the application of Remuneration Policy for 2015 Remuneration Policy and there was no compensation provided for are set out on pages 81 and 82. awards forfeited on joining the Company.
Relationship between remuneration and risk Application of Remuneration Policy for 2015 As an upstream oil and gas business, Ophir continues to be exposed The Committee considered the overall structure of remuneration to many different risks and, therefore, effective risk management in 2014 and, in particular, whether there should be any revisions is an integral part of the Companys activities.
From a remuneration to the performance metrics targeted for improvement in 2015. perspective, the Committee undertakes a careful review of its Remuneration Policy annually as noted above to ensure that In conclusion, as the Committee utilises a broad range of performance it is consistent with the business strategy and does not, as an metrics in the annual bonus plan which are directly linked to our unintended consequence, encourage or reward inappropriate Key Performance Indicators, and our long-term incentive measures risk-taking by the executives.
The Committee believes that the how well we perform in creating long-term shareholder value current structure, weighted towards long-term variable pay, and relative to our peers, the Committee is comfortable that there including operating with share ownership guidelines and claw back should be no substantive change in our general approach to provisions, does not inadvertently encourage undue risk taking.
However, to better reflect the enlarged Groups strategy, we have broadened the number of Key Shareholder feedback Performance Indicators targeted for improvement in our 2015 The Board and the Committee are committed to maintaining annual bonus plan to better support our 2015 corporate strategy.
an open and constructive dialogue with our shareholders on remuneration matters.
We continue to engage in appropriate As detailed in last years Policy and Remuneration Report, the dialogue with our major investors on any significant changes to second stage of a two stage increase in salary for the Chief the Remuneration Policy and we, and I, welcome any feedback Executive Officer Nick Cooper, which was the subject of a you may have.
comprehensive shareholder consultation in late 2013 and early 2014, has been implemented as planned.
The Committee Vivien Gibney strongly supports this increase.
Shareholders have agreed it, Remuneration Committee Chairman the operational performance and achievements of the Company 18 March 2015 during the year, as detailed above, support it and we are cognisant of the importance of retaining and motivating the Chief Executive Officer through this critical and challenging phase of our Companys development.
