Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 53 Directors remuneration policy The Groups remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 16 April 2014, and took effect from that date.
A summary of the policy for the Executive Directors, Chairman and Non-Executive Directors is set out below in the policy table, which is reproduced in full.
The entire policy, as approved by shareholders, may be found on the Companys website at www.
com investors in the 2013 Annual Report.
Executive Directors The Committees policy for the Executive Directors is to provide remuneration which is largely performance orientated, closely aligns the Directors interests with those of shareholders and which will retain a talented executive team who can deliver excellent long term Company performance.
To achieve the aim of this policy the remuneration of the Executive Directors is made up of different elements of fixed and variable pay, with a significant emphasis on performance-related pay for achievement of stretching targets.
If challenging performance conditions attached to variable pay are achieved in full, a substantial proportion of an Executive Directors remuneration will be performance related.
Overall, the Committees policy is to ensure that the balance of performance conditions in the annual bonus and long term incentive plan awards provides a good link to the Companys business strategy and continues to make the Company successful on a sustainable basis.
Summary of remuneration policy for Executive Directors Base salary Purpose How it operates Maximum payable Performance framework Market competitive salaries Salaries are paid by 12 equal monthly instalments.
The Committee does not None commensurate with a Directors They are reviewed annually with any increases consider it appropriate to set experience are paid to attract normally taking effect from 1 January.
Any future and retain Executive Directors increases will generally be in line When reviewing salaries, consideration is given to with the skills necessary with inflation and with increases current market conditions: any increases awarded to lead the business and applied to Group monthly paid to staff in the business generally and any change in successfully implement the employees, unless there is a a Directors role and experience.
Where an Executive Director is to be promoted The Committee will retain or where their role is to be expanded or changed, discretion to increase base the Committee will review the salary payable salaries above the framework set and decide whether an increase decrease out above for any promotions, is appropriate, in order that base salaries where the Committee has remain appropriate.
purposefully set a lower starting salary for a newly appointed Director, or if a Directors salary is no longer market competitive.
Current salary levels are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Annual bonus Annual bonuses are performance Any annual bonuses earned are paid in cash up to The maximum annual bonus Annual bonus performance related.
The aim is to set 100% of base salary.
potential is 200% of base salary conditions are set annually by stretching targets which will for the Group Chief Executive the Committee to ensure that To further link the Executive Directors pay to the incentivise the Executive Directors and 150% of base salary for they take into consideration the interests of shareholders, any bonus earned in to achieve excellent performance other Executive Directors.
Companys strategy and the excess of 100% of base salary is made through in line with the Companys Maximum bonus is only payable outlook for the Company over the awards under the Companys Bonus Share strategic objectives.
if stretching targets are met and medium term and are appropriate Scheme.
Any Bonus Share awards are made at the excellent Company performance from a risk perspective.
same time as cash bonuses are paid.
Financial metrics such as profit Vesting of Bonus Share Scheme awards is not and cash generation will have the subject to further performance conditions, other majority weighting.
Non-financial than the Director must remain employed at the date metrics such as customer care of exercise subject to the standard good leaver and health and safety, where provisions.
Bonus Share Scheme awards vest and applied, will have a minority become exercisable in two equal tranches, on the weighting.
announcement of the Companys final results one year and two years after the date of the award.
A dividend equivalent is payable on Bonus Share Scheme awards that vest based on dividends and returns of cash to shareholders with record dates occurring between the date of grant and the date of vesting.
A clawback arrangement allows for the Company to recover annual bonuses made as a result of an error or misstatement, or if a Director is guilty of gross misconduct which substantially affects the Companys financial performance or reputation.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 54 Directors remuneration policy continued Long Term Incentive Plan awards Purpose How it operates Maximum payable Performance framework The Committee considers that Awards made under the Persimmon Plc 2012 Long The maximum number of shares Options granted under the it is appropriate for a significant Term Incentive Plan the 2012 LTIP have a 10-year that can be awarded under the 2012 LTIP have a performance component of an Executive performance condition directly linked to the Capital 2012 LTIP is: condition directly linked to the Directors remuneration to be Return Plan.
return of 1.9bn 6.20 per Chief Executive: 4,832,000 share based with long term share to shareholders over The plan was designed to provide participants performance conditions closely Finance Director: 3,382,400 the 10-year Capital Return Plan with an initial award, granted in the first year of the linked to the Companys long term period and a vesting period performance period, with additional awards only Group Managing Director: strategy.
This aligns the interests over the same timescale.
granted for circumstances such as promotions or 2,416,000 of the Executive Directors with the increased responsibilities.
Awards will be granted The initial exercise price will Companys long term financial Non-Board level: 1,540,200 with an initial option price equal to the market value reduce by the value of cash performance and with the of a share, or 6.20 if higher.
The overall aggregate plan limit returns to shareholders during interests of shareholders.
is 30.2 million shares 10% of the period from date of grant Subject to performance, up to 40% of options may the then issued share capital.
to the earlier of 31 December be exercisable at 31 December 2017.
The balance 2012 LTIP awards are larger than 2021 or the date of exercise of of options may be exercisable on the earlier of previous awards due to the an option.
31December 2021 and the date the performance 10 year performance period.
condition is achieved in full.
There is an underpin requirement in the 2012 LTIP After sales to meet tax, no more than 50% of being that the cash returns shares received upon exercise of an option may paid by the Company are be sold within 12 months of the date of exercise.
financed out of retained The Committee may waive this condition for good earnings and the Company has leavers and in exceptional circumstances.
an ungeared balance sheet A clawback arrangement under the Companys at the relevant performance long term incentive plans allows the Company to measurement date.
recover share awards which have vested as a result For achieving the minimum of an error or misstatement, or if a Director is guilty performance target, 27% of the of gross misconduct which substantially affects the options will vest.
Companys financial performance or reputation.
Pension Salary supplement Market competitive pension Base salary is the only component of remuneration Pension accrual in the DB None salary supplements are offered which is pensionable.
The Company operates a scheme is on a CARE basis at to attract and retain Directors defined benefit DB pension scheme, which is one-sixtieth of Pensionable Salary with the skills necessary to lead closed to new members and a defined contribution per year.
the business and successfully DC scheme.
Accrual in the DB scheme is based The Company will match a implement the Companys on a career average revalued earnings CARE Directors contributions into the strategy.
basis for all active members and normal retirement DC scheme up to a maximum age for Directors is 60 or 65, dependent on date of of 9% of base salary.
The appointment to the Board.
Committee retains the discretion If a Director opts out of future pension accrual, a to amend the contribution level salary supplement is payable.
The maximum salary supplement in lieu of pension is between 9% and 30% of base salary, dependent upon the level of pension benefits given up.
Benefits Market competitive benefits The benefits include: fully financed cars or cash car The Committee has not set a None are offered to attract and allowance, Group Medical Scheme membership, maximum for benefits.
Benefit retain Directors with the skills life assurance, income protection scheme costs will remain a small necessary to lead the business membership, professional subscriptions and some component of total remuneration.
and successfully implement the telephone costs.
The Committee does not currently expect to change the benefits offered to Executive Directors but retains the discretion to add to or remove some of the benefits available if market conditions change.
It would also consider relocation benefits where appropriate.
HMRC approved all-employee scheme HMRC approved all-employee Executive Directors are eligible to participate inallMaximum is subject to HMRC None share schemes are to encourage employee schemes.
employees to take a stake in the business, which aligns their interest with that of shareholders.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 55 Share ownership guidelines Purpose How it operates Maximum holding Performance framework To align the interests of the Executive Directors are required to retain the net of 200% of base salary.
None Executive Directors with those tax vested shares under all of the Companys share of shareholders.
schemes until the guideline is met.
Choice of performance conditions Annual bonus conditions Rationale for selection and how performance targets are set Profit before tax and cash generation Aligned with the Companys strategy to improve margins and return cash to shareholders.
Customer satisfaction and health and safety These are important factors in ensuring overall business performance, sustainability and reputation.
Annual bonus performance conditions are reviewed annually by the Committee to ensure that they take into consideration the Companys strategy and the outlook for the Company over the medium term and are appropriate from a risk perspective.
2012 LTIP conditions Rationale for selection and how performance targets are set Cash returns to shareholders Directly aligned to the Companys Capital Return Plan to return 1.9bn, equivalent to 6.20per share to shareholders over the period 2012 to 2021 being the Companys marketcapitalisation at the date of announcement.
Future awards will be granted with aninitial option price equal to the market value of a share, or 6.20 if higher.
Differences between the Executive Directors and general employees remuneration policy Performance-related pay makes up a significantly higher proportion of remuneration for the Executive Directors and senior employees than for employees generally, reflecting the role of these individuals in managing the business to achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
The Committee considers that the emphasis on performance related pay for Executive Directors and senior employees closely aligns the Directors interests with those of shareholders and helps to deliver excellent long term Company performance.
Legacy arrangements For avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors Remuneration Policy, the authority is given to the Company to honour any previously disclosed commitments entered into with current or former Directors such as the payment of pensions or the vesting exercise of past share awards.
Chairman Fee Purpose How it operates Maximum payable Performance framework Market competitive fees are The Chairmans fees are set by the Committee.
The Chairmans fees will be N A paid to attract a Chairman with increased in line with inflation and The Chairmans initial fee was set at a market the skills necessary to lead the with increases applied to Group competitive level, commensurate with the size Board and ensure it is effective in monthly paid employees unless andcomplexity of our business.
setting the right strategy for the there is an exceptional reason for business and for its successful Fees are reviewed annually with any increases a larger increase.
The Chairman does not receive When reviewing the Chairmans fees, consideration bonus, pension or salary is given to current market conditions, the size of the supplement payments or share business and any increases awarded to staff in the scheme awards but may receive business generally.
Non-Executive Directors Fees Purpose How it operates Maximum payable Performance framework Market competitive fees are paid Fees are determined by the Board as a whole.
They The Non-Executive Directors N A to attract Non-Executive Directors are set at market competitive levels, commensurate feeswill be increased in line with with a broad range of skills and with their duties and responsibilities for a company inflation and increases applied to experience to complement of our size and complexity.
Group monthly paid employees the Board.
unless there is an exceptional Fees are reviewed annually with any increases reason for a larger increase.
Non-Executive Directors with normally taking effect from 1January.
diverse skills and strategy Additional fees are payable to When reviewing the Non-Executive Directors fees will assist the Board when Non-Executive Directors for extra consideration is given to current market conditions, setting the Companys responsibilities, such as chairing the size of the business and any increases awarded strategy and overseeing its aBoard committee.
to staff in the business generally.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive bonus, pension or salary supplement payments, share scheme awards or other benefits.
