Remuneration Report Annual Statement Dear Shareholder and soon-to-be regulated markets and strengthening the Groups regulatory functions in light of increased regulation On behalf of the Board, I welcome the opportunity to in the UK and elsewhere.
Accordingly, in recognition of this present the Remuneration Committees report on Directors exceptional performance, the Committee has, consistent remuneration for the year to 31 December 2014.
This report, with the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders as required by the Code, describes how the Board has at last years annual general meeting, awarded a bonus of applied the principles of the Code to Directors remuneration.
200% of salary to the CEO and 150% of salary to the CFO.
Although Playtech is an Isle of Man incorporated entity The Committee is more than satisfied that this level of bonus and, as such, is not required to comply with the new UK reflects the delivery of superior financial performance which regulations on Directors remuneration, we recognise the was significantly ahead of the levels expected at the start of importance of shareholder transparency.
Accordingly, the year together with the strong personal performance of we can confirm that the Company adheres to the UK the Executive Directors during 2014.
Further details of the regulations and the report below is divided into: i this Annual bonuses are set out below.
Statement: ii the Remuneration Policy Report containing No long-term incentive plan award was due to vest in relation a re-presentation of the Groups Remuneration Policy, as to performance which ended at 31 December 2014.
In view approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and which is of the fact that the Executive Directors do not currently hold not being amended at this time: and iii the Annual Report on any options in the Company, the Remuneration Committee Remuneration or ARR that reports on the implementation intends to make grants to them pursuant to the Groups Long of the Companys stated Remuneration Policy for the year Term Incentive Plan 2012 at the next available opportunity to 31 December 2014.
The ARR will be the subject of an as part of its efforts to secure the management team for the advisory shareholder resolution at the forthcoming AGM.
The Committee is satisfied that the total remuneration of Philosophy the Executive Directors is reasonable in the context of Our Remuneration Policy, which is set out in more detail in performance delivered and is below the total remuneration this report, is designed to reward the contributions of senior delivered in comparable businesses in the Travel & management but also to incentivise them to maintain and Leisure sector.
enhance Playtechs position as the software and services provider of choice to the gambling sector.
Remuneration policy for 2015 Remuneration is delivered via relatively modest fixed No changes are proposed to the Remuneration Policy remuneration and simple and transparent incentive-based from that presented and approved at last years AGM.
plans enabling the Executive Directors to be rewarded for Further details of the Companys Remuneration Policy and delivering strong financial performance and sustainable structure are provided in this report.
The Remuneration returns to shareholders.
Committee believes the current policy reinforces the Companys strategy to create a business with significant scale and a full product and service capability, underpinned Performance outcome for 2014 by a pre-eminent technology platform.
We believe that the As set out in more detail in the Strategic Report, 2014 Remuneration Policy and incentive framework we have in was a year of exceptional performance for Playtech.
place can support the Companys strategy in the current The performance was driven by the continued growth of the economic environment and help to retain and motivate our Groups flagship casino product, the PTTS services divisions, management team in order to assist in driving strong returns strong growth in sport as well as the expansion of our mobile for our shareholders.
The Committee will review the continued and land-based offerings.
Progress has been driven through appropriateness of the Remuneration Policy during 2015. strong organic growth and successful acquisitions and strategic agreements.
The Remuneration Committee encourages dialogue with the Companys shareholders.
The Committee and I hope we can This excellent performance resulted in achieving impressive count on your continued support at the 2015 AGM.
results across our key financial performance measures including growth in revenue 24%, adjusted EBITDA 30%, adjusted net profit 29% and adjusted EPS 28%.
The 2014 results significantly exceeded both internal forecasts and external market expectations against a backdrop of an ever evolving regulatory and tax landscape.
Hilary Stewart-Jones Given the very strong financial results, the Remuneration On behalf of the Remuneration Committee Committee considered that the Executive Directors had 26 February 2015 far exceeded both the challenging financial targets and the other strategic objectives given to them at the start of 2014, including expanding the business in regulated 46 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance v38.
