Directors Remuneration Policy This part of the report sets out the Companys Directors remuneration policy which, subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, shall take binding effect from the date of that meeting.
The policy for the executive directors has been determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Executive directors The table below describes each of the elements of the remuneration package for the executive directors.
Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Core element of fixed Usually reviewed annually.
Although there is no overall maximum, Not applicable.
remuneration, reflecting the salary increases are normally reviewed size and scope of the role.
Salary levels are determined by the Remuneration in the context of the salary increases Committee taking into account a range of factors across the wider Group.
Purpose is to recruit and including: retain directors of the calibre The Remuneration Committee may required for the Company.
role, experience and individual performance: award salary increases above this level pay for other employees in the Group: to take account of individual prevailing market conditions: and circumstances such as: external benchmarks for similar roles at comparable companies.
increase in scope and responsibility: increase to reflect the executive directors development and performance in the role: or alignment to market level.
Benefits Ensures the overall package Executive directors receive benefits in line with market Whilst the Remuneration Committee Not applicable.
practice, including a car allowance or provision of a has not set an absolute maximum on company car, a biennial health check, life assurance and the levels of benefits executive Purpose is to recruit and the ability to buy or sell holidays under the directors receive, the value of the retain directors of the calibre Companys flexible benefits plan.
benefit is at a level which the required for the Company.
Remuneration Committee considers Other benefits may be provided based on individual appropriate against the market and circumstances.
These may include, for example, provides sufficient level of benefit relocation and travel allowances.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51
