Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 83 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear fellow shareholder On behalf of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report DRR for 2014.
As part of the new reporting arrangements introduced in 2013, the 2013 DRR was subject to two votes at our 2014 AGM.
Our Remuneration Policy, as approved at the 2014 AGM, is geared towards performance-related pay to support direct alignment with shareholders.
The Policy remains unchanged for 2015 and therefore will not be put to a vote at the 2015 AGM.
It is, however, included in this years DRR in full for ease of reference and to provide context to the work of the Committee during the year.
The Annual Report on Remuneration, which is subject to an advisory vote at our 2015 AGM, details how this Policy was applied in 2014 and how it will be applied in 2015.
Jane Hinkley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee As detailed elsewhere in the Annual Report, despite the challenging macroeconomic circumstances, the group delivered record production and operating cash flow in 2014.
In the second half of the year, overall market conditions became increasingly challenging, requiring the Board to respond rapidly to the decline in oil price, implementing a broad programme of cost reductions and the postponement of discretionary spend.
The fall in the short to medium-term oil price has impacted on our reported financial results in respect of the carrying value of certain oil and gas assets, with impairment charges booked in the income statement as set out in the Financial Review.
The Committee fully recognises the impact the overall decline in market conditions has had on our shareholders, with the share buyback programme being postponed and the decision taken not to propose a final dividend for FY 2014: decisions relating to directors remuneration were made in the context of the worsening oil sector environment and impact on our shareholders.
Our Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP is based on absolute and relative total shareholder returns TSR over a period of up to six years, with any vesting subject to the Committees assessment of various performance underpins, including HSES.
For the LTIP awards granted in 2012, the three-year TSR period ended in December 2014: with the fall in our share price and the companys performance relative to our peer group, none of the 2012 awards vested, demonstrating the link between directors remuneration and share price performance.
The performance targets for the 2014 annual bonus and achievement against these targets are set out on page 102.
Whilst three of the corporate targets were not met, the performance achieved on other corporate measures exceeded the stretch targets, indicating a bonus outcome for the corporate element of 40 per cent of salary.
The Committee sought to strike a balance between the achievement of the 2014 targets set at the beginning of the year and the impact of the fall in oil price on your company.
As a result the Committee decided to award only 24 per cent of salary for corporate targets in 2014, against the formulaic bonus outcome of 40 per cent.
After taking into account achievement of personal performance objectives, total bonus awards range from 35 per cent to 40 per cent of salary.
The Committee considers that the incentive outcomes for 2014 outlined above are fair given the performance delivered by the Executive and the changed market conditions in which the oil industry now operates.
As indicated in last years DRR, work began in 2014 to review the effectiveness of the LTIP both for the wider employee population as well as for the executive directors.
Although the Committee reviewed the LTIP in detail during the year, with alternative approaches considered, the disruption in the oil markets has resulted in the Committee deciding to postpone any decision.
Discussions will continue in 2015: should any changes be proposed which impact the LTIP structure for executive directors, shareholders will be consulted and approval sought, as appropriate.
Premier also continues to consider updates to corporate governance guidelines in its decision-making and is satisfied that the companys clawback and malus provisions which extend to annual bonus and LTIP awards granted to all employees are in alignment with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
During the course of the year the Committee considered remuneration arrangements, in line with the Policy, for Simon Lockett who stepped down as Chief Executive and for the appointments of Tony Durrant as Chief Executive and of Richard Rose as Finance Director.
The company determined that Simon Locketts 2014 annual bonus opportunity and outstanding LTIP awards would remain, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions, and be pro-rated to reflect the period worked.
On appointment, Tony Durrant and Richard Rose were awarded Performance Shares and Equity Pool Award points under the on-going cycles of the LTIP.
For Richard Rose, the buy-out of awards forfeited on resignation from his former employer reflects the expected value of those awards: the award granted will vest only if he remains employed by the company at 31 December 2016.
The Committee also considered salary levels in appointing the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
For the Chief Executive, a salary of 569,000 was determined appropriate to reflect the responsibilities of the role and his experience within the business: this salary is in line with the previous Chief Executives salary.
For the Finance Director, a salary of 300,000 was considered appropriate, which is approximately 20 per cent below his predecessors salary and reflects the opportunity for development in the role.
84 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued In consideration of the challenges posed by the changed market conditions the Committee determined that there would be no salary increases for the executive directors for 2015.
In addition, the bi-annual review of the Chairmans and non-executive directors fees has been postponed for a year: hence there are also no increases in fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors.
In the current climate the Committee will consider carefully the oil market outlook, the companys position and the outcome for 2015 in deciding whether and at what level to award bonuses for that year.
Any bonus paid will be based on the achievement of the 2015 performance targets set out in general terms on page 110.
For reasons of commercial sensitivity detailed figures are not given.
Our intention is to publish these, together with the outcome, in the Annual Report on Remuneration for 2015.
As referred to above, we have disclosed the performance targets and achievement against these targets for the 2014 annual bonus on page 102 and for the 2013 annual bonus on page 104.
The Committee encourages dialogue with its major shareholders and remains keen to hear shareholders views on remuneration matters.
On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank shareholders for their continuing support.
Jane Hinkley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 February 2015 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 85 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Compliance Statement POLICY REPORT This section of the Remuneration Report sets out the Remuneration Policy which was This report has been prepared approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 14 May 2014 and has in accordance with Schedule 8 been effective since that date.
The Policy remains unchanged and will therefore not be of the Large and Medium put to a shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM.
Shareholder approval will next be sought sized Companies and Groups no later than at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2017.
The Policy has been included in this annual report in full using updated data in the scenario Companies Act 2006 requires charts to provide the context within which the Committee has conducted its work the auditor to report to the during the year and has been updated for: shareholders on certain parts of the Directors Remuneration the clarification statement issued by the company on 1 May 2014 following Report and to state whether, 1 engagement with shareholder representatives : in the auditors opinion, those parts of the report have been clarification regarding the companys approach to the operation of malus and or properly prepared in accordance clawback, which can be used in relation to the companys annual bonus plan and with the regulations.
The Long Term Incentive Plan: Chairmans Annual Statement consideration of shareholder views: this section has been updated to reflect activity and the Policy Report are not since the last report to shareholders.
The sections of the Annual Report on The Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 98 to 119 sets out how the Policy has Remuneration that are subject to been applied during 2014 and how it will be applied throughout the remainder of 2015 audit are indicated accordingly.
and will be put to an advisory vote at the 2015 AGM.
The Committee regularly reviews the Policy to ensure it supports shareholder interests and closely reflects business strategy.
Remuneration packages are intended to be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate individuals of the quality required to achieve the groups objectives and thereby enhance shareholder value.
The Committee aims to ensure that pay rewards all employees fairly and responsibly for their contributions.
In addition, the Committee aims to ensure that the Policy does not raise environmental, operational, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviours.
Specifically, remuneration packages are designed with the following objectives in mind: To gear remuneration significantly towards performance-related pay to support direct alignment with shareholders and a highly performance-oriented culture: To provide annual incentives that reward achievement of short-term objectives key to delivering the long-term strategy, encompassing financial, operational and strategic measures: To ensure a particular emphasis on long-term performance, to encourage direct alignment with shareholders, retention and long-term motivation: To incorporate significant deferral requirements to support staff retention and lengthen the incentive time horizon: and To ensure incentive payments are commensurate with the companys underlying performance.
1 The clarification statement confirmed the boundaries within which any discretion exercised by the Committee would be contained in relation to LTIP awards.
86 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Executive director policy A summary of the Policy for executive directors is set out below: Salary Purpose and link to strategy To provide an appropriate level of salary to support recruitment and retention, and with due regard to the role and the individuals responsibilities and experience Operation Typically reviewed annually with reference to company and individual performance, each executives responsibilities and experience, the external market for talent, and salary increases across the group Salaries are benchmarked against three relevant comparator groups, comprising: i international oil & gas sector companies, ii the constituents of the LTIP TSR comparator group, and iii UK-listed companies of a similar market capitalisation and revenue to Premier Adjustments are normally effective 1 January Salaries are paid monthly in arrears Opportunity Salary increases are awarded taking into account the outcome of the review and also broader circumstances including, but not limited to, a material increase in job complexity and inflation Salary increases will normally be in line with increases awarded to other employees.
However, the Committee may make additional adjustments in certain circumstances to reflect, for example, an increase in scope or responsibility, to address a gap in market positioning and or to reward performance of an individual The executive director salaries for the financial year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Performance metrics Not applicable Pension Purpose and link to strategy To help provide a competitive pension provision Operation Executive directors who join Premier on or after 20 August 2013 are eligible to participate in the companys defined contribution personal pension plan and or receive an equivalent cash supplement For executive directors who joined prior to 20 August 2013, the company provides a pension substantially as if they are contributing members of the companys final salary Retirement and Death Benefits Plan the Scheme, which was closed to new members in 1997 The only pensionable element of pay is salary Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 87 Executive director policy continued Pension continued Opportunity Executive directors who join Premier on or after 20 August 2013 receive pension contributions and or an equivalent cash supplement equal to 20 per cent of salary For executive directors who joined prior to 20 August 2013 the Scheme provides a payment on broadly a fiftieths accrual basis up to two-thirds of salary at age 60, with benefits actuarially reduced on early retirement and pensions in payment increased in line with the lower of inflation, or five per cent per annum.
The Scheme is subject to an internal earnings cap which is reviewed annually but for executive directors, the company provides for pension benefits above the earnings cap through a pension promise, based on the cash equivalent transfer value of benefits accrued within the defined benefit scheme for earnings above the earnings cap.
The way that this promise is currently administered is as follows: 1.
Executive directors are given a pension allowance equal to 20 per cent of uncapped salary.
This may either be paid into a pension scheme and or as a salary supplement 2.
Executive directors accrue notional defined benefits entitlement within the defined benefits scheme 3.
To the extent that payments made under 1 above are not paid into the Scheme, they are deemed to have been invested into a Life fund 4.
At the point that a director departs or retires, a comparison is undertaken between the value of the notional defined contribution pot outlined in 3 above and the cash equivalent transfer value of the notional defined benefits.
Subject to appropriate deductions, the differential is available either as a contribution into their pension plan or a cash payment 5.
Regular reviews are carried out to assess the extent to which the payments already made to each director are projected to be sufficient to provide the accrued component of their target pension: where such reviews indicate a shortfall, the company may provide an additional payment Performance metrics Not applicable Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide a benefits package competitive in the market for talent Operation Executive directors receive a competitive benefits package, which may include medical and dental insurance, car allowance, life assurance and critical illness cover, expatriate benefits, relocation allowance, health checks and a subsidised gym membership Other benefits may be introduced from time to time to ensure the benefits package is appropriately competitive and reflects the circumstances of the individual director Opportunity Set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate for the role and individual circumstances The benefits payable to the executive directors during the financial year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Performance metrics Not applicable 88 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Executive director policy continued Share Incentive Plan SIP Purpose and link to strategy To encourage share ownership in Premier Operation An HMRC approved scheme under which employees including executive directors are invited to make contributions to buy partnership shares using gross pay.
If an employee agrees to buy partnership shares the company currently matches the number of partnership shares with matching shares which are subject to continued employment for a minimum of three years Dividends accrue on both partnership shares and matching shares, and any historical free shares no longer awarded, and are automatically reinvested Opportunity Employees may spend up to the HMRC permitted allowance to buy partnership shares Matching shares are granted based on investment in partnership shares and up to the HMRC permitted match Performance metrics Not applicable Save As You Earn SAYE Purpose and link to strategy To encourage share ownership in Premier Operation An HMRC approved scheme under which employees including executive directors are invited to make regular monthly contributions over three or five years to purchase shares through options which are granted at a 20 per cent discount to the mid-market closing price on the day prior to the date of grant Opportunity Employees may save up to the HMRC permitted allowance Performance metrics Not applicable Annual Bonus Purpose and link to strategy To reinforce the delivery of key short-term financial and operational objectives and, through the deferred share element, help ensure alignment with shareholders and support retention Operation Performance is measured on an annual basis for each financial year measured against stretching but achievable financial and non-financial targets, comprising Key Performance Indicators KPIs, other corporate objectives and personal performance Performance measures, weightings and targets are set at the beginning of the year and weighted to reflect business priorities Each performance measure has Threshold and Stretch targets.
The final bonus outcome is determined by the Committee, having assessed achievement against corporate as well as personal targets, taking into account the Committees broader assessment of overall company performance Annual bonus awards up to 50 per cent of salary are paid in cash.
Any annual bonus earned above 50 per cent of salary is deferred in shares for three years Dividend equivalents accrue on deferred share awards and are paid on vesting, in accordance with the rules of the bonus plan Annual bonus payouts and deferred shares are also subject to malus and clawback in the event of material misstatement of the companys financial results, gross misconduct, or material error in the calculation of performance conditions The Committee may exercise malus and clawback until the later of: i one year from the payment of the bonus or the vesting of the shares, or ii the completion of the next audit after payment vesting Opportunity The annual bonus provides for awards of between 0 per cent and 100 per cent of salary for executive directors Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 89 Executive director policy continued Annual Bonus continued Performance metrics Performance is assessed against a scorecard encompassing several performance categories, which may include some or all of: production, exploration, Health, Safety, Environment and Security, finance, business development, and personal and strategic objectives Normally, the Committee would not expect the weighting for any performance category to be higher than 50 per cent.
However, it retains discretion to adjust weightings to align with the business plan for each year The Committee uses its judgment to determine the overall scorecard outcome based on the achievement of the targets and the Committees broad assessment of company performance Further details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable for the financial year under review are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 102 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Purpose and link to strategy To support alignment with shareholders by reinforcing the delivery of absolute and relative returns to shareholders, through the delivery of strong share price growth and relative stock market out-performance over the long-term, and with due regard for the underlying financial and operational performance of the company Operation The LTIP comprises three elements: Equity Pool Awards, Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards Equity Pool Awards are based on an allocation of units in the Equity Pool.
The Equity Pool is funded by a percentage share of the growth in the companys equity value per share over a performance period, if growth above the threshold level has been achieved.
At the end of a performance period, Equity Pool Awards are awarded as shares calculated on the mid-market closing share price on the day prior to the date of award Performance Share Awards are conditional share awards granted annually, with the grant value defined as a percentage of salary at the date of grant Equity Pool Awards and Performance Share Awards are measured over three years.
50 per cent of the shares vesting from the Equity Pool and Performance Shares are subject to compulsory deferral for a further three years and are eligible for a discretionary Matching Share Award, which is granted as shares and is subject to a further three-year performance period For Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards, dividend equivalents may accrue and be paid on vesting in proportion to performance achieved, in accordance with the rules of the Plan Award levels are reviewed before each award cycle to ensure they remain appropriate All LTIP awards are subject to malus and clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the companys financial results, gross misconduct, or material error in the calculation of performance conditions The Committee may exercise malus and clawback until the later of: i one year from vesting, or ii the completion of the next audit after vesting 90 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Executive director policy continued Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP continued Opportunity Executive directors may be awarded a share of the Equity Pool.
The Committee intends to continue with the existing approach of awarding not more than 6 per cent of the Equity Pool to any one individual, though it retains the discretion under the Plan to award more than 6 per cent in exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment but not in relation to the retention of an existing executive director.
In any other exceptional circumstances where the Committee decides to exercise its discretion to make an Equity Pool award, it shall not exceed 10 per cent of the Equity Pool The value of vested awards is subject to a limit of 100 per cent of salary, but which may be exceeded, at the discretion of the Committee, up to the full value warranted by the size of the Equity Pool provided the Committee is satisfied with the underlying performance of the company.
The Committee also has discretion to reduce the size of the Equity Pool if the formulaic outcome is not reflective of the companys underlying performance Performance Share Awards may be granted up to 150 per cent of salary Matching Share Awards may be granted up to 2.5 times the number of shares deferred Performance metrics The funding of the Equity Pool is based on three-year annualised compound growth in the companys equity value per share.
Threshold performance requires compound growth in the companys equity value per share of at least 10 per cent per annum at which 1 per cent of the compound growth is credited to the Equity Pool.
A maximum of 2.5 per cent of the compound growth is credited to the Equity Pool when growth in equity value per share is 20 per cent per annum.
The funding rate is based on straight-line interpolation between these points Performance Share Awards vest on three-year TSR relative to a comparator group of international oil and gas sector peers.
25 per cent vests for median performance, with full vesting for upper quartile performance and straight-line vesting in between Matching Share Awards vest on three-year TSR relative to a comparator group of international oil and gas sector peers.
25 per cent vests for median performance, with full vesting for upper decile performance and straight-line vesting in between Before finalising long-term incentive payouts, the Committee assesses the underlying financial and operational performance of the company, and if appropriate, may reduce the level of vesting.
In assessing the underlying performance of the company, the Committee may consider Net Asset Value per share, finding and development costs per barrel, delivery of the strategy, relative TSR, returns on invested capital, reserves replacement, operating cash flow, earnings per share EPS growth, health and safety record, and other measures as the Committee deems appropriate Ahead of each performance cycle, the Committee may review and adjust the TSR comparator group for future cycles to ensure relevance to Premier.
The Committee may adjust the TSR comparator group of outstanding cycles in the event that a TSR comparator ceases to exist, fide-lists or is acquired or the Committee deems it to be no longer a suitable comparator Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 91 Further details on the policy Performance measure selection Annual bonus The annual bonus is based on a corporate scorecard capturing financial, operational and strategic objectives that are key to achieving our long-term strategy.
Performance measures, weightings and targets are set at the beginning of the year to reflect KPIs, business priorities and other corporate objectives, and encompassing both financial and non-financial criteria.
Performance targets are set at such a level as to be stretching but achievable, with regard to the particular strategic priorities and economic environment in a given performance period.
Long Term Incentive Plan The LTIP ensures alignment with shareholders, being based on both absolute and relative TSR.
The chart below illustrates how the three elements of the LTIP operate.
LTIP Performance Share cycle Performance period Deferral period Award 50% of vested Remaining award is released: 50% is 50% is deferred released 3.
LTIP Matching Share cycle Performance period Award Vested award is released The Committee believes TSR appropriately rewards the delivery of the companys strategy and also aligns managements interests with those of shareholders.
Absolute TSR captures the absolute return delivered to shareholders and relative TSR measures performance on a relative basis, thereby helping to negate the impact of uncontrollable forces such as oil price movements on the reward delivered through the LTIP.
The review of the companys underlying performance before LTIP payouts are finalised ensures the impact of external factors are taken into account where appropriate.
The performance measures applied to LTIP awards are reviewed periodically to ensure they continue to support shareholders interests and are appropriately aligned to Premiers long-term strategy.
Targets are geared to provide the opportunity to achieve above market levels of pay only through exceptional sustained relative TSR performance over six years.
Remuneration policy for other employees The companys policy for all employees is to provide remuneration packages which reward them fairly and responsibly for their contributions.
All employees participate in the companys incentive structures and, like the remuneration package for executive directors, remuneration is structured such that a proportion of total remuneration is potentially delivered through long-term share-based incentives to ensure maximum alignment with shareholders.
Similarly, all employees are eligible to receive an annual bonus, with measures and targets tailored to individual business units and responsibilities as appropriate.
The specific bonus framework varies by job level and scope to ensure annual incentives support motivation and retention accordingly.
These schemes provide a clear link between pay and performance, ensuring that superior remuneration is paid only if superior performance is delivered.
Share ownership requirements The Committee aims to ensure that our Remuneration Policy serves shareholder interests and closely reflects the groups business strategy.
Further, the company recognises the importance of aligning the interests of executive directors with shareholders through the building up of a significant shareholding in the company.
Accordingly, the company requires the executive directors to retain no less than 50 per cent of the net value of shares vesting under the companys long-term incentive plans until such a time that they have reached a holding worth 100 per cent of salary 200 per cent for the Chief Executive.
Details of the current shareholdings of the executive directors are in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 111.
92 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Payments from existing awards Any commitment made prior to, but due to be fulfilled after, 14 May 2014 being the date on which the current Policy was approved by shareholders will be honoured.
Such commitments are as follows: The Asset and Equity Plan AEP preceded the LTIP as the companys main long-term incentive and expired in 2009.
Messrs Allan, Durrant, Hawkings, Lockett and Lodge held awards under this plan, the last of which vested during 2014 as detailed in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 118.
Robin Allan was employed by the company between September 1986 and November 1999 and is entitled to a deferred pension under the Scheme in respect of this period of employment.
The pension he had accrued as at November 1999 was 25,409.
Further information on Robin Allans pension arrangements is provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 107.
Illustration of application of the executive director remuneration policy Remuneration is significantly geared towards  pay, with particular emphasis on long-term performance.
For example, at on-target performance, approximately 59 per cent of the CEOs remuneration package is delivered through variable components, rising to approximately 90 per cent at maximum performance.
The maximum value is delivered only if upper quartile TSR is delivered against sector peers over six years, with a requirement for upper decile performance in the last three years.
The performance scenario charts below show the estimated remuneration that could be received by the current executive directors for FY 2015, both in absolute terms and as a proportion of the total package under different performance scenarios.
The assumptions underlying each performance scenario are detailed in the table below: Remuneration receivable for different performance scenarios Minimum On-Target Maximum Fixed pay 2015 salary, as disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 109 2015 estimated taxable benefits Pension contribution of 20 per cent of salary for the Finance Director and 2014 pension benefits for other EDs as provided in the single figure table in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 99 Annual bonus Nil payout Payout of 60 per cent of salary Payout of 100 per cent of salary LTIP Nil payout Equity Pool based on 1 per cent Equity Pool equity value per share of the change in market value growth based on 2.5 per cent of the and equity value per share change in market value and equity value appreciation of 10 per cent per per share appreciation of 20 per cent annum compound growth per annum compound growth Performance Shares vesting at All Performance Shares vest in full 25 per cent of award All Matching Share Awards matched Matching Share Awards matched over deferred Equity Pool Awards and over deferred Equity Pool Awards Performance Share Awards vest in full and Performance Share Awards vesting at 25 per cent of award Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 93 Illustration of application of the executive director remuneration policy continued The charts below illustrate the potential reward opportunities for each of the current executive directors for the three performance scenarios.
Robin Allan, Director, Business Units 000s % Maximum 506 354 880 3,081 Maximum 11 7 18 64 On-Target 506 212 175 285 On-Target 43 18 15 24 Fixed 506 Fixed 100 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Fixed Annual Bonus LTIP earned after 3 years LTIP earned after 6 years 94 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Illustration of application of the executive director remuneration policy continued Neil Hawkings, Director, Falkland Islands 000s % Maximum 502 354 880 3,081 Maximum 10.4 7.3 18.3 64 On-Target 502 212 175 285 On-Target 43 18 15 24 Fixed 502 Fixed 100 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Andrew Lodge, Exploration Director 000s % Maximum 497 354 880 3,081 Maximum 10.3 7.4 18.3 64 On-Target 497 212 175 285 On-Target 43 18 15 24 Fixed 497 Fixed 100 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Fixed Annual Bonus LTIP earned after 3 years LTIP earned after 6 years Note: The valuation of Deferred Bonus Shares, Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards excludes share price appreciation.
However, Equity Pool Awards assume equity value per share compound growth of 10 per cent per annum at on-target performance and equity value per share growth of 20 per cent per annum at maximum performance.
It should also be noted that the LTIP is subject to a performance period of up to six years: EPA and PSA awards are assessed on three-year performance and MSA awards, which are based on the number of EPA and PSA shares deferred, are subject to a further three-year performance period.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 95 Approach to remuneration of executive directors on recruitment In the cases of hiring or appointing a new executive director, the Committee may make use of all the existing components of remuneration.
The salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to the experience and skills of the individual, relevant market data, internal relativities and their current salary.
New appointees will be eligible to receive a personal pension, benefits and to participate in the companys HMRC approved all-employee share schemes, in line with the Policy.
The approach to variable pay on recruitment is summarised in the table below: Component Approach Maximum annual opportunity Annual Bonus The annual bonus described in the Policy 100 per cent of salary Table will apply to new appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year.
Targets for the individual element will be tailored towards the executive LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under Equity Pool Awards: up to 6 per cent of the Equity the LTIP on the same terms as other executive Pool, which may be exceeded in exceptional directors, as described in the Policy Table circumstances in which case awards shall not exceed 10 per cent of the Equity Pool Performance Share Awards: up to 150 per cent of salary Matching Share Awards: up to 2.5 times the number of deferred Equity Pool Awards and deferred Performance Shares When determining appropriate remuneration for a new executive director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including quantum, nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited to ensure that the pay arrangements are in the best interests of both Premier and its shareholders.
The Committee may consider it appropriate to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will use the existing Policy where possible or, in exceptional circumstances, the Committee may exercise the discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
The value of any such award will not be higher than the expected value of the outstanding equity awards and, in determining the expected value, the Committee will use a Black-Scholes, or equivalent, valuation and, where applicable, discount for any performance conditions attached to these awards.
In cases of appointing a new executive director by way of internal promotion, the Committee will apply the Policy for external appointees detailed above.
However, the Committee will not use its discretion to award in excess of 6 per cent of the Equity Pool in relation to the retention of an existing executive director.
Where an individual has contractual commitments that vary from our Policy for executive directors, but made prior to his or her promotion to executive director level, the company will continue to honour these arrangements.
Service contracts and exit payments and change of control provisions Executive director service contracts, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee and are designed to recruit, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to manage the company.
The service contract of each executive director may be terminated on 12 months notice in writing by either party.
Executive directors contracts are available to view at the companys registered office.
Details of the service contracts of the current executive directors are as follows: Director Contract date Unexpired term of contract Robin Allan 09.12.03 Rolling contract Tony Durrant 01.07.05 Rolling contract Neil Hawkings 23.03.06 Rolling contract Andrew Lodge 20.04.09 Rolling contract Richard Rose 25.07.14 Rolling contract The company will consider termination payments in light of the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant contractual terms, the circumstances of the termination and any applicable duty to mitigate.
In such an event, the remuneration commitments in respect of the executive director contracts could amount to one years remuneration based on salary and benefits in kind and pension rights during the notice period, together with payment in lieu of any accrued but untaken holiday leave, if applicable.
There are provisions for termination with less than 12 months notice by the company in certain circumstances.
96 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Service contracts and exit payments and change of control provisions continued If such circumstances were to arise, the executive director concerned would have no claim against the company for damages or any other remedy in respect of the termination.
The Committee would apply general principles of mitigation to any payment made to a departing executive director and will honour previous commitments as appropriate, considering each case on an individual basis.
The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and LTIP are typically treated in different leaver scenarios and on a change of control.
Whilst the Committee retains overall discretion on determining good leaver status, it typically defines a good leaver in circumstances such as retirement with agreement of the company, ill health, disability, death, redundancy, or part of the business in which the individual is employed or engaged ceasing to be a member of the group.
Final treatment is subject to the Committees discretion.
Event Timing of vesting award Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Good leaver Annual bonuses are paid at the same Annual bonus is paid only to the extent that any time as to continuing employees performance conditions have been satisfied and is pro-rated for the proportion of the financial Unvested deferred share awards vest on year worked before cessation of employment cessation of employment Bad leaver Not applicable Individuals lose the right to their annual bonus and unvested deferred share awards 1 Change of control Annual bonuses are paid and unvested Annual bonus is paid only to the extent that any deferred share awards vest on effective performance conditions have been satisfied and date of change of control is pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year worked to the effective date of change of control LTIP Good leaver On normal vesting date or earlier at the Unvested awards vest to the extent that any Committees discretion performance conditions have been satisfied and a pro-rata reduction applies to the value of the awards to take into account the proportion of vesting period not served Deferred shares vest in full Bad leaver Unvested awards lapse Unvested awards lapse on cessation of employment Outstanding deferred shares vest on cessation of employment 1 Change of control On the date of the event Unvested awards vest to the extent that any performance conditions have been satisfied and a pro-rata reduction applies for the proportion of the vesting period not served Outstanding deferred shares vest in full Note: 1 In certain circumstances, the Committee may determine that deferred share awards under the annual bonus and both unvested and deferred awards under the LTIP will not vest on a change of control and instead be replaced by an equivalent grant of a new award, as determined by the Committee, in the new company.
Upon exit or change of control, SAYE and SIP awards will be treated in line with the approved plan rules.
If employment is terminated by the company, the departing executive director may have a legal entitlement under statute or otherwise to additional amounts, which would need to be met.
In addition, the Committee retains discretion to settle other amounts reasonably due to the executive director, for example to meet the legal fees incurred by the executive director in connection with the termination of employment, where the company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement as provided for below and, in which case, the individual is required to seek independent legal advice.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing executive directors including but not limited to settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements.
These will be used sparingly and only entered into where the Committee believes that it is in the best interests of the company and its shareholders to do so.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 97 External appointments Executive directors are entitled to accept non-executive director appointments outside the company and retain any fees received providing that the Boards prior approval is obtained.
Details of external directorships held by executive directors along with fees retained are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 112.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the company The Committee does not specifically consult with employees over the effectiveness and appropriateness of the Policy.
However, the Committee does consider the pay and conditions elsewhere in the company, including how company-wide pay tracks against the market.
When awarding salary increases to executive directors, the Committee takes account of salary increases across the group, particularly for those employees based in the UK.
Further, the company seeks to promote and maintain good relationships with employee representative bodies including trade unions as part of its employee engagement strategy and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the company operates.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee aims to ensure that the Policy serves shareholder interests and is aligned with the groups business strategy, market practice and evolving best practice.
The Committee Chairman consults major shareholders and proxy advisers from time-to-time to discuss the Remuneration Policy.
The Committee considers all feedback received from such consultations, as well as guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally, to help to ensure the Policy is aligned with shareholder views.
Earlier this year the Committee Chairman contacted Premiers major shareholders offering to discuss remuneration matters.
Premier is mindful of the views it receives in its consultations.
Non-executive director Remuneration Policy Non-executive directors have letters of appointment effective for a period of three years, subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
All letters of appointment have a notice period of three months and provide for no arrangements under which any non-executive director is entitled to receive remuneration upon the early termination of his or her appointment.
Non-executive directors letters of appointment are available to view at the companys registered office.
Year appointed Date of current Director director appointment letter Mike Welton 2009 16.10.2012 David Bamford 2014 07.04.2014 Anne Marie Cannon 2014 24.01.2014 Joe Darby 2007 17.10.2013 Jane Hinkley 2010 17.10.2013 David Lindsell 2008 16.01.2014 Michel Romieu 2008 16.01.2014 The companys Articles of Association provide that the remuneration paid to non-executive directors is to be determined by the Board within limits set by the shareholders.
The Policy for the Chairman and non-executive directors is as follows: Fees Purpose and link to strategy To provide fees that allow Premier to attract and retain non-executive directors of the highest calibre Operation Fees for non-executive directors are reviewed at least every two years Fees are set with reference to three relevant comparator groups, comprising: i international oil & gas sector companies, ii the constituents of the LTIP TSR comparator group, and iii UK-listed companies of a similar market cap and revenue to Premier.
The fees also take into account the time commitments of the non-executive directors Fees paid to the Chairman are determined by the Committee, while the fees of the other non-executive directors are determined by the Board Additional fees are payable for acting as senior independent director, and as Chairman of any of the Boards committees Adjustments are normally effective 1 January The non-executive director fees for the financial year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Opportunity Non-executive director fees are set at a level that is considered appropriate in the light of relevant market practice and the size complexity of the role Performance metrics Not applicable Approach to non-executive director recruitment remuneration In the case of hiring or appointing a new non-executive director, the Committee will follow the Policy as set out in the table above.
98 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Remuneration Committee membership and considerations during 2014 Jane Hinkley is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and there are three other members who are also independent non-executive directors.
Joe Darby and David Lindsell served as members throughout the year: David Bamford was appointed a member of the Committee on 14 November 2014.
Members of the Committee meet without any executives present for part of each meeting.
From time to time, the Chief Executive attended meetings of the Committee by invitation.
During the year, Stephen Huddle, Company Secretary, acted as Secretary to the Committee and Nigel Wilson, Corporate Services Director, attended meetings as appropriate.
Members of the Board and any other employees attending Committee meetings leave the meeting where their own remuneration is being discussed.
The Committee acts within its agreed written terms of reference, which are reviewed regularly and published on the companys website www.
The main responsibilities of the Committee include: Determining the Remuneration Policy for executive directors and senior management: Determining the individual remuneration packages for each executive director and any changes thereto: Considering the design of, and determining targets for, the annual bonus plan: Determining the quantum and performance conditions for long-term incentive awards: Reviewing the Policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments to executive directors: Approving the Directors Remuneration Report, ensuring compliance with related governance provisions and legislation: Reviewing bonus outcomes: and Considering the remuneration policies and practices across the organisation.
During 2014, the Committee met five times.
Key activities of the Committee during the year included: Determining remuneration packages and termination arrangements for executive directors joining and leaving the Board: Determining the remuneration package for Tony Durrant on being promoted from Finance Director to Chief Executive: Review of the current Long Term Incentive Plan and discussion of alternative arrangements: Determining the 2013 bonus outcome: Making awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan: and Oversight of grading and salary review for all employees.
Advisers Kepler Associates Kepler is the independent adviser to the Committee.
Kepler was appointed by the Committee in 2011 through a competitive tender process and was retained during the year.
The Committee is of the view that Kepler provides independent remuneration advice to the Committee and does not have any connections with Premier that may impair their independence.
Kepler is a founding member and signatory to the UK Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct which governs standards in the areas of transparency, integrity, objectivity, confidentiality, competence and due care, details of which can be found at www.
In 2014, Kepler provided advice on remuneration for executives, market and best practice guidance, assisted with drafting the Directors Remuneration Report and attended Committee meetings.
Kepler reports directly to the Committee and provides no other services to the company.
Their total fee for the provision of remuneration services in 2014 was 129,682 on the basis of time and materials.
During the year the Committee also took advice from PwC to provide performance updates on outstanding LTIP awards, including the vesting of the 2012 Equity Pool, Performance Share and Matching Share Awards.
Total fees for PwC for the provision of remuneration services in 2014 were 35,000 on a fixed fee basis.
The Committee also sought advice from Berwin, Leighton & Paisner LLP in relation to service and settlement agreements as well as a review of executive director pension arrangements.
Total fees for Berwin, Leighton & Paisner LLP were 221,373.
The Committee evaluates the support provided by its advisers annually and is satisfied that the advice it received in 2014 was objective and independent.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 99 Voting on remuneration matters At the AGM held in May 2014, two resolutions were put to shareholders relating to directors remuneration.
The first resolution related to the Remuneration Policy and was subject to a binding vote.
The second resolution related to the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration and was subject to an advisory vote.
The votes received were as follows: Votes FOR Votes AGAINST Votes Resolution and % of votes cast and % of votes cast WITHHELD Directors Remuneration Policy 289,525,378 86.12% 46,648,769 13.88% 2,542,395 Directors Annual Report on Remuneration 331,325,251 98.56% 4,850,298 1.44% 2,540,993 At the 2015 AGM, the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to shareholders for approval by way of an advisory vote.
No changes are proposed to the Remuneration Policy and this will not be put to shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Single total figure of remuneration for executive and non-executive directors audited Single total figure of remuneration for executive directors The table below reports a single figure for total remuneration for each executive director, calculated in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Regulations 2013.
2 Taxable benefits include medical and dental insurance, car allowance, life assurance and critical illness cover, health insurance and a subsidised gym membership.
In particular, in 2014, all executive directors received a car allowance of 15,000.
3 Annual bonus awarded for performance in the relevant financial year.
See page 102 of the Annual Report on Remuneration for further details of the 2014 annual bonus awards to each executive director, including performance criteria, achievement and resulting awards.
4 For 2014 the LTIP consists of 2012 Equity Pool Awards, 2012 Performance Share Awards, and 2012 Matching Share Awards matched over deferred awards under the 2009 LTIP for which the performance period completed on 31 December 2014 and no awards vested.
See page 105 of the Annual Report on Remuneration for further details on performance criteria.
For 2013, the LTIP consisted of 2011 Equity Pool Awards, 2011 Performance Share Awards, and 2011 Matching Share Awards matched over deferred shares under the 2008 AEP for which the performance period completed on 31 December 2013 and no awards vested.
5 Richard Roses pension figure includes a combination of pension contributions to the defined contribution scheme and a salary supplement.
For other executive directors, pension figures are accrued pension entitlements and exclude director contributions.
See page 107 of the Annual Report on Remuneration for further details on total pension entitlements for each executive director.
6 Includes SIP awards and SAYE options granted in line with the Policy on page 88.
Each executive director was awarded SIP matching awards during the year as detailed on page 119: SIP awards are valued as the number of matching awards granted multiplied by the share price at date of award.
Messrs Durrant, Hawkings and Lodge were each awarded a three-year SAYE option over 3,660 shares on 7 May 2014: Robin Allan was awarded a five-year SAYE option over 6,101 shares on the same date.
The value of SAYE options is the embedded value at grant 20 per cent discount multiplied by the number of options granted.
Full details of executive director SAYE options and SIP share awards are available on page 119 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
7 Richard Rose joined the company on 8 September 2014.
Details shown are for the period 8 September to 31 December 2014.
The other payments figure includes the value of Richard Roses Conditional Share Award to buy-out the share awards he forfeited on resignation from his former employer.
8 Simon Lockett left the company on 15 August 2014.
Details shown above are for the period 1 January to 15 August 2014.
For further detail regarding Simon Locketts leaving arrangements, including any payments made to him after his leaving date, please see page 101.
The 2014 pension figure for Simon Lockett was calculated at 31 December 2014 using a statutory factor of 20 468.1k as at 15 August 2014.
100 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Single total figure of remuneration for executive and non-executive directors audited continued Single total figure of remuneration for non-executive directors 1 Base fee Additional fees Total 000s 000s 000s Director 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Mike Welton Chairman 169.6 169.6 169.6 169.6 2 2 David Bamford 35.3 35.3 3 3 Anne Marie Cannon 48.6 48.6 Joe Darby 53.0 53.0 10.6 10.6 63.6 63.6 Jane Hinkley 53.0 53.0 10.6 10.6 63.6 63.6 David Lindsell 53.0 53.0 10.6 10.6 63.6 63.6 Michel Romieu 53.0 53.0 53.0 53.0 Notes: 1 During the year, Joe Darby acted as senior independent director, David Lindsell was Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, and Jane Hinkley was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee: Mike Welton was the Company Chairman and was also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
2 David Bamford joined the company on 1 May 2014.
His annual fee is 53,000 per annum in line with the other non-executive directors.
The total figure shown reflects the fee paid to him for service from 1 May to 31 December 2014.
3 Anne Marie Cannon joined the company on 1 February 2014.
Her annual fee is 53,000 per annum in line with the other non-executive directors.
The total figure shown reflects the fee paid to her for service from 1 February to 31 December 2014.
No fees were paid to non-executive directors for membership of a committee or for attending committee meetings.
Additional fees were payable of 10,600 2013: 10,600 for acting as senior independent director, as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee or as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Company Chairman is also the Chairman of the Nomination Committee and currently waives any fee for this role.
Fees for the Chairman and the non-executive directors were last increased effective from 1 January 2013 following review in 2012.
Fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors were scheduled to be reviewed again in December 2014.
However, the Chairman and non-executive directors agreed unanimously that in view of the current market environment it would be inappropriate to be in receipt of any increase in fee at this point in time.
The next review of fees for non-executive directors will be conducted during 2015 with any change proposed to take effect from 1 January 2016.
Executive director changes audited During the course of the year the Committee considered remuneration arrangements, in line with the Policy, for Simon Lockett who stepped down as Chief Executive and for the appointments of Tony Durrant as Chief Executive and of Richard Rose as Finance Director.
With effect from 25 June 2014 Tony Durrant, having been Finance Director prior to that date, succeeded Simon Lockett as Chief Executive.
The Committee approved an increase of Tony Durrants base salary to 569,000 per annum, a level which the Committee determined appropriate to reflect the responsibilities of the role and his experience within the business: this salary is in line with the previous Chief Executives salary.
Tony Durrant also received additional awards under the on-going cycles of the LTIP to reflect his new responsibilities as Chief Executive, pro-rated to reflect the period of the performance cycle for which he serves as Chief Executive see pages 105 and 106 for full details of the awards made.
Richard Rose joined the company as Finance Director on 8 September 2014.
On joining the company, Richard Rose received a Conditional Share Award to buy-out the share awards he forfeited on resignation from his former employer full details are provided on page 111.
The Conditional Share Award reflects the expected value of his forfeited awards and the award will vest only if he remains employed by the company at 31 December 2016.
Richard Rose also received awards under the on-going cycles of the LTIP, pro-rated to reflect the period of each performance cycle for which he serves as a Board member full details are provided on pages 105 and 106.
The Committee determined that a salary of 300,000 was appropriate for Richard Rose as Finance Director, which is approximately 20 per cent below his predecessors salary and reflects the opportunity for development in the role.
Neither Tony Durrants nor Richard Roses salary will be increased in 2015, and both individuals bonus opportunities remain in line with the Policy, that is a maximum opportunity of up to 100 per cent of salary with any amount over and above 50 per cent of salary being awarded in deferred shares under the Deferred Bonus Share Plan.
Pension arrangements and benefits for Tony Durrant remain unchanged save for being linked to his new salary.
Richard Rose receives a combination of pension contributions to the defined contribution scheme and a salary supplement totalling 20 per cent of salary.
Richard Roses benefits package is in accordance with the Policy and in line with that received by other executive directors.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 101 Executive director changes audited continued Simon Lockett stepped down as Chief Executive on 25 June 2014 and as an Executive Director on 15 August 2014.
The Committee determined Simon Locketts exit arrangements in accordance with his service agreement and the Remuneration Policy.
The Committee also determined Simon Lockett would receive good leaver status in relation to outstanding incentive awards.
The following arrangements were agreed: A payment of 12 months salary and benefits of 683,996 gross calculated as a base salary of 569,000 and b payment in lieu of benefits of 114,996 comprising car allowance and pension, subject to mitigation if Simon Lockett were to start a new executive or non-executive director role for another organisation during the 12 month period ending 15 August 2015.
Simon Lockett is permitted to accept fees of up to 100,000 per annum gross without an obligation to mitigate in respect of non-executive director appointments excluding chairman appointments.
The company will continue to provide life assurance cover plus up to 3,000 for tax payable by Simon Lockett on this cover and private medical insurance for the period of Simon Locketts notice on the same basis as currently provided.
2014 Annual Bonus Payment Under the terms of his contract, Simon Lockett was entitled to receive his annual bonus payment for 2014 which has been reduced on a time worked basis to reflect his departure date of 15 August 2014.
In addition, all unvested Deferred Bonus Share Plan awards held by Simon Lockett vested on 15 August 2014.
Full details are set out on pages 103 and 113.
Long Term Incentive Plan Awards Simon Locketts existing LTIP awards will vest, subject to performance, having been pro-rated on a time worked basis, at their normal vesting date, in accordance with the good leaver provisions in the companys LTIP rules.
Pensionrelated benefits In relation to the companys contractual obligations to Simon Lockett to provide a pension substantially as if he was a member of the defined benefit pension scheme without the earnings cap, the companys obligations were settled by a lump sum payment of 468,100 gross.
Legal fees Simon Lockett received a contribution of 25,000 plus VAT towards legal fees incurred in connection with his departure.
Payment for loss of employment in settlement of potential claims Simon Lockett was paid 50,000 gross by way of payment for loss of employment in settlement of potential claims arising in connection with his employment and its termination.
These items are included within the Single total figure of remuneration table on page 99.
102 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Annual bonus in respect of 2014 performance audited In line with the Policy, during 2014 executive directors participated in non-pensionable annual bonus arrangements.
The 2014 annual bonus provided for awards of between 0 per cent and 100 per cent of salary for executive directors.
Annual performance was assessed against a performance scorecard encompassing health, safety, environment and security HSES, production, development, exploration and finance as well as personal performance.
In assessing the 2014 bonus payout, the Committee reviewed performance against each measure and applied judgement to determine the overall bonus level, taking into account other aspects of performance including overall company performance and the oil sector environment.
The 2014 annual bonus scorecard was based 80 per cent on financial and operational targets and 20 per cent on personal objectives.
The table below details the financial and operational performance categories, their relative weightings and achievement against specific targets.
Each executive directors achievement against the personal targets is also summarised below.
2014 Targets Formulaic Performance target ranges Actual outcome for the KPI category Subcategory Measure Weighting Performance year % of bonus Threshold Stretch opportunity Operating Group TRIR HSES 2.5 2.0 1.4 8% 8% Safely frequency Annual average Production rate of production 60.2 63.0 63.6 12% 12% kboepd Solan on-stream Solan Solan on-stream for less than Below threshold 30% 0% Gross Budget Building the strong Ready to submit production a draft Field base Progress farm Development Sea Lion Development Below threshold 6% 0% down of Sea Lion Plan FDP for Sea Lion by end 2014 Catcher FDP In addition, Stretch fully Catcher & Vette approval by bring Vette to 4% 4% delivered DECC sanction point Finding costs for Delivering Exploration 2C 2P resource 11 5 2 8% 8% growth adds $ boe Covenant headroom 357 600 706 8% 8% Maintaining $ million financial Finance Asset disposal strength programme 300 450 Below threshold 4% 0% $ million Sub-total: Corporate KPIs 80% 40% Sub-total: Corporate KPIs following exercise of Committee discretion 80% 24% A selection of targets supporting the corporate KPIs including maintaining Tony Durrant 16% financial strength and HSES A combination of production and development targets supporting the Robin Allan 11% corporate KPIs as well as succession planning for key reporting roles A selection of targets supporting execution of Sea Lion including financing, Neil Hawkings 14% Personal 20% HSES and systems A combination of exploration targets supporting the corporate KPIs and Andrew Lodge 12% succession planning for key reporting roles A combination of targets inherited from the former Finance Director, Richard Rose 12% supporting the corporate KPIs and including maintaining financial strength Between Total 100% 35% and 40% Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 103 Annual bonus in respect of 2014 performance audited continued The formulaic outcome for corporate targets was 40 per cent of a possible 80 per cent, with targets being achieved at above stretch level save for Solan, Sea Lion and the asset disposal programme.
However, in view of the change in the oil and gas market environment and the impact on shareholders both in terms of ceasing dividend payments and the share buyback programme, the Committee felt it appropriate to exercise its discretion in reducing the payment in respect of corporate targets by 40 per cent, from 40 per cent to 24 per cent.
Bonus award in respect of 2014 performance audited Based on its assessment on the companys and the individual performance of the executive directors, the Committee awarded bonuses of 35 to 40 per cent of salary to the executive directors.
Annual bonuses were paid as cash and are summarised in the table below: Bonus as % Cash Director of salary Robin Allan 35% 123,813 1 Tony Durrant 40% 192,258 Neil Hawkings 38% 134,425 Andrew Lodge 36% 127,350 2 Richard Rose 36% and pro-rated 33,954 Former director 3 Simon Lockett 39% and pro-rated 139,134 Notes: 1 Determined by calculating 40 per cent of Tony Durrants salary during 2014 which consisted of a pro-rata treatment of his annual base salary as Finance Director of 386,500 between 1 January and 24 June 2014, and a pro-rata treatment of his annual base salary as Chief Executive of 569,000 from 25 June to 31 December 2014.
2 Richard Rose joined the company on 8 September 2014.
The cash payment shown above is the pro-rated value awarded to Richard Rose to reflect the period of 2014 for which he was employed by the company.
3 Simon Lockett left the company on 15 August 2014.
As announced at that time the Committee agreed that Simon Locketts annual bonus would include, in respect of the corporate target element of the bonus, the same percentage awarded to the other executive directors.
In respect of the individual target element of the bonus, it was agreed that Simon Lockett would receive 15 per cent of annual salary as at 15 August 2014 based on a selection of targets supporting the corporate KPIs including maintaining financial strength and HSES.
Both elements were pro-rated to reflect Simon Locketts termination date.
104 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Annual bonus in respect of 2013 performance In last years report, in relation to the 2013 annual bonus, target ranges were not disclosed as they were considered to be commercially sensitive.
We confirmed in the 2013 report that retrospective disclosure of those targets would be given and this information has been set out below: 2013 Targets Formulaic Performance target ranges Actual outcome for the KPI category Subcategory Measure Weighting Performance year % of bonus Threshold Stretch opportunity Operating Group TRIR HSES 2.5 1.3 Below threshold 8% 0% Safely frequency Daily average rate of production 65 70 Below threshold 0% kboepd Building Exit rate 1 70 80 Below threshold 0% the strong kboepd Production 24% production base Final Investment Decisions FIDs 1 3 1 4% approved by 1 year-end Risked prospective 30 60 207 8% resources added mmboe Delivering Finding costs for Exploration 24% growth 2C 2P resource 11 3 4.5 4% adds US$ boe Reserves 60% 200% Below threshold 0% Replacement % Maintaining Net Operating financial Finance Cash flow 773 885 Below threshold 4% 0% strength US$ million NAV growth 10% 15% Below threshold 0% per Share Delivery of Group strategy 20% strategy Business Below threshold Subject to Committee judgement 4% 2 development and stretch Sub-total: Corporate KPIs 80% 20% Simon Lockett A selection of targets supporting the corporate KPIs 4% former CEO Tony Durrant Targets including structuring and execution of non-core asset disposal 6% former FD programme, marketing objectives and finance related targets A combination of production and development targets supporting the Personal Robin Allan 20% 4% corporate KPIs A combination of targets supporting execution of the corporate strategy, Neil Hawkings 4% asset related objectives and systems development A selection of exploration targets supporting the corporate KPIs and Andrew Lodge 5% succession planning for key reporting roles Total 100% 24% to 26% Notes: 1 In the 2013 report, due to a typographical error, performance of between threshold and stretch was selected for Production Exit rate, rather than FIDs.
This has been corrected in the table above.
2 Judged by the Committee, with the performance outcome based on successful disposals, on-going sales processes and strengthening of the portfolio.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 105 LTIP vesting outcomes in 2014 audited LTIP awards were granted in 2012 as Equity Pool Awards, Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards matched over deferred awards under the LTIP 2009 award: see page 90 for further detail on the LTIP.
The 2012 LTIP award cycles completed their three-year performance periods on 31 December 2014.
The vesting conditions of these awards are the same as that described in the Policy Table on pages 90 to 91.
The constituents of the comparator group for the 2012 Performance Share Award and 2012 Matching Share Award cycles are detailed on page 117 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The outcomes of the 2012 LTIP awards are as follows: Equity Pool Awards: over the performance period, the threshold of 10 per cent per annum growth was not met, and, as a result, awards under the 2012 Equity Pool will not vest.
Performance Share Awards: over the performance period the companys TSR was below the median of the comparator group.
As a result, the 2012 Performance Share Awards will not vest as the threshold was not met.
Matching Share Awards: over the performance period the companys TSR was below the median of the comparator group.
As a result, 2012 Matching Share Awards will not vest as the threshold was not met.
LTIP awards granted in 2014 audited The table below summarises the LTIP awards granted to executive directors in 2014 under the 2014-16 cycle, in line with the Policy on page 90.
Performance for these awards is measured between 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2016, and is based on equity value per share and relative TSR as detailed in the Policy Table.
As the 2011 LTIP awards did not vest in 2014, no corresponding Matching Share Awards were granted during 2014.
Awards granted to Tony Durrant and Richard Rose on appointment were pro-rated to take into account tenure as Chief Executive and Finance Director, respectively, in each of the outstanding LTIP cycles.
The awards made to Tony Durrant bring the total face value of any Performance Share Awards to no more than 150 per cent of salary during 2014 and no more than 6 per cent of the Equity Pool.
The LTIP awards made to Richard Rose reflect a face value of no more than 125 per cent of current base salary for Performance Share Awards during 2014 and no more than 4.25 per cent of the Equity Pool.
2 For Equity Pool Awards, the face value represents the full vesting value at growth in equity value per share of 20 per cent per annum assuming the Committee exercises its discretion to allow vesting at higher than 100 per cent of salary.
3 For Performance Share Awards, face value is calculated as the maximum number of shares that would vest if targets were met in full, multiplied by the closing mid-market price on the dates of award: 3.031 on 27 February 2014: 3.347 on 21 August 2014: 3.413 on 8 September 2014.
4 On 21 August 2014 Tony Durrant received additional awards in each of the on-going cycles of the LTIP to reflect his promotion from Finance Director to Chief Executive, pro-rated to reflect the period of each cycle for which he serves as Chief Executive.
The additional award is presented above for the 2014-16 cycle: awards for 2012-14 and 2013-15 are shown below.
5 Richard Rose joined on 8 September 2014 and received awards under each of the on-going cycles of the LTIP, pro-rated to reflect his Board tenure in each of the cycles.
The award for the 2014-16 cycle is presented above: awards for 2012-14 and 2013-15 are shown below.
6 Simon Lockett left the company on 15 August 2014.
His LTIP awards will be treated in accordance with the good leaver provisions in the LTIP rules such that the awards will be pro-rated on a time worked basis and any remaining awards will vest at their normal vesting date.
The award shown above represents the total amount awarded on 27.02.14 prior to any pro-rata adjustment.
106 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued LTIP awards granted in 2014 audited continued The following LTIP awards were made to Tony Durrant and Richard Rose during 2014, under the 2012-14 and 2013-15 LTIP cycles, in line with the Policy and in line with the companys remuneration policy for all employees.
These awards were pro-rated to take into account tenure as Chief Executive and Finance Director, respectively, in each of the outstanding LTIP cycles.
The awards made to Tony Durrant bring the total face value of any Performance Share Awards during 2014 to no more than 150 per cent of salary and no more than 6 per cent of the Equity Pool.
3 For Performance Share Awards, face value is calculated as the maximum number of shares that would vest if targets were met in full, multiplied by the closing mid-market price on the dates of award: 3.347 on 21 August 2014: 3.413 on 8 September 2014.
The above table includes awards under the 2012-14 and 2013-15 cycles.
The constituents of the comparator group for outstanding Performance Share Award and Matching Share Award cycles are detailed on page 117 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Total pension entitlements audited In line with the Policy, as directors who joined the company prior to 20 August 2013, Robin Allan, Tony Durrant, Neil Hawkings and Andrew Lodge receive a pension substantially as if they were contributing members of the companys final salary Retirement and Death Benefits Plan the Scheme and, in regard to service completed subsequent to their appointment as directors, not subject to the Schemes cap on pensionable earnings 145,800 for 2015.
As a director who joined the company after 20 August 2013, Richard Rose is entitled to receive a pension contribution equal to 20 per cent of his salary.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 107 Total pension entitlements audited continued The accrued pension entitlements of the directors who were members or deemed members of the Scheme during 2014 are as follows: f d Value of growth in a b c Value e accrued pension Accrued Accrued Accrued of growth Deduction above inflation pension as at pension in a pension as at in accrued for deemed less deemed 31 December after allowing 31 December pension above contributions contributions 2013 for inflation 2014 inflation by director by director Director 000s pa 000s pa 000s pa 000s 000s 000s 4 Robin Allan 62.1 63.8 71.4 152.0 19.9 132.1 Tony Durrant 58.0 59.6 67.7 162.0 21.9 140.1 Neil Hawkings 48.1 49.4 56.8 148.0 19.9 128.1 Andrew Lodge 29.0 29.8 36.8 140.0 19.9 120.1 Former director 6 Simon Lockett 125.9 129.3 149.1 396.0 19.1 376.9 Notes: 1 The amounts of accrued pension under a and c represent the accrued pension entitlements of the director as at the stated dates.
2 The values under d have been calculated by applying a capitalisation factor of 20 to the difference between amounts shown in c and b and are principally due to the additional pension accrued over the year.
3 The values stated above correspond with the target level of final salary pension provision: in practice, the pension benefits for these directors are principally established through individual money purchase arrangements and salary supplements.
4 In addition to the current provision noted above, Robin Allan is entitled to a deferred pension under the Scheme in respect of service with the company between September 1986 and November 1999.
5 Members of the Scheme have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions: none of the directors have elected to do so.
6 Simon Lockett left service on 15 August 2014: the accrued pension under c relates to service completed up to that date together with the award of 12 months additional service credit.
The value of growth in accrued pension under f was calculated at 31 December 2014 using a statutory factor of 20 468.1k as at Simon Locketts leaving date of 15 August 2014.
In respect of 2014, Tony Durrant and Neil Hawkings elected to receive a salary supplement, whilst Robin Allan, Simon Lockett and Andrew Lodge elected to receive a combination of pension contributions and a salary supplement.
During the year a review was carried out for the directors who were members or deemed members of the Scheme to assess the extent to which the payments already made to each director are projected to be sufficient to provide the accrued component of their target pension: no additional non-pensionable target funding payments were made by the company in relation to FY2014.
Payments made by the company in respect of pension benefits in relation to 2014 are summarised below: Target Total pension Salary Pension funding benefits paid supplements contributions payments by company Director 000s 000s 000s 000s Robin Allan 24.8 42.5 67.3 Tony Durrant 84.0 84.0 Neil Hawkings 62.2 62.2 Andrew Lodge 24.8 42.5 67.3 Richard Rose 2.8 16.8 n a 19.6 Former director 1 Simon Lockett 56.5 10.6 577.8 644.9 Notes: 1 The target funding payments for Simon Lockett include all pension related payments made in respect of his pension during FY2014 including the payment of 468.1k as at 15 August 2014 referenced on page 101, and an additional 12 months pension accrual in accordance with his leaving arrangements.
108 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration, comprising salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus, and comparable data for the average of all UK-based employees within the company.
The figures for 2014 reflect a combination of remuneration for Simon Lockett, Chief Executive from 1 January to 24 June 2014, and Tony Durrant who was appointed Chief Executive on 25 June 2014.
The company has chosen UK-based employees as the comparator group for the company as a whole, due to countries outside the UK having significantly different inflation rates.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows the companys actual expenditure on shareholder distributions and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ending 31 December 2013 and ending 31 December 2014.
Total shareholder distribution expenditure is comprised of dividends and share buybacks.
The company paid a dividend on 21 May 2014 of five pence per share.
18,455,248 shares were re-purchased during the year and cancelled at a total cost to the company of $93.0m 2013: nil.
200 $171.6m $165.8m 180 160 140 120 100 80 $43.3m 60 $93m $40.2m 40 2014 20 $0m 2013 0 Total Wages Dividend Buyback and salaries Comparison of company performance The chart below compares the value of 100 invested in Premier shares, including re-invested dividends, on 31 December 2008 compared to the equivalent investment in the FTSE All Share Oil & Gas Producers Index, over the last six financial years.
The FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers Index has been chosen as it comprises companies who are exposed to broadly similar risks and opportunities as Premier.
6-year TSR performance Value of 100 invested on 31 December 2008 300 250 200 150 126 100 86 50 0 31 Dec 11 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 10 31 Dec 12 31 Dec 13 31 Dec 14 FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers Index Premier Oil plc Millions $ Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 109 Comparison of company performance continued The table below shows the CEO single figure for the past six years and corresponding performance under the annual and long-term incentives, as a percentage of maximum.
CEO single Equity Pool Asset Pool Performance Matching figure of Annual bonus funding rate funding rate Share Award Share Award remuneration payout as % as % of as % of vesting as % vesting as % 1 000s of maximum maximum maximum of maximum of maximum 2009 2,884.6 85% 0% 100% n a 63% 2010 4,041.4 60% 100% 55% n a 100% 2011 3,827.3 55% 100% n a 100% 100% 2012 2,728.2 45% 0% n a 90% 66% 2013 1,002.7 24% 0% n a 0% 0% Simon Lockett 680.3 39% 0% n a 0% 0% 2 2014 and pro-rated Tony Durrant 428.7 40% 0% n a 0% 0% Notes: 1 Following the introduction of the LTIP in 2009, the Asset Pool was replaced by Performance Share Awards.
The last award under the Asset Pool had a performance period of 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2010.
The introduction of the LTIP was disclosed in the Remuneration Report of the 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
2 Figures shown for Tony Durrant relate to the period during 2014 that he served as Chief Executive: 25 June to 31 December 2014.
Figures shown for Simon Lockett relate to the period during 2014 that he served as Chief Executive: 1 January to 25 June 2014.
Implementation of executive director Remuneration Policy for 2015 Remuneration in 2015 will be consistent with the Policy described on pages 85 to 97.
Salary The salaries of the executive directors are reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate.
In consideration of the challenges posed by the changed market conditions, no salary increases have been awarded to executive directors for 2015.
The average salary increase across the groups UK operations is 2.2 per cent.
Salary from 1 January 2014 Salary from or if later from appointment date 1 January 2015 Percentage Director Position increase Robin Allan Director, Business Units 353,750 353,750 0% 1 Tony Durrant Chief Executive 569,000 569,000 0% Neil Hawkings Director, Falkland Islands 353,750 353,750 0% Andrew Lodge Exploration Director 353,750 353,750 0% 2 Richard Rose Finance Director 300,000 300,000 0% Notes: 1 Tony Durrant was appointed Chief Executive with effect from 25 June 2014.
His salary was increased to 569,000 at that point in time full details regarding the increase are provided on page 100.
2 Richard Rose was appointed Finance Director on 8 September 2014.
Pension, benefits and all-employee share plans The company will offer executive directors pension, taxable benefits and tax-advantaged all-employee share plans for 2015 in line with the Policy on pages 86 to 88.
110 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Implementation of executive director Remuneration Policy for 2015 continued Annual bonus For 2015, the executive director annual bonus opportunity is up to 100 per cent of salary.
Annual performance will be assessed against a performance scorecard of which 80 per cent will be based on financial and operational measures see table below and 20 per cent on personal objectives.
The 2015 corporate and personal objectives, along with threshold and stretch target values, will be disclosed, to the extent that they are not commercially sensitive, in the 2015 Remuneration Report.
Any bonus paid will be assessed against the achievement of the 2015 performance targets.
The table below summarises the criteria used to assess each measure and the relative weighting of each: KPI Subcategory Target Weighting Operating Safely HSES Group TRIR 5% Building the strong Production Daily average kboepd 10% production base Development Near-term project milestones Catcher 5% Sea Lion 5% Solan 12.5% Delivering growth Exploration Make at least one material discovery measured via commercial volumes 10% Maintaining financial Finance Covenant headroom 10% strength Group strategy Delivery of strategy Organisation plan the business for a low oil price environment 12.5% Business development subject to Committee discretion 10% Sub-total Corporate KPIs 80% Personal targets 20% Total 100% Long-term incentive plan As referenced previously, the Committee began reviewing the effectiveness of the LTIP both for the wider employee population as well as for the executive directors during the year, with alternative approaches considered, the disruption in the oil markets has resulted in the Committee deciding to postpone any decision.
The Committee intends to grant LTIP awards in 2015 in line with the Policy on pages 89 to 90.
The company will provide details of the LTIP awards granted to executive directors and the TSR comparator group against which TSR will be assessed for the 2015 Performance Share Awards in the Remuneration Report for the year ending 31 December 2015.
Implementation of non-executive director Remuneration Policy for 2015 Non-executive director fees were last increased with effect from 1 January 2013 with the next review due to be effective 1 January 2015.
The next review of fees for non-executive directors will be conducted at the end of 2015 with any change proposed to take effect from 1 January 2016.
Non-executive director fees for 2015 are as follows: From From 1 January 2014 1 January 2015 Percentage Role Fee type increase Chairman Total fee 169,600 169,600 0% Other non-executive directors Basic fee 53,000 53,000 0% Committee Chairmanship 10,600 10,600 0% Senior Independent Director 10,600 10,600 0% Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 111 Statement of directors shareholding and scheme interests audited Formal shareholding guidelines exist which require the executive directors to retain no less than 50 per cent of the net value of shares vesting under the company's long-term incentive arrangements until such time as they have achieved a holding worth 100 per cent of salary 200 per cent for the CEO.
As the graph below shows, all the current executive directors who served throughout 2014 hold shares with a value substantially higher than these threshold shareholding requirements.
Richard Rose joined the Board on 8 September 2014 and purchased shares shortly after that date.
Richard Rose has not yet had the opportunity to retain any shares from the vesting of LTIP or joining awards but will also be required to adhere to the shareholding guidelines as and when any of his share awards vest.
Simon Locketts shareholding is shown as at his leaving date of 15 August 2014.
600 536% 500 461% 395% 400 320% 300 270% 200% 200% 200 100% 100% 100% 100% 100 Shareholding requirement 13% % shareholding against salary 0 Robin Allan Tony Durrant Neil Hawkings Andrew Lodge Richard Rose Simon Lockett Notes: 1 Shareholding includes deferred awards under the LTIP where performance conditions have been achieved and awards are subject to a holding period.
2 The valuation of shareholdings has been calculated using an average of the mid-market closing price between 1 October and 31 December 2014 2.2947.
The table below summarises the directors interests in shares, including those held under outstanding LTIP, SAYE and SIP awards, as at 31 December 2014.
Further details of all outstanding awards are disclosed on pages 113 to 119.
Deferred shares Unvested subject to shares Owned continued Deferred subject to Unvested outright employment shares performance SAYE Total share at 31 at 31 at 31 at 31 options at 31 interests at 31 December December December December December December 1 2 3 4 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 or date or date or date or date or date or date Director of leaving of leaving of leaving of leaving of leaving of leaving Robin Allan 390,270 3,749 218,865 899,567 10,886 1,523,337 David Bamford 1,514 1,514 Anne Marie Cannon 0 0 Joe Darby 23,108 23,108 Tony Durrant 1,102,650 4,113 226,783 1,062,503 8,445 2,404,494 Neil Hawkings 492,347 3,749 218,865 899,567 6,531 1,621,059 Jane Hinkley 13,234 13,234 David Lindsell 17,332 17,332 Andrew Lodge 202,891 3,749 213,959 887,302 6,525 1,314,426 Michel Romieu 20,000 20,000 Richard Rose 16,364 26,135 109,872 152,371 Mike Welton 22,531 22,531 Former director 5 Simon Lockett 462,377 6,048 331,771 1,509,381 2,865 2,312,442 Notes: 1 Owned outright includes shares held by the director and or connected persons.
This figure also includes shares held in the tax-advantaged Share Incentive Plan SIP which may be subject to forfeiture on leaving the company, dependent upon the time for which they have been held.
2 Deferred shares subject to continued employment for Richard Rose comprise of his Conditional Share Award CSA received on joining the company to buy-out the share awards he forfeited on resignation from his former employer.
The CSA reflects the expected value of his forfeited awards and consists of 26,125 shares valued using the mid-market closing share price on 8 September 2014 of 3.413.
The CSA will vest only if Richard Rose remains employed by the company on 31 December 2016.
Deferred shares for the other executive directors are interests under the Deferred Bonus Share Plan and are subject to malus and clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the companys financial results, gross misconduct or material error in the calculation of performance conditions.
The Committee may exercise clawback until the later of: i one year from vesting, or ii the completion of the next audit after vesting.
3 Deferred shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan subject to a three-year holding period but which would vest in full on cessation of employment in all circumstances save for summary dismissal.
4 Unvested shares subject to performance include 2012 Performance Share Awards and 2012 Matching Share Awards, for which the performance period completed on 31 December 2014 and no awards vested.
See page 105 of the Annual Report on Remuneration for further details on performance criteria and achievement.
5 Interests reported as at 15 August 2014, the date on which Simon Locketts directorship ceased.
% of salary 112 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Sourcing of shares and dilution limits Awards under all the companys share schemes may be met using a combination of market purchases, financed by the company through the Premier Oil plc Employee Benefit Trust, and newly-issued shares.
The company complies with the Investment Management Associations recommended guidelines on shareholder dilution through employee share schemes: awards under the groups discretionary schemes which may be satisfied by new issue shares must not exceed 5 per cent of the companys issued share capital in any rolling 10-year period, and the total of all awards satisfied via new issue shares under all plans must not exceed 10 per cent of the companys issued share capital in any rolling 10-year period.
As of 31 December 2014, 2,690,319 shares were held by the Employee Benefit Trust 2013: 2,964,541 and the commitments to issue new shares are summarised below: Percentage Percentage of issued Dilution of dilution Number of shares issued or committed to be issued in the 10-year period to 31 December 2014 share capital limit limit used New issue shares under AEP, LTIP and historical Executive Share Option Schemes within 5 per cent limit 11,956,616 2.34% 25,540,553 46.81% As above plus SAYE within 10 per cent limit 14,325,653 2.80% 51,081,106 28.04% Share price movements during 2014 The mid-market closing price of the companys shares at 31 December 2014 was 1.672 31 December 2013: 3.136.
The intra-day trading price of the companys shares during 2014 was between 1.518 and 3.554.
Executive director external appointments Executive directors are entitled to accept non-executive appointments outside the company providing that the Boards approval is sought.
During the year, Tony Durrant was a non-executive director of Greenergy Fuels Holdings Limited for which he received a fee of 40,000 in 2014.
Tony also served as an Advisory Committee Member of FlowStream Commodities Ltd appointed with effect from 13 August 2013 for which he receives an annual fee of US$20,000.
Robin Allan was appointed Chairman of the Association of British Independent Oil Exploration Companies BRINDEX on 1 January 2014 and receives no fee for this role.
As a result of the acquisition of EnCore, the company has a 17.71 per cent interest in Egdon Resources plc Egdon and is entitled to board representation.
Mr Lodge was appointed to the board of Egdon as a non-executive director on 9 March 2012 and has elected to donate his fees to several charities 2014: 20,000: 2013: 15,000.
External directorship fees have not been included in the single total figure of remuneration for executive directors, on page 99.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 113 Outstanding share awards under the annual bonus, LTIP and previous long-term incentive awards, and share option schemes Annual bonus scheme Details of outstanding share awards held in respect of the deferred element of previous annual bonus awards for directors are shown below.
Shares awarded in 2013 and 2014 are dividend equivalent share awards made in accordance with the rules of the Deferred Bonus Share Plan.
The mid-market closing price on 24 March 2014 was 2.8795.
2 Simon Locketts awards shown above were released in full following his departure, using the closing mid-market share price for 15 August 2014 of 3.368 per share.
114 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Outstanding share awards under the annual bonus, LTIP and previous long-term incentive awards, and share option schemes continued LTIP Equity Pool Awards As at 31 December 2014, three Equity Pools were outstanding, as follows: Outstanding Equity Pool allocation % of Pool Starting market Tony Robin Neil Andrew Richard 2 3 Cycle Performance period capitalisation Durrant Allan Hawkings Lodge Rose 1 2012 01.01.12 31.12.14 1,703m 6.00% 4.25% 4.25% 4.25% 4.25% pro-rated pro-rated 2013 01.01.13 31.12.15 1,823m 6.00% 4.25% 4.25% 4.25% 4.25% pro-rated pro-rated 2014 01.01.14 31.12.16 1,660m 6.00% 4.25% 4.25% 4.25% 4.25% pro-rated pro-rated Notes: 1 The Committee determined in January 2015 that the 2012 Equity Pool Awards will not vest.
For further details see page 105.
2 Tony Durrant was awarded 4.25 per cent of each Equity Pool cycle when serving as Finance Director.
Additional Equity Pool points were awarded on 22 August 2014 in recognition of his appointment as Chief Executive, bringing his share of the Equity Pool to 6 per cent per cycle but with the additional 1.75 per cent pro-rated to reflect the period for which he served as Chief Executive during each cycle.
3 Richard Rose joined as Finance Director on 8 September 2014.
On 9 September 2014 he was awarded an equivalent of 4.25 per cent of each of the three Equity Pools pro-rated to reflect the time served by him on the Board within each cycle.
LTIP Performance Shares In each of 2012, 2013 and 2014, the executive directors were granted LTIP Performance Share Awards over shares with a value of 150 per cent of salary for the CEO and 125 per cent of salary for the other executive directors, with adjustments made for Tony Durrant and new joiner Richard Rose during 2014 as detailed above.
2 Performance Share Awards were granted on 28 February 2014 using the closing mid-market price of 27 February 2014 303.10p to calculate the number of shares under award.
3 Additional Performance Share Awards were granted to Tony Durrant on 22 August 2014 using the closing mid-market price of 21 August 2014 334.70p to calculate the number of shares under award.
4 Performance Share Awards were granted to Richard Rose on 9 September 2014 using the closing mid-market price of 8 September 2014 341.30p to calculate the number of shares under award.
5 Simon Lockett left the company on 15 August 2014: awards in the above table reflect activity between 1 January 2014 and 15 August 2014.
Following his departure, outstanding awards were pro-rated to reflect his leaving date and will vest at the same time as other awards subject to performance conditions being met.
116 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued LTIP Performance Shares continued LTIP Deferred Shares and Matching Shares At 31 December 2014, the executive directors held outstanding awards of Deferred Shares and Matching Awards granted under the LTIP as set out below.
No awards were made during FY2014.
2 Matching Awards granted are the maximum award possible under the Matching Award scheme, subject to performance criteria based on TSR against a comparator group of listed companies in the oil and gas sector see table below for constituents.
Full vesting requires upper decile performance.
3 The Committee determined in January 2015 that the 2012 Matching Awards will not vest.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 117 LTIP Performance Shares continued TSR comparator group constituents, by Performance Share Award Matching Share Award cycle.
Company 2012 2013 2014 Company 2012 2013 2014 Afren 333 Indus Gas 33 Africa Oil 33 Ithaca Energy 3 Anadarko Petroleum 33 JKX Oil & Gas 3 Apache 33 Lundin Petroleum 333 Bankers Petroleum 333 Medco Energi Internasional 3 1 Beach Energy 333 Nautical Petroleum 3 Cairn Energy 333 Newfield Exploration 33 2 Cairn India 333 Nexen 3 Carrizo Oil & Gas 33 Noble Energy 333 3 Coastal Energy 3 3 Oil Search 333 Det Norske Oljeselskap 333 Ophir Energy 333 Devon Energy 333 Origin Energy 333 DNO International 333 Oryx Petroleum 3 Dragon Oil 333 PTT EP 333 Energen 33 Rockhopper Exploration 333 EnQuest 333 Salamander Energy 333 Etab.
Maurel et Prom 333 Santos 333 Faroe Petroleum 3  3 Gas Malaysia 3 SOCO International 333 Genel Energy 33 Talisman Energy 333 Gulf Keystone 333 TransGlobe Energy 33 Gulfport Energy 3 Tullow Oil 333 4 Heritage Oil 33 Woodside Petroleum 333 Note: 1 Nautical Petroleum was acquired by Cairn Energy in July 2012 and was therefore removed from the 2012 comparator group.
2 Nexen was acquired by CNOOC Limited in February 2013 and was therefore removed from the 2012 comparator group.
3 Coastal Energy was acquired in January 2014 and was therefore removed from the 2012 and 2013 comparator groups.
4 Heritage Oil was acquired in July 2014 and was therefore removed from the 2012 and 2013 comparator groups.
118 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Asset and Equity Plan AEP Final outstanding awards under the AEP vested or lapsed during 2014.
Matching Awards granted were the maximum award possible under the Matching Award scheme, subject to performance criteria based on TSR against a comparator group of approximately 35 listed companies in the oil and gas sector.
2 Deferred Shares vested on 27 February 2014.
The mid-market closing price on 27 February 2014 was 303.10p.
See the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report for further details of these awards, including Premiers performance against the performance targets.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 119 Share Options and Share Incentive Plan The executive directors may also participate, on the same terms as all other eligible employees, in a Share Incentive Plan SIP and a Savings related Share Option Scheme Save As You Earn SAYE scheme.
Partnership and Matching Share Award prices ranged between 2.7260 and 3.5436 per share during this period.
For and on behalf of the Remuneration Committee Jane Hinkley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 February 2015
