REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED people strategy and the remuneration objective and Executive principles that have been developed to support its Directors remuneration business and its corporate culture.
Randgold is a unique remuneration entrepreneurial company, focused on Africa and growing principles and policy value through discovery and development, that has at its philosophy heart the creation of value for all stakeholders including its Background host countries and local communities where the company Randgold operates in a variety of international markets operates.
In formulating its principles, the regulatory requirements of Jersey, the United Kingdom Randgolds alignment with shareholder value creation and the United States were taken into account and the encourages empowerment, energy, ownership and responsibility, as well as a results-based growth culture.
company has followed international best practice and Randgolds remuneration plans support this through good corporate governance.
The companys executive encouraging investment and ownership in the business, remuneration principles provide the underlying standards as well as setting stretching performance targets for the on which the remuneration policies and goals are based.
delivery of reward-based variable short term and long The remuneration principles are applied across the group term incentive plans for its executive directors, nonand the remuneration policy is applied to the executive executive directors and senior management.
The principles are reviewed annually by the remuneration committee and at such Objective other times as the remuneration committee considers To ensure Randgolds principles on directors necessary.
remuneration encourage, reinforce and reward the delivery of sustainable value to the companys shareholders and Randgolds business strategy for success is enduring, its other stakeholders in the host countries where the consistent, sustainable and long established, as is the company operates.
Remuneration principles Principles Long term success Building sustainable long term value for shareholders and other stakeholders is the key overriding objective.
Accordingly a significant proportion of our remuneration is aligned to the long term success of the company through both shares and performance-related awards.
In addition, to support the alignment with shareholders and the desired corporate culture of the company, senior executives are encouraged to invest in and hold shares in the company.
Randgolds people Randgolds belief is that a key part of that value creation strategy is ensuring the company has the right people in the right places to deliver this value with the appropriate balance and alignment between the interests of shareholders and an attractive and appropriate reward package for its people.
Randgolds people are highly motivated and have energy and tenacity to achieve and succeed in delivering Randgolds long term vision.
Randgold believes in rewarding highly for delivering value, showing flexibility and mobility, as well as demonstrating a proactive entrepreneurial approach.
Randgold rewards high performance and alignment with Randgolds culture when it is consistently delivered, and consequently value to Randgold and its shareholders is seen as increasing from an individuals contribution.
Executive directors Competitive total remuneration is used to attract and retain high-calibre executive directors, who have the personal attributes, skills and experience necessary to deliver the companys strategy in the environment within which it operates.
Randgold operates in the international mining industry and, specifically, the international gold mining industry.
Reward packages need to be commensurate with its comparator groups to attract and retain high calibre people with exceptional industry ability in mining and in Africa.
As well as being appropriately reflective of the industry, Randgolds pay philosophy is to ensure its entrepreneurial culture and principles are maintained by ensuring leverage through its variable pay plans.
Performance-related pay Randgolds strategy of delivering value in Africa through its partnerships with other companies international and local, governments, Randgolds people and the people of Randgolds host countries in Africa is clear and this flows through to Randgolds performance in terms of its KPIs.
A significant proportion of total remuneration should vary with performance, aligning the executive directors interests with the interests of the companys shareholders and stakeholders.
Randgolds only material element of fixed remuneration will be base pay, supplemented by performance-related short term and long term remuneration.
A high level of performance, measured with reference to predetermined objective criteria, will be rewarded with higher levels of remuneration.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 170 Principles continued Performance measures Financial and non-financial KPIs are Randgolds measurement of success and are reflected in its remuneration plans.
Randgold believes sustainable long term growth is a fundamental strength of its strategy, its people and its way of working.
Consequently, its long term incentive plans reward sustained and exceptional stretching performance over a three to five year period including the required holding period.
The use of stretching performance measures and key performance indicators are crucial to benchmark performance.
In terms of comparative performance, Randgold will use relevant comparator groups.
Individual executive directors performance, pay and performance metrics and ranges will be reviewed annually to ensure alignment with Randgolds business plans and its overriding objective.
Risk In addition to the delivery of sustainable value, remuneration arrangements should be aligned with Randgolds approach to sustainability and business risk management which takes into account the companys environmental, social and governance responsibilities.
Expenses and benefits Our culture is to deliver value for shareholders as entrepreneurs.
Accordingly, we reduce long term fixed elements of pay and as such there are no company-funded pension plans within the company and, while we provide access to a company-facilitated medical insurance policy, the company does not fund the contributions.
However, as a responsible employer, we support our workforce and executives in delivering social benefits related to workplace events or events whilst at work such as ill health and disability.
Any expenses incurred in the course of work are reimbursed.
Shareholding Ownership of shares in the company is encouraged and executive directors are required to build a material shareholding in the company which over time will form a meaningful portion of reward and will align executive directors interests to shareholders interests.
Randgold will require each executive director to have a minimum shareholding in the company.
Recruitment The company will not offer any more than is necessary to attract and retain executive directors of the right calibre and experience.
The company may compensate a new executive director for forfeiture of salary and other remuneration from a previous employer on a comparable basis taking into account performance achieved or likely to be achieved and aligning this new executive director with other executive directors as far as possible.
Service contracts and letters of appointment Executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment will be clear, transparent, and will be drafted by reference to best practice.
Where governance principles vary or conflict across relevant jurisdictions, the board will adopt what it considers to be the appropriate standards that reflect the overriding objective.
Termination payments On determining loss of office payments, consideration will be given to any contractual provisions, the circumstances under which an executive director leaves and the executive directors performance.
Whether a loss of office payment is made is at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
Non-executive chairman and directors To attract and retain a high calibre non-executive chairman and non-executive directors who have the necessary skills, experience and commitment, the company will offer competitive remuneration which recognises the time commitment and work required for the roles of non-executive chairman and non-executive directors.
Engaging with shareholders The non-executive directors will maintain an open transparent dialogue with shareholders and regularly seek their views on the companys remuneration practices and policies.
Remuneration policy, practices and outcomes will be clearly explained in the context of performance, to the extent not commercially sensitive, and shareholders will be given the opportunity to vote by way of ordinary resolution on Randgolds remuneration policies and practices at least once a year.
Approval will be sought in relation to the 1 directors remuneration report at each annual general meeting.
Fairness and judgement Appropriate judgement will be applied by the remuneration committee in determining remuneration with consideration given to the conditions affecting the company, including the countries where the company operates, and where the executive directors are required to spend their time.
1 As the company is incorporated in Jersey, this approval will be on an advisory rather than on a binding basis.
In line with the companys commitment to follow international best practice and good corporate governance, it is the boards intention to operate in line with the remuneration policy and the board will give careful consideration to shareholder feedback on this policy.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 171 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration structure summary Remuneration policy The remuneration policy is based on the remuneration The groups total remuneration together with each element principles set out on pages 170 and 171 of this annual of remuneration is benchmarked against a comparator report and remains unchanged from 2014, except as group of FTSE 100, FTSE mining and comparable detailed in the policy table below.
Further details on the companys remuneration policy and remuneration Any commitment made before an executive becomes a arrangements are contained in this remuneration report.
director will be honoured even if inconsistent with this or For 2015, the remuneration of the executive directors will any future policy.
comprise of the following: Base salary.
1 year 4 years including 5 years including Annual bonus with the requirement to defer one third of 1 year post vesting 1 year post vesting any annual bonus earned into the Co-Investment Plan.
Base salary period period A Co-Investment Plan rewarding relative performance Annual bonus over three years subject to investment by the executive director and with a further requirement of a one year Deferred annual bonus post-vesting retention period.
A Restricted Share Scheme rewarding operational performance over four years with a further requirement Co-Investment Plan of a one year post-vesting retention period.
Restricted Share Scheme Policy table on remuneration payments Maximum opportunity Purpose Operation performance metrics changes Overall To ensure that the The remuneration Maximum opportunity levels for companys executive committee reviews the individual pay elements are set remuneration policy structure of the executive out below.
encourages, reinforces directors arrangements Page 178 of this annual report and rewards the delivery every year.
sets out the total opportunity of sustainable shareholder Total remuneration and each levels for executive directors value.
element of remuneration is under different performance To ensure that pay benchmarked periodically scenarios.
arrangements are against a comparator fully aligned with the group of FTSE 100, FTSE companys approach to mining and comparable risk management and international gold mining take into account our companies.
obligations in respect of environmental, social and governance policies.
Base salary Competitive base salaries Base pay levels are The CEOs base salary was to attract and retain high reviewed annually by the increased from $1 575 000 to calibre executives, based remuneration committee $1 638 000 with effect from on personal performance with effect from 1 January 1 January 2015 an increase and relevant experience.
each year, taking account of 4% in line with the average Base salary is the only of company performance, increase for employees across material element of fixed individual performance, the company.
changes in responsibility The CFOs base salary was The company does and levels of increase for increased from 495 600 to not fund any pension the broader employee 525 336 with effect from contributions.
1 January 2015 an increase of Reference is also made to 6% which recognises the CFOs median levels within FTSE strong performance in the role 100, FTSE mining and and current positioning below comparable international the market median.
gold mining companies, as Under normal circumstances, mentioned above.
there will be no base salary The remuneration increases during the one committee considers the year policy period.
In impact of any base salary exceptional circumstances, increase on the total the remuneration committee remuneration package.
reserves the right to make adjustments to the executives remuneration to recognise, for example, development in role, change in responsibility and or specific retention issues.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 172 Maximum opportunity Purpose Operation performance metrics changes Annual bonus Designed to encourage T arget and maximum annual T he annual bonus payable to and reward superior incentives are determined the CEO for achieving target performan ace on an as a percentage of base performance is 150% of annual basis.
The maximum O ne third of the annual bonus payable to the CEO for bonus is compulsorily achieving outperformance is deferred into the Co- 300% of base salary.
T he annual bonus payable to S ubject to malus provision the CFO for achieving target to allow reduced payment performance is 100% of at the discretion of the base salary.
The maximum remuneration committee bonus payable to the CFO for based on the overall achieving outperformance is performance of the 200% of base salary.
T he performance metrics used S ubject to clawback for a to determine the annual bonus three year period from the cover the same categories for date of payment in the event both the executive directors, of a material misstatement weighted as follows: of the companys annual Financial measures 30%.
report and accounts on Role-specific operational which they were based.
financial performance targets 25%, decreased from 30% in 2014 to incorporate an additional environmental KPI as detailed below.
Role specific strategic nonfinancial targets 30%.
Safety and environment 15%, increased from 10% for 2014 by adding 5% towards an environment KPI.
Deferred The deferral of annual One third of any annual Deferred bonuses are bonus bonus encourages bonus is compulsorily compulsorily deferred into executive share ownership deferred into shares under the Co-Investment Plan and if and provides longer term the Co-Investment Plan and certain metrics and targets are alignment with shareholder paid in shares after three satisfied, are paid in matched interests.
Subject to clawback for a three-year period from the date of payment in the event of a material misstatement of the companys annual report and accounts on which the award was based.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 173 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Policy table on remuneration payments continued Maximum opportunity Purpose Operation performance metrics changes Co-Investment To reward sustained Each year an executive The maximum commitment Plan performance relative to director may choose to which may be made into the global peers.
commit shares into the CoCo-Investment Plan is 250% Each year, when Investment Plan in addition 200% in 2014 of base salary considering new awards to the compulsorily deferred by the CEO and 125% 100% under the plan, the bonus.
in 2014 of base salary by the remuneration committee Committed shares must CFO.
will review and may make be retained for four The remuneration committee adjustments to the metrics years which includes an has determined that this and targets to which the additional one year holding maximum increase is seen vesting of new matching period post-vesting, as important to provide for a awards granted under the an increase of one year greater level of incentive for plan will be subject, before compared to the 2014 outperformance against the the grant of such awards, policy and may be matched, TSR peer group, particularly taking into account the depending on relative Total given the consistent upper strategic objectives of the Shareholder Return TSR quartile TSR performance of company for the relevant performance against the Randgold in comparison to periods.
Euromoney Global Gold its international gold mining Index formerly the HSBC company peers.
Global Gold Index over The extent to which the match three years.
depends on the performance of Matched shares are subject the companys TSR compared to a malus provision to with the Euromoney Global Gold allow reduced vesting Index over three years.
at the discretion of the The match will be 0.3 shares remuneration committee for each share committed for based on the overall performance equalling the performance of the performance of the Euromoney company.
For Matched shares are subject performance at 10% above the to clawback for a three index the match will be 1:1 with year period from the date stepped changes in between.
of vesting in the event of a material misstatement of the companys annual report and accounts on which the award was based.
Restricted Rewards sustainable long Awards of shares are The remuneration committee Share term performance.
made annually under the has determined that the Scheme Focus on operational and Restricted Share Scheme, maximum annual award of performance financial performance determined as a percentage shares is 200% of salary for the shares measures and rewards of base salary.
CEO and 100% of salary for the absolute delivery of key Awards vest after 4 years CFO.
strategic imperatives to subject to the achievement Three separate measures of build the company for the of stretching operational business growth, each weighted future.
one third: Four-year performance Subject to malus provision Additional reserves including period supports to allow reduced vesting reserve replacement.
at the discretion of the Relative TSR vs a tailored One year post-vesting remuneration committee peer group.
retention period further based on the overall Total cash cost per oz.
supports long term performance of the The threshold vesting level will sustainability.
be 30% to bring the threshold Each year, when Subject to clawback for a in line with the Co-Investment considering new awards three year period from the Plan.
under the scheme, the date of vesting in the event Awards prior to 2015: remuneration committee of a material misstatement Additional reserves including will review and may of the companys annual reserve replacement.
make adjustments to the report and accounts on Additional reserves excluding metrics and targets to which they were based.
reserve replacement only for awards prior to 2014. which the vesting of new awards granted under the Absolute TSR.
Restricted Share Scheme EPS growth.
will be subject, before The changes to the the grant of such awards, performance measures for the taking into account the 2015 awards detailed above strategic objectives of the have been made to improve company for the relevant the robustness of performance periods.
Any adjustments measurements and to are to ensure stretching desensitise Restricted Share Scheme vesting outcomes to performance targets are set.
volatility in the gold price.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 174 Maximum opportunity Purpose Operation performance metrics changes Pension Funded entirely by the Executive directors can Not applicable.
executive directors from elect to allocate up to their base salary.
20% of their base salary to contribute to a defined contribution provident fund.
The company does not make any further contributions to the fund.
Other Main benefits funded from Executive directors can Set at a level that the benefits base salary by executive elect to participate in a remuneration committee directors.
medical aid scheme funded resolves to be required for the out of the executives base executive director to carry out salary.
Where appropriate, executive directors may be provided with benefits while travelling for work.
Life assurance cover is provided by the company through the group life assurance scheme which also provides cover for the companys senior management.
Other To secure the appointment For external appointments Maximum value determined by commitments.
and promotion of high the remuneration commitreference to the policy in relation Recruitment calibre executives.
tee may offer additional to each element of pay outlined and promotion cash share-based elements above for executive directors arrangements where they consider it is and below for non-executive in the best interests of the directors.
company and therefore In unforeseen and exceptional shareholders.
Such paycircumstances, in order to atments would take account tract the right talent at an exof remuneration forfeited ecutive level, and after consultawhen leaving the former tion with major shareholders, employer and would reflect the remuneration committee the nature, time horizons may make compensatory oneand performance requireoff payments on recruitment ments attaching to that rewhich might not otherwise be muneration.
Full details on covered by the remuneration any such payments would policy, but in all cases the value be announced to shareholdof such arrangement would be ers on appointment.
within the financial limit of the For appointment of an policy for that element of remuinternal candidate, any varineration.
able pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take account of appointment.
In addition, any on-going remuneration obligations existing before appointment may continue in place, to the extent they are inconsistent with the policy outlined above, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity.
For both external and interfinal appointments, the remuneration committee may agree that the company will meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 175 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Policy table on remuneration payments continued Maximum opportunity Purpose Operation performance metrics changes Chairman To attract and retain a The decisions on the The chairman receives a retainer fees high calibre chairman chairmans arrangements fee of $60 000 pa. by offering a market are made by the The chairman also receives competitive fee.
remuneration committee in the chairman fee of $225 000 The companys policy consultation with the CEO.
which is inclusive of committee on the chairmans fees The chairman is paid an membership fees but exclusive takes into account the annual retainer fee, a fee of the committee chairman fee.
need to attract and retain and receives an annual The chairman, subject to an individual of the right award of shares, which shareholder approval, will receive calibre and experience, since 2012 is fully vested an annual award of: their responsibilities and from grant.
The shares are seen as The chairman is required to an important element of retain and maintain from his the companys approach vested shares a number of to remuneration policy in shares in the company at relation to the chairman.
least equal in value as at the They encourage share beginning of the financial year to ownership and are provided an amount equivalent to 200% in lieu of cash.
of the annual retainer fee.
The chairman fee Prior to 2015 the chairmans arrangements are retainer was $50 000, with a periodically reviewed by the chairmans fee of $200 000 remuneration committee in and an annual award of 2 000 consultation with the CEO.
shares aggregated over the last three years.
The increases to the 2015 retainer are to reflect the increased workload and additional time commitment required of the role.
NonTo attract and retain a high The decisions on the Each non-executive director executive calibre of non-executive arrangements of the nonreceives a retainer fee of: directors director by offering market executive directors are the $60 000 pa. fees competitive fees.
responsibility of the board Each non-executive director, The companys policy on taking into account the subject to shareholder approval, non-executive directors fundamental principle of will receive an annual award of fees takes into account the corporate governance that 1 500 shares 2 000 for the need to attract and retain no individual is involved in senior independent director and individuals of the right the determination of their 2 500 for the chairman.
calibre and experience, own remuneration.
The Non-executive directors are their responsibilities and chairman, the CEO and the required to retain and maintain time commitment.
CFO make the decisions on from their vested shares a the non-executive directors number of shares in the company fees.
at least equal in value as at the The chairmen of the board beginning of the financial year to committees and the senior an amount equivalent to 200% of independent director the annual retainer fee.
are paid an additional The senior independent director fee to reflect their extra receives a fee of $85 000 pa. For responsibilities.
2015, this fee will be payable in The non-executives are paid addition to other committee fees an annual retainer fee, a to reflect the roles increased committee membership fee, workload.
and subject to shareholder Each committee chairman approval receive an annual receives an additional fee of award of shares which fully $20 000 pa. vested from grant.
Each member of a board The shares are seen as committee receives the following an important element of fee: the companys approach Audit: $35 000 pa to remuneration policy in Remuneration: $25 000 pa relation to non-executive Governance and nomination: directors.
They encourage $10 000 pa. share ownership and are Fees paid to non-executive provided in lieu of cash.
directors prior to 2015 consisted Non-executive directors of an annual retainer of $50 000, fees are reviewed a committee chairman fee of periodically by the chairman $15 000 and share awards of and executive directors.
The increases to the 2015 retainers and awards are to reflect the increased workload and additional time commitment required of the roles.
Before the changes above, non-executive director fees have remained the same since 2008.
