Remuneration report The remuneration committee has oversight of the executive directors and senior management remuneration.
1 2 Norborne Cole Jr Christopher Coleman Andrew Quinn Karl Voltaire Chairman Producing over 1 million ounces in 2014 represents a significant increase in production, more than doubling the 2010 output and further supporting Randgolds strategy and long term value delivery proposition.
The achievement of this outstanding milestone, together with a focus on management of capital investment and reduced production cost per ounce, once again allowed Randgold to deliver significant profits and increased dividends to its shareholders.
This profitability was in contrast to the bulk of the gold mining industry which, following a further drop in the gold price, has seen significant asset impairments and losses over the last two years.
Randgolds continued growth evidences the success of the companys long term strategy.
The final dividend we are proposing for the 2014 financial year is $0.60 per share, which is a 20% increase on the dividend declared and paid in respect of the 2013 financial year.
Randgold outperformed the Euromoney Global Gold Index formerly the HSBC Global Gold Index by 25% during 2014, outperformed its peers as set out in the graph on page 169 of this annual report, and outperformed the Euromoney Global Gold Index by 112% over the past five years.
While our past performance is outstanding, we continue to look to the future, growing capacity and maintaining quality that delivers our required internal rate of return and long term value to shareholders.
The company continues to grow capacity through the further ramp up of the new Kibali gold mine in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The successful commissioning and ramp-up of Kibali, given its size and remote location, was a spectacular achievement and remains instrumental in supporting current and planned future production growth.
Our growth is self-funded through our strong cash flow and without recourse to shareholders, and we are well placed to replace the reserves we deplete through mining as we did this past year.
Randgold was very pleased to receive strong support from its shareholders for last years first separate vote on the directors remuneration policy, with 98% of shareholders voting in favour.
As discussed with shareholders and stated in Randgolds Remuneration Principles, the board has decided to implement a one year remuneration policy period and have two votes for shareholders each year: one in respect of the policy section, and one in respect of the annual report on remuneration, each proposed for approval by ordinary resolution.
This is different to the standard UK approach but we believe it allows for less discretion and the ongoing engagement and involvement of our shareholders with the companys remuneration policies and practices.
Consequently, this report has three separate sections: this annual statement by the remuneration committee chairman, our 2015 directors remuneration policy and a remuneration report covering the 2014 financial year.
The report and policy will each be submitted for shareholder approval at the companys annual general meeting AGM on 5 May 2015.
Our remuneration policy is aligned to the culture, philosophy and long term success of the company to build sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
In formulating its policy, Randgold has followed international best practice and good corporate governance and regularly engages 1 Mr NP Cole Jr will retire as chairman of the remuneration committee with effect from 4 May 2015 but will remain a member of the remuneration committee.
Mr NP Cole Jr is the companys senior independent director.
2 Mr AJ Quinn is to be appointed chairman of the remuneration committee with effect from 4 May 2015.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 168 SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE GRAPH Rebased to Randgold $ 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 with shareholders on its structure and implementation.
Annual bonus The remuneration policy provides for stretching Addition of an environmental KPI to further recognise performance targets for the delivery of reward-based, and support the importance of environmental issues variable short term and long term incentive plans for and sustainable mining.
Base pay In 2014, Randgold made some changes to its incentive Effective from 1 January 2015, base salaries of the plans to simplify the plans and further manage risk.
In chief executive officer and the chief financial officer particular, we added malus to the Annual Bonus Plan have been increased by 4% and by 6% respectively.
and three-year clawback provisions to our Restricted These increases reflect general increases among senior management and the company.
The increase Share Scheme and the Co-Investment Plan.
We also highlighted our intention to review the operation of the also recognises that the CEO did not receive an increase in the prior year, and the continuing strong incentive plans and the performance metrics.
Following performance of the CFO.
extensive shareholder consultation by the remuneration committee, the principal points of change to note for our Shareholding policy director remuneration and awards under the incentive Effective from 1 January 2015, the shareholding plans for 2015 are as follows: requirement for the CEO has been increased from 200% to 400% of base salary.
Restricted Share Scheme Performance metrics amended: Recruitment policy total cash cost per ounce to replace EPS growth: While not a formal change to our policy for 2015, we relative TSR to replace absolute TSR: and, have clarified the operation of the recruitment policy retain reserves as a measure based on reserve in line with the statement made to shareholders on replacement.
Reduction of threshold vesting from 40% to 30%.
The remuneration report has been prepared by the The performance ranges remain stretching but we have remuneration committee and was approved by the board made some amendments to the calculation methodology for the year ended 31 December 2014, in accordance to reflect the current focus and economic volatility within with the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the the gold mining industry.
United Kingdoms Financial Conduct Authority.
Co-Investment Plan As a company incorporated in Jersey, voting on the Increased the investment opportunity in the Codirectors remuneration policy and on the directors Investment Plan by 25%, raising the current level of remuneration report will be advisory and the policy match to 250% of base pay for the CEO and 125% for section will become effective from 5 May 2015, being the the CFO based on relative TSR performance: and date of the companys AGM.
The board will give due and Introduced a further one year holding period on careful consideration to shareholder feedback and will the three year time horizon for this plan.
The total operate in line with the approved policy.
We welcome incentive period under this plan now equates to dialogue with our shareholders on the remuneration of four years.
our executive directors and appreciate our shareholders continued support.
The combination of these changes reflects our desire to lengthen the time horizon within the plan for vesting as well as providing for a greater level of incentive for outperformance particularly given the consistent upper quartile TSR performance of Randgold in comparison to Norborne P Cole Jr its international gold mining company peers.
Chairman, remuneration committee Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 169 Jan 05 Jan 06 Jan 07 Jan 08 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 Jan 13 Jan 14 Jan 15 Randgold $ Spot gold Newcrest Goldcorp Barrick Gold Newmont Kinross Gold AngloGold
