Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report Context for executive remuneration at rB On behalf of the Board of Directors, The Committee continues to believe that RBs approach to remuneration is an important factor in our success, supporting a strong performance it gives me great pleasure to culture and delivering significant benefits to all Shareholders.
present to you the Directors 100 invested in RB on 1 January 2000, following the merger of Reckitt & Colman and Benckiser was worth 1,397 on 31 December 2014, compared Remuneration Report for the year to growth in the FTSE 100 to 158 over the same period.
ended 31 December 2014 for which RBs approach to remuneration reflects the global nature of our business.
we will be seeking approval at the Our management team is multinational, is globally mobile and we compete for talent against a peer group of global companies.
Annual General Meeting AGM on Central to our pay philosophy are the principles of: 7 May 2015.
JUdy SPrieSer Chair of the Remuneration Committee Simplicity Shareholder alignment Introduction by Chair of the Pay for performance Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee was pleased that Shareholders We reinforce our philosophy by positioning Executive Director fixed pay approved our Directors Remuneration Policy at the AGM which took place base salary, pension and benefits around median market levels, whilst on 7 May 2014.
There are no proposals to amend the policy at this time providing Executive Directors with incentive opportunities strongly linked and it is intended to continue in force until 2017.
The full Directors to performance to enable pay opportunities that correspond to Company Remuneration Policy is available on the Corporate Governance section of performance in terms of growth, profitability and Shareholder returns.
com, and for ease of reference is summarised on page 49.
This same, highly performance driven approach is cascaded throughout RB, such that our Top400 executives participate in the same annual bonus Following last years AGM we have had discussions with a number of and long term incentive plan structures as the Executive Directors, to our major Shareholders and the Committee is grateful for the feedback ensure we all strive towards the same performance outcomes.
In drafting this Report we have taken feedback from Shareholders into account and enhanced the level of disclosure, RBs remuneration philosophy is underpinned by a share ownership culture particularly in respect of the annual bonus.
embedded throughout the Company, through our significant shareholding requirements.
The CEO is required to hold 600,000 shares and the CFO To assist Shareholders with the understanding of our remuneration 200,000 shares within eight years of appointment, which represent more structure, and its link to performance, we have set out overleaf an at a than 35 x salary and 18 x salary respectively.
The Committee believes that glance summary.
This is followed by the Annual Report on Remuneration this significant shareholding requirement strengthens the alignment on pages 51 to 59 setting out details of how the approved Policy was between executives and Shareholders.
implemented in 2014 and is proposed to be applied in 2015.
These shareholding requirements are also cascaded throughout RB, such I trust that you find this a clear and comprehensive report that illustrates that the aggregate current shareholding for our Top40 executives is in the strong alignment between RBs performance and our Executive excess of 135m.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 47 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report major decisions on, and changes to, Our key long-term measure of performance is earnings per share growth, executive directors remuneration during the year with LTIP vesting requiring significant growth over the performance period There were no significant changes made to the remuneration structure in order to vest.
The three-year performance period has seen significant during the year and all awards were made in line with the Remuneration exchange rate volatility impacting our reported earnings.
Despite Policy approved by Shareholders at the AGM in May 2014. outstanding adjusted net income growth of 14% at constant exchange rates, adverse FX on translation reduced this performance by 10% in 2014 The key decisions taken during the year are summarised below and set and earnings per share growth over the period 2011 2014 measured on out in more detail in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
an actual currency basis was 6.1% per annum.
Base salaries for the Executive Directors were reviewed and increased in Despite the excellent underlying growth in EPS, the Committee determined line with general employee salary increases effective from 1 January 2014. that the Company only met the threshold performance targets and The Committee has also maintained this approach when reviewing 2015 therefore 40% of the award is due to vest in May 2015.
Further details on Executive Director salaries, with increases of 3% granted with effect from the LTIP vesting are set out on page 52.
The rules of our current LTIP are due to expire next year and therefore 2014 was another year of growth and outperformance for RB, which Shareholders will be asked to approve new LTIP rules at the AGM.
created significant value for Shareholders.
In the face of challenging Although the LTIP will continue to be operated in line with the market conditions, the management team delivered top-line growth Remuneration Policy approved by Shareholders at the 2014 AGM, the combined with strong margin expansion, which has resulted in Remuneration Committee has taken the opportunity to review the rules outstanding adjusted net income growth of 14%, at constant rates.
and to strengthen a number of provisions.
In line with our approved Remuneration Policy, RB operates an annual In particular we have added malus and clawback provisions, which in bonus plan that is strongly aligned to performance, measured against certain circumstances give the Committee the ability to reduce awards stretching growth targets set by the Committee at the start of the year prior to vesting or require repayment of awards that have vested.
and the bonuses awarded to Executive Directors reflect these excellent achievements during 2014.
In light of feedback from Shareholders, this Shareholders will also be asked to approve updated rules for our employee year we have enhanced our disclosure of the annual bonus achievement share purchase schemes.
A full summary of the rules is provided in the and full details are set out on page 51.
The performance period for awards made under the LTIP in December In conclusion, I hope that you find this a clear and comprehensive report 2011 ended on 31 December 2014.
The sustained underlying growth that demonstrates the strong alignment between pay and performance at in our key financial metrics has generated substantial value for our RB.
I trust that we can count on your support at the forthcoming AGM for Shareholders, such that 100 invested in RB on 1 January 2012, was the decisions we have taken as a Committee during the year, as set out in worth 184 by 31 December 2014, compared with a return for the the Annual Report on Remuneration.
FTSE 100 of 131 over the same period.
JUdy SPrieSer Chair of the Remuneration Committee This Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The Report meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
In this Report we describe how the principles of good governance relating to Directors remuneration, as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012 the Code, are applied in practice.
The Remuneration Committee confirms that throughout the financial year the Company has complied with these governance rules and best practice provisions.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 48
