Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
Share capital, share premium account and reserves continued 2014 2013 The Company m m Share Authorised Share premium Other Retained capital account reserves earnings 480,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each 2013: 480,000,000 48.0 48.0 m m m m At 1 July 2012 37.0 58.6 7.0 276.1 Issued and fully paid 37.0 37.0 Total comprehensive income 103.1 Number of ordinary shares of 10p each Shares issued As at 1 July 2013 and 30 June 2014 369,799,938 Dividends paid Options granted to Directors and employees under the LTSIP, the CSOP and the SAYE schemes are set out in note 7d.
Share capital, share premium account and reserves Total comprehensive income 3.6 The Group Shares issued Share Share premium Other Retained Dividends paid 7.4 capital account reserves earnings m m m m At 30 June 2014 37.0 58.6 7.0 375.4 At 1 July 2012 37.0 58.7 7.9 457.9 Includes dividends received from subsidiary companies.
Total comprehensive income 52.3 Other reserves Shares issued Other reserves consists of a 7.0m Capital redemption reserve 2013: 7.0m.
Dividends paid Undistributable reserves Other reserves are not available for distribution.
Share-based payment 0.3 Movement in respect of LTSIP SAYE 4.9 19.
Movement in net debt cash The Group At 30 June 2013 37.0 58.7 7.9 505.6 At At 1 July 30 June Total comprehensive income 97.2 2013 Cash flow 2014 m m m Shares issued Cash and cash equivalents 39.0 15.8 54.8 Dividends paid 7.4 Bank overdrafts 35.0 17.4 52.4 Share-based payment Movement in respect of LTSIP SAYE 3.3 Net cash and cash equivalents 4.0 1.6 2.4 Bank loans 95.0 80.0 175.0 At 30 June 2014 37.0 58.7 7.9 592.1 Net debt 91.0 81.6 172.6 Other reserves Other reserves consists of a 7.0m Capital redemption reserve 2013: 7.0m and a 0.9m Consolidation reserve 2013: 0.9m.
The Company Undistributable reserves At At 1 July 30 June Other reserves are not available for distribution.
2013 Cash flow 2014 m m m Cash and cash equivalents 37.1 15.8 52.9 Bank overdrafts Net cash and cash equivalents 37.1 15.8 52.9 Bank loans 95.0 80.0 175.0 Net debt 57.9 64.2 122.1 114 115 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Financial statements Shareholder Information Notes to the financial statements continued Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of 20.
Operating lease commitments Resolution 13 Adoption of Long-Term Incentive Plan 2014 2013 Redrow plc will be held at Village Urban Resort St Davids, The adoption of the Redrow PLC 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan m m St Davids Park, Flintshire CH5 3YB on Monday 10 November the LTIP referred to in the Letter to Shareholders on page 48, Within one year 2.0 1.5 2014 at 12 noon for the following purposes.
All resolutions will summarised in the notes at the end of the Notice of Annual be proposed as ordinary resolutions except numbers 15 and 16 Within two to five years 2.7 2.9 General Meeting and produced in draft to this Meeting and for which will be proposed as special resolutions.
the purposes of identification initialled by the Chairman, be Later than five years 0.2 approved and the directors be authorised to establish further Resolution 1 Annual Report and Accounts plans for the benefit of employees outside the UK based on the 21.
Contingent liabilities To receive and adopt the Directors report and the financial LTIP subject to such modifications as may be necessary or The Company has guaranteed the bank borrowings of its subsidiaries.
Performance bonds, financial guarantees in respect of certain statements for the year ended 30 June 2014, together with the desirable to take account of securities laws, exchange control deferred land creditors and other building or performance guarantees have been entered into in the normal course of business.
and tax legislation provided that any ordinary shares of the 22.
Related party transactions Company made available under such further plans are treated as Resolution 2 Dividend Within the definition of IAS 24 Related party disclosures, the Board and key management personnel are related parties.
Detailed counting against any limits on individual participation or overall To declare a final dividend of 2.0p per ordinary share for the year disclosure of the remuneration of the Board is given in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 59 to 75.
A summary of participation in the main plan.
ended 30 June 2014. remuneration provided to key management personnel is provided in note 7c.
Resolution 14 Authority to allot shares Resolution 3 Re-appointment of Director In addition, related party transactions were carried out with parties related to Steve Morgan during the year totalling 0.7m That the Directors, in place of any existing authority conferred To re-appoint Steve Morgan as a Director.
Company 0.7m, primarily relating to the donation to the Morgan Foundation as described in the Directors Remuneration report upon them for the purpose of Section 549 551 of the Companies Resolution 4 Re-appointment of Director on page 68 and in respect of the Group, in addition relating to services provided by Harrow Estates plc on an arms length basis Act 2006, be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant To re-appoint John Tutte as a Director.
under promotional agreements forming part of the acquisition of the Harrow business.
to and in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all powers of the Company to allot and to make As at 30 June 2014, an amount of nil was due to Harrow Estates plc under normal trading terms.
Resolution 5 Re-appointment of Director offers or agreements to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe To re-appoint Barbara Richmond as a Director.
There have been no other material transactions with key management personnel.
There is no other difference between transactions shares or convert any securities into shares: with key management personnel of the Company and the Group.
Resolution 6 Appointment of Director i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 12,326,665: and To appoint Liz Peace as a Director.
The Company funds the operating companies through both equity investment and loans at commercial rates of interest.
In addition, ii up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 12,326,665 the Company provides its subsidiaries with the services of Senior Management, for which a recharge is made to those subsidiary Resolution 7 Re-appointment of Director in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
companies based upon utilisation of services.
To re-appoint Debbie Hewitt as a Director.
Provided that this authority shall unless previously revoked or The amount outstanding from subsidiary undertakings at 30 June 2014 was 622.0m 2013: 551.5m.
The amount owed to Resolution 8 Re-appointment of Director renewed expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of subsidiary undertakings at 30 June 2014 was 13.6m 2013: 13.7m.
To re-appoint Nick Hewson as a Director.
the Company or 31 December 2015 whichever may be the earlier The Company provided the Groups defined benefit pension scheme, as detailed in note 7e.
Expected service costs were charged but so that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or Resolution 9 Re-appointment of Auditors to the operating businesses at cost.
There is no contractual arrangement or stated policy relating to the charge.
Experience and agreement which would or might require shares to be allotted or To re-appoint  LLP as external Auditors actuarial gains are recognised in the Company, via the statement of comprehensive income.
rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares to be to the Company, to hold office until the end of the next general granted after such expiry and the Directors may allot shares or grant meeting at which financial statements are laid before the The Group did not undertake any transactions with The Waterford Park Company Limited and Menta Redrow joint ventures or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares in pursuance Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Redmira Limited whilst it was a joint venture.
The Groups loans to its joint ventures are disclosed in note 10. of such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
Resolution 10 Directors Remuneration policy For the purposes of this Resolution and Resolution 15, rights To approve the Directors Remuneration policy set out in the issue means an offer to: annual report and accounts.
a ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be Resolution 11 Directors Remuneration report practicable to their existing holdings: and To approve the Directors Remuneration report other than the Remuneration policy for the year ended 30 June 2014. b people who are holders of other equity securities if this is required by the rights of those securities or, if the Directors consider it Resolution 12 Renewal of Sharesave Plan necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities, The Redrow plc Sharesave Plan 2004 the Sharesave Plan referred to in the Letter to shareholders on page 48, summarised to subscribe further securities by means of the issue of a in the notes at the end of the Notice of Annual General Meeting renounceable letter or other negotiable document which and produced in draft to this Meeting and for the purposes may be traded for a period before payment for the securities of identification initialled by the Chairman, be renewed until is due, but subject in both cases to such exclusions or other 2 November 2024 and the directors be authorised to establish arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient further plans for the benefit of employees outside the UK based in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record on the Sharesave Plan subject to such modifications as may dates or legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under be necessary or desirable to take account of securities laws, the laws of, any territory.
exchange control and tax legislation provided that any ordinary shares of the Company made available under such further plans are treated as counting against any limits on individual participation or overall participation in the main plan.
116 117 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes: viii A copy of this notice and other information required by Section 311A of the Resolution 15 Authority to disapply i A Shareholder entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy or proxies to Companies Act 2006 can be found at redrow.
pre-emption rights attend, speak and vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the ix Under Section 338 and Section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, members Company.
A member may appoint more than one proxy, provided that each That, subject to the passing of Resolution 14 as set out above, meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or the Directors be given power pursuant to Resolution 14 to make require the Company: i to give, to members of the Company entitled to shares held by him.
receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be allotments of equity securities as defined in Section 560 1 of the ii A form of proxy is enclosed which, if required, should be completed in moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting: and or ii to include in Companies Act 2006 pursuant to the authority contained in the accordance with the instructions set out therein and returned so as to reach the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a said Resolution 14 and to sell shares which are held in treasury the Companys Registrars not later than 48 hours before the time of the proposed resolution which may be properly included in the business.
A meeting or any adjourned meeting.
Completion of a form of proxy will not resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in wholly for cash pursuant to Section 560 3 of the Companies Act preclude a Shareholder from attending and voting at the meeting in person the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, 2006 as if Section 561 1 of the said Act did not apply to such if they so wish.
be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any allotments or sale provided that this power shall be limited to: iii All Shareholders on the Register at 6.00pm on 6 November 2014 or if the person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy meeting is adjourned 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting and form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to i allotments of equity securities in connection with a rights only those Shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by issue, pursuant to the authority given in Resolution 14 as set General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later respective names at that time.
Changes to entries on the Register after out above: and than 26 September 2014, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be to attend or vote at the meeting.
ii any other allotments for cash or equity securities or sale of accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
shares held in treasury up to a maximum aggregate nominal iv The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are x Copies of the Directors service contracts will be available for inspection at held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to amount of 1,849,000: the registered office during normal business hours on any business day and receive communications from the Company in accordance with Section 146 at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes before of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may the meeting is held until its conclusion.
and shall unless previously revoked or renewed expire on the have a right under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on date which is the earlier of the next Annual General Meeting of their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
xi The register of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not will be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 11.45am the Company or 31 December 2015 save that the said power wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to on 10 November 2014 until the conclusion of the meeting.
None of the shall permit the Company to make an offer or enter into an give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of Directors has a service contract which cannot be terminated within one agreement before the expiry of such power which would or voting rights.
year without payment of compensation.
might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate xii CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting and any provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
adjournment of the meeting by following the procedures described in the such offer or agreement as if such power conferred had not CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored expired.
For the purposes of this Resolution, the nominal v Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at general members and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service meetings of the Company.
The total number of issued ordinary shares in provider should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who amount of any securities shall be taken to be, in the case the Company on 1 September 2014 is 369,799,938, carrying one vote each will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
of rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into shares on a poll.
Therefore, the total number of votes exercisable as at 1 September 2014 is 369,799,938. xiii In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of CREST to of the Company, the nominal amount of such shares which be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must may be allotted pursuant to such rights.
vi Shareholders should note that, under Section 527 of the Companies Act be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications and 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in Resolution 16 Calling of a general meeting other have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement the CREST Manual available via www.
The message setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an than an Annual General Meeting including the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, That a general meeting other than the Annual General Meeting be laid before the Annual General Meeting for the financial year beginning in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent 1 July 2013: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
ID 3RA50 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified Company appointed for the financial year beginning 1 July 2013 ceasing to in note ii above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the 1 September 2014 By order of the Board were laid.
The Company may not require the Shareholders requesting any CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve Registered office: Graham Cope such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After or 528 requirements as to website availability of the Companies Act 2006.
Redrow House this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST Company Secretary Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under should be communicated to him by other means.
St. Davids Park Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement Flintshire to the Companys Auditors not later than the time when it makes the xiv CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special CH5 3RX at the Annual General Meeting for the relevant financial year includes any procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Registered in England Number 2877315 Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored Members may not use any electronic address provided in either this notice member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his of meeting or any related documents including the enclosed form of proxy CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as shall be to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST expressly stated.
system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are vii Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting xv The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or Securities Regulations 2001. c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
xvi If you have any questions about the meeting or need any special assistance at the meeting, please contact the Company Secretary at the registered office or telephone 01244 520044 during normal business hours.
118 119 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Explanatory notes to Annual General Meeting resolutions: 1.3 Performance Conditions At any time before the point at which the vested Shares comprised in an 2.2 Savings contract Resolutions 1 to 14 are proposed as ordinary resolutions.
This means that for Unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, Awards Award have been issued or transferred to the participant, the Remuneration Eligible employees who wish to participate enter into a savings contract for each of those resolutions to be passed, more than half of the votes cast must will be subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition which will Committee may decide to pay a participant a cash amount equal to the three or five years.
Under this, they agree to save a monthly amount from be in favour of the resolution.
Resolutions 15 and 16 are proposed as special determine the proportion if any of the Award which will vest at the end value of the Shares he would otherwise have received.
salary for the term of the contract.
This is limited to 500 per month or resolutions.
This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, at of a performance period of at least three years unless the Board determines such other sum as may be allowed by legislation.
Any Shares or cash that are to be issued, transferred or paid as appropriate least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Awards to the Companys executive directors will always be to a participant in respect of an Award will be issued, transferred or paid as 2.3 Grant of options subject to performance conditions.
Resolution 2 Dividend appropriate as soon as practicable after such obligation arises.
At the start of the contract, participants are granted an option which can Subject to approval at the meeting, the dividend will be paid on 14 November 2014 Any performance condition may be amended or substituted if one or more only be exercised using the proceeds of the savings contract.
The number of 1.10 Leaving employment to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 26 September 2014. events occur which cause the Remuneration Committee to consider that an shares subject to the option is the number which can be bought, at the If a participant dies, an Award will vest if unvested and be released to the amended or substituted performance condition would be more appropriate.
exercise price, with the expected proceeds of the savings contract, including Resolutions 38 Re-appointment of Directors participant as soon as reasonably practicable after the participants death.
Any amended or substituted performance condition would not be materially any interest or bonus.
As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors retire and offer The unvested Award will vest to the extent that the Remuneration Committee less difficult to satisfy.
Following changes to the Listing Rules which took effect determines, taking into account the satisfaction of any performance condition The exercise price of the option is set by the directors but must not be less in May 2014, Resolutions 6, 7 and 8 must be approved both by a simple majority of 1.4 Holding Period and, if the Remuneration Committee so determines, the period of time that has than 80% of the market value of a share on the date of grant.
all Shareholders, and by a simple majority of the independent Shareholders that is If the Remuneration Committee determines that a holding period will elapsed since the start of the performance period until the date of death as a 2.4 Exercise of options all Shareholders other than Steve Morgan and his concert parties.
apply to an Award, the shares comprised in the vested Award will not proportion of the performance period unless the Remuneration Committee Options are normally exercisable within 6 months after the maturity of the be transferred to the participant or, in the case of a Nil-Cost Option, be determines otherwise.
A participants personal representatives will normally have Liz Peace, CBE will join the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 savings contract.
exercisable before the expiry of an additional period, as determined by 12 months from the participants death to exercise any vested Nil-Cost Options.
Liz Peace is shortly to retire after twelve years as the Chief the Remuneration Committee, of not less than one year following the end 2.5 Leaving employment Executive of the British Property Federation.
Prior to this she had a long and varied If a participant ceases to be an officer or employee of the Group by reason of the performance period.
Options normally lapse if the participant leaves before exercise but an career in the Ministry of Defence, including twelve years until 2002 as company of ill-health, injury, disability, retirement, redundancy or the sale of the option can be exercised for six months after leaving for reasons such as ill secretary and director of corporate affairs at QinetiQ Group plc formerly the 1.5 Individual limits business or entity that employs him out of the Group, a participants Award health, retirement, death or redundancy.
Options can only be exercised Defence Evaluation and Research Agency.
Liz is also a Non-Executive Director of LTIP Awards will be granted to a participant in respect of any financial year will usually continue, unless the Remuneration Committee determines that using the proceeds of the savings contract to the date of exercise.
Morgan Sindall Group plc and Turley Associates.
She is also a member of the of the Company over Shares with a market value of up to a maximum of the Award will vest and or be released as soon as reasonably practicable Peabody Trust and a trustee of the property charity Land Aid.
However, the Company may make awards over Shares following the date on which the participant ceases to be an officer or 2.6 Takeovers, mergers and other reorganisations with a market value in excess of this limit for the purposes of recruitment.
Options can generally be exercised early on a takeover, scheme of For full biographies of all other Directors and further details in relation to their the case of executive directors, any such recruitment award would only be arrangement, merger or other reorganisation, using only the proceeds of the re-appointment, please see pages 50 and 51.
The Remuneration Committee will decide the extent to which an unvested made pursuant to the remuneration policy approved by shareholders.
savings contract to the date of exercise.
Alternatively, participants may be Award vests in these circumstances, taking account of the extent to which Resolution 9 Re-appointment of Auditors allowed or required to exchange their options for options over shares in the 1.6 Grant of Awards any performance condition is satisfied at the end of any performance period The Company is required to appoint Auditors at every general meeting at which acquiring company.
Awards may only be granted within the six week period following the or, as appropriate, at the date on which the participant ceases to be an the accounts are presented to Shareholders.
approval of the LTIP by the Companys shareholders, the announcement officer or employee of the Group.
Unless the Remuneration Committee in 3 General terms applicable to both plans of the Companys results for any period, any day on which a restriction its discretion determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed  LLP were appointed at last years Annual General Meeting 3.1 Plan limits on the grant of Awards is lifted, or on any day on which the Remuneration since the start of the performance period until the date on which the and are willing to seek re-appointment this year.
It is normal practice for a Companys In any ten year period, the number of Shares which may be issued under the Committee determines that exceptional circumstances exist.
participant ceases to be an officer or employee of the Group will also be Directors to be authorised to agree the Auditors fees.
If this resolution is passed, the LTIP and under any other discretionary share plan adopted by the Company taken into account.
Vested Nil-Cost Options will be exercisable for a Audit Committee will approve the fees for recommendation to the Board.
may not exceed five per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the 1.7 Dividends period of six months.
Company from time to time: and The Remuneration Committee may determine that the number of Shares Resolutions 10 and 11 Directors remuneration to which a participants Award relates will increase to take account of If a participant ceases to be an officer or employee of the Group on or after These resolutions deal with the remuneration of the directors and seek approval In any ten year period, the number of Shares which may be issued under the dividends paid on vested Shares on such terms and other such period the Vesting Date or any reason except summary dismissal this Award will of the directors remuneration policy and of the remuneration paid to the LTIP, the Sharesave Plan and under any other employees share plan adopted as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration continue, unless the Board determines that it should be released as soon as directors during the year under review respectively.
by the Company may not exceed ten per cent of the issued ordinary share Committee may determine that the participant will receive the cash practical after cessation, to the extent vested.
capital of the Company from time to time.
equivalent of the additional Shares.
Changes to the Companies Act 2006, which took effect in October 2013, require 1.11 Takeovers, mergers and other re-organisations the Company to ask shareholders to approve the remuneration policy section of For the purposes of these limits, treasury Shares will be treated as newly 1.8 Clawback In the event of a change of control of the Company, Awards will vest the Directors Remuneration report.
This is set out on pages 62 to 68 of the issued for the purpose of these limits until such time as guidelines published The Remuneration Committee may, in its absolute discretion, determine at and or be released at that time, taking into account the extent that any annual report and accounts.
New Resolution 13 is a binding vote.
If approved by by institutional investor representative bodies determine otherwise.
any time prior to the fifth anniversary of the vesting date to: performance condition has been satisfied, and, unless the Remuneration shareholders, the directors remuneration policy will take effect immediately after Committee determines otherwise, the period of time which has elapsed 3.2 Changes to the Plans the end of the Annual General Meeting and will apply until replaced by a new or reduce the number of Shares to which the Award relates: between the start of the performance period and the relevant event The directors can amend the Plans in any way.
However, subject to the amended policy.
as a proportion of the performance period.
Nil-Cost Options will then following, shareholder approval will be required to amend certain provisions cancel the Award: be exercisable for a period of one month.
The Company is also required to ask shareholders to approve the remainder of the to the advantage of participants.
These provisions relate to: eligibility: remuneration report that is, excluding the directors remuneration policy.
This is impose further conditions on the Award: or individual and plan limits: exercise price: rights attaching to options and Alternatively, the Remuneration Committee may permit participants to set out on pages 68 to 75 of the annual report and accounts.
Resolution 11 is an shares: adjustments on variation in the Companys share capital: and the exchange Awards for equivalent awards which relate to shares in a different require the participant to make a cash payment, or to transfer a number advisory vote.
The directors can, without shareholder approval: change company.
If the change of control is an internal reorganisation of the Group of Shares for nil-consideration to the Company in respect of the Award, the Plans to obtain or maintain favourable tax treatment: make certain or if the Remuneration Committee so decides, participants will be required Resolutions 12 and 13 Sharesave and LTIP to the extent that vested Shares have been issued or transferred to the minor amendments e. g. to benefit the administration of the Plans: establish to exchange their Awards rather than Awards vesting.
The key terms of the Redrow PLC 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP are participant in respect of such Award, further plans based on the Plans, but modified to take account of overseas summarised in Section 1 below and those of the Redrow plc Sharesave Plan 2004 securities laws, exchange controls or tax legislation but shares made If other corporate events occur such as a winding-up of the Company, in the event of: the Plan, amended as proposed are summarised in Section 2.
Some common available under such further plans will be treated as counting against any demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event which, in the opinion of terms which apply to both plans the Plans are summarised in Section 3. limits on participation in the main plan.
a material misstatement of the Companys audited financial results: and the Remuneration Committee, may affect the current or future value of Shares, the Remuneration Committee may determine that Awards will vest 1 The LTIP 3.3 General the participants misconduct.
and or be released, taking into account the satisfaction of any relevant 1.1 Eligibility Awards and options may be satisfied using newly issued Shares, treasury performance condition and, unless the Remuneration Committee Any employee including an executive director of the Company or any of its 1.9 Vesting and release Shares or Shares purchased in the market.
determines otherwise, the period from the grant date to the date of the subsidiaries will be eligible to participate in the LTIP at the discretion of the Awards that are subject to a performance condition will normally vest as relevant event.
The Remuneration Committee will determine in these Remuneration Committee.
Specific terms of the initial Awards are set out in Any shares issued pursuant to awards or options will rank equally with soon as practicable after the end of any performance period or on such circumstances the length of time during which Awards structured as the Companys Directors Remuneration report, on pages 69 and 70 of the shares of the same class in issue on the date of allotment except in respect later date as the Remuneration Committee determines and then only to the Nil-Cost Options can then be exercised.
of rights arising by reference to a prior record date.
extent that any performance condition has been satisfied.
Where Awards are granted without a performance condition, they will usually vest on the 2 The Sharesave Plan 1.2 Form of awards The option price and or number of shares subject to options or awards may third anniversary of the grant date or on such other date as the The Sharesave Plan is an all-employee savings-related share option scheme Awards under the LTIP may be in the form of: be adjusted following a rights issue or other variation in the share capital of Remuneration Committee determines.
intended to qualify for favourable UK tax treatment.
the Company and, in the case of the LTIP, following a demerger, delisting, a conditional right to acquire ordinary Shares in the Company Shares special dividend or other event.
To the extent that Awards are not subject to a further holding period, vested 2.1 Invitations at no cost to the participant Conditional Award : Shares will be released as soon as practicable after vesting.
Vested Shares When the Sharesave Plan is operated, substantially all UK employees of The vesting and exercise of awards and options and the issue or transfer of that are comprised in an Award which is subject to a further holding period an option to acquire Shares at no cost to the participant Nil-Cost each participating subsidiary must be invited to participate subject to any Shares are subject to obtaining any necessary approvals or consents from will be released as soon as practicable after the end of the holding period.
Option : or qualifying period of service on broadly the same terms.
Other employees the United Kingdom Listing Authority, the Companys share dealing policy In either case, Nil-Cost Options will become exercisable until the tenth can also be invited.
and any other applicable laws or regulations.
a right to receive a cash amount which relates to the value of a certain anniversary of the grant date number of notional Shares Cash Awards, which may be Cash Options Any invitations will normally be made within 42 days of the announcement Options are not pensionable or transferable.
The release of vested shares and the exercise of a Nil-Cost Option are or Cash Conditional Awards.
of results for any period or the annual general meeting.
No options can be subject to obtaining any necessary approvals or consents from the United granted after 2 November 2024. and Conditional Awards, Nil-Cost Options and Cash Awards are together Kingdom Listing Authority, the Companys share dealing policy and any referred to as Awards and each an Award.
other applicable laws or regulations.
References in this summary to Shares include notional Shares to which a Cash Award relates, where appropriate.
120 121 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Shareholder Information Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Corporate and shareholder information Resolution 14 Authority to allot shares The Board considers the authority in Resolution 15 to be appropriate in order to Shareholder discounts Group contacts Shareholders are being invited to renew the authority given to Directors in allow the Company flexibility to finance business opportunities or to conduct a The Company offers a discount of 1% to Shareholders off the Officers and advisers previous years to allot new shares.
If passed, Resolution 14 would renew this pre-emptive offer or rights issue without the need to comply with the strict authority by authorising the Directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal requirements of the statutory pre-emption provisions.
purchase price of a new Redrow home.
In order to qualify for the Company Secretary amount of 12,326,665 which is equivalent to approximately 33% of the total discount a purchaser must hold a minimum of 2,500 ordinary The authority will expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, exclusive of treasury shares, as at Graham Cope next Annual General Meeting or 31 December 2015. shares in Redrow plc for a minimum of 12 months prior to the 1 September 2014 and a further 12,326,665 only in respect of a rights issue which is equivalent to approximately 33% of the total issued ordinary share date of reservation, subject to a cap of 5,000.
Resolution 16 Calling of a general meeting other than an Registered Office capital of the Company, exclusive of treasury shares as at 1 September 2014.
Annual General Meeting Redrow House This is in line with corporate governance guidelines.
The authority will expire Details of our current developments are available on our website: Under the Companies Act 2006 the notice period required for general meetings on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, St. Davids Park of the Company is 21 days unless Shareholders approve a shorter notice period, www.
co. uk 31 December 2015. which cannot, however, be less than 14 clear days.
Annual General Meetings Flintshire of the Company will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
The Company does not, as of 1 September 2014 hold any shares in treasury.
The approval will be effective until the Registered Number 2877315 The Directors will exercise the authority to allot only when satisfied that it Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar is in the interests of the Company to do so.
They have no present intention resolution will be prepared.
of exercising the authority, except in connection with the issue of shares Registrars under the Companys share option schemes.
Documents available for your inspection Computershare Investor Services PLC Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection during normal There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot new shares The Pavilions business hours on Monday to Friday each week public holiday excepted at the other than in connection with employee share and incentive plans.
The Directors Bridgwater Road Companys registered office and at the office of Linklaters LLP at One Silk Street, consider it desirable to have the maximum flexibility permitted by corporate London EC2Y 8HQ from the date of this document up to and including the date of Bristol governance guidelines to respond to market developments and to enable the Annual General Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting from allotments to take place to finance business opportunities as they arise.
BS99 6ZZ 11.45am until the close of the meeting: Resolution 15 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights the Articles of Association and Memorandum of the Company: Stockbrokers The Directors may only allot shares for cash to persons who are not already Shareholders in the Company if authorised to do so by the Shareholders in a Barclays the service agreements and letters of appointment of the Directors: and general meeting.
This resolution renews authority for the Directors to allot shares 5 The North Colonnade for cash without first offering them to existing members up to an aggregate the Sharesave Plan and the LTIP.
This sum represents 1,849,000 ordinary shares Canary Wharf of 10p each, being equivalent to approximately 5% of the Companys current London E14 4BB issued share capital.
The resolution also enables the Directors to modify the strict requirements for a rights issue in circumstances where they consider it necessary Peel Hunt or expedient.
Moor House In addition, if the Company has purchased its own shares and holds them in 120 London Wall treasury, this resolution would give the Directors power to sell these shares for London EC2Y 5ET cash to persons other than existing Shareholders, subject to the same limit that would apply to issues of shares for cash to these persons.
Independent Auditors  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 101 Barbirolli Square Lower Mosley Street Manchester M2 3PW Solicitors Linklaters LLP One Silk Street London EC2Y 8HQ 122 123 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Shareholder Information Five year summary 12 months ended 30 June 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 m m m m m Revenue 396.9 452.7 478.9 604.8 864.5 Operating profit loss before exceptional items and financing costs 12.7 31.2 48.0 73.2 137.5 Operating profit loss before exceptional items and financing costs as a percentage of turnover 3.2% 6.9% 10.0% 12.1% 15.9% Profit before tax 0.7 25.3 43.0 69.4 132.6 Net assets 435.9 458.6 561.5 609.2 695.7 Net debt 47.1 75.4 14.0 91.0 172.6 Gearing net debt as a percentage of capital and reserves 10.8% 16.4% 2.5% 14.9% 24.8% Return on capital employed operating profit before exceptional items adjusted for joint ventures as a percentage of opening and closing capital employed 2.6% 6.1% 8.7% 12.2% 18.0% Return on equity 0.2% 5.7% 8.4% 12.3% 20.5% Number of legal completions 2,587 2,626 2,458 2,827 3,597 Earnings per ordinary share 0.2p 4.4p 9.7p 14.6p 28.3p Dividends paid per ordinary share 2.0p Net assets per ordinary share 141.3p 148.6p 151.8p 165.0p 188.1p Restated to reflect the application of IAS 19R Employee Benefits.
124 Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014
