74 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report 4UBUFNFOU GSPN UIF DIBJS PG UIF 3FNVOFSBUJPO DPNNJUUFF 3FNVOFSBUJPO DPNNJUUFF SPMF BOE DPNQPTJUJPO The Remuneration committee is responsible for deciding the Companys framework of executive director remuneration and setting remuneration packages for each of the executive directors.
The committees policy is to motivate and retain executive directors by rewarding them with competitive salary and benefit packages and incentives.
These are linked to the overall performance of the Group and, in turn, to the interests of the shareholders.
David Grant The committee reviews annually the executive directors remuneration in the Senior independent director context of the Companys performance during the year.
Chair of the Remuneration committee All the members of the committee are non-executive directors, comprising David Grant Chair, Carol Chesney and John Jeans.
The terms of reference of the committee are published on the Companys website.
No executive director attends meetings of the committee.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased The rest of the Directors remuneration Renishaw executive directors do not to present the Directors remuneration report, excluding the remuneration policy participate in a long-term incentive plan report for 2014. will be presented to the AGM for an LTIP.
The Remuneration committee advisory vote.
recognises that this is unusual The report complies with the new compared to many other companies, requirements for reporting on directors The Remuneration committees and annually we therefore question pay introduced in October 2013 and is approach continues to be to align whether Renishaws performance would split into the following three sections: executive director remuneration with be enhanced through the introduction of theGroups performance, using clear 1. a statement from the Chair of the such a scheme.
There is no evidence, and simple remuneration structures.
Remuneration committee: however, that the excellent performance During the year, the committee approved in the past has been diminished in any 2. a policy report, setting out the executive directors base salaries for way by the lack of a scheme.
However, directors remuneration policy of the 2014 and the executive director bonus the Remuneration committee will Company: and for 2013 in line with the programme set continue to question and explore the 3. an annual report on remuneration, for that year and considered and set potential value of LTIPs and next year the executive director annual bonus we will investigate whether a longer setting out information on directors remuneration paid during the year.
In relation to the term plan could be introduced and if so, 2014 annual bonus, we reviewed the the form of such plan, which would be The remuneration policy set out in bonus targets and moved from a target subject to shareholder approval.
this Directors remuneration report based on earnings per share used in will be presented for consideration previous years, to a more transparent by a binding vote at the AGM to be profit before tax target, but continuing David Grant held on 16th October 2014 and, if with the same structure.
Chair, Remuneration committee approved, unless there is a material change in circumstances requiring an In relation to setting remuneration for the next financial year, the amended policy to be presented to the shareholders see further comments committee has taken into account the economic environment and employee below, we expect this policy to apply for three years with effect from the AGM.
remuneration conditions within the UK and the overseas markets in which we operate, together with employee retention and recruitment reviews.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 75 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 3FNVOFSBUJPO QPMJDZ This section of the Directors remuneration report sets out the directors remuneration policy of the Company.
It is the first policy to be presented to the shareholders for approval.
&YFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST QPMJDZ UBCMF Set out below is a table describing each component of the remuneration package applicable to the executive directors.
&MFNFOU PG 1VSQPTF BOE 1FSGPSNBODF SFNVOFSBUJPO SFMFWBODF UP TUSBUFHZ 0QFSBUJPO.
BYJNVN NFBTVSFT To provide a Renishaw aims to pay the 110% of median To reect the #BTF TBMBSZ competitive xed base rate salary at least at salaries in a comparator directors role, salary to motivate the current median market group as decided performance and retain executive rate or above, as compared by the committee.
directors of the required to the equivalent job position Renishaw hashistorically quality to meet the level in the relevant industrial paid base salaries that Groups objectives.
sector s applicable to are higher than median, Renishaw, as dened in the reecting the lack of an appropriate benchmarking LTIP see Statement on pay surveys, statistics and page 74. peer comparisons such peer The committee retains selection to include factors the discretion to make such as size and location.
adjustments at the Base salary is reviewed annual review to take annually taking into account the into account matters award for the UK workforce.
affecting an individual director such as changes in responsibility and anomalies discovered during benchmarking.
#FnefiUT To provide marketBenets provided on an Excluding Not applicable.
competitive benets ongoing basis include the accommodation and to motivate and retain following principal benets: relocation costs, not to executive directors of exceed 50k p a. t a car or car allowance: the required quality to meet the Groups t private medical insurance: objectives and to t life assurance: support them to give maximum attention to t long-term disability cover: their role.
If, on the recruitment of a new executive director, relocation is required to the directors place of work, relocation support which is regarded by the committee to be necessary to provide appropriate support to the director will be provided to cover items such as transaction and legal fees, removals and temporary accommodation and subsistence costs.
76 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report continued 3FNVOFSBUJPO QPMJDZ DPOUJOVFE &YFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST QPMJDZ UBCMF DPOUJOVFE &MFNFOU PG 1VSQPTF BOE 1FSGPSNBODF SFNVOFSBUJPO SFMFWBODF UP TUSBUFHZ 0QFSBUJPO.
BYJNVN NFBTVSFT To incentivise and The committee sets group 100% of salary.
Based on group #POVT reward execution of performance targets, including performance, theGroups objectives.
a baseline below which no primarily financial, bonus is earned, with a bonus but the committee payable from that point, may introduce nonincreasing on a straight-line financial metrics or basis to a target at which 75% make adjustments of salary would be earned and to reect appropriate a cap at which a maximum performance or 100% of salary would competitive factors, be earned.
provided that the bonus will always Part or all of any bonus be subject to paid may be subject to achievement of the repayment in the case of baseline financial any financial misstatement, targets and such errors in calculation or non-financial metrics gross misconduct.
shall not form more than 25% of the bonus opportunity.
To provide a Each of Allen Roberts, Ben The maximum Not applicable.
1FOTJPO competitive pension as Taylor and Geoff McFarland contribution to the dened appropriate to motivate receive an additional payment contribution scheme, and retain executive of 15% of base salary, being the or, where applicable, directors of the required amount that would otherwise additional salary payment quality to meet the be contributed to a pension in lieu of contributions will Groups objectives.
For any new executive director, annual contributions based on a percentage of base salary will be made to the Companys dened contribution scheme or additional salary may be paid in lieu, as agreed by the committee.
Geoff McFarland is a deferred member of the Companys dened benefit scheme which closed for future accruals on 5th April 2007.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 77 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 PO FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST QPMJDZ UBCMF The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the executive directors and consists of a fee only.
There is no entitlement to any benets, bonus, incentive plans or pension.
Set out below is a table showing the fees for the non-executive directors of the Company: &MFNFOU PG 1VSQPTF BOE 1FSGPSNBODF SFNVOFSBUJPO SFMFWBODF UP TUSBUFHZ 0QFSBUJPO.
BYJNVN NFBTVSFT To provide a The non-executive directors are The maximum fees Not applicable.
'FF competitive fee to paid the same fee, irrespective payable will be set by the motivate and retain of membership of or acting as a Companys Articles of non-executive directors Chair of a committee.
Association, currently an of the required aggregate of 300,000 The fees are reviewed annually quality to meet the per annum.
with reference to fees payable Groups objectives.
to non-executive directors of companies of a similar size and complexity.
Reasonable expenses incurred in undertaking duties as a director are reimbursed.
"The non-executive directors are ""QQSPBDI UP SFDSVJUNFOU 4FSWJDF DPOUSBDUT BOE QPMJDZ appointed for an initial three-year SFNVOFSBUJPO PO QBZNFOU GPS MPTT PG PGfice period subject to annual performance review and re-election at AGMs, unless When agreeing the components The executive directors service terminated earlier by either party on of remuneration package for the contracts require 12 months notice of one months written notice."
Each of the appointment of new executive termination by either party.
There are current non-executive directors have directors, the committee will consider noobligations in any executive directors been appointed within the last three the remuneration package of the service contract or non-executive years.
Appointments will not normally existing executive directors to ensure directors letter of appointment which continue beyond nine years in ofce.
would require the Company to pay aspecic amount of compensation For an external hire, base salary will be forloss of ofce.
set in line with the factors set out in the policy table, taking into account the The executive directors service individuals experience and the amount contracts reect the Companys policy required to attract the individual to join regarding notice periods.
Also to be considered will be made for a termination by the are global factors, such as the location Company for a breach by the executive where the individual will be based, or director of his or her service contract.
where he or she was previously located.
In other cases, payment in lieu of notice The committee may also consider will be considered up to the 12 months paying compensation for the forfeit of notice period to cover base salary, any award under variable remuneration benets and pension contributions.
If additional compensation is required Relocation will be subject to the to be considered, such as on a principles set out in the policy table.
settlement or compromise agreement, When an internal appointment is made, the committee will consider all relevant any pre-existing obligations may be commercial factors affecting the honoured and payment will be permitted specic case.
78 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report continued 3FNVOFSBUJPO QPMJDZ DPOUJOVFE MMVTUSBUJPOT PG BQQMJDBUJPO PG SFNVOFSBUJPO QPMJDZ The following bar charts for each executive director set out: rstly, the minimum remuneration payable in respect of salary, benets and pension: secondly, the remuneration payable if performance is in line with the Companys expectations: and thirdly, the remuneration payable if the maximum bonus is payable for the financial year ending 30th June 2015.
Benets are notsubject tospecied minima or maxima.
Minimum remuneration Bonus for target profit before tax Additional maximum bonus The Company did not consult with 4UBUFNFOU PG DPOTJEFSBUJPO employees when the remuneration PG FNQMPZNFOU DPOEJUJPOT policy was drawn up.
FMTFXIFSF JO UIF SPVQ In setting the policy, the committee did not undertake extensive remuneration The committee takes into account the comparison measurements but did pay and employment conditions of review the remuneration policies of other the Group in the country in which the companies whose remuneration reports executive director resides and is satisfied had already been published under the that the approach taken is fair and revised regulations.
reasonable based on market conditions and practice and the best interests of 4UBUFNFOU PG DPOTJEFSBUJPO the shareholders.
When considering ofsharFIPMEFS WJFXT the annual salary review, the average base salary increase awarded to the The committee has noted comments employees in the relevant country provided by external shareholders when provides a guide when determining drawing up the remuneration policy.
the salaries of the executive directors At the AGM in 2013, the advisory vote located in that country.
on the Directors remuneration report received proxy votes of 99.61% in favour.
2 C T Chesney was appointed a director on 19th October 2012, D J Jeans was appointed a director on 11th April 2013 and W H Whiteley retired as a director on 17th October 2013.
Benefits Private medical cover applies to all executive directors and home telephone costs, Car insurance on personal cars, M4bridge toll fees, allowance US tax return advice is provided to certain directors 000 000 Sir David McMurtry n a 2 D J Deer 17 2 B R Taylor 17 2 A C G Roberts 17 2 G McFarland 17 1 #POVT 5PUBM QFOTJPO FOUJUMFNFOUT For the year in question, the bonus G McFarland is a member of the The value of G McFarlands dened was determined by group performance Companys closed dened benefit contribution scheme at 30th June 2014 targets for the year, based on an scheme.
At 30th June 2014, the value of was 383,772. adjusted profit before tax set at levels the dened benefit pension entitlement 1BZNFOUT UP QBTU EJSFDUPST above the previous years profit before was 28,308 per annum.
The normal tax and with a threshold below which no retirement age for G McFarland is 65.
No payments were made to past bonus is earned.
A target profit before On death, pension benets would pass directors during the year.
tax set for the year in question enabled to dependants.
75% of salary to be earned as a bonus.
Current year pension schemePTT PG PGfice payments A further bonus could be earned based contributions payable by the Company on performance subject to a maximum have been taken as cash, except for There was no termination of employment 100% of salary.
No other performance part of G McFarlands entitlement, which of directors during the year.
was paid into the Companys dened contribution scheme.
"80 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report continued ""OOVBM SFNVOFSBUJPO SFQPSU DPOUJOVFE 1FSGPSNBODF HSBQI BOE UBCMF $IJFG &YFDVUJWF UPUBM SFNVOFSBUJPO The graph below shows the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance, compared with the FTSE mid 250 index, which the directors believe is The table below sets out information the most appropriate broad index for comparison."
relating to Sir David McMurtry who was the Chief Executive for each of the years The share price and the FTSE mid 250 index have been rebased to 100 at 1st in question: July 2009.
Long-term incentive Single gure of Annual bonus vesting rates 800 total payout against against 700 remuneration maximum maximum Renishaw FTSE mid 250 Year 000 opportunity % opportunity % 600 2014 632 0% n a 500 2013 663 10% n a 400 2012 969 69% n a 300 2011 1,066 100% n a 200 2010 472 0% n a 100 0 1FSDFOUBHF DIBOHF JO 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 SFNVOFSBUJPO PG UIF $IJFG &YFDVUJWF &YFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST TFSWJOH 4UBUFNFOU PG EJSFDUPST The following table sets out a BT OPO FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST TIBSFIPMEJOH BOE TIBSF comparison of the percentage change ofother companies JOUFSFTUT in the Chief Executives remuneration to the average percentage change in G McFarland served as a non-executive None of the directors is required to own remuneration for all UK employees from director of Delcam plc until 7th February shares in the Company.
Neither the Company nor the directors who have served during Percentage GMcFarland received any remuneration the year in shares including connected Percentage Percentage change in or fees in respect of such directorship.
persons are: change change in annual in salary benets bonus Number of Chief ordinary shares of 20p each Executive 5% 0% -100% Sir David McMurtry 26,377,291 UK D J Deer 12,233,040 employees B R Taylor 10,147 average 4% 4% -21% A G Roberts 5,165 UK employees have been chosen as a G McFarland 2,000 comparator group in order to avoid the C T Chesney 500 impact of exchange rate movements D Grant - over the year.
UK employees make D J Jeans - up 66% of the total number of W H Whiteley 6,765 group employees.
There were no share-based payments made or share schemes in place during the year.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 81 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 No other person materially assisted 3FMBUJWF JNQPSUBODF PG $POTJEFSBUJPO CZ EJSFDUPST PG the committee in their consideration of spendon pay NBUUFST SFMBUJOH UP EJSFDUPST these matters.
SFNVOFSBUJPO The following table sets out the total In relation to the consideration of the amount spent in the current financial drafting of the directors remuneration During the year, the Remuneration year and the previous year on policy and the annual remuneration committee considered the amount remuneration to all group employees report, the committee, comprising the of the executive directors salary and and on dividends to shareholders: members set out above, were materially the framework for the annual bonus.
assisted by the Company Secretary.
The members of the Remuneration 2013 change 000 b % committee for such purpose were: Employee D Grant Chair remuneration 137,253 7% C T Chesney Shareholder D J Jeans dividends paid 28,773 1% 4UBUFNFOU PG WPUJOH BU HFOFSBM NFFUJOH Except as shown above, no other distributions have been made to At the annual general meeting held on 17th October 2013, votes cast by proxy in shareholders or other payments or respect of the directors remuneration were as follows: uses of profit or cash ow which impact on the understanding of the relative Votes % Total Votes Resolution Votes for % for against against votes cast withheld importance of spend on pay.
Approval of 4UBUFNFOU PG JNQMFNFOUBUJPO remuneration report 62,032,614 99.6% 246,091 0.4% 62,278,705 14,586 PG SFNVOFSBUJPO QPMJDZ JO UIF OFYU ZFBS including Chairmans discretion The executive directors salaries will be There was no vote on the remuneration The report was approved by the Board increased by 2.93% in 2015 which is in policy as this year is the first year in of directors and has been signed on line with the UK workforce salary review.
which such a vote is required.
itsbehalf by: The bonus scheme targets have been The Company deems that a significant set based on the policy as set out in the percentage of votes against as being policy table.
David Grant more than 20%, as a result of which the Chair of the Remuneration committee Company would provide in this report 23rd July 2014 any reasons known to it for such a vote and any actions taken.
