STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 65 REMUNERATION REPORT  Dear shareholders medical reasons as stated on page 50.
For the majority of his absence he continued to work remotely.
Accordingly, the Committee has agreed I am pleased to present my first directors a reduction of 15% to his annual incentive payment.
remuneration report on behalf of the board LOOKING FORWARD TO 2015 for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Following the sale of the Healthcare business and the alignment of Shareholders will be aware that the Company has announced a the business as a global beverage can maker, the Committee has recommended offer from Ball Corporation.
As is common in connection .
with such an offer, Ball has agreed to put in place certain remuneration In addition, in determining an appropriate remuneration package, the arrangements for key employees in Rexam, including the executive Committee considers each individuals experience and contribution in directors.
These arrangements are conditional upon, and would come order to align reward with the future achievement of the business strategy.
into effect immediately following, a change of control.
These are separate For 2015 the Committee has agreed that the chief executives arrangements and do not form part of the Companys own remuneration .
arrangements for its executive directors.
Further details can be found The Committee has also agreed to increase both the chief executives in Balls announcement dated 19 February 2015.  The report is presented in two sections: with market practice to broadly two times base salary, effective from 1January2015.
 The directors remuneration policy which was approved by  shareholders and became effective at the conclusion of the their increased minimum shareholding requirements.
annual general meeting AGM on 2 May 2014.
We expect that in March 2015 the long term incentive awards granted The annual report on directors remuneration which sets out how in 2012 for the 20122014 performance period will vest at 44.4% for the remuneration policy was applied during 2014.
The Committee is proposing that the 2015 long will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM in 2015. term incentive plan awards be granted with the same measures and In 2013 the Remuneration Committee the Committee undertook weighting as those for the 2014 awards, as detailed on page 82.
The a full strategic review of the Companys remuneration arrangements EPS growth range will be set with a threshold of 3% pa and maximum which formed the basis of the remuneration policy as approved by vesting will require 11% pa in order to ensure that performance targets shareholders in 2014.
This year the Committee concluded that the remain challenging but achievable.
This represents a reduction of the  targets set in 2014, but would require growth of c 8% pa in 2016 and  2017 in order to achieve the threshold vesting of 25% of the EPS based provisions for performance based remuneration, as recommended element.
Full vesting would require 21% pa growth.
The TSR and ROCE by the recently revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
Whilst malus underpin remain unchanged.
provisions are already present in all of the Companys discretionary The Committee will continue to maintain Rexams remuneration policies incentive plans previously referred to as clawback, with effect from such that they align with the Companys business strategy and provide 1 January 2015, the Committee implemented a comprehensive malus the right framework for the Company to meet its objectives and deliver and clawback policy to enable the Company to withhold and or shareholder value.
recover incentive payments in certain circumstances.
Further details about malus and clawback are set out on page 69.
The Committee Ros Rivaz  Remuneration Committee chair accordance with current best practice, do not exceed the authorised limits or payments permitted by the existing approved policy and overall are in the interests of shareholders.
ACHIEVEMENTS AND REWARDS FOR 2014 ABOUT THIS REMUNERATION REPORT Details of the remuneration decisions for 2014 are set out in the This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions annual remuneration report on pages 74 to 82.
The chairmans of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and statement and the chief executives review provide a clear picture Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports of a challenging year but one of growth, particularly in our AMEA Amendment Regulations 2013.
It also meets the requirements sector.
Earnings per share EPS has grown and we have maintained of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules.
 enable us to invest for the future.
Consequently bonus performance The following parts of the remuneration report 2014 are audited: in the year has delivered above target as stated on page 75. , including annual incentive and long term incentive outcomes for the The Committee has considered the targets that were established :longtermincentives for annual and long term incentives and the level of payout for the awarded during 2014: total pension entitlements: payments to 2014annualincentive.
 :and, directors  shareholdings and share interests.
66 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY OVERVIEW OUR CURRENT REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES The Groups main objective is to create value for our shareholders and ARE AS FOLLOWS: other stakeholders through our vision to become the best beverage can Attracting,  makerintheworld.
, talented people, providing competitive remuneration to all  employees appropriate to the countries in which we are based.
It is essential that the remuneration principles  underpin these objectives and that achievement of the corporate strategy package of an executive director is weighted towards variable is reinforced through appropriate performance and management performance related pay which rewards higher achievement.
Rewards are aligned with the Companys performance so that executive directors are incentivised to achieve demanding results Promoting a consistent, clear and transparent link between .
business strategy and individual motivation to achieve performance and to create shareholder value.
Providing a meaningful reward opportunity for achievement of stretching targets linked to delivery of our business strategy and achievement of personal performance objectives.
Providing transparency and simplicity in the reward strategy and complying with regulation.
THE REMUNERATION POLICY Linking reward to business strategy see pages 18 and 19 Long term incentives designed to align the interests of management Linking annual incentives to a balance of growth and return with those of shareholders with a bias towards the longer term.
measures, including personal objectives, to align with strategy.
Maintaining capital discipline with a focus on growth and creation of shareholder value in annual incentive design.
Key performance indicators see pages 30 and 31 Salaries are reviewed  25% of annual cash Awards are granted with annually, taking account key aspects of budgeted incentive is deferred into performance targets of both internal and profitandcash, and share awards.
Awards that are measured over external comparators personal performance are subject to a three threeyearsandreflect objectivesreflect year holding period and the Companys strategy.
are subject to malus and Awards are subject to competitive and cost Awards are subject to clawback malus and clawback effective malus and clawback Executive directors participate in retirement benefitplansintheir home country Salary, benefits and Annual cash Deferred bonus Long term retirement benefits incentives incentives incentives
