Directors Report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and the system of remuneration should establish a close identity of is reproduced here for information only.
interest between senior executives and shareholders through measures such as encouraging the senior executives to acquire REMUNERATION POLICY FRAMEWORK shares in the Company.
Therefore a significant proportion of The Group is committed to achieving sustained improvements senior executive remuneration will comprise share-based in performance and this depends crucially on the individual long-term incentives: and contributions made by the executive team and by employees when determining remuneration, the committee will take into at all levels.
The Board believes that an effective remuneration account pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
strategy plays an essential part in the future success of the Group.
Accordingly, the remuneration policy will continue to reflect the following broad principles: the remuneration of Executive Directors and other senior executives should reflect their responsibilities and contain incentives to deliver the Groups performance objectives without encouraging excessive risk taking: remuneration must be capable of attracting and retaining the individuals necessary for business success: remuneration policy must be sufficiently flexible to take account of changes in the Groups business environment and market practices: total remuneration should be based on Group and individual performance, both in the short and long term: POLICY REPORT The policy became effective from 1 May 2014.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Purpose and link Element tostrategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Salary It is essential that the Salary levels are set using careful judgement, Annual salary increases will not normally None, although individual Company provides taking into account the scope of the role and exceed average increases for employees performance is the primary competitive salaries, responsibilities, performance, experience, in other appropriate parts of the Group.
consideration in setting salary suitable to attract and potential, retention issues and salaries alongside overall Company On occasion, increases may be larger retain individuals of elsewhere in the Group.
Judgement will be affordability and market where the committee considers this to be the right calibre to informed, but not led, by reference to competitiveness.
Circumstances where this may develop and execute companies of a similar size, complexity and apply include: growth into a role: to the business strategy.
reflect a change in scope of role and Salaries are reviewed annually and normally responsibilities: where market conditions fixed for 12 months from 1March each year.
indicate a level of under competitiveness However, salary increases are not automatic.
and the committee judges that there is a Exceptionally, salaries may be increased on risk in relation to attracting or retaining other dates in the year.
Executive Directors may be appointed at Where the committee exercises its salaries below the target level to enable pay discretion to award increases above the progression commensurate with growth average for other employees, the in the new role.
resulting salary will not exceed the competitive market range.
86 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Report EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Purpose and link Element tostrategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Benefits To provide market Benefits provided include a car or car Benefits will be market competitive None.
competitive benefits allowance, contribution to the cost of fuel, use taking into account the role and the sufficient to recruit and of a driver, financial planning assistance, life local market.
retain, and to support assurance and medical insurance.
Other Benefits excluding any accommodation, the executive to give appropriate benefits may be provided from relocation and associated tax costs will maximum attention time-to-time at the discretion of the not exceed 100,000 per annum.
The value of benefits provided for Certain benefits, such as accommodation or international and domestic relocation use of a driver, are to enable an executive to and any ongoing accommodation and devote maximum time and attention to their travel support will be appropriate to role.
Club membership fees may also be the individual circumstances of the provided.
The Group may pay any tax due on executive and only expenses that the these benefits.
committee considers necessary and The Group offers relocation for executives appropriate will be supported.
to be located within reasonable reach of their place of work.
Where relocation is not practical or a preferred option, or where work is mainly split between two locations, support for accommodation and travel may beprovided.
Relocation support may include items such as transaction and legal fees, removals, disturbance allowance and temporary travel and subsistence costs.
International relocation support may include items such as school fees, tax equalisation and homevisits.
Pension To provide marketNew executives to the Company are offered The maximum employer contribution to None.
competitive pensions membership of a defined contribution pension defined contribution pension sufficient to recruit and plan.
Pension contributions are based on base arrangements is 38% of base salary.
Under the Groups legacy defined benefit arrangements, the pension due is the There are a number of legacy pension higher of a pension based on the arrangements, including defined benefit plans, executives final salary, with a maximum which were in place before 27 June 2012 and annual accrual rate of 2.5%, or based on have not been changed since.
Commitments to career average salary with a maximum these arrangements will be honoured.
The resulting Executives may opt to receive a cash allowance pension is limited so that the maximum in lieu of pension.
pension at normal retirement age is two thirds of the executives final remuneration.
The benefits under these arrangements include a lump sum payable on death in service and pensions for surviving spouses, civil partners and certain dependants.
Executives may opt to receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension.
The cash allowance is calculated to be equivalent to the employers defined contribution pension contributions, reduced to allow for the additional National Insurance cost incurred by the employer.
James Guyette participates in qualified and non-qualified defined benefit and defined contribution pension arrangements in the US.
Under these various arrangements combined it is expected that the benefits provided by the Company will be equivalent in value to a pension of two thirds of salary, with post retirement increases similar to those required by statute in the UK.
87 Directors Report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Purpose and link Element tostrategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual bonus To incentivise and reward The committee sets Group financial targets and The current maximum annual bonus, The bonus payout level is determined execution of the business agrees personal objectives for each executive linked to business performance, is 135% primarily by Group financial strategy, delivery of director at the start of the financial year.
At the of salary for the Chief Executive and performance but the committee may financial performance end of the year, business performance 125% for other Executive Directors.
This introduce non-financial metrics and targets and achievement determines the Company bonus payout level is based on achieving the highest targets or adjust the payout level to reflect of personal objectives.
and the committee considers whether any set for business performance.
However, other factors as appropriate.
The final adjustment to the payout level is appropriate.
the committee may adjust the bonus bonus awarded to each director is Compulsory deferral of Each Executive Directors bonus is also to reflect personal performance as also linked to their personal part of any bonus dependent on the achievement of their described in the previous column, giving performance.
encourages retention personal objectives and wider contribution to an overall maximum of 162% and 150% and provides alignment Any non-financial metrics used in the Group.
The committee may apply an uplift respectively.
the annual bonus plan will be linked of up to 20% or a reduction, potentially to zero, The committee has the discretion to the Groups strategy and will not asappropriate.
to increase the overall maximum bonus be weighted more than 50% of the A portion of the bonus paid, in a range 30% to level to 200% of salary for the Chief whole bonus.
A principle applies that 50%, is compulsorily deferred into the Executive and 175% for other Executive no bonus is payable unless the base Companys shares for a period of two years and Directors, subject to this not being above financial targets are achieved and is subject to continued employment with early the competitive market range.
this also applies if non-financial release in certain circumstances.
There are no measures areintroduced.
Based on the current bonus Deferred shares may receive a bonus issue opportunity: of C Shares or equivalent during the Chief Executive: Bonus generated deferral period.
by business performance is 40% of The bonus plan is non-contractual and may be salary for achieving the base level offered on a year-by-year basis.
The committee targets and 135% of salary for has the right to apply the malus provision on an achieving the highest level of targets.
individual or group basis and amend or Bonus may then be adjusted for withdraw the bonus before payment.
From personal performance in a range 2014, the same right over deferred shares will 0-120% at committee discretion apply as will the right to clawback bonuses paid with 100% typically applying for or vested shares on an individual basis if it can good performance and a 20% be demonstrated that individuals have acted uplift available for outstanding in an improper manner.
Malus and or clawback personal performance.
provisions may apply in exceptional cases such Other Executive Directors: Bonus as: material misstatement of results: a material generated by business performance failure of risk management: serious is 37% of salary for achieving the base reputational damage: serious individual level targets and 125% of salary for wrongdoing such as non-compliance with achieving the highest level of targets.
the Companys Code of Conduct: or gross Bonus may then be adjusted for misconduct.
88 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Report EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Purpose and link Element tostrategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Performance To incentivise and Executive Directors are granted awards over The Chief Executive is granted awards The three corporate performance Share Plan reward development shares annually at the start of a three-year each year over shares to the value of measures are: PSP and execution of the performance period.
The proportion of those 120% of salary.
The increase in EPS business strategy over awards that vest is determined at the end are granted 100% of salary.
Subject to the Post 2014 AGM over the three-year period must the longer term.
of the period according to a set of Company earnings per share EPS condition being onwards exceed an appropriate index of performance measures.
met, these shares vest at the end of the The plan provides consumer prices for the same period.
performance period if the Company has alignment with Vesting of awards is subject to continued If this condition is not met share achieved the maximum target set for shareholder interests employment until vesting date with the vesting is zero.
The number through the performance exception of certain leaver circumstances, 2.
The of shares vesting can be increased measures chosen and in which case vesting is subject to Company aggregate CPS over the performance by 25% for above median TSR ranking a retention element performance and pro-rating for service.
period will determine the number rising to 50% increase for upper quartile through the plan The plan rules contain malus and clawback of shares which vest.
The committee has the right to target of CPS will result in 30% of the Maximum face values of annual awards A shareholding amend and withdraw share grants before shares vesting and achieving a are therefore 180% of salary for the Chief requirement is linked vesting for individuals and groups and the right maximum CPS target will cause Executive and 150% of salary for other to the PSP in order to to reclaim vested shares or their proceeds from 100% of the shares to vest.
further provide alignment individuals where it has been demonstrated number of shares which may vest is with shareholders.
that they acted in an improper manner.
determined on a straight-line basis Situations where the provisions will apply are between the 30% and 100%level.
The link between the as described in the bonus section on page 88. performance measures 3.
Total shareholder return TSR and the Companys Executive Directors are required to hold a level relative to FTSE 100 or other strategy is explained of shareholding.
The number of in the notes to this table shares vesting will be increased by on page 90.
25% if the Companys TSR is ranked above the median of the FTSE 100, or other appropriate index, over the same periods and by 50% if ranked at or above the upper quartile of the same group.
Intermediate TSR ranking will increase the number of shares released on a straight-line basis.
Performance The purpose of the The operation of the 2004 plan is as As above.
Share Plan 2004 share plan is fully described above with the exception PSP consistent with the of malus and clawback elements which purpose of the 2014 will apply for 2014 grants.
Legacy awards plan described above.
2004 plan ShareSave Plan This savings-related share Executive Directors may participate on the The maximum savings amount is No performance measures are option plan provides all same terms as other employees.
The option currently 250 per month over a threeor permitted by UK legislation employees worldwide an price may be discounted by up to 20%.
This may be increased in applicable to this type of plan.
interest in the accordance with changes to UK Accumulated savings may be used to exercise performance of legislation.
an option to acquire shares.
Share UK employees may elect UK-based Executive Directors may participate Currently, up to 3,000 of the The award of any bonus will depend Incentive to receive part of any on the same terms as all other UK employees.
annual cash bonus can be applied on performance conditions Plan SIP annual bonus in shares.
Shares held in the SIP for five years will vest free to purchase shares.
see page 88 but no further from income tax and National Insurance conditions apply once the employee UK employees may elect The maximum monthly amount of contributions.
elects to participate in the SIP.
to make regular monthly 125 may be used to purchase shares.
purchases of shares from The above limits may be increased pre-tax income.
in accordance with changes to UK legislation.
89 Directors Report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Purpose and link Element tostrategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Fees To reward individuals The committee makes recommendations The Articles of Association require the None for fulfilling the relevant to the Board on the remuneration of the Company to set a maximum ceiling on role and to attract Chairman.
The Chairman and the Executive the total remuneration payable to individuals of the skills Directors determine the remuneration for Non-Executive Directors including the and calibre required.
The level of Non-Executive Chairman.
A resolution to remuneration is set within a limit approved increase this to 1,400,000 was proposed from time-to-time by shareholders.
The Chairman is paid a single consolidated Fees are set at a level appropriate for the fee.
Other Non-Executive Directors are paid role and are reviewed regularly, taking a base fee covering Board and committee into account fees payable to Nonmembership.
Committee chairmen and Executive Directors of companies the Senior Independent Director receive of a similar size and complexity.
Benefits To devote maximum time The Chairman has occasional use of The maximum value for chauffeur None and attention to the chauffeur services.
services will not exceed 25,000 requirements of the role.
Travel, hotel and subsistence expenses incurred in attending Board meetings and The maximum contribution towards tax committee meetings or otherwise required advice and filing is 5,000 per annum.
to attend the Companys offices are reimbursed by the Company.
The Group may pay any tax due on such benefits.
Where a Non-Executive Director is based outside the UK and has to file a UK tax return, the Company may pay towards tax advice and filing.
PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND TARGETS reasonable and materially no more or less difficult than the original The annual bonus measures are primarily based on Group financial condition when set.
performance but may contain non-financial measures as detailed in the above table.
SHAREHOLDERS VIEWS This statement of remuneration policy is largely a consolidation of policies which have enjoyed the support of shareholders for many The committee will set the Group financial targets with reference years.
We considered the guidance provided by the GC 100 and to the prior year and to the budgets and business plans for the shareholder advisory groups in preparing this policy and have coming year, ensuring the levels to achieve base, on-target and followed this insofar as it is appropriate in the context of our maximum bonus payout are appropriately challenging.
Prior to finalising the policy, we shared it with a selection of major shareholders.
Looking ahead, we welcome an open The PSP performance measures set out in the policy table support dialogue with shareholders and intend to continue to consult with the Groups strategy as follows: major shareholders before implementing any significant change.
the EPS growth hurdle ensures any payout is supported by GROUP EMPLOYEE CONSIDERATIONS soundprofitability: When setting remuneration for Executive Directors the committee the aggregate CPS measure incentivises the generation of cash takes into account contextual information about pay and flow in line with the Groups strategy.
This measure is set in line conditions within the Group, including the following: with the principles described for the annual bonus: and salary increases for the all-employee population: the TSR performance measure aligns interests with shareholders bonus awards for the all-employee population: and by rewarding TSR out-performance.
The TSR is measured pay ratios between Executive Directors and other employees.
with reference to constituents of an appropriate index such as the FTSE 100.
In accordance with the rules of the PSP, the performance conditions may be replaced or varied if an event occurs or circumstances arise which cause the committee to determine that the performance conditions have ceased to be appropriate.
If the performance conditions are varied or replaced, the amended performance conditions must, in the opinion of the committee, be fair, 90 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Report Rolls-Royce employs over 54,000 people in more than 50 countries.
Remuneration achieved for key levels of performance are: Inevitably remuneration arrangements differ to reflect local 1.
markets, but some common themes apply to employees at all levelsworldwide: 2.
Base level Bonus and PSP resulting from base level of business performance.
Bonus at 30% of maximum payment assuming no adjustment for personal performance.
PSP vesting at 30% of we aim to offer competitive levels of remuneration, benefits maximum from achieving base CPS target with no TSR multiplier.
and incentives to attract and retain employees: all employees participate in bonus arrangements where the 3.
On-target Bonus and PSP resulting from performance in line with Company expectations.
Bonus at 60% of maximum assuming no bonus is determined by the same financial measures as that adjustment for personal performance.
PSP vesting mid-way applicable to Executive Directors: and between base and maximum levels with 25% TSR multiplier.
all employees have the opportunity to participate in a savings related share option plan.
Maximum Maximum annual bonus based on achieving the highest targets set for business performance and outstanding individual performance: PSP vesting from achieving maximum CPS target At more senior levels, remuneration is increasingly long term and and with maximum 50% TSR multiplier.
larger proportions are dependent on both Group and individual performance and paid in the form of shares.
SERVICE CONTRACTS Given the scale of the employee population, the committee UK-based Executive Directors contracts include the considered that it would be impractical to consult all employees followingprovisions: when drawing up the policy.
12 months notice of termination from Rolls-Royce: 6 months notice of termination from the executive: and ILLUSTRATIONS OF REMUNERATION POLICY APPLICATION reimbursement of reasonable business expenses.
The bar chart below illustrates projected executive remuneration for 2014 at four different levels of performance showing payments The committee recognises that in the case of appointments from minimum to maximum.
The table below the chart explains to the Board from outside the Group, it may be necessary to offer performance levels one to four and the associated remuneration.
a longer initial notice period, which would subsequently reduce 000 John Rishton James Guyette Colin Smith to 12 months after that initial period.
4,500 4,000 James Guyette has a contract with Rolls-Royce North America Inc. drawn up under the laws of the State of Virginia, US.
This provides 3,500 that, on termination without cause, he is entitled to 12 months 3,000 severance pay without mitigation and, in addition, appropriate 39% 2,500 costs incurred in relocating household and personal effects.
The 30% contract also provides for the payment of club membership fees 2,000 30% 30% 16% 21% []% 22% 10% and for tax and financial planning up to a maximum of US$15,000 34% 11% 1,500 18% 25% 29% 24% 13% 20% 25% per annum and the Group will gross up any amounts to cover 13% 20% 25% 1,000 16% 25% 29% any applicable taxes arising.
Salary values are as at 31 December 2013 The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors have letters Salary, plus pension and bene ts Potential value of bonus depending on the performance scenario of appointment rather than service contracts.
No compensation Potential value of PSP depending on the performance scenario is payable to the Chairman or to any Non-Executive Director if the appointment is terminated early or if they fail to be re-elected at an AGM.
POLICY ON EXIT PAYMENTS The notice period the Company is required to give to Executive Directors under their contracts of employment is 12 months.
Payment in lieu of notice will not exceed the value of 12 months salary, benefits and pension contributions.
Both mitigation and the staggering of payments through the notice period will be considered by the committee where appropriate, as will the funding of reasonable outplacement and other professional fees.
Should 91 Directors Report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED additional compensation matters arise, such as a settlement or POLICY ON NEW APPOINTMENTS compromise agreement, the committee will exercise judgement The committee will normally award newly appointed Executive and will take into account the specific commercial circumstances.
Directors with a remuneration package which is consistent with the policy and principles as set out in this report.
Base salary may Pension benefits on early retirement should be payable in be set at a level higher or lower than previous incumbents and accordance with the normal rules of the relevant pension plan.
in certain circumstances, to facilitate the recruitment of individuals Under legacy UK defined benefit pension arrangements, accrued of the required calibre, the committee may use its discretion to pension is reduced to reflect early receipt in accordance with factors make individual additional incentive awards up to a maximum set by the trustees from time-to-time and is limited to a maximum of 100% of annual salary.
Incentive levels may also be increased by pension of two thirds of the executives final remuneration, up to 30% of salary per annum for incentives commencing within pro-rated by actual service to potential service.
This level of discretion is considered appropriate given the current conservative market positioning The committee has the discretion to preserve incentive awards of Rolls-Royce and our potential need to recruit from other market pro-rated to service and to release deferred shares.
In exercising sectors or countries outside of the UK.
this discretion, the committee will have regard to performance and the circumstances of leaving.
For deferred shares these are In addition, remuneration forfeited on resignation from a previous usually released in cases such as retirement, death, injury, employer may be compensated.
The form of this compensation ill-health and redundancy.
would be considered on a case-by-case basis and may comprise either cash or shares.
Generally: For PSP, the rules state that unvested awards may be preserved at the committees discretion according to the circumstances.
In such if such remuneration was in the form of shares, compensation cases vesting will be at the normal date, subject to the established will be in the Companys shares: performance conditions, and pro rata to employment in the if remuneration was subject to achievement of performance performance period.
In cases such as death and terminal illness, conditions, compensation will be subject to Rolls-Royce the committee also has the discretion to vest the awards performance conditions: and immediately using an estimate of future out-turn.
the timing of any compensation will, where practicable, match the vesting schedule of the remuneration forfeited.
The treatment of leavers in the Companys ShareSave and SIP plans is governed by the plan rules.
The UK rules are HMRC approved.
An A newly appointed Executive Director may be provided with Executive Director who has ShareSave options who retires or who reasonable relocation support as set out in the policy table.
Internal leaves the Company through ill-health, disability or redundancy will appointments would receive a remuneration package that is be entitled to exercise their options, pro rata to the savings made, consistent with the remuneration policy.
Legacy terms and within six months of leaving the Company.
An Executive Director conditions would be honoured, including pension entitlements who leaves in any other manner such as dismissal would only be and any outstanding incentive awards.
entitled to have their savings returned to them.
Participants in the SIP who leave the Company for the same reasons listed above will If an Executive Director is appointed following a merger have their shares released to them free of tax and National or an acquisition of a company by Rolls-Royce, of which the Insurance contributions.
Executive Director was employed, legacy terms and conditions may be honoured.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, PSP awards will vest based on the extent to which the committee determines LEGACY COMMITMENTS the performance conditions have been or would have been met.
Contractual commitments made before 27 June 2012 and before Pro-rating for service in the performance period will apply.
Deferred the policy came into effect will be honoured.
This will include grants shares earned under APRA would vest in full.
ShareSave options made under the old PSP arrangement which will vest, subject to the would immediately be exercisable pro rata to savings made.
performance criteria being achieved after the adoption of this Consideration received as shares would be held in the SIP, if possible, policy, as well as previous contractual provisions relating to the otherwise the consideration would be treated as a disposal from defined benefit pension scheme.
The committee may make minor amendments to the policy set If awards are made on recruitment such as buy-outs the out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax, administrative treatment on leaving would be determined at the time at the purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without committees discretion.
obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
92 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014
