Directors Report REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Our remuneration policy is aligned with our strategy to generate the funds we need to invest in future growth.
As part of the 2014 board review, the effectiveness of the committee was considered by the external reviewers, Independent Audit.
I was pleased to note its view that the make-up of the committee is sound, with members bringing a good knowledge of remuneration issues and all making an informed contribution.
Our processes ensure the right issues are considered in a timely way and with On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Directors robust discussion.
Suggestions were put forward to strengthen Remuneration Report for 2014. further the way management works with the committee and we will follow through on these in 2015.
THE WORK OF THE COMMITTEE During the year, the committee continued to perform its COMMITTEE MEMBERS, ATTENDANCE AND RESPONSIBILITIES responsibilities and, in particular, we kept under review the The Remuneration Committee comprises four independent performance against incentive plans and the appropriateness Non-Executive Directors and met five times in 2014. of metrics.
On a longer-term basis, the committee initiated a review Members Attendance in 2014 of the Groups remuneration principles to ensure that they remain Dame Helen Alexander 5 5 aligned with our strategic objectives.
A project is now underway Ruth Cairnie appointed 1 September 2014 3 3 to develop an integrated reward strategy which also aligns with Sir Frank Chapman 5 5 our overall people strategy.
John McAdam 5 5 During 2014, the committee: endorsed the out-turn of the 2013 annual bonus and 2011 PSP: The Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group HR Director, the HR established new rules for the PSP, including malus and clawback director reward and pensions, the Company Secretary and the Chief provisions: Financial Officer were invited to attend meetings.
None of them was considered the requirements of the new remuneration reporting present during any discussion of their own remuneration packages.
regulations in formulating the remuneration report and recommended the approval of the 2013 report to the Board: When considering remuneration for our senior executives, the reviewed Executive Directors base salary levels: Remuneration Committee has used the policy framework approved established new minimum shareholding requirements for by shareholders at the AGM in May 2014.
Executive Directors: set 2014 annual bonus targets and performance targets for the Our remuneration policy aligns the interests of our directors and PSP 2014 2016: senior executives with that of our shareholders by linking incentives considered a benchmarking report on executive benefits: to the performance of the business on both short and long-term considered a benchmarking report for the executive salary review measures.
Our performance was not as strong as targeted during in 2015: 2014 and therefore we will not be making an annual bonus payment approved mid-year PSP grants to certain senior executives: as a result.
considered the projected out-turns for the 2014 annual bonus, All Employee Bonus Scheme and the 2012 PSP: The Performance Share Plan PSP, granted in 2012, was measured agreed termination terms for the former Chief Financial Officer: over a three-year performance period that ended at the end of 2014. agreed the remuneration terms for David Smith who was The three measures for performance, earnings per share EPS, cash appointed as Chief Financial Officer: flow per share CPS and total shareholder return TSR have reviewed our terms of reference: exceeded the base threshold which has resulted in the 2012 grant reviewed our reward principles: vesting in March 2015, but at a lower level than in previous years.
considered provisional targets for 2015: and considered the structure of the annual bonus for 2015.
I am confident that we have covered our responsibilities effectively.
74 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Report We continue to believe our incentive programmes support our LOSS OF OFFICE PAYMENTS business strategy.
Our short-term incentive is based on cash and The committee gave careful consideration to remuneration matters profit, which are key objectives: it is also linked to personal relating to the departure of Mark Morris, the former Chief Financial performance which includes longer-term strategic objectives.
Officer, in accordance with the remuneration policy agreed by the Our long-term incentive is primarily based on cash flow per share Board and approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
The details which continues to be critical for our growth and success.
Part of of the payments are on page 80. the annual bonus is deferred into shares and executives have an ongoing shareholding requirement which aligns them to the Overall, our remuneration policy is aligned with our strategy to interests of shareholders.
generate the funds we need to invest in future growth.
Our overarching aim is to ensure the long-term health of the Company.
Responsibilities Therefore we need to ensure and continually monitor that our considering and making recommendations to the Board on the strategy incentives are market-competitive and are designed to attract, and policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Chairman retain and develop the best talent which will drive long-term value and members of the ELT and future business success.
determining the design, conditions and coverage of annual and longterm incentive plans for senior executives and approving total and DAME HELEN ALEXANDER individual payments under the plans Chairman of the Remuneration Committee determining targets for any performance-related pay plans determining the issue and terms of all share-based plans available to all employees determining compensation if any in the event of termination of service contracts of Executive Directors or ELT members ANNUAL BONUS OUTCOME Group underlying profit and cash flow were below the base level targets of performance set by the Remuneration Committee and therefore there will be no bonus paid for 2014.
PSP OUTCOME Over the three-year performance period for the 2012 PSP grant, earnings per share growth was 16%, which exceeded the OECD index of consumer prices of 5%, and cash flow per share was 63p.
This resulted in 49% of the shares conditionally granted being released.
The Companys total shareholder return TSR performance was 39th in the FTSE 100 over the three-year performance period which resulted in a 37% increase in the shares released to Executive Directors.
2015 SALARY REVIEW The committee has reviewed the salary levels of the Executive Directors in accordance with our approved remuneration policy.
The Executive Directors did not receive an increase in 2014 and again in 2015 John Rishton and James Guyette will not receive a salary increase.
Colin Smith and David Smith will receive salary increases based on their individual business circumstances and their positioning within the external market range.
The details of the increases are on page 77.
