Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independence and the provision of non-audit services External audit In order to ensure the independence of the external auditors, the The Committee reviews and makes recommendations with regard to Committee received a formal statement of independence from the the appointment of the external auditors.
In making this recommendation, external auditors.
In addition, the Committee ensured compliance the Committee considers auditor effectiveness and independence, with Sages Auditor Independence Policy, the principal requirements partner rotation and any other factors which may impact the external of which are: auditors reappointment.
The external auditors may not undertake certain prohibited services, Competitive tender process which includetaxation compliance and planning, acquisition due During the year the Committee conducted a formal tender for the diligence, internal audit services, remuneration and compensation proposed appointment of a new external audit firm for the 2015 financial servicesand legal and actuarial advice year.
The Committee appointed a selection panel to undertake much of The Committee must approve any individual non-audit services the detailed work and invited three of the Big Four firms to tender.
above a specific fee value  LLP had been external auditors since 1988 and no formal tender process had taken place since that appointment.
The ratio of audit fees to non-audit fees must be within Sages Therefore, by mutual agreement, it was agreed that they would not be pre-determined ratio, which is currently 70% of the average of the invited to participate in the tender process.
external audit fees billed over the previous three years In the process, the tendering firms met with senior finance management This policy was updated during 2014 to take into account recent changes in EU regulation.
The implementation of the policy was across the Group and submitted detailed written proposals before presenting to the selection panel.
The selection panel and Committee effective from the beginning of the 2015 financial year.
assessed the firms against key criteria and recommended to the The Committee believes that it receives particular benefit from certain Board that Ernst & Young LLP be appointed as auditors to Sage for non-audit services provided by the external auditors due to their wide the financial year ending 30 September 2015.
The criteria used to reach and detailed knowledge of Sage.
Discretion is therefore used, subject this decision included: to the controls set out above, in obtaining such services from the The quality of the central team external auditors, although other accountancyfirmsare also used when appropriate.
During the year, non-audit services obtained from Commitment to sharing ideas and insights on best practice the external auditors included tax compliance prior to the updating developments in accounting and reporting of the Auditor Independence Policy and advice and support relating Capability to provide comprehensive and high quality to corporate restructuring.
audit services The total audit fees charged by the auditors during the year were 2.1m Approach to ensuring a smooth transition process and the amount of non-audit fees was 1.0m.
The ratio of non-audit fees Approach to tender process for the year to the average of the external audit fees over the previous Independence and quality of the team three years was 48%.
A breakdown of total audit and non-audit fees charged by the auditors for the year under review is shown in note Accordingly, a resolution proposing the appointment of Ernst & Young 3.2 to the financial statements.
LLP as our auditor will be put to shareholders at the AGM in March 2015.
Effectiveness of the external audit process The Committee also monitored the conduct and effectiveness of external Jonathan Howell audit during the year through review of: Chairman of the Audit Committee Experience and expertise of the auditors 3 December 2014 The fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any variations from this plan The robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditors in their handling of key accounting and audit judgements Interaction between management and the auditors, including the dedication of sufficient time by management to the audit process Communication with, and support to, the Committee Insights, added value and reports The content of the external auditors report Independence, objectivity and scepticism Private meetings were held with the external auditors at two of the Audit Committee meetings to provide additional opportunity for open dialogue and feedback from the Committee and the auditors without management being present.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 75 Corporate governance report continued Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Membership: Donald Brydon Chair Jonathan Howell Neil Berkett Drummond Hall Inna Kuznetsova Ruth Markland Key objective To review the composition of the Board and to plan for its progressive This year saw changes in both executives refreshing, with regard to balance and structure.
The Committee also and non-executives.
The Committee considers issues of succession.
ran a robust and wide-ranging process, Committee meetings resulting in key appointments to The Committee is required, in accordance with its terms of reference, to meet at least once per year.
During the year, the Committee met strengthen the Boards existing skills.
Responsibility Activity in the year Reviewing the structure of the Board The Committee dealt with the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer and the appointment of two non-executive directors, with further detail provided below on the process undertaken Evaluating the balance of skills, The Committee considered the skills, knowledge, independence and experience of the Board and knowledge, experience and reaffirmed the approach to diversity, as described on page 54 diversity of the Board Advising the Board on areas where The Committee considered the skills and experience of the Board members, resulting in further recruitment may be appropriate new appointments to non-executive roles.
It continues this review on an ongoing basis Succession planning for key Whilst there have been several Board appointments during the current year, the Committee executives at Board level and below has continued to work to ensure appropriate succession and mix amongst both the executive and non-executive directors, as shown on page 53 Board appointments Drummond Halls wealth of experience in large, listed companies and knowledge of marketing issues within those companies were seen by In identifying a new Chief Executive Officer, the Committee retained the the Committee as of particular interest.
Inna Kuznetsovas international services of executive search consultants, Egon Zehnder.
Egon experience and knowledge of the technology industry made her Zehnderworked closely with the Chairman who led the process an exceptional candidate in the view of the Committee.
on behalf of the Committee.
The Zygos Partnership and Egon Zehnder have no connection with Sage A number of potential candidates were identified by the consultants and or the appointed directors other than for the provision of these services.
some candidates approached Sage directly.
An initial long list ofpossible appointees was discussed with the Chairman, from which a shortened As described in our report for the previous financial year, in identifying a list was created.
All candidates on the shortened list were interviewed potential new Chief Financial Officer, the Committee retained the services by Committee members.
Following the interviews andfully considering of Russell Reynolds as search consultants.
The search resulted in the the experience and skills of the candidates, as well asthe diversity of appointment of Steve Hare as Chief Financial Officer.
Russell Reynolds the Board, the Committee unanimously recommended the appointment have no connection with Sage or the appointed directors other than for of Stephen Kelly as Chief Executive Officer to the Board.
the provision of these services.
In identifying new non-executive directors, the Committee retained Donald Brydon the services of The Zygos Partnership and Egon Zehnder as search Chairman of the Nomination Committee consultants.
Taking into account the diversity of the Board, a number 3 December 2014 of potential candidates were identifiedwho all met the Committee.
76 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors remuneration report Remuneration Committee Membership: Ruth Markland Chair Donald Brydon Jonathan Howell Neil Berkett Drummond Hall Inna Kuznetsova Key objective To determine the framework, broad policy, and levels of remuneration for We align our performance measures the Groups Chief Executive Officer CEO, the Groups Chief Financial to our strategy and continue to reinforce Officer CFO, the Chairman of the Company and other executives as deemed appropriate.
This framework includes, but is not limited to, alignment with our shareholders through establishing stretching performance-related elements of reward and is the application of our remuneration policy.
intended to promote the long-term success of the Company.
Committee meetings No one other than a member of the Committee is entitled to be present at its meetings.
The CEO may, as required, attend meetings, except where his own performance or remuneration is discussed.
No director is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
The Committee is required, in accordance with its terms of reference, to meet at least four times per year.
During this financial year, the Committee met seven times.
Key Responsibilities Making recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on Sages framework of executive remuneration Determining the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the executive directors, including performance share awards, performance-related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation payments Monitoring remuneration for senior executives below Board level Approval of share awards Our remuneration principles for executive directors Dear fellow shareholder, and the Executive Committee It is my pleasure to present the Directors remuneration report for the Our remuneration principles, which our detailed policy supports, year ended 30 September 2014. are as follows: We aim to be entirely transparent in our remuneration practices and We offer competitive and fair rates of pay and benefits to attract and provide shareholders with the information needed to make informed retain the best people decisions about our Company.
We have sought to develop our We aim to create a strong performance-oriented environment and disclosure further in this years report and hope that you find this useful.
reward achievement of our Company strategy and business objectives Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group are considered when determining executive base and bonus reviews The interests of our senior management team are aligned with those of shareholders by having a significant proportion of remuneration performance-based and delivered through shares The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 77 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy Remuneration for 2014 Our remuneration policy remains unchanged from last year, having Sage continued to deliver on its three-year strategy for accelerated been approved at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
We operate a growth, with a view to doubling the long-term historic average organic remuneration structure made up of base salary and benefits, a bonus growth rate from 3% to 6% by the end of the 2015 financial year.
plan and a long-term incentive plan, which provides a clear link between In summary, for the year ended 30 September 2014, Group organic pay and our key strategic priorities.
revenue growth was 5%, reflecting good acceleration in growth on the prior year and underlying pre-tax profit was 340m.
In addition, Our remuneration policy is guided by a common reward framework.
underlying operating profit margin increased to 27.5%.
Combined with the achievement of strategic objectives, this resulted in 55% and Reward policies 57% of the maximum bonus opportunity for 2014 paying out for the Attract and retain.
Remuneration packages are designed to attract CEO and CFO respectively.
high-calibre executives in a competitive international market which includes private-equity backed organisations as well as listed companies, Details of the remuneration decisions for 2014 are set out in the and to remunerate executives fairly and responsibly.
Directors annual remuneration report on pages 83 to 92.
Remuneration is designed to motivate delivery Remuneration for 2015 of our key business strategies, create a strong  We are delighted that Stephen Kelly joined us as CEO from 5 November environment and reward achievement of meaningful targets over the 2014.
Details of his remuneration are set out on page 87.
Base salaries short and long term.
and bonus measures for 2015 have been established for both the new Reward principles CEO and the CFO.
Alignment with the wider Group.
The remuneration policy for Guy Berruyer will continue to be employed by the Company until 31 executives reflects the overriding remuneration philosophy and principles March 2015 although he stepped down from the role of CEO and as a of the wider Group considering pay and employment conditions director of the Company on 5 November 2014.
During his employment, elsewhere in the Group.
Mr Berruyer will continue to receive his normal base salary and benefits, Stretching performance targets.
The Remuneration Committee but will not be eligible for a bonus or housing allowance for the period considers that a successful remuneration policy links a significant part from 5 November 2014.
During this period, he will be available to assist of the remuneration package to the achievement of stretching corporate the new CEO as required.
performance targets and a strong alignment of interest with shareholders.
The revised UK Corporate Governance Code was published just We believe that the policy as a whole is well aligned to the current before the start of the financial year commencing on 1 October 2014. business strategy and the outcome reflects business performance.
Consequently, there was insufficient time for the Committee to consider and set a suitable policy for the application of malus and clawback Activities of the Remuneration Committee the Committee in relation to annual incentives for the performance year starting on The main activities of the Committee since the last report were as follows: 1 October 2014.
The Committee plans to review in detail and develop a suitable policy for application to future performance periods.
Reviewed the performance of the Group for the year, and the performance of the executive directors in order to determine bonus outcomes Approved share awards for 2014 Confirmed the overall package including a one-off share award for the incoming CEO Agreed the remuneration arrangements for the outgoing CEO Set base salaries and established the executive directors bonus arrangements for 2015 Reviewed the Directors remuneration report Considered remuneration market trends and corporate governance developments Approved the base salaries for 2015 and the 2014 bonuses of seven Executive Committee members Proposed new LTIP 78 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Performance Share Plan key changes The current Performance Share Plan rules expire on 15 March 2015.
The new rules will be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM.
The key changes to the plan are as follows: Introduction of malus and clawback provisions, allowing the Committee to exercise discretion to reduce the level of unvested awards or reclaim within three years of release previously paid awards.
Circumstances where the Committee may elect to apply this discretion include a material misstatement of the Groups audited results or a material failure of risk management or serious reputational damage to the Group or a business unit as a result of the participants misconduct.
Committee discretion to grant awards subject to a holding period.
Where a holding period is attached to an award, the default holding period is two years.
The Committee does not intend to apply a holding period to PSP awards granted in 2015 but will keep the application of this provision under review for future grants.
Remuneration disclosure This report complies with the requirements of the Large and Mediumsized Companies and Groups Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012 and the Listing Rules.
The report is in two sections: A summary of the Directors remuneration policy report pages 80 to 82.
This section contains details of the remuneration policy approved at the 2014 AGM and is for information only The Directors annual remuneration report.
This section sets out details of how our remuneration policy was implemented for the year ended 30 September 2014 and how we intend for the policy to apply for the year ended 30 September 2015 and is the subject of an advisory shareholder vote At the AGM in March 2015: The renewal of the Performance Share Plan will be put to a binding shareholder vote The Directors annual remuneration report will be put to an advisory shareholder vote Ruth Markland Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 79 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy report Summary of Directors remuneration policy report The remuneration policy was approved at the AGM in March 2014.
Provided for information only are details of the policy that were referenced in Committee activities over the past reporting year which includes the Remuneration policy table, minimally updated, below, and the recruitment remuneration arrangements, executive director service contracts and terms and conditions for non-executive directors.
The full policy report, as approved by shareholders, can be found in last years remuneration report, a copy of which can be found in the Investor Relations section at www.
Remuneration policy table The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out below, where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Alignment with strategy purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Normally reviewed annually, any increases Ordinarily, salary increases will be in None, although overall Base salary generally apply from January.
line with increases awarded to other performance of the individual is Supports the recruitment and employees in major operating considered by the Committee retention of executive directors When determining base salary levels, businesses of the Group.
when setting and reviewing of the calibre required to deliver consideration is given to the following: salaries annually.
However, increases may be made Pay increases for other employees in major above this level at the Committees Rewards executives for the operating businesses of the Group discretion to take account of individual performance of their role.
The individuals skills and responsibilities circumstances such as: Pay at companies of a similar size and Set at a level that allows international scope to Sage, in particular those Increase in scope and responsibility fully flexible operation of our within the FTSE 100 excluding the top 30 Increase to reflect the individuals variable pay plans.
Corporate and individual performance development and performance in role e. g. for a new appointment where base salary may be increased over time rather than set directly at the level of the previous incumbent or market level Alignment to market level Pension Defined contribution plan with Company 25% of base salary for all executive None.
contributions set as a percentage of base salary.
No element other than Provide a competitive base salary is pensionable.
post-retirement benefit, in An individual may elect to receive some or all of a way that manages the their pension contribution as a cash allowance.
overall cost to the Company.
The Group provides a range of benefits which Set at a level which the Remuneration None.
Benefits may include a car benefit or cash equivalent, Committee considers: Provide a competitive and private medical insurance, permanent health cost-effective benefits package Appropriately positioned against insurance, life assurance and financial advice.
to executives to assist them to comparable roles in companies carry out their duties effectively.
Additional benefits may be also be provided of a similar size and complexity in certain circumstances which may include in the relevant market relocation expenses, housing allowance and Provides a sufficient level of benefit school fees.
Other benefits may be offered if based on the role and individual considered appropriate and reasonable by circumstances, such as relocation the Committee.
Measures and targets are set annually and For maximum performance: Performance is assessed using Annual bonus payout levels are determined by the Remuneration the following metrics: Rewards and incentivises 125% of salary Committee after the year-end based on the achievement of annual 80% of the award is based For on-target performance: performance against those targets.
on financial measures 75% of salary The Remuneration Committee may, in 20% of the award is based An element of compulsory For threshold performance: exceptional circumstances, amend the bonus on strategic measures deferral until shareholding payout should this not, in the view of the guideline is met, providing 15% of salary The measures and targets Committee, reflect overall business performance a link to the creation of are set by the Committee or individual contribution.
The annual bonus is delivered in cash.
Executives that will apply for the financial must defer 20% of their bonus into shares year 2015 are described until the shareholding guidelines have been met.
in the Directors annual Deferred shares normally vest after three years remuneration report.
and may be adjusted to reflect the impact of any variation of share capital, in accordance with the plan rules.
On the vesting of awards, executives receive an amount in cash or shares equal to the dividends paid or payable between the date of grant and the vesting of the award on the number of shares which have vested.
80 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Alignment with strategy purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Contingent awards of shares are made annually Awards vest on the following basis: Performance is assessed Performance share plan with vesting dependent upon the achievement against three independently Motivates and rewards the Target performance: 20% of the maximum of performance conditions over three years.
measured metrics which achievement of long-term shares awarded are equally weighted: business goals.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion Stretch performance: 80% of the maximum to decide whether and to what extent targets shares awarded 1 3 organic revenue Supports the creation of have been met, and if an exceptional event Exceptional performance: 100% of the growth with a margin shareholder value through occurs that causes the Committee to consider shares awarded underpin the delivery of strong market that the targets are no longer appropriate, the With straight-line vesting between each level 1 3 EPS growth performance aligned with the Committee may adjust them.
of performance 1 3 relative TSR long-term business strategy.
Current annual award levels for executive performance against Awards may also be adjusted in the event Supports achievement of directors are 250% of base salary at the the FTSE 100 excluding of a variation of capital, in accordance with our strategy by targeting time of grant financial services and the plan rules.
performance under our Overall individual limit of 300% of base extracting companies key financial performance On the vesting of awards, executives receive an salary under the rules of the plan The measures and targets indicators of organic revenue amount in cash or shares equal to the dividends The Committee retains the discretion to are set by the Committee.
paid or payable between the date of grant and make awards up to the individual limit under Details of the targets that the vesting of the award on the number of shares the plan and, as stated in previous will apply for 2015 are set which have vested.
Remuneration reports, would expect to out in the Directors annual consult with significant investors if awards remuneration report.
were to be made routinely above current levels, as the Committee did prior to increasing award levels for 2013.
UK-based executive directors are entitled to Participation limits are those set by the UK None.
All-employee share plans participate in a UK tax approved all-employee tax authorities from time to time.
Currently Provides an opportunity for plan, The Sage Group Savings-Related Share this is 500 per month.
directors to voluntarily invest Option Plan, under which they make monthly in the Company.
savings over a period of three or five years linked to the grant of an option over Sage shares with an option price which can be at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of shares on grant.
Options may be adjusted to reflect the impact of any variation of share capital.
Chairman and nonFees are reviewed periodically.
executive director fees The fee structure is as follows: Reflects the commitment and contribution that is expected from the Chairman and Provide an appropriate The Chairman is paid a single, consolidated fee non-executive directors reward to attract and retain The non-executive directors are paid a basic Is appropriately positioned against high-calibre individuals.
fee, plus additional fees for chairmanship comparable roles in companies of a of Board Committees and to the Senior Non-executive directors similar size and complexity in the relevant Independent Director do not participate in any market, particularly companies of a similar Fees are currently paid in cash but the incentive scheme.
size and international scope to Sage, in Company may choose to provide some of the particular those within the FTSE 100 fees in shares excluding the top 30 The Chairman has use of a car and driver.
Non-executive directors may be eligible to The Chairman fee has been set at 360,000 benefits such as company car, use of secretarial and fixed at this level for five years from the support, healthcare or other benefits that may date of appointment July 2012. be appropriate Overall fees paid to directors will remain within the limit stated in our articles of association, currently 1m.
Actual fee levels are disclosed in the Directors annual remuneration report for the relevant financial year.
Notes: Annual bonus performance measures have been selected to provide an appropriate balance between incentivising directors to meet profitability and other financial targets for the year and achieve strategic operational objectives.
The measures and targets are selected every year by the Committee.
There are no specific provisions to withhold or recover sums paid under the current short and long-term incentives.
The PSP renewal, pending shareholder approval, will incorporate such provisions for the long-term incentives.
Application to short-term incentives will be reviewed in the forthcoming year.
While our remuneration policy follows the same principles across the Group, packages offered to employees reflect differences in market practice in the different countries the Group operates in and also differences in size of role.
Performance share plan: organic revenue growth and EPS are key measures of the success of the execution of our long-term strategy.
TSR is considered a key measure for a number of our shareholders and provides further alignment with value created for shareholders.
All directors submit themselves for re-election annually.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 81 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy report continued The rules of The Sage Group Performance Share Plan permit the grant Recruitment remuneration arrangements of two awards in the first year of employment: the individual limit from the In the event of hiring a new executive director, the Committee will seek plan rules would apply to each award.
to align the remuneration package with our remuneration policy, which may include the elements outlined in the policy table above.
However, In order to facilitate the awards mentioned above, the Committee may the Committee retains the discretion to make appropriate remuneration therefore rely on exemption 9.4.
2. of the Listing Rules which allows for the decisions outside the standard policy to meet the individual grant of awards to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment circumstances of the recruitment.
This may, for example, include the of a director.
following circumstances: The remuneration package offered to new directors may include An interim appointment is made to fill an executive director role on buyout remuneration and other remuneration components included in a short-term basis the remuneration policy as per the policy table above, including: base Exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a salary fees, pension, benefits, annual bonus and long-term incentives.
non-executive director takes on an executive function on a shortThe maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to term basis new executive directors, excluding buy-out arrangements and awards An executive director is recruited at a time in the year when it in the first year of employment detailed above, would normally be in line would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or LTIP award for that with the maximum level of variable pay that may be awarded under the year as there would not be sufficient time to assess performance.
annual bonus plan and performance share plan, but in any event the The quantum in respect of the months employed during the year Committee would not make an award of annual variable pay above may be transferred to the subsequent year so that reward is 500% of base salary.
provided on a fair and appropriate basis Executive director service contracts An executive is recruited from a business or location that offered some benefits that the Committee might consider All current executive directors have service contracts, which may be appropriate to buy out but that do not fall into the definition terminated by the Company for breach by the executive or by giving of variable remuneration forfeited that can be included in the 12 months notice by the Company or the individual.
buyout element under the wording of the regulations Service contacts for new directors will generally be limited to 12 months The executive received benefits at his previous employer which notice.
However, the Committee may agree a longer period, of up to 24 the Committee considers it appropriate to offer months initially, reducing by one month for every month served until it falls The Committee may also alter the performance measures, performance to 12 months.
period and vesting period of the annual bonus or long-term incentive, Terms and conditions for non-executive directors subject to the rules of the plan, if the Committee determines that the circumstances of the recruitment merit such alteration.
The rationale The appointment of the non-executive directors is for a fixed term of three will be clearly explained.
years, during which period the appointment may be terminated by the Board on six months notice.
The Chairmans term of appointment is five In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements on hiring a new years.
There are no provisions on payment for early termination in letters executive director, the Committee will take into account relevant factors: of appointment.
this may include the calibre of the individual, local market practice, the existing remuneration arrangements for other executives and the business The letters of appointment of non-executive directors and service circumstances.
We seek to ensure that arrangements are in the best contracts of executive directors are available for inspection at the interests of both Sage and its shareholders and seek not to pay more Companys registered office during normal business hours and will than is appropriate.
be available at the Annual General Meeting.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash or shares and the timeframe of awards.
We will generally seek to structure buyout awards on a comparable basis to awards forfeited.
82 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors annual remuneration report Single figure for total remuneration audited information The following table sets out the single figure for total remuneration for executive directors for the financial years ended 30 September 2013 and 2014. a b c d e 1 2 3 4 Salary fees Benefits Bonus Pension PSP awards Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Director 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Executive directors 5 G S Berruyer 765 719 121 120 539 651 191 180 1,616 1,670 6 S Hare 360 15 256 89 720 7 Non-executive directors D H Brydon 360 360 46 406 360 R Markland 88 87 88 87 N Berkett 60 15 60 15 D Hall 45 45 J Howell 74 23 74 23 I Kuznetsova 34 34 I Mason 10 59 10 59 M Rolfe 13 76 13 76 Notes: 1 Benefits provided to the executive directors included: car benefits or cash equivalent, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life assurance and financial advice.
A housing allowance of 100,000 per annum was provided to Guy Berruyer.
Donald Brydon receives a company car benefit.
2 Bonus payable in respect of the financial year including any deferred element at face value at date of award.
Further information about how the level of 2014 award was determined is provided in the additional disclosures below.
3 Pension emoluments for both executive directors were equal to 25% of base salary.
4 The 2014 PSP value is based on the PSP award due to vest in March 2015.
The value of the award is based on performance to 30 September 2014.
Further information about the level of vesting is provided in the additional disclosures below.
5 The CEOs salary increase of 8% to 780,000 was with effect from 1 January 2014.
The figures stated in the table above are pro rata.
6 Steve Hare was appointed as a Director on 3 January 2014.
Figures in the table relate to the period from that date to the end of the financial year.
7 Changes in the composition of the non-executive directors during 2014 were the retirements of I Mason and M Rolfe on 30 November 2013, D Hall joining on 1 January 2014 and I Kuznetsova joining on 6 March 2014.
Additional disclosures for single figure for total remuneration table Base salary 2014 As reported in the last Annual Report & Accounts, the Committee agreed to increase the CEOs base salary to 780,000 effective from 1 January 2014.
This increase moved the CEOs salary in line with a level that the Committee felt wasappropriate for the role.
The CEO was recruited in 2010 on a significantly lower base salary than his predecessor whose salary was 770,000 on departure in 2010 with a view to increasing the salary level once established in the role.
The decision was based upon the CEOs strong performance in the role, and ongoing commitment to the Group over the last three years.
The new CFO was hired on a base salary of 480,000.
2013 Base salaries were increased by 1.5% from 1 January 2013, and reflect the level of salary budget increases in our key employment markets.
Annual bonus 2014 The bonus targets for 2014 were set by reference to the same measures as the previous year and remain aligned with the three-year strategic goals.
The actual target range has not been disclosed as this is considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive information, whereas many of our competitors are unlisted companies who do not provide this level of disclosure.
An indication of where actual performance fell within the range is given in the table below.
It is intended for retrospective disclosure to be made after a period of three years, and continue on a rolling basis.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 83 Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued 2014 Annual bonus % Bonus measure Weighting Threshold Target Stretch Performance outcome as a % of maximum bonus Achievement of 340m for 2014 was ahead of the target range, resulting in 62% of the maximum bonus in relation to 1 Underlying PBT 50 underlying PBT becoming payable.
Organic revenue growth was 5%, within the target range, and the profit underpin was exceeded, leading to 57% of Organic revenue the bonus relating to the organic revenue growth measure growth 30 becoming payable.
Guy Berruyers strategic objectives achievement for 2014 Strategic led to 37% of the bonus relating to strategic measures measures becoming payable.
see table below 20 Steve Hares strategic objectives for 2014 were close to target which led to 45% of the bonus relating to strategic measures becoming payable.
Guy Berruyer received a bonus equal to 69% of salary 55% of the maximum.
No bonus was deferred into shares Overall as the CEO has met the Companys shareholding requirement of 150% of annual salary.
assessment Steve Hare received a bonus equal to 71% of salary 57% of the maximum.
20% was deferred into Sage shares under the Companys shareholding requirement of 150% of annual salary.
Shared measures Measures specific to CEO Measures specific to CFO 1 PBT is defined as statutory profit before tax excluding recurring items including amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related items, fair value adjustments and imputed interest: and non-recurring items that management judge to be one-off or non-operational.
The impact of foreign exchange is neutralised in prior year figures.
Executive directors personal strategic objectives CEO measures CFO measures Payment strategy Global Finance strategy Successful conclusion of our payments strategy review Define vision, strategy and resulting implementation commitments for Global Finance Organisation KPIs Maintain momentum in organisational change to support our strategy Implement revised reporting of KPIs to the Board and Executive for both short and long-term strategies Committee Cloud products Cloud products Improve cloud solutions, increasing product offerings to achieve Improve cloud solutions, increasing product offerings to achieve desired run rates across products and geographical segmentations desired run rates across products and geographical segmentations Net promoter scores Net promoter scores Improve customer net promoter scores Improve our net promoter scores through a focused approach to providing an extraordinary customer experience 2013 As in 2014, the bonus was based on 50% profitability, 30% organic revenue growth, with PBT underpin and 20% strategic measures.
None of the bonus for the year was deferred because Mr Berruyer had met the shareholding requirement in full.
84 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements PSP awards 2014 2013 Performance period 1 Oct 2011 30 Sept 2014 1 Oct 2010 30 Sept 2013 Grant date March 2012 March 2011 Vesting date March 2015 March 2014 Vesting % see performance below 0% 0% Performance Award for the period was based on EPS growth in excess of RPI over three years.
Awards are also subject to a TSR multiplier whereby the level of vesting based on EPS performance is adjusted according to TSR performance over the same period.
2014 2013 Stretch Stretch Threshold Maximum Threshold Maximum Achieved Vesting % vesting % Vesting % Achieved Vesting % vesting % Vesting % RPI 9% RPI 27% RPI 9% RPI 27% 1 EPS RPI 7.9% 25% 100% 0% RPI 6% 25% 100% 0% Lower quartile Upper quartile Lower quartile Upper quartile 2 3 TSR percentile rank 29th 75% 150% 79% 43rd 75% 150% 93% Vesting % EPS TSR 0% 0% Notes: 1 EPS For all PSP awards, EPS refers to earnings per share before recurring items including amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related items, fair value adjustments, imputed interest and non-recurring items management judge to be one-off or non-operational.
These adjustments are net of tax and the impact of foreign exchange is neutralised in prior year EPS.
This measure has been selected since the timing of acquisitions can be unpredictable, with the result that the amortisation charge in respect of intangible assets is inherently difficult to budget.
The neutralised foreign currency basis has been selected as the Board considers this to be consistent with the presentation and assessment of results by shareholders.
2 TSR Peer Group FTSE 100 index at the start of the performance period 1 October 2012, excluding financial services and extracting companies.
3 TSR Peer Group: Adobe Systems Cegid Micro Focus International SAP ARM Holdings Dassault Systemes Microsoft Software AG Blackbaud Exact Oracle Cap Gemini Intuit Salesforce.
com Awards granted in 2014 Awards granted under the PSP in 2014 will vest depending on performance against three equally weighted measures, measured over three years: 1 3 organic revenue growth with a margin underpin 1 3 EPS growth 1 3 relative TSR performance against the FTSE 100 excluding financial services and extracting companies For each measure, three levels of performance are defined below, with straight-line vesting between each level of performance: target, stretch and exceptional.
The performance targets applying to the award granted during the financial year are: Measure Between target and stretch Between stretch and exceptional EPS growth CAGR Between 6% and 12% Between 12% and 15% or above Relative TSR Between median and upper quartile Between upper quartile and upper decile or above Organic revenue growth CAGR Between 4% and 8% Between 8% and 10% or above As outlined in the policy table, awards are made in shares and the number of shares is determined based on a percentage of base salary.
The following table sets out details of awards of conditional shares made during the year under the PSP.
Amount vesting Threshold performance Maximum performance End of Date of award Face value % of face value % of face value performance period CEO 10 March 2014 250% of salary 20% 100% 30 September 2016 CFO 10 March 2014 250% of salary 20% 100% 30 September 2016 Notes: The face value has been calculated using the share price the day before the day of grant of 419p.
These awards vest on the third anniversary of the date of award.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 85 Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued Loss of office payments No payments for loss of office were made to past directors during the year.
No payments have been made that have not already been included in the single figure of remuneration set out earlier in this report.
Change in remuneration of CEO compared to Group employees The table below shows the percentage change in total remuneration of the CEO with a comparator group of UK employees over the same time period.
CEO UK Employees 1 2 Salary 8% 5.6% Taxable benefits 1% 10% 3 Annual incentive -17% 12% Notes: 1 Referencing last years disclosure, the increase reflects Guy Berruyers growth in the role and moved his salary to a more appropriately competitive level.
The decision considered the CEOs strong performance in the role and ongoing commitment to the Group over the last three years and aligns his pay with that of his predecessor.
2 The percentage change for UK Group employees shown is the 2014 annual pay review and promotions market adjustments during 2014.
3 For annual incentives, the comparator group used is the UK management population.
Historical executive pay and Company performance The table below summarises the CEO single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus payout and PSP vesting as a percentage of maximum opportunity for the current year and previous five years.
CEO 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1 CEO single figure of remuneration in 000 Guy Berruyer 2,935 1,196 1,670 1,616 2 Paul Walker 1,797 2,196 Annual bonus payout as % maximum opportunity Guy Berruyer 66% 21% 72% 55% Paul Walker 38% 83% PSP vesting as % of maximum opportunity Guy Berruyer 61% 0% 0% 0% Paul Walker 74% 26% Notes: 1 Guy Berruyer was appointed CEO on 1 October 2010.
2 Paul Walker resigned as CEO on 1 October 2010.
The graph below shows the total shareholder return of the Group and the FTSE 100 over the last six years.
The FTSE 100 index is the index against which the TSR of the Group should be measured because of the comparable size of the companies which comprise that index.
Historical Group performance against FTSE 100 Value 250 200 150 100 50 30-Sep-08 30-Sep-09 30-Sep-10 30-Sep-11 30-Sep-12 30-Sep-13 30-Sep-14 Sage FTSE 100 Index Notes: This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2014, of 100 invested in The Sage Group plc on 30 September 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
86 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Relative importance of spend on pay The charts below show the all-employee pay cost as stated in the notes to the accounts, profit before tax and returns to shareholders by way of dividends and share buyback for 2013 and 2014.
The information shown in this chart is based on the following: Underlying PBT Underlying profit before income tax taken from table on page 104 Returns to shareholders Total dividends taken from note 14.5 on page 149, share buyback taken from consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 107 Total employee pay Total staff costs from note 3.3 on page 118, including wages and salaries, social security costs, pension and share-based payments Underlying PBT m Returns to shareholders m Total employee pay m -1% 622 617 Buyback Flat Special dividends 340 340 -64% Ordinary dividends -100% 251 3% 199 126 122 91 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Notes: The 2013 reported PBT figure includes the profit contribution from certain products disposed of during 2013.
The returns to shareholders for 2013 includes significant returns to meet the leverage target of 1x net debt to EBITDA, which included the proceeds from the non-core disposals.
In 2014, we have used the buyback to help maintain the leverage target and have continued to pursue a progressive dividend policy.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year Appointment of the CEO Stephen Kelly joined the Board as CEO on 5 November 2014.
On an ongoing basis, he will be entitled to receive an annual bonus and award under the PSP to the same extent as his predecessor.
His remuneration package is set out below: Base salary 790,000 per annum, subject to review in January 2016.
In considering the new CEOs base salary, the Committee referenced Mr Kellys previous experience and external market benchmarking as well as the timing of his commencement which was after the Companys normal annual salary review.
Mr Kellys salary represents an increase of just over 1% of the departing CEOs salary Annual bonus 75% of base salary for on-target performance and 125% of salary for maximum performance in line with current policy Long-term incentives a standard PSP award equal to 250% of base salary in the year in line with normal policy.
The award will be subject to performance conditions set out below and a three-year performance period In addition, and to further align his incentives with shareholders, he received a one-off PSP award of 125% of base salary with a six-year vesting period.
This award will vest at the end of the financial year 2019 20 provided that the Groups TSR CAGR has been at least 15% over the period from the date of the award to the vesting date, with 20% of the award vesting if, over the period in question, the Groups TSR is equal to the median of the performance of the companies in the FTSE 100 excluding Financials and Mining and 100% of the award vesting if TSR is equal to or greater than the upper quartile performance of companies in the FTSE 100 excluding Financials and Mining.
No payment has been made to buyout awards from his previous employer Benefits provided in line with our policy Pension a Company contribution to the defined contribution plan of 25% of base salary.
He will be eligible to receive some or all of his pension allowance in cash if he elects to do so, in line with our pension policy Shareholding guidelines all executive directors are required to hold 150% of their annual salary in the Companys shares.
Until this requirement is met, 20% of his bonus will be deferred into shares and he will retain net of any shares sold to meet tax liability 50% of shares vesting from deferred bonus, PSP and exercise of options The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 87 Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued Retirement of the CEO Guy Berruyer will be paid his base salary and contractual benefits until his termination date of 31 March 2015.
Mr Berruyer continued to receive a housing allowance and will be eligible for a bonus for the period he remained CEO up to and including 5 November 2014.
Such bonus will be payable in alignment with the Companys annual bonus timeline and performance measures.
He will not receive a PSP award for 2015.
Any unlapsed options granted under the Sage Group Executive Share Option Scheme will be exercisable for a period of six months following his termination date.
Awards granted under the Sage PSP may be retained and will be exercisable in accordance with the plan rules.
These awards will vest at the end of their respective performance periods pro rata to the time elapsed between the date of grant of the relevant award and his termination date, and to the extent that the relevant performance targets have been met over the full performance period.
Components of remuneration Effective from 1 January 2014, the base salary for the outgoing CEO was 780,000.
The base salary for the new CEO, effective from his joining on 5 November 2014 is 790,000.
The new CFO was appointed on a base salary of 480,000.
His salary increased to 494,400, an increase of 3%, with effect from 1 January 2015.
The CFOs pension provision 25% of salary and benefits remain unchanged from 2014.
Pension and benefits are in line with benefits stated in the policy table.
The maximum bonus opportunity under our annual bonus plan is unchanged in 2015 at 125% of salary.
20% off any bonus must be deferred into shares by the CEO and CFO until they are compliant with their shareholding requirement of 150% of salary.
The performance measures remain 50% profitability underlying PBT, 30% organic revenue growth and 20% strategic measures, unchanged from 2014.
Targets are not disclosed because they are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive.
Many of our competitors are unlisted companies and not required to disclose targets: our disclosure could provide our competitors with a considerable advantage.
It is intended for retrospective disclosure to be made after a period of three years, in alignment with our three-year strategy, and continue to be made on a rolling basis.
The CEO and CFO received a standard PSP award of 250% of base salary in 2015.
As outlined above, the CEO also received a one-off joining award under the PSP.
The extent of vesting of the standard PSP award will be assessed against three equally weighted, independently measured metrics: 1 3 organic revenue growth with a margin underpin 1 3 EPS growth 1 3 relative TSR performance against the FTSE 100 excluding financial services and extracting companies The long-term measures remain unchanged from 2014.
Measure Between target and stretch Between stretch and exceptional EPS growth CAGR Between 6% and 12% Between 12% and 15% or above Relative TSR Between median and upper quartile Between upper quartile and upper decile or above Organic revenue growth CAGR Between 4% and 8% Between 8% and 10% or above Remuneration policy review Further to the recent publication of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Committee will, during 2015, consider the extension of clawback and malus provisions in relation to annual incentives.
Implementation of any changes would be considered for the following financial year.
88 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Illustration of our remuneration policy for 2015 The tables below set out an illustration of the remuneration policy in line with the remuneration policy above and include base salary, pension, benefits and incentives.
The tables provide an illustration of the proportion of total remuneration made up of each component of the remuneration policy and the value of each component.
Benefits are calculated as per the single figure of remuneration.
Four scenarios have been illustrated for each executive director: Below threshold performance No bonus payout No vesting under the Performance Share Plan Target performance 75% of salary payout in annual bonus 60% of maximum opportunity Shares equivalent to 50% of salary vesting under the Performance Share Plan 20% of total shares available Stretch performance 125% of salary payout in annual bonus 100% of maximum opportunity Shares equivalent to 200% of salary vesting under the Performance Share Plan vesting 80% of total shares available Exceptional performance 125% of salary payout in annual bonus 100% of maximum opportunity Shares equivalent to 250% of salary vesting under the Performance Share Plan vesting 100% of total shares awarded The scenarios below do not take into account share price appreciation or dividends.
For the purpose of the illustrations the value of each component has been rounded to the nearest 1,000.
CEO policy 16 4 0 20 40 20 4,958,700 Exceptional % 18 5 0 23 36 18 4,366,200 Stretch % 2,193,700 36 9 1 27 18 9 Target % Below 78 20 2 1,008,700 threshold % 0 1,000,000 2,000,000 3,000,000 4,000,000 5,000,000 CFO policy 10 3 0 13 25 2,513,867 Exceptional % 11 3 0 14 23 2,264,267 Stretch % 23 6 1 17 11 1,265,867 Target % Below 78 19 3 641,867 threshold % 0 1,000,000 2,000,000 3,000,000 4,000,000 5,000,000 Salary Pension Benets Annual bonus including any deferred amounts Long-term incentives One-off PSP The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 89 Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued Directors shareholdings and share interests audited information Executive directors are required to hold 150% of their annual salary in the Companys shares.
Until this requirement is met, executive directors must defer 20% of their bonus into shares, and retain net of any shares sold to meet tax liability 50% of shares received from deferred bonus, PSP and exercise of options.
At the year-end, Guy Berruyer met the requirement, while 20% of Steve Hares bonus was deferred into shares.
Interests in shares The interests of each person who was a director of the Company as at 30 September 2014 together with interests held by his or her connected persons were: Ordinary Ordinary shares at shares at 30 September 30 September Director 2014 number 2013 number G S Berruyer 712,434 705,232 D H Brydon 53,024 38,024 R Markland 4,753 4,753 N Berkett 27,999 28,000 D Hall 10,000 0 S Hare 0 0 J Howell 12,833 12,833 I Kuznetsova 0 0 Total 821,043 798,842 Notes: There have been no changes in the directors holdings in the share capital of the Company, as set out in the table above, between 30 September 2014 and the date of this report.
For information, Stephen Kellys shareholding as at the date of this report was 67,500 shares.
Details of the executive directors interests in outstanding share awards under the ESOS, PSP, deferred shares and all-employee plans are set out below.
Executive share options audited information The Groups only executive share option scheme is the ESOS.
In the year under review, executive directors did not receive grants under this scheme.
The outstanding executive share options granted to each director of the Company under the executive share option schemes, including the ESOS, are as follows: Shares under Shares under option at Granted Exercised Lapsed option at 1 October during during during 30 September Exercise price 2013 the year the year the year 2014 Director per share number number number number number Date exercisable G S Berruyer 198.00p 189,082 189,082 6 January 2008 6 January 2015 258.50p 122,630 122,630 10 January 2009 10 January 2016 270.00p 62,008 62,008 10 January 2010 10 January 2017 Total 373,720 373,720 Notes: No options were varied during the year.
The performance criteria for options which became exercisable on or after 6 January 2008 are based on EPS growth measured over a fixed three-year period from the start of the financial year in which the grant was made.
30% of options would vest at the end of the period if the increase in EPS exceeded RPI by 15% an average of 5% per year and 100% of those options would vest if RPI was exceeded in that period by 27% an average of 9% per year.
Between those points, options vest on a straight-line basis.
There was no further retesting.
The market price of a share of the Company at 30 September 2014 was 365.40p and the lowest and highest market price during the year was 311.60p and 439.78p respectively.
90 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
