Directors Report Directors Report Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder On behalf of your Board, I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Remuneration Committee continues to recognise the clear link between pay and performance and provides information on this in the Report by way disclosures on our reward structure and on our remuneration decisions in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
This Report also complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Regulations.
We have structured the Report into two sections: 1.
Directors Remuneration Policy setting out all elements of our Companys remuneration policy and the key factors that were taken into account in setting that policy.
This policy was subject to a binding shareholder vote at last years General Meeting and will be resubmitted to shareholders for a vote at least every third year.
Annual Report on Remuneration setting out payments and awards made to our Directors and an explanation of the link between Company performance and remuneration for the financial year covered by the accounts.
This report on remuneration, together with this letter is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting on 7 May.
2014 Overview As reported in the Strategic Review pages 2 to 75, we have sought to stabilise Serco with strong new management and additional NonExecutive Directors: a much improved relationship with the UK Government: and clarity as to our strategic direction.
Recognising the need for strong and effective leadership, I am delighted with the appointments of Rupert Soames as our new CEO and Angus Cockburn as CFO, and that Ed Casey has taken the role of COO, to which he is able to bring to bear his extensive operational experience of Sercos business.
Following their appointments this new leadership team launched a root and branch Strategy Review and a Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews, encompassing a reassessment of the Groups future prospects and the creation of an appropriate capital structure: these are all necessary steps to give our new management team a firm foundation on which to take the Company forward again.
Remuneration outcomes in respect of 2014 2014 Share Awards The Committee consulted with major shareholders and the voting guidance services in March on the appropriate targets to apply to our long-term incentives for 2014 awards.
The targets we intended to use for the 2014 share awards were then summarised in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and the 2014 Notice of Meeting.
However, in advance of making the 2014 share awards, many factors came to a head at the time of our Q1 IMS and provided significantly greater visibility as to the prospects for 2014.
We were also very mindful of our key objective to incentivise appropriately our new leadership team to restore Sercos profitability and shareholder value.
In light of these factors the Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the targets that we intended to use for the 2014 share awards and concluded that our original targets were no longer realistically attainable and that to grant such an award would be fide-motivating rather than achieve our objective of incentivising our leadership.
Given these exceptional circumstances we actively engaged with shareholders in late May and early June and as a result made two overriding changes to the performance conditions for the share awards granted in 2014.
First, we extended the performance period for our share price and EPS targets.
Recognising that our prospects for 2014 were significantly reduced we concluded that it would take us longer to achieve the targeted financial performance we had set out, albeit that we still wished to incentivise management to achieve the same level of performance.
Second, we adjusted the targets which are expressed on a per share basis to reflect the impact of the placing in May.
The placing provided the extra capital needed to support planned earnings with a more appropriate balance sheet structure.
Whilst the Committee has sought to maintain, wherever possible, our long-term aspirations for the profitability and the market capitalisation of Serco we have reduced those targets expressed on a per share basis EPS and share price to reflect the fact that we now have c10% more shares in issue.
The performance measures for the 2014 share awards are described in more detail in the Implementation Report on pages 120 to 121.
These awards are subject to malus, clawback and a holding period.
Leadership changes I provided details of the terms on which Rupert Soames was appointed as our new CEO in my letter accompanying last years Directors Remuneration Report.
Ed Caseys base salary and bonus opportunity remained unchanged following his appointment to Group COO, full details of his package being detailed in the At a glance table on page 103.
During 2014 Andrew Jenner resigned as Group Chief Financial Officer and Angus Cockburn was appointed.
He joined the Company on 27October 2014 on a base salary of 500,000, with a first review date of 1 April 2015, and will receive a pension supplement of 30% of salary.
Hisincentives are in line with the remuneration policy approved at our 2014 AGM.
In order to compensate him for awards he had forgone at Aggreko as a result of joining Serco, Angus also received an initial one-off long-term incentive award of 135% of salary under the PSP and an award of shares vesting over the period to 16 April 2017.
The performance conditions for the one-off PSP award were relative TSR, Share Price and strategic objectives.
Any Aggreko awards that had performance conditions attached were replaced with Serco awards with performance conditions.
Angus will also receive a payment of 111,068 to compensate him for the pro-rated three months of bonus that he would have received from Aggreko in respect of the final three months of 2014 had he not left to join Serco.
