Directors remuneration report Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, Iampleased to present the Remuneration Committees reportfor the financial year endingDecember 31, 2014.
Anne Minto Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Part 1 Annual Statement This has been a challenging year for Ensure our remuneration We clari ed the Committees intention Shire and I would like to take this arrangements are aligned with our to make annual awards under the opportunity to provide you with an strategy, in particular our plan to Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP with overview of the Committees major double Shires product sales to a maximum of 840% of salary to the decisions taken during the year, the $10billion by 2020.
CEO this award level is subject to the changes made to the Executive CEOs continued exceptional personal Simplify remuneration arrangements, Directors remuneration arrangements, performance.
Awards will vest based increase transparency for our and the context in which these decisions on stretching financial performance shareholders and improve line of sight were taken.
As communicated to shareholders in We replaced our historic performance Implement a remuneration package lastyears remuneration report, the matrix on the LTIP with the that is competitive and facilitates Committee undertook a strategic review independent measures of Non GAAP executive retention within the sectors of remuneration during 2014.
This gave EBITDA and Product Sales and and geographies in which the the Committee an opportunity to ensure maintained a Non GAAP Adjusted Company operates and competes the remuneration policy for Executive ROIC underpin to ensure that earnings fortalent.
Directors supports and drives the quality is achieved before any payout Companys strategic direction and in Incorporate key aspects of emerging can occur.
particular the key goal of achieving remuneration best practice.
We introduced a two-year post vest $10billion in product sales by 2020. holding period onto the LTIP resulting Asaresult of this review, we are In line with our ongoing commitment in a total holding period of five years.
presenting a new remuneration policy for toopen and transparent dialog with shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM.
shareholders, I have had discussions We enhanced the malus and clawback At Shire we are focused on becoming with many of our largest shareholders provision for the incentive plans to aleading global Biotech company and todiscuss the proposed revisions to ensure that we are aligned with market the Committee is confi dent that the ourremuneration policy.
proposed remuneration policy supports presented therefore takes into this ambition.
The revised policy is consideration the views of key designed to: shareholders and we very much look forward to receiving your support for the policy at the 2015 AGM.
Full details of the revised policy are set out in the body of the remuneration report.
The key changes are summarised below: 74 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information As part of the review the Committee Key Committee decisions alsodetermined that the Global Biotech The Committee took the decisions and US BioPharma markets would be regarding remuneration during the the primary reference points when yearinthe context of the exceptional considering the remuneration policy for performance of the Company in 2014 Executive Directors with the FTSE 50 and the Committee is satisfi ed that excluding fi financial services retained thereis strong alignment between asa secondary reference point.
This Company performance and the change is intended to refl ect the current payments to the Executive Directors.
profi le of the business where North Thekey decisions include: America generates the majority of the Strong performance has resulted in the Companys revenues and is also the Executive Annual Incentive Plan paying coremarket for competing for talent.
Dr. out at the maximum opportunity for Ornskov is also located in the US, along the CEO of 180% of salary.
with the majority of senior management and over two-thirds of employees.
In view of Dr. Ornskovs excellent leadership and the strong performance The Committee will continue to monitor of the Company, the Committee has the current arrangements to ensure they awarded the CEO a base salary remain aligned with Shires strategic increase of 3.8% effective from goals and shareholder interests.
Context of the Committees decisions Graham Hetherington, the Companys Through an eventful 2014, including the CFO, left the Company during the uncertainty surrounding the offer from year.
Full details of the treatment of AbbVie, the Company and its employees Mr. Hetheringtons remuneration on maintained focus and the business departure are set out in this report and continued to grow and operate with I can con rm that the decisions made great success.
This has resulted in upper by the Committee were taken within quartile performance over the period: the terms of the approved 2014 remuneration policy.
Mr. Hetherington Ordinary Share price increased by did not receive a bonus for the 2014 60.7% through 2014 and American year and his Portfolio Share Plan Depositary Share price increased PSP awards lapsed except for by52.7%.
the2012 award which vested subject Net product sales experienced strong to performance conditions and time growth of 23% to $5,830 million proration.
bonus shares will continue to vest at 1 their normal vesting dates.
Non GAAP EBITA of $2,593 million exceeded our target of $2,341 million During the year the Committee by 10.8%, demonstrating the progress agreedto increase the Chairmans we made against our strategy to grow feeto 450,000 in recognition of our business ef ciently, enabling us to herexcellent leadership and deliver value to our stakeholders and provencapabilities.
provide more innovative treatments to more patients.
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow 1 Committee members as well as the Strong Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC internal and external teams who returns of 14.7% versus the target of supported us with their commitment 12.8%, driven largely by the strong andhard work over the past year.
sales growth and ef cient cost base ofour business.
Anne Minto Successful cost management Chairman of the Remuneration ensuredthat combined Non GAAP Committee 1 R&D and SG&A costs were maintained within our target of 44.3%of net product sales.
1 This is a Non GAAP financial measure.
For reconciliation to US GAAP please see page 166.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 75 Directors remuneration report continued Index to the Directors Part 3 Annual Report on Remuneration 87 a Implementation of Directors Remuneration Policy in 2015 87 Remuneration Report b 2014 single total figure of remuneration for Executive This report has been prepared in compliance with Schedule 8 of the Directors subject to audit 90 Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports c 2014 single total figure of remuneration for the Chairman Regulations 2008 as amended during the course of 2013 the Schedule and Non-Executive Directors subject to audit 93 8 Regulations, as well as the Companies Act 2006 and other related d Executive Directors interests under long term incentives regulations.
This report is set out in the following key sections: awarded during 2014 subject to audit 94 Part 1 Annual Statement 74 e Departure Arrangements for Graham Hetherington a Our remuneration at a glance 76 subject to audit 95 f Payments to past Directors subject to audit 95 Part 2 Directors Remuneration Policy 78 g Directors shareholdings and scheme interests a Executive Director remuneration policy 78 subject to audit 96 b Chairman and Non-Executive Director remuneration policy 82 h TSR performance graph 98 c Recruitment remuneration policy 82 i Percentage change in CEO remuneration 99 d Service contracts and termination arrangements 83 j Relative importance of spend on pay 99 e Remuneration scenarios 84 k Remuneration Committee 100 f Shareholder engagement 85 The Directors Remuneration Policy Part 2 will be subject to a binding g Remuneration of other employees 85 shareholder vote at the 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM to obtain approval for a period of three years effective following the AGM.
The remainder of this report will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the2015 AGM.
a Our remuneration at a glance Summary of our strategic priorities The Executive Director remuneration policy supports Shires strategic drivers, which are set out in detail in the Strategy and Business model section on page 10 and are summarized below: Growth Drive performance from our currently marketed products to optimize revenue growth and cash generation.
Innovation Build our future assets through both R&D and business development to deliver innovation and value for the future.
Ef ciency Operate a lean and agile organization and reinvest for growth.
People Foster a high performance culture where we attract and retain the best talent in all aspects of our business.
The Committee believes that the Executive Directors remuneration policy appropriately supports shareholder value creation by delivering sustainable performance consistent with our strategy and appropriate risk management.
Summary of policy and key changes Element Summary description Maximum opportunity Change to policy Base salary Base salaries are set at a level to recognize the Increases are made in line with No change in policy.
market value of the role, an individuals skills, the average of employees salary experience and performance, as well as their increases, unless the Committee contribution to leadership and Company strategy.
Pension and benefits Pension and other benefits provided in line with Fixed retirement benefits up No change in policy.
to30% of annual salary and levels of benefits are defined bymarket rates.
Executive Annual Annual bonus is payable each year subject to Annual maximum equal to 180% No change in policy.
Incentive Plan EAIP performance against a scorecard consisting of of base salary.
financial and non-financial targets weighting of 75% and 25% respectively.
25% of any award deferred as shares for a period of three years.
Long Term Incentive Stock Appreciation Rights SARs and Face value of 480% of base Change in performance measures Plan LTIP Performance Share Awards PSAs vest subject salary for SAR awards and 360% to increase alignment with the to the achievement of Product Sales and Non of base salary for PSA awards Companys long term strategy.
GAAP EBITDA targets at the end of a three-year can be granted annually.
A Non GAAP Adjusted Return on Invested Two-year holding period for both PSA Capital ROIC underpin is also used to test and SAR awards introduced.
76 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Incentive arrangements performance outcomes for 2014 EAIP The bonus award for 2014 refl ects exceptional performance against stretching targets for the year.
Outcome Description Weighting Target % of target Financial 75% Net products sales $5,571m $5,830m 104.6% 1 Non GAAP EBITA $2,341m $2,593m 110.8% 1 Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC 12.8% 14.7% 114.8% Cost management Achieve combined Non GAAP R&D 1 andSG&Atarget 44.3% of net product sales 41.8% 106.0% Pipeline & Pre- 15% Key Performance Indicators KPIs built around the strategic priority of developing our Overall assessment commercial future assets which will enable us to deliver innovation and value for the future Significantly Non Financial above target Organizational 10% Execute against priority actions identified in relation to supporting a high-performance Overall assessment Effectiveness culture Significantly Non Financial above target Finalize integrated One Shire organization structure and hire in accordance FDA approval for Building 400 manufacturing plant Execute against key financial and non financial success factors in relation to the integration of ViroPharma 1 This is a Non GAAP financial measure.
This has been an exceptional year for Shire and as such, the Committee determined that a bonus payment equal to 180% of salary would be paid to the CEO following an assessment of the 2014 corporate scorecard, as set out above, and taking into account the impact on the Companys performance of strategic actions together with performance relative to overall objectives.
Long term incentives No awards that have previously been granted to the CEO were due to vest for the year ending December 31, 2014.
2014 single total gure of remuneration for Executive Directors Short term incentives Base Retirement Other Long term Other 2014 2013 Executive Director salary benefits benefits Cash Shares incentives payments Total Total F. Ornskov $000 1,300 390 107 1,755 585 4,137 3,402 G. Hetherington 000 80 20 21 975 1,096 4,425 Graham Hetherington left the Company on March 1, 2014.
CEO shareholding guidelines and actual shareholding as at December 31, 2014 Flemming Ornskov % of salary Shareholding guidelines Actual shareholding 0% 100% 200% 300% 400% 500% ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 77 Directors remuneration report continued Part 2 Directors Remuneration Policy a Executive Director remuneration policy The purpose of the remuneration policy is to recruit and retain high caliber executives and encourage them to enhance the Companys performance responsibly and in line with the Companys strategy and shareholder interests.
The remuneration policy set out in this section is intended to apply for three years from the date of the 2015 AGM, subject to shareholder approval.
Whilst there is currently no intention to revise the policy more frequently than every three years, the Committee will review the policy on an annual basis to ensure it remains strategically aligned and appropriately positioned against the market.
Where any change to policy is considered, the Committee will consult with major shareholders prior to submitting a revised policy for shareholder approval.
The overall remuneration package for the Executive Directors is designed to provide an appropriate balance between fi xed and variable, performance-related components, with a signifi cant element of long term variable pay given the long term nature of the business.
In determining the positioning of overall remuneration, the Committee takes into consideration pay levels against a Global Biotech peer group and a US BioPharma peer group.
These peer groups refl ect the need for Shire to be aligned with the Biotech and BioPharma sectors in which the Company operates, the markets in which the Company competes for talent and the geographies in which the Company operates.
In addition, the FTSE 50 excluding fi financial services is used as a secondary reference point, given Shires position as a UK listed company.
The Committee is satisfi ed that the composition and structure of the remuneration package is appropriate and does not incentivize undue risk taking.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation and Performance Assessment Opportunity Fixed elements Base salary To recognize the market value of the Base salary is paid in cash and is pensionable.
Base salary is positioned with reference to role, an individuals skills, experience Global Biotech and US BioPharma peer groups.
Individual and corporate performance are factors considered and performance and an individuals A FTSE 50 excluding financial services group is during the annual base salary review process.
Any increases leadership and contribution to used as a secondary reference point.
The exact typically take effect on January 1 each year.
positioning depends on a variety of factors such Any significant salary increases, such as in cases where Executive as individual experience and performance, total Directors are relatively new in role, changes in responsibilities or remuneration increases across the Company significant variance to the market, will be appropriately explained.
Where appropriate, base salary increases are made in line with the average of employees salary increases, unless the Committee determines otherwise based on the factors listed above.
The annual base salaries for the Executive Directors are set out in Part 3 a of this report.
Fixed elements Retirement and other benefits To ensure that benefits are Executive pension benefits are provided in line with market Executive Directors can receive a fixed competitive in the markets in which practice in the country in which an Executive is based.
contribution of up to 30% of annual salary by the Company operates.
way of a retirement benefit provision.
The Company provides a range of other benefits which may include a car allowance, long term disability and life cover, private The cost to the Company of providing other medical insurance and financial and tax advisory support.
These benefits may vary depending on such things benefits are not pensionable.
Other benefits may be offered if as, market practice and the cost of insuring considered appropriate by the Committee.
The Company may also meet certain mobility costs, such as relocation support, expatriate allowances, temporary living and transportation expenses, in line with the prevailing mobility policy and practice for senior executives.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the all employee share plans operated by the Company, such as the Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP.
78 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Purpose and link to strategy Operation and Performance Assessment Opportunity Short term incentives Executive Annual Incentive Plan EAIP To reward individuals with an award In determining EAIP awards for the Executive Directors, the Up to 90% of base salary is payable for target based on achievement of pre-defined, Committee considers performance against each of the key performance for Executive Directors and up to Committee approved corporate performance measures within the corporate scorecard, taking 180% is payable for maximum performance, objectives the corporate scorecard into account the impact of strategic actions on the Companys although actual payouts can range from 0% and the individuals contributions performance, the Companys response to external opportunities threshold performance upwards.
and events that could not have been predicted at the beginning Each year the Committee determines the of the year and performance against personal objectives.
In Key performance measures are set measures and weightings for the corporate addition, the Committee may amend the performance measures by the Committee in the context of scorecard within the following parameters: or targets in exceptional circumstances where it considers that annual performance and ensuring At least 75% of the corporate scorecard will they are no longer appropriate.
progress towards the Companys be based on financial performance: and strategy to grow value for all our The cash element 75% of any award is paid in the first quarter of Non financial corporate scorecard measures stakeholders focusing and excelling the year following the performance year, and the deferred shares will be based on other strategic priorities for in everything we do to meet the element 25% of any award is deferred and normally released the relevant financial year.
For 2015, this will current and future needs of patients.
after a period of three years.
The release of deferred shares be aligned with our four key strategic drivers: includes dividend shares representing accumulated dividends.
Growth: Malus and clawback arrangements are in place.
These are compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Innovation: Code and in line with best practice in this area.
The precise allocation between financial and non financial measures as well as the weightings within these measures, will depend on the strategic focus of the Company in any given year.
Long term incentives Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP To incentivize individuals to achieve LTIP grants for the Executive Directors comprise two types of Maximum annual awards for Executive Directors sustained growth through superior award: in face value terms are 840% of salary for grants long term performance and to create under the LTIP, consisting of: SAR awards.
A Stock Appreciation Right SAR is the right alignment with shareholders.
to receive Ordinary Shares or ADSs linked to the increase in 480% of base salary for SAR awards: and The LTIP measures, Product value of Ordinary Shares or ADSs from grant to exercise.
360% of base salary for PSA awards.
Sales and Non GAAP EBITDA, PSA awards.
A Performance Share Award PSA is the right Award levels are set to reflect an individuals were selected by the Committee to receive a specified number of Ordinary Shares or ADSs.
role, responsibilities and experience as it believes that they represent SAR and PSA awards granted to Executive Directors vest meaningful and relevant Threshold vesting is equal to 20% of any award three years from the date of grant, subject to the satisfaction of measurements of performance made, with maximum vesting being equal to performance measures and are governed by the LTIP rules.
SAR and are an important measure of 100% of any award made.
awards can be exercised up to the seventh anniversary of the the Companys ability to meet the date of grant.
strategic objective to grow value for all our stakeholders.
Vesting of awards requires the achievement of two independent measures: The Committee reviews annually 1 whether the performance measures Product Sales targets 50% weighting : and and calibration of targets remain 2 Non GAAP EBITDA targets 50% weighting.
appropriate and sufficiently 3 The Committee will also use a Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC challenging taking into account the underpin at the end of the three-year performance period to Companys strategic objectives and assess the underlying performance of the Company before shareholder interests determining final vesting levels.
The award may include dividend shares representing accumulated dividends on the portion of the award that vests.
The Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to the measures to reflect significant one off items that occur during the vesting period Significant Adjusting Events SAEs.
Potential SAEs are reviewed by the Committee against pre-existing 4 guidelines.
The Committee will make full and clear disclosure of any such adjustments in the Directors Remuneration Report DRR at the end of the performance period.
A two-year holding period will apply following the three-year vesting period for both PSAs and SARs.
Shares may be sold in order to satisfy tax or other relevant liabilities as a result of the award vesting.
Malus and clawback arrangements are in place.
These are compliant with the Code and in line with best practice in this area.
Executive Directors are encouraged to own shares in the Company equivalent to 200% for the CEO and 150% for the CFO of base salary within a five-year period following their appointment.
All shares beneficially owned by an executive or deferred under the EAIP count towards achieving these guidelines.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 79 Directors remuneration report continued 1 Product Sales is fide ned as product sales from continuing operations.
2 Non GAAP EBITDA growth is fide ned as the CAGR of Non GAAP EBITDA, as derived from the Groups Non GAAP financial results included in its full year earnings releases, over the three-year vesting period.
3 Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC re ects the fide nition used by the Company in its corporate scorecard.
This fide nition aims to measure true underlying economic performance of the Company, by making a number of adjustments to ROIC as derived from the Companys Non GAAP financial results including: Adding back to Non GAAP operating income all R&D expenses and operating lease costs incurred in the period: Capitalizing on the Groups balance sheet historical, cumulative R&D, in process R&D and intangible asset impairment charges and operating lease costs which previously have been expensed: Deducting from Non GAAP operating income and amortization charge for the above capitalized costs based on the estimated commercial lives of the relevant products: Excluding the income statement and balance sheet impact of non-operating assets such as surplus cash and non-strategic investments : and Taxing the resulting adjusted operating income at the underlying Non GAAP effective tax rate.
4 The Signi cant Adjusting Events pre-existing guidelines consist of the following: The event results from a strategic action that has a short term impact on Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC or Non GAAP EBITDA growth, but is in the long term interest of shareholders or the event was external and results in a signi cant change to the Companys operating environment: The event is a one off as opposed to recurring in nature: The event is signi cant which is fide ned by reference to its impact on Non GAAP EBITDA relative to a materiality threshold: and The event was not taken into account when the performance matrix was set.
Legacy matters in relation to Executive Director remuneration The Committee will honour remuneration and related commitments to current and former Directors including the exercise of any discretions available to the Committee in relation to such commitments where the terms were agreed prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed in thisreport.
Notes to the remuneration policy table Elements of previous policy that continue to apply The following existing arrangements will continue to operate on the terms and conditions set out in the relevant Portfolio Share Plan PSP rules.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation and Performance Assessment Opportunity Long term incentives Portfolio Share Plan PSP Previous awards granted to Outstanding and unvested awards for the CEO comprise SAR and Outstanding awards granted to the incentivize individuals to achieve PSA awards.
Vesting of PSP awards will be subject to the achievement CEO, that were granted in 2013 sustained growth through superior of NonGAAP EBITDA and Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC targets within a and2014, are set out in Part 3 g long term performance and create performance matrix.
The Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to the measures Threshold vesting under the to reflect significant one-off items which occurred during the vesting period performance matrix is equal to 25% SAEs.
Potential SAEs are reviewed by the Committee against pre-existing of any award made, with maximum guidelines.
The Committee will make full and clear disclosure of any such vesting being equal to 100%.
adjustments in the relevant DRR at the end of the performance period.
In addition, awards will only vest if the Committee determines that the underlying financial performance of the Company is sufficient to justify thevesting of the awards.
Malus and clawback arrangements are in place for past awards to coversituations where results are materially misstated or in the event ofserious misconduct.
Where an individuals employment terminates, the PSP rules provide for unvested long term incentive awards to lapse except as set out below.
Under PSP rules, where an individual is determined to be a good leaver, unvested long term incentive awards vest upon termination subject to performance against applicable performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, pro rating for time.
Any Committee determination will take into account a number of considerations, in  and other circumstances relating to their termination of employment.
Good leaver reasons include retirement in accordance with the Companys retirement policy, ill health, injury or disability, and redundancy or in other circumstances that the Committee determines.
Pro rating for time will be calculated on the basis of the number of complete weeks in the relevant period during which the executive was employed or would have been employed had the executive remained in employment throughout the notice period as a proportion of the number of complete weeks in the relevant period.
The PSP rules provide that unvested awards will normally only vest on a change in control to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied, unless the Committee determines otherwise, and would be reduced where less than two years have elapsed from the relevant grant date.
80 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Changes to remuneration policy from previous policy Following a strategic remuneration review during the year, the Executive Director remuneration policy has been revised.
The following summary sets out the changes when compared to last years approved policy.
No changes have been made to the base salary, retirement and other benefi ts or EAIP policies.
Policy element Previous policy Changes to policy Rationale for change Overall A Mid-Atlantic peer group was used as The Committee will reference pay levels within a Change reflects sectors and remuneration the primary benchmarking reference point Global Biotech peer group and a US BioPharma geographies in which the policy which comprised a blend of US and UK peer group.
In addition, the FTSE 50 excluding Company operates and the companies, taking into account scale and financial services will be used as a secondary markets in which the Company international complexity.
Long term Target levels of award in face value Maximum opportunity for awards under the LTIP set Revised quantum is within incentives termsof: at a face value of 840% of salary: current policy maximum agreed by shareholders.
However 400% base salary for SAR awards: and 480% base salary for SAR awards: and fixing awards for the CEO at a 300% base salary for PSA awards.
360% base salary for PSA awards.
face value of 840% per annum The Committee had the discretion to recognizes the competitive gap in award between 80% and 120% of these remuneration that exists relative levels based on performance.
to the Global Biotech and US BioPharma and markets.
Vesting of awards subject to the Awards will be tested against two independent Product Sales, Non GAAP achievement of Non GAAP EBITDA and measures after a three-year performance period: EBITDA and Non GAAP Adjusted Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC targets within ROIC are directly aligned to the Product Sales targets 50% weighting : and aperformance matrix.
business strategy and removal Non GAAP EBITDA targets 50% weighting.
of the matrix simplifies the plan In addition, awards will only vest if the to enhance transparency for all Vesting of awards will be subject to a Non Committee determines that the underlying stakeholders.
GAAP Adjusted ROIC underpin at the end of the financial performance of the Company performance period to ensure vesting levels reflect is sufficient to justify the vesting of Retaining Non GAAP Adjusted the sustainability of revenue and profit.
ROIC as a minimum for any vesting ensures a focus on At threshold performance 20% of any award Threshold vesting under the performance quality of earnings, balance madewill vest, with maximum vesting being matrix is equal to 25% of any award sheethealth and enhancement equalto100%.
made, with maximum vesting being ofshareholder value.
No holding period post vesting.
Two-year holding period after three-year vesting This supports alignment of the period introduced for both PSA and SAR awards Executive Directors interests with granted to Executive Directors from 2015 onwards.
that of the long term business strategy and shareholders.
Malus and Malus and clawback arrangements for Arrangements for the short and long term incentive The Committee believes it clawback short and long term incentive structures structures revised in line with the Code requirements.
isappropriate to have the in place to cover situations where results powerto withhold payments are materially misstated or in the event of incertain circumstances.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 81 Directors remuneration report continued b Chairman and Non-Executive Director Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Overall remuneration To attract and retain high The Chairman is paid a single fee for all of his her responsibilities.
Fees are determined by the Executive caliber individuals by offering TheNon-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee.
The members and Directors and the Chairman, with the market competitive fee levels.
Chairmen of the main Board committees and the Senior Independent exception of the Chairmans fee which is Director are paid a committee fee to reflect their extra responsibilities.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors receive 25% of their total To reflect the governance environment in feesin the form of shares.
which Shire operates fees are benchmarked against a UK FTSE 50 excluding financial Additional fees may be paid to Non-Executive Directors excluding the services group.
As a secondary reference Chairman on a per meeting basis for any non-scheduled Board or point fee levels in the Global Biotech peer Committee meetings required in exceptional or unforeseen circumstances, group and US BioPharma peer group the up to the relevant fee cap as set out in the Companys Articles.
groups used for the Executive Directors are The Company reimburses reasonably incurred expenses and Nontaken into account.
Executive Directors are also paid an additional fee in respect of each In addition, the fee levels also take into transatlantic trip made for Board meetings.
account the anticipated time commitment for The fees paid to the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors the role and experience of the incumbent.
The Non-Executive Directors do not The Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors participateinany of the Group share plans, pension plans or other fees are reviewed on an annual basis.
Where appropriate, increases are made with reference to the factors listed above and average employee salary increases since the last increase was applied.
c Recruitment remuneration policy The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director and the approach to be adopted by the Committee in respect of each component.
Area Policy and operation Overall The Committees approach when considering the overall remuneration arrangements in the recruitment of a member of the Board from an external party is to take account of the Executive Directors remuneration package in their prior role, the market positioning of the remuneration package, and to not pay more than necessary to facilitate the recruitment of the individual in question.
Fixed elements The salary level will be set with reference to the Companys Global Biotech and US BioPharma peer groups, with a Base salary, retirement FTSE50 excluding financial services group used as a secondary reference to ensure the positioning is appropriate.
and other benefits The Executive Director shall be eligible to participate in Shires employee benefit plans, including coverage under all executive and employee pension and benefit programs in accordance with the terms and conditions of such plans, as may be amended by the Company in its sole discretion from time to time.
The Company may meet certain mobility costs, including but not limited to relocation support, expatriate allowances, temporary living and transportation expenses in line with the prevailing mobility policy and practice for senior executives.
Short term incentives The appointed Executive Director will be eligible to earn a discretionary annual incentive award in accordance with the rules and terms of Shires Executive Annual Incentive Plan.
The level of opportunity will be consistent with that stated in Part 2 a of this report.
Long term incentives The Executive Director will be eligible for performance based equity awards in accordance with the rules and terms of Shires Long Term Incentive Plan.
The quantum will be consistent with that stated in Part 2 a of this report.
Replacement awards The Committee will consider what replacement awards if any are reasonably necessary to facilitate the recruitment of a new Executive Director in all circumstances.
This includes an assessment of the awards and any other compensation or benefits item that would be forfeited on leaving their current employer.
The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards such that overall they are not significantly more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited.
In determining quantum and structure of these commitments, the Committee will seek to provide broadly equivalent value and replicate, as far as practicable, the timing and performance requirements of remuneration foregone.
The Committee will seek to ensure that a meaningful proportion of the replacement awards which are not attributable tolong term incentives foregone will be delivered in Shire deferred shares, released at a later date and subject to continued employment.
If the Executive Directors prior employer pays any portion of the remuneration that was deemed foregone, the replacement payments shall be reduced by an equivalent amount.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using the Companys existing long term incentive plan to the extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside of this plan if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
In the case of an internal hire, any outstanding awards made in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out according to their original terms.
If promotion is part way through the year, an additional top up award may be made to bring the Executive Directors opportunity to a level that is appropriate in the circumstances.
82 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information d Service contracts and termination arrangements Executive Directors The Committees policy on service contracts and termination arrangements for Executive Directors is set out below.
As an overriding principle, it is the Committees policy that there should be no element of reward for failure.
The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason fortermination, performance, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules.
Notice period The Committees policy is that Executive Directors service contracts should provide for a notice period of 12 months from the Company and the Executive Director.
The Committee believes this policy provides an appropriate balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals for the benefit of the business and the need to limit the potential liabilities of the Company in the event of termination.
Flemming Ornskovs contract does not have a fixed term but provides for a notice period of 12 months in line with this policy.
His contract is dated October 24, 2012.
Contractual payments Executive Directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination by way of payment in lieu of notice, at the Companys discretion.
Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
Payments in lieu of notice could potentially include up to 12 months base salary and the cash equivalent of 12 months pension contributions, car allowance and other contractual benefits.
There is no contractual entitlement to annual incentive payments in respect of the notice period any award is at the Committees absolute discretion, performance related and capped at the contractual target level.
Payment in lieu of notice would be made where circumstances dictate that the Executive Directors services are not required for the full 12 months of their notice period.
Contracts also allow for phased payments on termination, which allow for further reduction in payments if the individual finds alternative employment outside of the Company during the notice period.
Retirement benefits Normal treatment to apply as governed by the rules of the relevant pension plan: no enhancement for leavers will bemade.
Short term incentives Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated after the end of a performance year but before the payment is made, the executive will remain eligible for an annual incentive award for that performance year subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
Where an award is made the payment may be delivered fully in cash.
No award will be made in the event of gross misconduct.
Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated during a performance year, a pro rata annual incentive award for the period worked in that performance year may be payable subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
The Committees policy is not to award an annual incentive for any portion of the notice period not served.
The relevant plan rules provide that any outstanding deferred shares will vest in accordance with the regular vesting period, except for where an Executive Directors employment is terminated for cause in which case they will lapse.
In the event of a variation in the equity share capital of the Company, demerger, a special dividend or distribution, or any corporate event which might affect the value of an award, the Committee may make adjustments to the number or class of stock or securities subject to the award.
Long term incentives The treatment of unvested long term incentive awards is governed by the rules of the relevant incentive plan, as approved by shareholders.
Where an individuals employment terminates, the LTIP rules provide for unvested long term incentive awards to lapse except as set out below.
Under the LTIP rules, where an individual is determined to be a good leaver, unvested long term incentive awards will vest at the normal vesting date subject to performance against applicable performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, pro rating for time.
Any Committee determination will take into account a number of considerations, in particular performance and other circumstances relating to their termination of employment.
Pro rating for time will be calculated on the basis of the number of complete weeks in the relevant period during which the Executive was employed as a proportion of the number of complete weeks in the relevant period.
Where an Executive does not work during their notice period, the Committee may apply pro rating by reference to the date the notice period would have expired.
Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated or an Executive Director is under notice of termination for any reason at the date of award of any long term incentive awards, no long term incentive awards will be made.
In the event of a variation in the equity share capital of the Company, demerger, a special dividend or distribution, or any corporate event which might affect the value of an award, the Committee may make adjustments to the number or class of stocks or securities subject to the award and, in the case of an option, the option price.
Change in control In relation to unvested deferred annual bonus awards, the Deferred Bonus Plan rules provide that unvested awards will normally vest on a change in control.
In relation to unvested long term incentive awards, the LTIP rules provide that unvested awards will normally only vest on a change in control to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied and would be reduced where more than a year remains until the relevant vesting date, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
The Committees policy is that contracts of employment should not provide additional compensation on severance as aresult of change in control.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 83 Directors remuneration report continued External appointments Executive Directors are permitted to hold one fee-paying external non-executive directorship, subject to prior approval by the Board.
Any fees received from such appointments are retained by the Executive Director.
During 2014, there were no external non-executive directorships held by the Executive Directors.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment and are appointed by the Board ordinarily for a term of two years.
Theirinitial appointment and any subsequent re-appointment are subject to election, and thereafter annual re-election by shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to compensation for loss of offi ce.
All Non-Executive Directors are subject to a three-month notice period.
All service contracts and letters of appointments are available for viewing at the Companys registered offi ce.
e Remuneration scenarios The composition and value of the CEOs remuneration package in three performance scenarios is set out in the charts below.
These show that the proportion of the package delivered through long term incentives supports the long term nature of the business and changes signifi cantly across the performance scenarios.
The level of remuneration is in accordance with the Executive Director remuneration policy set out in Part 2 a of this report.
CEO Flemming Ornskov 100% Fixed only $1,803 30% 20% 50% On-target performance $6,064 17% 24% 59% Maximum performance $10,324 $0 $2,000 $4,000 $6,000 $8,000 $10,000 $12,000 Value of package $000 Fixed elements base salary, retirement and other bene ts Short term incentives Executive Annual Incentive Plan Long term incentives Long Term Incentive Plan The scenarios are defi ned as follows: Fixed only On target performance Maximum performance Fixed elements Fixed elements do not vary with performance and comprise: 2015 annualized base salary: Benefits included in the summary of 2014 remuneration table in Part 3 b of this report excluding any one-off items : and Retirement benefits is the cash value of the total Company contributions to the Company plans.
This represents 30% of base salary for the CEO.
These definitions are consistent with the Schedule 8 Regulations.
Short term incentives EAIP % of maximum opportunity 0% 50% 100% Long term incentives 1 2 LTIP % of maximum vesting 0% 50% vesting 100% vesting 1 In accordance with the Schedule 8 Regulations, no allowance has been made for share price appreciation.
SAR awards are valued with the same Black-Scholes model that is used to determine the share-based compensation cost included in the Companys consolidated statements of income.
Any dividend shares receivable have been ignored.
2 A level of 50% vesting for on target performance has been assumed.
The Executive Directors remuneration package promotes the achievement of superior long term performance and aligns the interests of the Executive Directors with those of shareholders 84 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information f Shareholder engagement The Committee takes the views of shareholders very seriously and is committed to ongoing dialog with the Companys shareholder base, which has a signifi cant transatlantic element.
This can take a variety of forms including meetings with major shareholders to consider signifi cant potential changes to policy or specifi c issues of interest to particular shareholder groups, other dialog to update shareholders and receive their feedback on planned refi nements to arrangements, and annual voting onthe DRR.
In light of AbbVie terminating its offer for Shire in October 2014, the Committee carried out a shareholder consultation exercise in late 2014 early 2015 which included writing to and meeting with many of the Companys largest shareholders and key shareholder advisory bodies.
The Committee took the opportunity to discuss proposed changes to the remuneration policy for2015, in particular to the Companys peer group policy and long term incentive policy.
These discussions have informed thedisclosures in this report, as well as the decisions made by the Committee in determining the remuneration for the Executive Directors.
g Remuneration of other employees The Committee recognizes that remuneration has an important role to play in supporting the implementation and achievement of the Companys strategy and ongoing performance.
When making remuneration decisions in respect of the Executive Directors, the Committee is sensitive to pay and employment conditions across the Company, in particular in relation to base salary decisions where the Committee considers the broader employee salary increase budget.
The Committee approves the overall annual bonus funding for the Company each year and has oversight over the grant of all LTIP awards across the Company.
In addition, annual performance for the Executive Directors is measured against the backdrop of the same corporate scorecard that is appropriately used to assess performance across the organization.
This assessment of corporate scorecard performance includes a review of Non GAAP EBITA, Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC and cost management performance, adjusted to exclude the impact of the annual bonus corporate modifi er on the full year results.
Given Shires diverse employee base, employing approximately 5,000 people in 34 locations, the Committee does not consider it appropriate to consult with employees over the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
However, many of the Companys employees are shareholders through the Companys all employee share plans, and are therefore able to express their views on Director remuneration at each general meeting.
The Company also periodically carries out an employee engagement survey which provides employees the opportunity to feedback their views on a variety of employment related matters, including remuneration.
The diagram set out on the following page illustrates how our remuneration policy and arrangements reinforce the achievement of Shires success and ensures that Executives and employees are focused on delivering the same core objectives.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 85 Directors remuneration report continued The Shire Remuneration Policy 1 2 3 4 5 Strategically and Performance oriented Competitive Relevant to employees Clear and culturally aligned understandable Remuneration should Remuneration The way remuneration Remuneration must be Each element of the reflect and align with our shouldbe clear and is structured and market competitive in package should be business strategy and understandable so that communicated order to attract and retain valued by employees organizational culture it can have real impact canpromote a talent as well as to avoid and, as far as Equity ownership can performance culture overpaying practicable, meet Employees should drive the right, long term theirdiffering needs understand the rationale Employees should be behaviours and andpreferences for each element of rewarded based on alignment, in particular remuneration and, their contribution to The ability to impact for leaders where relevant, the link value creation company value between performance shouldinfluence the and their reward remuneration mix for employees These act as a framework for remuneration decisions across the Company Overall remuneration The structure and quantum of individual remuneration packages varies by geography, role and level of responsibility.
In general, the proportion of variable remuneration in the total remuneration package increases with level of responsibility within the Company.
Fixed elements Short term incentives Long term incentives base salary and benefits Employees base salaries are For Executive Directors short term Discretionary long term equity awards are benchmarked against the relevant market incentives, assessment is made against a made on an annual basis dependent on taking into account the companies with corporate scorecard of key performance an employees level of responsibility within whom we compete for talent, geography measures built around Shires key the Company and individual performance.
and, where relevant, company size.
financial goals and other strategic For Executive Directors, Executive priorities for the relevant year.
For example, market data for the most Committee members and Executive Vice senior leadership roles, in particular the This same scorecard is appropriately Presidents, all awards vest at the end of a Executive Committee, reflects both the used by each business and corporate three-year period.
geographies in which we operate with function to ensure alignment with For the rest of the employee population, over two-thirds of employees as well as corporate goals, and also funds short phased vesting of awards occurs over a the majority of senior management based term incentives across the Company.
period of three years with the majority in the US and companies of a comparable Scorecard targets are further used as a vesting at the end of the three year period.
size in the pharmaceutical and basis for determination of each biotechnology sectors.
employees performance objectives, with Base salary increases across the annual incentive awards payable in cash, Company are determined in light of similar strongly differentiated based on individual factors as described for the Executive performance through linkages with the Directors.
Retirement and other benefit arrangements are provided to employees with appropriate consideration of market practice and geographical differences.
86 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Part 3 Annual Report on Remuneration a Implementation of Directors Remuneration Policy in 2015 In 2015, the Executive Director and Non-Executive Director remuneration policies will be implemented as follows: Executive Director remuneration policy Fixed elements Base salary Following the year end review, the Committee made the decision to award Dr. Ornskov a base salary increase of 3.8%, to give him an annual base salary of $1,350,000 effective January 1, 2015 which is in line with the disclosed policy in Part 2 a of this report.
This decision refl ected strong corporate performance, excellent leadership and the wider average employee salary increases of 3.74% across Shire.
2014 salary 2015 salary % change Flemming Ornskov $1,300,000 $1,350,000 3.8% Fixed elements Retirement and other benefits The implementation of policy in relation to pension and benefi ts is unchanged and in line with the disclosed policy in Part 2 a of this report.
Short term incentives EAIP There is no change to the level of EAIP award opportunity for Executive Directors.
The 2015 EAIP will continue to use a scorecard approach and will be comprised of 75% fi financial and 25% non fi financial performance measures.
This weighting recognizes the critical importance of fi financial results to our shareholders, bonus affordability and the important role that non fi financial performance plays in the success and growth of the Company.
These measures are aligned with and support our four key strategic drivers for 2015 of Growth, Innovation, Effi ciency and People.
The targets themselves are considered to be commercially sensitive on the grounds that disclosure could damage the Companys commercial interests.
However, retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be provided in next years DRR to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time.
Financial and non fi financial targets are set at the start of the performance year and are approved by the Committee, which believes the targets aresuitably stretching, relevant and measurable.
The 2015 corporate scorecard is set out below: Strategic Drivers Weighting Financial KPIs weighting Financial 75% Net Product Sales 25% Non GAAP EBITA 30% Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC 20% Strategic Drivers Weighting Non Financial KPIs Pipeline and Pre-Commercial 15% Growth: Optimize In-line assets via commercial excellence Progress pipeline and acquire core adjacent assets Innovation: Expand our rare diseases expertise and offerings Extend portfolio to new indications and therapeutic areas Organizational Effectiveness 10% Efficiency: Operate a lean and agile organization Concentrate operations in Lexington and Zug People: Foster and reward a high performance culture Attract, develop and retain the best talent ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 87 Directors remuneration report continued Long term incentives LTIP Following the year end review, the Committee made the following 2015 LTIP award decisions which are in line with the disclosed policy in Part 2 a of this report.
These will be made following shareholder approval of the revised Policy at the 2015 AGM: Face value of Face value of threshold maximum Face value of vesting % of vesting % of maximum 2015 LTIP award Award type 2015 salary 2015 salary vesting 000s SAR 96% 480% $6,480 Flemming Ornskov PSA 72% 360% $4,860 20% of the award will be payable for threshold performance.
There is no vesting below this performance level.
100% of the award will be payable for maximum performance, which would result in the total award vesting, with straight line vesting within this performance range.
In all cases, awards will only vest if the Committee determines that the underlying performance of the Company is suffi cient to justify the vesting of the award.
For the 2015 grant and subsequent policy years, the Committee has determined that LTIP awards will be tested against two independent measures at the end of a three-year performance period: 50% Product Sales targets and 50% Non GAAP EBITDA targets.
The Committee will also use a Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC underpin at the end of the performance period to ensure vesting levels refl ect the sustainability of revenue and profi t growth.
The 2015 LTIP targets for Product Sales and Non GAAP EBITDA are based off the 10 x 20 Plan as approved by the Board in June 2014 and are considered appropriately stretching by the Committee.
The weightings, threshold and maximum target fi gures are provided in the table below.
Threshold Maximum 20% of 100% of Performance measures Weighting award vesting award vesting Product Sales 50% $6,800m $7,500m 1 Non GAAP EBITDA 50% $3,300m $3,675m 1 This is a Non GAAP financial measure.
Product Sales targets are expressed as absolute dollar values in line with the 10 x 20 Plan communicated to shareholders inJune 2014.
Non GAAP EBITDA targets have also been expressed as absolute dollar values for consistency between themeasures.
The Committee has determined that the calibration of these proposed targets is suffi ciently challenging without incentivizing inappropriate risk-taking by management, taking into account both Shires long range plans as well as brokers forecasts.
The Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC underpin will be set at a minimum of 11% for the 2015 LTIP award.
If Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC over the performance period is below this level no vesting will occur under the LTIP, subject to Remuneration Committee discretion.
This will ensure awards only pay out for a return in excess of Shires Weighted Average Cost of Capital and maintain focus on quality of earnings and sustainable returns both in the existing core business and from any future M&A activity.
Clawback and malus arrangements are in place for awards to cover situations where results are materially misstated or in the event of serious misconduct.
88 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Chairman and Non-Executive Director remuneration policy Details of fee levels for 2015 compared to 2014 are set out below.
In recognition of her excellent leadership and proven capabilities in her capacity as Chairman, it was agreed to increase SusanKilsbys Chairman fee to 450,000 effective September 1, 2014.
The Committee considers this increase to be appropriate in view of Chairman fee levels at comparator companies as set out in the remuneration policy.
Basic fees 2015 2014 1 Chairman inclusive of all committees 450,000 450,000 Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director inclusive of Non-Executive Director fee 98,000 98,000 Non-Executive Director 93,000 93,000 1 Effective September 1, 2014 The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will continue to receive 25% of their total fees in the form of shares.
In addition to the basic fee, a committee fee will be paid to the members and Chairman of the Audit, Compliance & Risk, Remuneration, Science & Technology and Nomination Committees.
Following a review of independently sourced data, it was deemed appropriate to increase the Chairman and Committee membership fees for all Committees in accordance with the levels set out below, effective January 1, 2015.
Chairman Member Committee fees effective January 1, 2015 2015 2014 2015 2014 Audit, Compliance & Risk 25,000 20,000 12,500 10,000 Remuneration 25,000 18,000 12,500 9,000 Science & Technology 20,000 15,000 10,000 7,500 Nomination 17,500 12,500 8,750 5,750 It was agreed that effective January 1, 2015, Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman will receive the following additional fees for attending extra meetings: Board meeting additional 2,000 per meeting Committee meeting additional 1,000 per meeting Non-Executive Directors will also continue to receive an additional fee of 5,000 for each transatlantic trip made for Boardmeetings.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 89 Directors remuneration report continued b 2014 single total gure of remuneration for Executive Directors subject to audit The summary table of 2014 remuneration for the Executive Directors comprises a number of key components which are set out in further detail in the relevant sections that follow.
In both 2013 and 2014, the totals were signifi cantly impacted by share price growth between the PSP grant and vesting dates.
This alignment with shareholders and the signifi cant role that long term variable remuneration plays in the overall remuneration package is consistent with our remuneration policy and the long term nature of our business.
Average exchange rate for the year to December 31, 2014 was $1.654:1.00.
1 Graham Hetherington left the Company on March 1, 2014.
Details of Graham Hetheringtons departure arrangements are set out in Part 3 e of this report.
2 Actual vesting value of 3,371,557 is calculated using the closing share price at the date of vesting of 33.20 February 28, 2014.
Estimated vesting value as disclosed in the Companys 2013 DRR of 2,475,272 was calculated using the average share price over the last quarter of 2013 in line with the methodology prescribed in the Schedule 8 Regulations.
Base salary Corresponds to the amounts received during the year Dr. Ornskovs 2014 base salary was $1,300,000 effective January 1, 2014.
His 2013 base salary comprises his CEO designate salary of $900,000 received from January 2, 2013 to April 29, 2013 and his CEO salary of $1,200,000 received upon appointment to CEO from April 30, 2013.
Mr. Hetheringtons base salary re ects his annual salary of 480,000 for both 2013 and 2014.
Retirement benefits Represents the cash value of the total Company contributions towards retirement benefi t provision Dr. Ornskov received a contribution at a rate of 30% of his base salary through a combination of contributions to the Companys 401 k Plan and credits to his SERP account.
In accordance with the terms of the SERP, he received credits on the basis of his CEO designate base salary for the three calendar quarters in 2013 for which he was eligible.
Mr. Hetherington received a contribution of 25% of base salary by way of a cash allowance.
Other benefits Corresponds to the taxable value of all other benefi ts paid in respect of the year.
The 2014 fi gures for Executive Directors principally include car allowance, fi financial and tax advisory support, long term disability, and life and private medical insurance Dr. Ornskovs 2014 gure includes $58,642 in relation to temporary living expenses and associated tax assistance.
His 2013 gure also includes $28,519 principally in relation to immigration support and temporary living expenses, in accordance with the Companys mobility policy and the recruitment arrangements disclosed in the 2012 DRR.
Mr. Hetheringtons 2014 gure represents the continuation of medical insurance at the same level under the Companys private medical scheme from his departure on March 1, 2014 until December 31, 2014.
The 2014 gure also includes reasonable legal costs incurred in connection with his departure arrangements.
The 2013 gure includes a reimbursement re ecting a lower level of Company paid private medical insurance in prior years than provided for in his contract.
90 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Short term incentives Corresponds to the annual incentive award earned under the EAIP in respect of 2014 performance and comprises a cash element 75% and a deferred share element 25% 2014 corporate scorecard for Executive Directors In determining EAIP awards for the CEO, the Committee considers performance against each of the key performance measures within the corporate scorecard, as set out below, taking into account the impact on the Companys performance of strategic actions together with performance against personal objectives.
For 2014, the Committee approved the award set out in the following table: 2014 EAIP award decisions % of Strategic Performance Outcome maximum priorities Weighting Targets % of target Award opportunity Financial 75% Net products sales $5,571m $5,830m 104.6% $1.755m 100% 1 Non GAAP EBITA $2,341m $2,593m 110.8% 1 Non GAAP ROIC 12.8% 14.7% 114.8% Cost management Achieve combined 41.8% 106.0% 1 Non GAAP R&D and SG&A target of 44.3% of net product sales Non-financial 15% KPIs built around the strategic priority of Overall assessment $0.351m 100% Pipeline & Predeveloping our future assets which will Significantly above target commercial enable us to deliver innovation and value for See below for the future.
These include clinical milestones, further details regulatory filings and other critical pipeline expansion and advancement targets that will support our continued growth and future financial performance Non-financial 10% Execute against priority actions identified in Overall assessment $0.234m 100% Organizational relation to supporting a high performance Significantly above target Effectiveness culture See below for Finalize integrated One Shire organization further details structure and hire in accordance FDA approval for Building 400 manufacturing plant Execute against key financial and non financial success factors in relation to the integration of ViroPharma 100% Total outcome $2.34m 100% 180% of salary 75% of the award is payable in cash non-pensionable and 25% is deferred into shares and released after a period of three years subject to the participants employment not being terminated for cause.
The release of deferred shares will include dividend shares representing any accrued dividends deferred shares are subject to malus and clawback.
The Committee sets targets that are stretching against budgeted performance to ensure that payouts only occur for strong performance over the fi financial year.
Performance is assessed for each of the three strategic priorities shown in the above table on a weighted average basis and maximum payout is only delivered for achievement well in excess of target performance.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 91 Directors remuneration report continued Details on performance outcomes Performance against financial goals Net product sales Strong growth of 23% to $5,830 million 2013: $4,757 million.
Exceptionally strong sales performance, supporting our strategic driver for growth to drive performance from our currently marketed products to optimize revenue growth and cash generation.
1 Non GAAP EBITA Non GAAP EBITA of $2,593 million exceeded our target of $2,341 million by 10.8%.
1 Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC Strong returns of 14.7% versus the target of 12.8%, driven largely by the strong sales growth and ef cient cost base of ourbusiness.
Cost management 1 Successful cost management ensured that combined Non GAAP R&D and SG&A costs were maintained within target of 44.3% of net product sales.
Performance against other strategic priorities Pipeline & Pre-commercial KPIs Achievement against the 2014 objectives include: Agreement with the FDA on Li tegrast NDA ling strategy is a major step forward.
Expanded clinical sites and geographies to accelerate enrollment, initiated additional creative solutions.
Excellent progress made on pipeline during 2014 including an increase in Phase 2 programs from 4 to 11.
Pipeline is currently the strongest in terms of number, breadth, value in Shires history.
Progress made during a time of unanticipated major change in organization such as dramatic R&D changes associated with One Shire and potential AbbVie merger impact.
Organizational Effectiveness KPIs Achievement against the 2014 objectives include: Signi cant progress made on culture change despite signi cant organizational change.
One Shire organization structures fide ned.
Successful integration of ViroPharma achieved.
Long term incentives The value represents the market value of the 2012 PSP awards for Graham Hetherington which vested upon his departure from the Company on March 1, 2014 There is no scheduled vesting of PSP awards for Dr. Ornskov until 2016 when his 2013 PSP awards 2013-2016 performance period vest subject to the achievement of applicable performance conditions.
For Mr. Hetherington, the Committee determined that the 2012 PSP awards would vest in line with the terms of the plan rules taking into account the applicable performance conditions and the proportion of the performance period approximately two-thirds during which Mr. Hetherington remained in employment see table below.
Graham Hetherington vesting of 2012 PSP awards Number of Number of % of shares under shares total award Vesting Share Price Value at 1 1 2 3 Award original award vesting vesting release date at vesting vesting 2012 PSP SAR element 55,554 27,916 50% March 1, 2014 32.97 300,097 4 2012 PSP PSA element 40,740 20,910 50% March 1, 2014 32.97 689,403 1 Awards are over Ordinary Shares.
2 The gures represent the number of shares vesting taking into account the applicable performance conditions resulting in the vesting of 75% of the shares under the original award and, in addition, the proportion of the performance period approximately two-thirds in which Mr. Hetherington remained in employment.
3 Closing share price as at March 3, 2014 March 1, 2014 was a Saturday.
4 The vesting of the PSA element includes dividend shares representing any accrued dividends, in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
92 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 2012 performance matrix Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC Non GAAP EBITDA growth CAGR 2011-2014 Increase bp p. a.
8% 10% 12% 14% 16% 60 1.0x 1.3x 1.7x 2.1x 2.5x 80 1.3x 1.6x 2.0x 2.4x 2.8x 100 1.6x 1.9x 2.4x 2.7x 3.1x 120 1.9x 2.3x 2.6x 3.1x 3.5x 140 2.2x 2.6x 3.1x 3.6x 4.0x 160 2.5x 3.0x 3.5x 4.0x 4.0x Performance outcome Based on a rigorous assessment of performance to the date of his departure and after adjusting for any potential Signifi cant Adjusting Events, the Committee determined that vesting against the 2012 performance matrix would result in a vesting multiplier of 3.0x 75% of the total award made.
In reaching their decision, the Committee took into consideration the performance matrix update provided to the Committee in 1 December 2013, which showed performance to be tracking at 15.3% CAGR in Non GAAP EBITDA and 113 bp p. a. increase 1 in Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC based on 2011 Actuals 2014 Budget results.
c 2014 single total gure of remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors subject to audit Details of the total fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors during 2014 and a comparative total for 2013 are set out in the table below.
2 Ms. Kilsby assumed the role of Chairman effective April 29, 2014.
As Chairman, Ms. Kilsby received an annual fee of 365,000.
The Chairmans fee was subsequently increased to 450,000 effective September 1, 2014.
Ms. Kilsby stepped down as Chair of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee on April 29, 2014.
3 Mr. Blakemore was appointed Chair of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee on April 29, 2014.
4 Mr. Emmens 2013 and 2014 fees include private medical insurance.
Mr. Emmens 2014 fee covers the period to April 29, 2014 when he retired as Chairman oftheBoard.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 93 Directors remuneration report continued d Executive Directors interests under long term incentives awarded during 2014 subject to audit The following tables set out details of the PSA and SAR awards granted to the CEO under the PSP during 2014.
Vesting of the 2014 PSP awards will be determined by the Committee in Q1 2017 taking into account performance against the 2014 performance matrix over the performance period January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2016.
In addition, any Signifi cant Adjusting Events that are relevant will be taken into consideration, as well as an overall assessment of the underlying performance of the Company.
2014 PSP awards for Flemming Ornskov Face value of Face value of base award total award Face value of % of award % of award threshold maximum total award Share price vesting for vesting for vesting vesting maximum on grant threshold maximum % of 2014 % of 2014 vesting Award type Exercise price performance performance salary salary 000 1 SAR 111% 443% $5,761 $168.54 25% 100% 1 PSA 83% 332% $4,320 The maximum SAR and PSA awards are granted and, subject to the achievement of performance conditions, adjusted at the date of vesting.
The number of SARs and PSAs as well as the exercise price for SAR awards is calculated using an approach based on the average three day closing mid market share price at the time of grant.
1 Denotes an award over ADS.
One ADS is equal to three Ordinary Shares 2014 Performance matrix Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC Non GAAP EBITDA growth CAGR 2013-2016 Change in bp p. a.
Up to four times the base award 4.0x vesting under the matrix is payable for maximum performance, which would result in the total award vesting, with straight line vesting within this performance range.
94 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information e Departure Arrangements for Graham Hetherington subject to audit As disclosed in last years DRR, Mr. Hetherington stepped down from Shires Board of Directors and his role as CFO on March 1, 2014.
In line with the Committees policy, the Committee considered the overall circumstances of the departure as well as performance, contractual obligations and plan rules.
In particular, the Committee considered Mr. Hetheringtons sustained performance and contribution to the Company over a period of almost six years, the excellent 2013 fi financial results and confi dent outlook at the time of departure.
The Committees determinations, which were consistent with the Committees termination policy, are set out below.
Remuneration element Description Payment in No payment in respect of salary or benefits or compensation in lieu in respect of any period after March 1, 2014 or compensation Lieu of Notice forloss of office was made.
Base salary No 2014 base salary increase was awarded given his scheduled departure from the Company.
Retirement and The Committee determined that it would be appropriate to continue the same level of medical insurance under the Companys other benefits private medical scheme until December 31, 2014 and to pay his reasonable legal costs incurred in connection with his departure arrangements.
The cost of these benefits is included in the 2014 summary remuneration table.
EAIP No 2014 short term incentives in respect of his period of employment to, or in respect of any period after, March 1, 2014 was awarded.
Mr. Hetherington was employed throughout the relevant performance period for the 2013 EAIP, therefore payments under the 2013 EAIP were made as normal.
Those elements of Mr. Hetheringtons EAIP awards from previous years that were compulsorily deferred into shares under the EAIP willvest in accordance with the plan rules at the end of the relevant three-year vesting periods see table below.
2 The release of deferred shares will include dividend shares representing any accrued dividends, in accordance with the relevant planrules.
3 Based on the closing share price as at March 3, 2014 as departure date of March 1, 2014 was a Saturday.
PSP No 2014 PSP grant was made given Mr. Hetheringtons departure date.
The Committee determined that the 2012 PSP award would vest on the departure date in line with the terms of the plan rules taking into account the applicable performance conditions and the proportion of the performance period approximately two-thirds during which Mr. Hetherington remained in employment.
The 2012 PSP vesting values are provided in the table in Part 3 b of this report.
Vested SAR awards, in accordance with the terms of the PSP, remain exercisable for a period of 12 months after the departure date, and if not exercised will lapse.
All other unvested equity awards, namely the 2013 PSP award and 2013 Sharesave, lapsed when Mr. Hetherington ceased to be employed.
Mr. Hetherington was employed throughout the relevant performance period for the 2011 PSP award, therefore the award vested asnormal.
f Payments to past Directors subject to audit No payments other than payments made to Graham Hetherington set out above have been made to past Directors for the relevant fi financial year for the purposes of the Schedule 8 Regulations.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 95 Directors remuneration report continued g Directors shareholdings and scheme interests subject to audit Employee share ownership is an important means to support alignment of employee interests with those of shareholders The Committee believes that employee share ownership is an important means to support long term commitment to the Company and the alignment of employee interests with those of shareholders.
The interests of the Executive Directors and other senior executives are closely aligned with those of other shareholders in this regard through the operation of the Companys LTIP and, for the Executive Committee, the deferral of one quarter of any EAIP award into shares for a period of three years.
These remuneration elements constitute a signifi cant proportion of their individual remuneration packages.
In addition, to ensure that there are appropriate tools to retain Executive Directors and to encourage alignment with shareholders over the long term through increased shareholding and ownership, the Committee has introduced a two-year holding period post the three-year performance period which applies to both PSAs and SARs.
The CEO, CFO and other members of the Executive Committee are encouraged to own shares in the Company equivalent to200%, 150% and 100% of base salary, respectively, within a fi five-year period following their appointment.
All shares benefi cially owned by an executive or deferred under the EAIP count towards achieving these guidelines.
The Committee reviews share ownership levels annually for this group.
Current shareholding levels for Directors are set out in the table below and show that the shareholding guidelines for the Executive Directors have been achieved.
Summary of Directors shareholdings and scheme interests 2 Scheme interests as at December 31, 2014 Total shares held which Subject to the achievement of count performance conditions: towards the Shareholding shareholding as at Dec 31, Total Total SARs Total guidelines Security 2014 or date deferred Total PSAs Total SARs vested but scheme as a % of 1 2 3 4 5 6 type of resignation shares unvested unvested unexercised interests 2014 salary ADS 109 17,989 70,653 98,759 187,510 Flemming Ornskov 466% Ord Shares 37,500 37,500 Susan Kilsby ADS 3,191 3,191 David Kappler Ord Shares 11,549 11,549 Dominic Blakemore Ord Shares 468 468 William Burns Ord Shares 1,486 1,486 Anne Minto Ord Shares 3,734 3,734 Steven Gillis ADS 674 674 David Ginsburg ADS 456 456 David Stout ADS 472 472 ADS 6,289 6,289 7 Matthew Emmens Ord Shares 20,399 20,399 8 Graham Hetherington Ord Shares 84,491 15,560 110,789 210,840 833% 1 One ADS is equal to three Ordinary Shares.
2 There have been no changes in shareholdings in the period from December 31, 2014 to February 24, 2015.
3 This represents unvested shares deferred under the EAIP which are forfeited in the case of termination for cause and, in the case of Dr. Ornskov, deferred shares granted to him which are subject to continued service.
4 This represents unvested PSAs which are subject to the achievement of performance conditions, adjusted at the date of vesting.
5 This represents unvested SARs which are subject to the achievement of performance conditions, adjusted at the date of vesting.
6 This represents vested but unexercised SARs which are no longer subject to the achievement of performance conditions.
7 All information is presented as at April 29, 2014, being the date Mr. Emmens stepped down as Chairman.
8 All information is presented as at March 1, 2014, being the date Mr. Hetherington stepped down as CFO.
The Company also operates broad-based share plans a Sharesave scheme in the UK and an ESPP in the US and other countries to encourage wider share ownership among the Companys employees.
Awards under the Companys long term incentive plans and broad-based share plans are satisfi ed either by market purchased shares which are held in an employee benefi t trust or the issue of new shares within the limits agreed by shareholders when the plans were approved.
These limits comply with the Investment Associations guidelines which require that no more than 10% of a companys issued share capital be issued in accordance with all employee share plans in any 10-year period, with no more than 5% issued in accordance with discretionary employee share plans.
96 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Directors scheme interests Details of Directors interests under share plans which were outstanding, awarded, lapsed or exercised during the year are set out in the audited table below.
The market price of the Companys Ordinary Shares at December 31, 2014 was 45.33 and the range during the year was 28.15 to 54.70.
The market price of the Companys ADSs at December 31, 2014 was $212.54 and the range during the year was $138.78 to $264.98.
The number of PSA and SAR awards granted in 2010 was calculated using an approach based on the average closing mid-market share price over the prior 12 month period.
1 Awards are over Ordinary Shares, except where the award type is marked ADS.
One ADS is equal to three Ordinary Shares.
2 The maximum SAR and PSA awards are granted and, subject to the achievement of performance conditions, adjusted at the date of vesting.
3 Performance conditions attached to SAR and PSA awards granted from 2010 onwards are Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC and Non GAAP EBITDA.
In all cases, awards will only vest if the Committee determines that the underlying performance of the Company is suf cient to justify the vesting of the award.
4 In accordance with the plan rules, the vested PSA awards have been increased to re ect the dividends paid by Shire in the period from the grant date to the vesting date.
5 On October 31, 2014 Dr. Ornskov exercised an option granted under the Shire ESPP over 109 ADSs at an exercise price of $113.94 per ADS.
The PSA award granted to Dr. Ornskov on May 2, 2013 was over 10,821 ADSs, and not 10,281 ADSs as previously disclosed.
6 All information is presented as at March 1, 2014, being the date Mr. Hetherington stepped down as CFO.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 97 Directors remuneration report continued h TSR performance graph The graph below shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR for Shire and the FTSE 100 Index over the six-year period ending December 31, 2014.
TSR is calculated as the change indexed between the fourth quarter TSR in the relevant year and the base year.
The FTSE 100 Index refl ects the 100 largest quoted companies by market capitalization in the United Kingdom and has been chosen because the FTSE 100 represents the broad market Index within which the Companys shares are traded.
Total Shareholder Return change in value of a hypothetical 100 holding over six years Rebased to 100 GBP 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Shire FTSE 100 The historical total remuneration for the person undertaking the role of CEO is set out in the table below.
In particular, the long term incentive gures relate to any awards that vest following the end of each financial year.
98 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information i Percentage change in CEO remuneration The following table shows the percentage change in the base salary, taxable benefi ts and annual bonus of the CEO between the current and previous fi financial year compared to the average percentage change for all other employees.
Percentage change from 2013 to 2014 Salary and fees Taxable benefits Short term incentives 1 CEO 21% 45% 46% 2 All other employees 5% 22% 27% 1 Re ects the 2013 and 2014 remuneration for Flemming Ornskov as reported in the single total gure of remuneration table in Part 3 b of this report.
2 Re ects the average change in remuneration for all other employees globally that were annual bonus eligible.
To help minimise distortions in the underlying data, certain adjustments have been made, in particular the gures have been prepared on the basis of permanent employees who have been employed with the Company for the two preceding calendar years.
The increase in the CEOs salary and fees from 2013 to 2014 is due to the CEO designate position he held from January 2, 2013 to April 29, 2013 and the lower CEO designate salary of $900,000 he received during this period.
For 2015, the CEOs salary has been increased to $1,350,000, representing a 3.8% increase from 2014 to 2015 and refl ecting strong corporate performance, excellent leadership and the wider average employee salary increases across Shire.
Given that the CEOs short term incentive is calculated as a percentage of salary, the lower CEO designate salary received in 2013 is also refl ected in his 2013 annual bonus fi gure.
Most of those employees participating in the annual bonus plan received a higher bonus in 2014 than 2013, as did the CEO, refl ective of the exceptional performance of the Company this year.
j Relative importance of spend on pay The Company considers employee remuneration costs in the context of the general fi financial performance and position of the Company, including when determining the annual salary increase budget, the annual equity grant budget and annual bonus funding for the organization.
The following graphs set out for 2013 and 2014 the overall spend on pay, shareholder distributions dividends and share buybacks and for further context, Non GAAP EBITDA from continuing operations.
1% 58% 39% 984.3 991.3 290.0 2.8 2.0 121.2 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 1 Overall spend on pay $m Shareholder distributions $m Non GAAP EBITDA $bn 2014 2013 Shareholders distributions were reduced in 2014 as 2013 included amounts under the Companys share buy back plan which commenced October 25, 2012 and ceased on November 11, 2013.
Overall Spend on Pay was reduced in 2014 mainly as a result of the One Shire restructuring towards the end of 2013 and through 2014 which has driven cost effi ciencies across our employee base.
Non GAAP EBITDA increased in 2014 as a result of the strong product sales growth and effi cient cost management delivered during the year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 99 Directors remuneration report continued k Remuneration Committee Terms of reference The Committee is responsible for agreeing the broad remuneration policy for the organization and the individual packages for the Chairman, Executive Directors, and certain other senior leadership roles.
Within the agreed policy, the Committee determines the terms and conditions to be included in service agreements, including termination payments and compensation commitments, where applicable.
The Committee also determines performance targets applicable to the Companys annual bonus and long term incentive plans, and has oversight of the Companys share incentive schemes.
In December 2014, the Committee reviewed its terms of reference and a number of minor changes were made to refl ect various governance developments.
The revised terms of reference were approved by the Board in February 2015 and are available in full on the Companys website www.
Membership and attendance The Board considers all members of the Committee to be independent.
The Directors in the table below served as members of the Committee during the period within which remuneration for the relevant fi financial year was under consideration.
Meeting 1 Committee member attendance 2 Anne Minto Chairman 7 8 William Burns 8 8 Steven Gillis 8 8 3 David Stout 8 8 Note: The number in brackets denotes the number of meetings that Committee members were eligible to attend.
1 There were five scheduled and three ad hoc Committee meetings held during 2014.
2 Ms. Minto was unable to attend the April meeting due to illness.
3 David Stout is to step down from the Committee on April 28, 2015.
The Chairman and the CEO attend meetings of the Committee by invitation, but neither is present in any discussions relating to their own remuneration.
Remuneration Committee activities in 2014 In 2014, the Committee discussed the key agenda items set out in the following table: Key agenda items Overall remuneration Approval of 2013 performance and remuneration decisions for the CEO, CFO and the Executive Committee Approval of final departure arrangements for the former CFO Review of the 2014 year end compensation process and budgets for all employees Approval of 2014 performance and remuneration decisions for the CEO and the Executive Committee Review findings and approve recommendations from the strategic remuneration review in 2014 Short term incentives Assessment of Company performance against the 2013 annual bonus funding scorecard Approval of the 2014 corporate scorecard Preliminary review of the 2015 corporate scorecard Long term incentives Determination of the vesting percentage of the 2011 PSP awards granted under the PSP for Executive Directors Approval of the 2014 performance matrix for PSP awards to Executive Directors Approval of annual offerings of Sharesave and ESPP awards Approval of the vesting outcome for the former CFOs 2012 PSP awards Preliminary review of the 2015 performance conditions for LTIP awards to Executive Directors Consideration of potential SAEs in relation to outstanding PSP performance cycles Governance and other matters Approval of the 2013 DRR Consideration of trends in executive remuneration and corporate governance developments Approval of approach to late 2014 shareholder consultation exercise Consideration of shareholder feedback Review of the Committees term of reference Review of the CEO and the Executive Committees shareholdings 100 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Shareholder context for the Committees activities The table below shows how shareholders voted in respect of the remuneration report and remuneration policy at the AGM held on April 29, 2014.
This endorsement of the current remuneration approach informed the Committees activities and decision making in 2014.
Votes cast as For a % of including relevant discretionary shares in 1 Resolution votes % Against % issue Withheld Advisory vote To approve the Directors Remuneration Report 391,218,791 96.97% 12,224,728 3.03% 68.50% 3,243,975 Binding vote To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy 374,694,890 94.71% 20,926,142 5.29% 67.17% 11,066,462 1 Votes withheld are not a vote in law and are not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes validly cast.
Advisors In discharging its responsibilities in 2014, the Committee was materially assisted by those employees performing the roles ofChief Human Resources Offi cer and Vice President, Total Rewards.
In addition,  LLP PwC, appointed by the Committee, continued to serve as independent external advisor to the Committee following a competitive tendering process in early 2012.
PwC also provided global consultancy services to the Company in 2014, primarily in respect of tax matters.
Fees paid to PwC in relation to remuneration services provided to the Committee totaled 292,000 in 2014 and were determined based on the scope and nature of the projects undertaken for the Committee.
The Committee is satisfi ed that the advice received by PwC in relation to executive remuneration matters during the year was independent.
The Committee reviewed the potential for confl icts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against any potential confl icts.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group which operates a code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Approval Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Anne Minto Chairman of the Remuneration Committee February 24, 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 101
