Governance Remuneration report REMUNERATION REPORT Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman 2013 14 performance and incentive outcomes Associated British Foods is a group of businesses that trade all over the world.
These businesses are expected to grow profitably in the long term, but are subject to short-term pressures which prevent this from time to time.
The group has achieved strong growth in earnings for a number of years and the growth in shareholder return over the last five years in particular has been well above that achieved by the constituents of the FTSE 100 index as shown on page 76.
Vesting under our Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP for the period from 201114 reflects the growth of the business since September 2011.
The committee is satisfied that this level of vesting represents a fair level of reward for executives for their contribution to the growth in value of the Company.
The committee must ensure that targets are stretching but they must also be realistic and, where necessary, reflect the challenges faced by the business in order to encourage executives to strive for great performance.
In my statement last year as chairman of the 64 Remuneration committee, I noted that one of our larger businesses, European Sugar, would come under pressure in the years leading up to reform of the EU sugar regime in 2017.
2014 proved to be a challenging year for this business and the effects of the fall in EU sugar prices are expected to be a further influence on the groups overall performance in the short term.
When setting short-term incentive targets for 2013 14 the committee was mindful of the expected pressure on sugar prices and the consequences for the groups results.
During the course of the year, the committee adjusted the target range for the short-term incentive down by 10m to reflect unbudgeted costs for restructuring the sugar business to ensure that we are better positioned for the future.
This cost would otherwise have been included in the budget for 2014 15 and been included in the incentive target range for that year.
It was in the best long-term interests of the business for this restructuring to be commenced in, and reflected in performance targets for, the 2013 14 financial year.
We are satisfied that pay outcomes for the financial year 2013 14 reflect overall business performance.
With the exception of Sugar, adjusted operating profit increased in all divisions.
AB Agri achieved another record result: Grocery made very good progress with profit and margin well ahead of last year: Ingredients is achieving a strong turnaround from the challenges of recent years: and Primark had another excellent year and is well positioned to maintain its growth momentum.
This performance resulted in a short-term incentive payment slightly above on-target for the financial element of the plan.
For our long-term incentive plan for 201417, the committee has determined that the current earnings per share target range remains appropriate, particularly given the significant challenges facing the sugar business over that timeframe.
Directors remuneration at Associated British Foods The committees approach to remuneration is that it should be kept as simple as possible.
We believe that our current policy is well aligned to the business strategy and to growing long-term shareholder value.
We seek to ensure that remuneration directly reflects individual accountability for business results and that pay is managed fairly, prioritising long-term profit development over short-term results.
Our framework for executive remuneration is based on our guiding principles, including a belief in line of sight and doing the right thing.
As previously disclosed, in December 2012, the committee reduced vesting on the LTIP from 100% to 97.5% toreflect an asset impairment charge relating to Don KRC.
Property development deals relating to a Don KRC site, which are not included in the annual operating profit calculation, mean that the committee now feels it is appropriate to return to the executive directors some, but not all, of the previously reduced value.
The Committee has therefore determined to exercise its discretion to increase the personal element of the incentive payment by 2.4% of salary for George Weston and 2.45% of salary for John Bason.
During the year, the committee determined that a mandatory two-year holding period would apply for shares vesting under the LTIP to executive directors for allocations made after the 2014 AGM if and when the remuneration policy set out in this report is formally approved.
Having introduced clawback and malus to the long-term incentive plan approved by shareholders in December 2013, the committee determined that the same approach should be applied to the short-term incentive plan.
The committee also agreed that executives should now formally acknowledge the committees powers of discretion, clawback and malus as a condition of participation in the groups incentive schemes.
Your feedback and what we have planned for 2014 15 As Chairman of the board, I invite the larger institutional shareholders each year to discuss their views on the groups strategy, governance and remuneration.
Those who have taken up the invitation this year have expressed confidence with the way the group has managed remuneration, and discussion has again been characterised by informed enquiry and open debate.
Remuneration is one of those subjects on which every shareholder has a point of view.
I hope that our principles of clarity, relative simplicity, accountability and fairness help to explain what the committee does.
We are not planning any changes to remuneration policy or its implementation in the new financial year.
I am happy to discuss any remuneration matters that help us shape our policy and practice, at any time.
Charles Sinclair Remuneration Committee Chairman Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Remuneration report Remuneration policy The policy for executive directors, set out below, will apply from the date of the 2014 AGM subject to approval.
The provisions of the last remuneration policy, as presented in last years Remuneration report will continue to apply for unvested share awards until such time as all long-term incentive awards granted under that policy have vested.
The committee will consider the approved remuneration policy annually to ensure that it remains aligned with the Companys strategic objectives.
If the committee determines that amendments to the policy are needed, it will first discuss the proposals with shareholders before seeking their approval at a general meeting.
However, it is intended that the policy set out below will apply for three years from the 2014 AGM and the Company therefore next expects to seek shareholder approval for its remuneration policy at the 2017 AGM.
Executive directors reward potential illustration of remuneration policy 2014 15 65 George Weston 000 John Bason 000 6,000 6,000 5,000 5,000 4,000 4,000 3,000 3,000 2,000 2,000 1,000 1,000 0 0 Minimum Threshold On-target Maximum Minimum Threshold On-target Maximum Fixed elements Annual variable element Long-term variable element Fixed elements Annual variable element Long-term variable element STIP LTIP STIP LTIP Notes: 1 Fixed elements for George Weston comprise salary of 998,000, benefits of 15,000 and pension of 569,000 and applies to minimum, threshold, on-target and maximum performance.
2 Fixed elements for John Bason comprise salary of 649,000, benefits of 18,000 and pension of 464,000 and applies to minimum, threshold, on-target and maximum performance.
3 Annual variable element bonus is calculated on base salary at the end of the financial year.
4 Long-term variable element value is calculated on base salary at the date of allocation and excludes share price movement.
5 Minimum No STIP or LTIP payment for failure to achieve threshold performance.
6 Threshold STIP of 12% of base salary 12% of base salary for threshold financial performance and 0% for failure to achieve threshold personal performance.
LTIP vesting at 10% of maximum i. e. an allocation of 20% of grant date base salary following achievement of threshold performance targets.
7 On target STIP of 78.3% of base salary 65% for target financial performance and 13.3% for target personal performance.
LTIP vesting at 50% of maximum i. e. an allocation of 100% of grant date base salary for target performance.
8 Maximum STIP of 150% of base salary 130% for maximum financial performance and 20% for achieving maximum personal performance.
LTIP vesting at 100% of maximum i. e. an allocation of 200% of grant date base salary.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Remuneration report FUTURE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Element and purpose Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity Base salary 100% cash To provide core reward for Base salaries are normally reviewed on an annual basis or following Increases will usually be the role, recognising a significant change in responsibilities.
Factors taken into account limited to those available for responsibility for setting include market pay movements, the level of increases awarded to other UK employees.
In line and delivering the strategy.
UK employees across the group and the impact of any increase on with other employees, if the total remuneration package.
there is a significant change in role responsibility, increases will reflect this.
Benefits excluding relocation 66 To provide a competitive and Benefits are restricted to typical UK market levels for executive The cost of these benefits is cost-effective benefits package directors and include, but are not limited to, death in service payment, not expected to exceed 10% appropriate to role.
permanent health insurance, company car plus private fuel, family of salary but is dependent on healthcare and, where relevant, fees to maintain professional factors, such as insurance memberships.
Executives are provided with the technology they premium rates, that can vary.
require to carry out their roles efficiently and effectively.
Short-Term Incentive Plan STIP 100% cash To encourage and reward the Performance measures 150% of base salary: attainment of challenging Group financial performance is assessed against prime financial 130% based on financial financial targets and the measures, such as adjusted operating profit and working capital, results: and achievement of personal used across the group on a day-to-day basis to drive and 20% on personal performance objectives monitor performance.
The personal element of the STIP is calculated as a percentage of base salary on achieving certain personal targets set by the Company Chairman for the Chief Executive or by the Chief Executive for the Finance Director.
Target setting Budget performance is set as the on-target performance level at the start of each financial year.
Thecommittee sets a range around target to incentivise delivery of truly stretching performance.
Individual personal objectives are also set each year.
These may be specific short-term goals or milestones towards medium or long-term objectives, but are closely aligned to the overall strategy of the group.
Following the end of the financial year, the Chairman reviews the performance of the Chief Executive against these objectives and makes a recommendation to the Remuneration committee about the appropriate level of payout for the personal element.
Similarly, the Chief Executive makes a recommendation to the Remuneration committee regarding the Finance Director following an assessment of his performance.
Discretion, clawback and malus In specific circumstances the Remuneration committee retains discretion, including in relation to malus and, from 2014-15 onwards, clawback, as set out in the notes that follow this table.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Remuneration report FUTURE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Element and purpose Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP To reward long-term business Executive directors are eligible to participate in the Associated British 200% of base salary at growth, promote executive Foods Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP.
Annual allocations of allocation on achievement retention and align the interests conditional shares vest over a three-year period, subject to agreed of maximum vesting.
LTIPs are granted over shares to the value of 200% of salary.
For maximum performance 100% of the shares vest, for target performance 50% vest, for threshold performance 10% vest and below threshold level awards lapse.
A mandatory two-year holding period will apply for any shares allocated under the LTIP from the 2014 AGM onwards, if this policy 67 is approved by shareholders.
Performance measures Group performance is measured against an absolute range of compound annual growth in adjusted earnings per share eps.
This measure was chosen because it: reflects the groups objective of sustained long-term earnings growth: is a measure which is well understood both by participants and shareholders: is a published figure with limited adjustments: and encompasses the diverse nature of the group.
An absolute, rather than a relative measure is used, as the group is a global business for which UK inflation factors are of limited impact.
Other financial measures have been considered, but found to be unhelpful or inappropriate.
Target setting Targets are set by the committee at the beginning of each three-year performance period, taking into account the state of the markets in which the group operates as well as the scale of investments made in the pursuit of long-term growth.
In determining a fair but stretching target, the committee also considers: the results of the long-term incentive plan to date: market expectations and internal forecasts for the next few years: and advice from its appointed remuneration advisors.
Discretion, clawback and malus When the Company introduced the new LTIP, approved by shareholders in 2013, malus and clawback were introduced into the plan rules.
In specific circumstances the Remuneration committee retains discretion in relation to the plan.
Further information can be found in the notes to this table.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Remuneration report FUTURE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Element and purpose Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity Long-Term Incentive Plan continued Previous plan Conditional shares already allocated for 201114, 201215 and 201316 will vest, or not, under the terms of the Executive Share Incentive Plan 2003.
These allocations were subject to earnings per share performance targets and, in contrast to the new plan, do not have clawback in place.
Shareholding requirement 68 To demonstrate commitment Executive directors are required to build and maintain a shareholding Shareholding of 100% to, and align personal interests in the Company to a value at least equal to their pre-tax base salary.
with, the success of the In order to achieve this target, executives are required to retain at Company and its shareholders.
least 50% of the post-tax value of any shares vesting each year and then to manage their shareholding in such a way as to continue to meet the requirement.
Pension To provide a competitive Defined benefit pension arrangements For directors entitled to closed to new members retirement benefit in line benefits under the The current executive directors are members of the Companys with best practice standards Companys defined benefit HMRC approved defined benefit pension scheme, which closed to adopted by major companies pension scheme and or new entrants in October 2002.
Both executive directors opted out in the United Kingdom and EFRBS, a retirement benefit of the scheme on 5 April 2006, but retain their accrued benefits up continental Europe.
target of around two-thirds to that date.
The scheme is designed to provide retirement benefits of final pensionable salary of around two-thirds of final pensionable salary at age 65 62 for is payable at normal John Bason.
The current executive directors have, since 5 April 2006, earned For directors entitled to benefits in an Employer-Financed Retirement Benefit Scheme defined contribution pension EFRBS.
The EFRBS is unregistered, but is designed to broadly arrangements, executives mirror the provisions of the defined benefit pension scheme by may receive Company providing retirement benefits of around two-thirds of final contributions or cash pensionable salary at normal retirement age.
equivalent up to a maximum of 25% of base salary.
Defined contribution pension arrangements Future executive directors, who are not already entitled to defined benefit pension arrangements at the time of appointment, would benefit from an HMRC approved defined contribution arrangement, with a Company contribution of 25% of base salary.
Cash alternative Where a UK-based pension arrangement is not possible, or is not tax efficient, a cash supplement equivalent to the normal pension contribution may be paid in lieu of pension contributions.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Remuneration report Notes to the Remuneration policy table Target-setting and commercial sensitivity The committee selected the performance conditions shown in the preceding table because these are the key measures used by the executive directors to manage the business.
The performance targets are set by the committee annually taking into account the views of their advisors and management.
The committee is of the opinion that performance targets for the annual bonus are commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose them before the start of the financial year.
Achievement against financial targets will be disclosed after the end of the relevant financial year in that years Remuneration report.
Discretion, malus and clawback The committee may, at any time within two years of the vesting date of an LTIP award under the new plan or payment of an STIP award, determine that clawback shall apply if the committee determines that performance outcomes were misstated: an erroneous 69 calculation was made in assessing the extent to which performance targets were met: or the participant is found to have committed, at any time prior to vesting payment, including prior to grant, an act or omission which justifies, or, in the opinion of the Remuneration committee, would have justified, summary dismissal.
As a condition of participating in the STIP and LTIP from the 2014 15 financial year onwards, all participants will be required to agree that the committee may cause any STIP or LTIP award in which they participate to lapse in whole or in part and may operate clawback under any share scheme or bonus scheme in which they participate operated by a group company and may operate clawback by reducing any amounts payable to the participant and or by requiring the participant to immediately transfer shares or cash back to the Company.
The committee will apply discretion, where necessary and by exception, to ensure that there are no unintended consequences from the operation of the remuneration policy.
The committee has a robust set of principles that it applies to ensure that the outcome is consistent with business performance and aligned with shareholder interests.
Any material exercises of discretion by the committee in relation to the STIP and LTIP will be in line with scheme rules or other applicable contractual documentation and will be fully disclosed and explained in the relevant years report on the implementation of remuneration policy and will not exceed scheme maxima.
Remuneration for other employees compared with that of executive directors First line reports to the Chief Executive and other senior executives are rewarded broadly within the same overall remuneration policy as executive directors, in order to ensure fairness and common purpose across the group.
In general, other executives therefore participate in incentive arrangements similar to those of the executive directors, but with lower levels of potential payout.
The proportion of variable pay to base salary for first line executives is around 1.2 to 1 for on-target performance and 2.25 to 1 for maximum performance.
The Remuneration committee regularly reviews the reward package for other groups of senior executives below board level to ensure that they remain at a level sufficient to attract and retain high-calibre individuals.
Associated British Foods is geographically dispersed and therefore subject to very different pay markets, so it is difficult to make sensible comparisons with all employees across the group.
The salaries of executive directors are reviewed in line with UK employees of Associated British Foods.
In December 2013, when the target salary increase for employees in the UK was between c. 2.0% and c. 3.0%, the Chief Executive received a salary increase of 2.56%.
In order to drive and reward performance, and to align better the interests of executives and shareholders, the executive directors have a greater proportion of their total reward package at risk than other employees.
This means that in years of very good performance, the Chief Executives package increases proportionately more than that of most other employees and conversely in years of lower performance it may decrease.
However, the structure and principles of incentives are consistent further down the organisation including: the belief that employees should be encouraged to do the right thing for the long-term benefit and success of the organisation: the belief that individuals should have line of sight to their performance targets: and the belief in combining profit and return measures with personal measures in the STIP.
The committee operates share-based long-term incentives for approximately 150 senior individuals across the Company.
Executive directors serving as non-executive directors To encourage self-development and allow external insight and practice, the committee has determined that, with the consent of the Chairman and CEO, executive directors may serve as non-executive directors of other companies in an individual capacity and will retain any fees earned.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Remuneration report Remuneration policy consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company How pay and conditions of employees were taken into account when setting directors remuneration policy The committee considered the salary increases proposed for the employee population generally and other changes to the remuneration policy within the Company when reviewing executive salaries at its September and October meetings.
As outlined in the policy table, the committee typically limits the range of increases for executive directors to the range of increases available to employees unless there has been a change of role.
The design of incentives is broadly consistent across the group.
The committee is provided with data on the remuneration structure for senior management in the two tiers below executive director and uses this information to work with the Company to ensure consistency of approach.
In addition, the committee approves all share-based LTIP awards across the group.
Consideration of employees views In setting the remuneration policy, the committee seeks to act in the best interests of the Company.
Whilst the views of employees 70 are not explicitly sought, employees are able to feed back their opinions through employee opinion surveys or directly to the Companys management.
Remuneration policy executive director contracts, recruitment, retention and loss of office Recruitment arrangements all executive directors As we may need to recruit future executive directors from outside the UK or from companies with more aggressive incentive policies than our own, and as our long-term incentive plans do not give us significant headroom to make awards to new joiners above the levels set out in the policy table, the arrangements below are intended to give us the flexibility to recruit the right individuals should we need to.
Core package in line with remuneration policy table on pages 66 to 68 Salary Based on a combination of market information, internal relativities and individual experience Benefits In line with remuneration policy Pension Defined contribution pension or cash alternative to pension in line with policy STIP Pro rata in year of recruitment.
Part of STIP may be guaranteed to reduce the need for additional cash payments to hire new joiners.
LTIP Prorated grant for the year of recruitment.
A mandatory two-year holding period will apply for any shares vesting under the LTIP for any newly appointed executive directors from 1 September 2014 onwards.
Buy-out arrangements in addition to remuneration policy table on pages 66 to 68 The committee may, when it considers this to be in the best interest of the Company, make a one-off award of additional cash and or shares to replace incentives foregone from a previous company.
The committee would seek validation of the value of incentives foregone, including the nature, time horizon and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
Additional awards will not exceed the committees advisors calculation of the value of the original awards.
If possible, additional incentive awards will be tied to group performance targets.
Other elements in addition to remuneration policy table on pages 66 to 68 The committee may, when it considers this to be in the best interest of the Company, make a one-off additional award of cash and or shares as an incentive to join.
This may, for example, be necessary if recruiting an individual from overseas.
Total maximum additional incentive value will not exceed 200% of salary.
Internal appointments For internal appointments, awards in respect of the prior role may be allowed to vest according to the terms of the scheme, adjusted as relevant to take account of the new appointment.
In addition, ongoing prior remuneration obligations may continue.
Relocation If a new executive director needs to relocate, the Company may pay: actual relocation costs and other reasonable expenses relating to moving house: disturbance allowance of up to 5% of salary, some of which may be tax-free for qualifying expenditure: school fees for dependent children where there are cultural or language considerations: medical costs for the overseas family, where relevant: one business class return fare per annum each for the executive, his her partner and dependent children in order to maintain family or other links where an executive is recruited from outside the UK: reasonable fees and taxes for buying and or selling a family home and or appropriate rental costs: and any tax due, grossed up, on any relocation related payments listed above.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Remuneration report Service contracts and payments for loss of office It is the Companys policy that executive directors have rolling contracts with 12-month notice periods.
This is in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and contracts are available for inspection at the Companys offices.
Contracts and service agreements are not reissued when base salaries or fees are changed.
Pension arrangements for both the current executive directors have been amended, as described in the policy table, without reissuing their contracts.
The executive directors service contracts allow for the Company to terminate the employment by paying the director in lieu of some or all of his notice period.
The Company may determine that a payment in lieu of notice is made in monthly instalments or as a lump sum.
A payment in lieu of notice will comprise the salary, benefits and pension provision that the director would otherwise have received during the relevant period.
The Company is committed to the principle of mitigation.
If the committee determines that a payment in lieu of notice will be paid in monthly payments, it would reduce the instalments to take account of amounts received from alternative employment.
71 In addition, the executive director may be entitled to a payment in respect of his statutory rights.
The committee may also determine that a contribution will be made to the directors legal fees in connection with his termination and may agree to make reasonable payments to him in respect of outplacement.
In limited circumstances, in addition to making a full payment in lieu of notice, the Company may permit an executive director to stay employed after the announcement of his departure for a limited period to ensure an effective hand-over and or to allow time for a successor to be appointed.
It would be open to the Company to consider terminating an executive directors service agreement in breach i. e. not to make a payment to him in lieu of notice and instead to make a payment of damages to him which compensates him for the loss he will suffer as a result of the termination of his contract, taking into account his duty to mitigate his loss.
There is no automatic entitlement to accrued STIP LTIP awards on termination: the approach to determining whether or not a payment might be made is set out in the table below.
Pro-rated STIP and LTIP awards will not usually take account of notice periods, but the committee retains the discretion to determine that they will.
The committee would not expect to do so in the case of poor performance.
Salary and Reason for contractual termination benefits STIP LTIP Repatriation Good leaver including: Paid up to date of The committee will The committee will consider If an executive was termination or death.
consider making a pro rata allowing awards due to vest in recruited from ill health injury payment for the financial relation to the financial year of overseas and disability The committee has year in which the termination to vest.
Other awards relocated to the UK discretion to pay in redundancy termination death took lapse unless the committee uses its at the start of his lieu of notice as set retirement place.
discretion to allow them to vest.
The committee has never his her repatriation employing company Any agreed payment will previously done this.
or undertaking being be made in the December transferred outside following the year end.
Vesting will take place on the the group usual vesting date, subject to In the case of death, performance conditions unless the other reason payment may be committee determines that the determined by the accelerated.
award should vest earlier pro rata, committee in which case the committee may death determine whether the executives notice period will be taken into account in any pro rating.
Resignation Paid up to If an executive director All conditional share awards will be Not paid.
ceases to be employed cancelled unless the committee before is under notice determines otherwise.
The when full year results are committee has never previously published, no award will determined otherwise.
be made unless the committee determines otherwise.
The committee has never previously determined otherwise.
Gross misconduct Paid up to No award will be made.
All conditional share awards will Not paid.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Remuneration report Remuneration policy for non-executive directors Summary of remuneration policy for non-executive directors Non-executive directors fees are reviewed periodically in the light of fees payable in comparable companies and the importance attached to the retention and attraction of high-calibre individuals as non-executive directors.
Fees are paid on a per annum basis and are not varied for the number of days worked.
Non-executive directors receive no other benefits and take no part in any discussion or decision concerning their own fees.
The Remuneration committee under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director reviews the Chairmans fees.
In addition to his fee, the Chairman also receives private medical insurance for himself and his spouse.
Element Purpose Operation Chairman 72 Fees To attract and retain a high-calibre The Chairman is paid a single fee for all his responsibilities.
chairman by providing a competitive The level of this fee is reviewed every other year by the committee in the absence core reward for the role.
of the Chairman and the executive directors in the light of fees payable in comparable companies.
Fees are paid in cash on a monthly basis.
Benefits To provide market competitive benefits.
Private medical insurance for Chairman and spouse.
Other non-executive directors Fees To attract and retain high-calibre Fees are paid on a per annum basis and are not varied for the number of days worked.
non-executive directors by offering The Chairman and executive directors review non-executive directors fees every market competitive fees.
other year in the light of fees payable in comparable companies.
The Senior Independent Director and chairman of the Audit committee are paid an additional fee to reflect their extra responsibilities.
Fees, paid in cash on a quarterly basis, were last reviewed on 3 September 2014.
Non-executive directors terms of appointment It is the Companys policy that all non-executive directors are subject to specified terms of appointment.
Appointment is for an initial term of three years unless terminated by either party on six months notice.
Continuation of the contract of appointment is contingent on satisfactory performance and re-election at forthcoming annual general meetings.
Non-executive directors are typically expected to serve two three-year terms, although the board may invite a non-executive director to serve for an additional period.
The Companys Articles of Association require that all directors retire from office if they have not retired at either of the preceding two annual general meetings.
In any event, at this years annual general meeting, all directors are standing for re-election in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Where an individual retires at the annual general meeting and does not stand for re-election, they are not paid in lieu of notice.
Approach to recruitment for non-executive directors The approach to fees outlined above would apply to new non-executive directors.
We would not pay to relocate a non-executive director to the head office location but would reimburse reasonable expenses incurred in travelling on behalf of the business.
In the first year, such expenses may be higher than usual as part of the individuals induction into the business.
Remuneration policy statement of consideration of shareholders views Each year the chairman of the committee invites our larger institutional shareholders to discuss with him their views on the groups remuneration, strategy and governance.
Ahead of the 2013 AGM, we received feedback from some investors who did not feel that our earnings per share targets were sufficiently stretching.
The committee robustly reviews targets each year, with detailed input from our advisors and from the Company.
We have satisfied ourselves, in the context of the challenges facing the sugar business, that the targets that we set for the LTIP in 2013 for the period from 20132016 and those proposed for the period from 20142017 are indeed challenging and that delivering this level of performance will represent a good performance by the executive directors on behalf of shareholders.
We are not planning any changes of remuneration policy in the current year and expect to implement the policy set out in the following report in the same manner as we have in the past.
The committee chairman remains happy to discuss any remuneration matters at any time to help shape our policy and practice.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Remuneration report Annual report on directors remuneration The annual report on directors remuneration sets out the elements of remuneration paid to directors in the financial year 2013 14.
The notes to the single figure table provide further detail, including measures and outcomes for 2013 14, where relevant, for each of the elements that make up the total single figure of remuneration in respect of each of the executive directors.
This report is subject to an advisory vote at the 2014 AGM.
2 The value of George Westons benefits comprised 12,964 taken in cash and 1,540 taxed as benefits-in-kind.
3 The value of John Basons benefits comprised 12,964 taken in cash and 4,991 taxed as benefits-in-kind.
4 The value of Charles Sinclairs benefits reflects the provision of health care benefits, which are taxed as a benefit-in-kind.
5 2013 pensions values for George Weston and John Bason have been adjusted from 520,000 and 377,000 respectively to reflect current reporting requirements to report based on CPI indexation over the year to September in the tax year prior to the date of the Companys year end.
These calculations previously used the CPI inflation over the Company year in question.
6 The annual bonus is paid in December in respect of the preceding financial year.
None of the incentive is subject to deferral.
7 As required by the regulations, vesting under the long-term incentive plan for 20102013 has been recalculated to update last years estimates using the actual share price of 2271.4962p that applied on vesting.
Information relating to performance targets, weightings and outcomes can be found on page 73 of the 2013 annual report.
8 Vesting under the long-term incentive plan for 20112014 has been estimated using the average mid-market closing price over the last quarter of the 2013 14 financial year 13 June to 13 September 2014 of 2890.94p.
Vesting will be on 24 November 2014 and a figure recalculated for the actual share price on that date will be presented in the 2015 Remuneration report.
Information relating to performance targets, weightings and outcomes can be found on page 74.
9 The single total figure for 2013 has been updated to reflect the LTIP adjustment noted in 8 above.
10 Ruth Cairnie joined the board on 1 May 2014.
Additional notes to the single total figure of remuneration executive directors audited information This section sets out supporting information for the single total figure columns.
In particular, it provides information on the extent to which performance conditions have been satisfied for the STIP and LTIP.
Single total figure base salary Executive directors salaries were reviewed on 1 December 2013 in accordance with normal policy and were increased in line with average increases for the companys UK-based employees.
Dec 2012 Increase in Dec 2013 Dec 2013 George Weston 977,000 2.56% 1,002,000 John Bason 643,000 2.64% 660,000 Single total figure benefits The taxable values of a fully expensed company car, private medical insurance, life assurance and an annual medical check-up are included in the table of directors remuneration.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Remuneration report Pensions Both directors opted out of the Associated British Foods Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme, on 5 April 2006, and since then have earned benefits in an Employer-Financed Retirement Benefit Scheme EFRBS.
George G Weston The director has an overall benefit promise of a minimum of 2 3rds of Final Pay or 1 45th of Final Pensionable Earnings for each year of Pensionable Service.
The director opted out of the Associated British Foods Pension Scheme on 5 April 2006, and has a deferred benefit in the Scheme: the balance of the promise is provided under an EFRBS.
The directors benefits are payable from age 65.
There is no additional benefit entitlement for the members if they take early retirement.
The pension accrued by the director at 13 September 2014 was 477,363.
John G Bason The director has an overall benefit promise of a minimum of 23rds of Final Pay or 1 45th of Final Pensionable Earnings for each year of 74 Pensionable Service, less an allowance for the directors retained benefits from previous employment.
The directors benefits are payable from age 62.
The pension accrued by the director at 13 September 2014 was 284,064.
Short-term incentive plan 2013 14 In December 2014 there will be a payout of 70.74% of salary to executive directors in respect of the financial element of the annual bonus for the 2013 14 financial year 72.86% of salary based on adjusted operating profit performance multiplied by 0.9709 in respect of average working capital performance.
This reflects the performance of the group with adjusted operating profit slightly ahead of target and working capital as a percentage of sales just below target.
Below bonus Actual threshold Below target Target Above target Maximum Adjusted operating profit 1,163m Average working capital as a percentage of sales 14.56% The committee applied its discretion to reduce the incentive range downwards by 10m at cut-in, target and maximum this year.
As outlined in the section on discretion, the committee has a robust process that it applies when considering whether or not any adjustment to incentive targets is appropriate.
In light of the challenge in the sugar business, the Company made the decision to significantly restructure this business in the current year, which had a 22m impact on reported operating profit.
As this cost was not included in the budget, and therefore incentive targets for the year, the committee agreed to an adjustment to incentive targets of 10m in recognition of the fact that accelerating this action to restructure the business was in the best interests of Company performance and of shareholders in the long term.
Following a review of personal performance against specific objectives for the 2013 14 financial year, the committee determined that George Weston will receive 16.1% of salary in relation to strong performance against set objectives, cost base reductions and continuous improvement in the sugar business, continuing the international roll-out of Primark and increasing internationalisation of the grocery businesses.
In addition, there has been good progress on succession planning, both for the board and divisional leadership teams.
John Bason will receive 15% of base salary for the individual element of the annual bonus, reflecting overall performance that is ahead of expectations with all objectives having been attained and good performance delivered on acquisitions, IT projects, refinancing and pension funding.
Personal objectives set for each of the executive directors were closely aligned to the overall strategy of the group and will not be disclosed because of commercial sensitivity.
In addition to the above percentages, the committee has determined to increase the personal element of the incentive payment by a further 2.4% for George Weston and 2.45% for John Bason for the reasons detailed in the Remuneration Committee chairmans statement on page 64.
Long-term incentive plan 2011 2014 The performance measures for each three-year LTIP cycle are set by the committee.
Awards are made annually, at the discretion of the committee, and eligible executives receive shares at the end of the performance period, subject to achievement of the performance measures.
For the 20112014 cycle the threshold level of compound earnings per share growth was 5% per annum with on target at 8% and maximum at 11%.
The actual earnings per share growth over the period was more than 12% compound per annum.
In November 2014 executive directors will therefore receive 100% of the conditional shares allocated in 2011 George Weston will receive 166,606 shares and John Bason 109,614 shares.
No further deferral will be applied to these shares, as outlined in the remuneration policy.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Remuneration report Grant policy for share plans Conditional share awards are granted each year in the last 10 days of November, following announcement of the Companys results.
Inaddition, further awards are made, following approval by the committee, between the end of November and 1 June each year to new starters or newly promoted individuals who are eligible to participate.
The share price used to determine the number of shares in an allocation is the average of the closing share prices on the five trading days immediately preceding the award date.
Until the AGM on 6 December 2013, awards were made under the Associated British Foods Executive Share Incentive Plan 2003.
Since then, awards have been made under the Associated British Foods Long-Term Incentive Plan.
All awards are settled using shares bought in the market.
Scheme interests awarded in 2013 14 audited information The table below details the conditional share interests awarded to the executive directors.
The awards made were in line with our normal policy and are subject to performance conditions over the vesting period.
75 Maximum award Shares vesting Below Target Threshold threshold Market price 50% of 10% of 0% of Executive director Award date Vesting date % salary Face value at grant Maximum maximum maximum maximum George Weston 25 11 13 25 11 16 200% 1,954,000 2321.2p 84,181 42,090 8,418 0 John Bason 25 11 13 25 11 16 200% 1,286,000 2321.2p 55,402 27,701 5,540 0 The committee determined that performance for this award should be measured against an absolute range of 5% to 11% compound annual growth in adjusted earnings per share.
The committee believes that the range remains achievable but stretching over the next three-year period.
In setting this target, the committee has taken into account: the volatility present in many of the markets in which the group operates: the scale of investments made in the pursuit of long-term growth: the results of the long-term incentive to date: market expectations: internal forecasts for the next few years: and advice from their appointed remuneration advisors.
As outlined in the remuneration policy, following vesting there will be no further holding period in place for these shares other than as detailed in the share ownership requirements section.
Executive directors shareholding requirements and share interests audited information The executive directors are required to build up a beneficially owned shareholding of 100% of salary.
No share option awards from earlier years are outstanding.
2 Beneficial Beneficial Conditional Total Total as at Holding 13 September as 13 September 13 September 14 September 1 Executive directors requirement 2014 % of salary 2014 2014 2013 3 George Weston Wittington Investments Limited, ordinary shares of 50p n a 2,446] n a n a 2,446 2,446 Associated British Foods plc, 100% of 15 4 ordinary shares of 5 22p salary 3,460,882 9053% 383,339 3,844,221 3,845,908 John Bason Associated British Foods plc, 100% of 15 ordinary shares of 5 22p salary 112,724 448% 252,221 364,945 387,459 1 Calculated using share price as at 12 September 2014 of 26.21.
2 These awards, detailed in the preceding and following tables are conditional allocations under the long-term incentive plans described in the policy section.
3 George Weston is a director of Wittington Investments Limited which, together with its subsidiary, Howard Investments Limited, held 431,515,108 ordinary shares in Associated British Foods plc as at 13 September 2014.
4 The increase in George Westons holding of Associated British Foods plc shares, as at 13 September 2014, arises in part from a release of shares under the LTIP on 25 November 2013 and in part from an in-depth exercise that has been carried out to comply with the new controlling shareholder requirements.
5 The interests above remained the same at 4 November 2014.
In addition to the interests awarded in the year, the executive directors have the following conditional interests in ABF shares.
Dates of award Market price Face value End of performance Scheme name and vesting at award Maximum shares 000 period George Weston Share incentive plan 23.11.11 24.11.14 1098.4p 166,606 1,830 13.09.14 23.11.12 23.11.15 1433.4p 132,552 1,900 12.09.15 John Bason Share incentive plan 23.11.11 24.11.14 1098.4p 109,614 1,204 13.09.14 23.11.12 23.11.15 1433.4p 87,205 1,250 12.09.15 1 For each of the above tranches, performance is against an absolute range of 5% to 11% compound annual growth in adjusted earnings per share.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Remuneration report Non-executive directors shareholding requirements and share interests audited information There is no shareholding requirement for non-executive directors.
The following shareholdings are ordinary shares of Associated British Foods plc unless stated otherwise.
Beneficial Beneficial Total Total 13 September 2014 14 September 2013 13 September 2014 14 September 2013 Charles Sinclair 12,760 12,760 12,760 12,760 Tim Clarke 4,000 4,000 4,000 4,000 Lord Jay 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 Javier Ferrn 2,400 2,400 2,400 2,400 Peter Smith 2,000 2,000 2,000 2,000 1 Emma Adamo 76 Wittington Investments Limited, ordinary shares of 50p 1,322 1,322 1,322 1,322 Associated British Foods plc, 15 ordinary shares of 5 22p 504,465 504,465 504,465 504,465 2 Ruth Cairnie 1 Emma Adamo is a director of Wittington Investments Limited which, together with its subsidiary, Howard Investments Limited, held 431,515,108 ordinary shares in Associated British Foods plc as at 13 September 2014.
Emma Adamos interest in Associated British Foods plc shares as at 14 September 2013, has been re-stated to include 38,231 shares held by her husband.
2 Ruth Cairnie was appointed a director on 1 May 2014.
Payments to past directors audited information No payments were made to past directors in 2013 14.
Payments for loss of office audited information No payments were made for loss of office in 2013 14.
TSR performance and Chief Executives pay The performance graph below illustrates the performance of the Company over the past five years from September 2009 to September 2014, in terms of total shareholder return compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 index.
This index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies.
In addition, the table below the graph provides a five-year summary of the total remuneration of the Chief Executive over the same period showing a breakdown of each of the elements of variable pay within the total remuneration figure.
For the purpose of calculating the value of the remuneration of the Chief Executive, data has been collated on a basis consistent with the single figure methodology as defined by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
During the previous 12 months, the market value ranged from 1822p to 3125p.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Remuneration report Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive Between 2013 and 2014, the increase in the Chief Executives salary was 2.64% and the average increase in salaries for our UK employees was 23%.
The total increase in reward for the Chief Executive was 22.65%, reflecting full vesting on the LTIP and the increase in the share price over the last year.
The overall increase in spend on reward for all of our employees was 3%.
These numbers are based on aggregate data presented on page 101 as it is very difficult, in a decentralised group of the Companys size, to separate the increase in spend on incentives and benefits.
Executive directors serving as non-executive director During the year, George Weston served as a non-executive director of Wittington Investments Limited, for which he received no compensation.
John Bason is a non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of Compass Group PLC, for which he received a total fee of 103,000 in the 2013 14 financial year.
He also served as a trustee of Voluntary Service Overseas and as deputy chairman of the 77 charity FareShare, but received no compensation in respect of either of these roles.
Relative importance of spend on pay A year-on-year comparison of the relative importance of pay and significant income distributions to shareholders and others is shownbelow.
2014 2013 Expenditure m m % Change 1 Pay spend for the group 2,006 1,948 3% Dividends relating to the period 269 253 6% Income taxes paid 246 252 2% 1 Pay spend for the group for 2013 has been adjusted to reflect the new accounting standard on pensions.
Implementation of policy 2014 15 We do not intend to implement our policy differently in 2014 15 than in 2013 14.
Base salary Executive directors salaries are subject to review on 1 December 2014 and will be increased as shown in the table below.
Increase in Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2014 George Weston 1,002,000 26,000 1,028,000 John Bason 660,000 17,000 677,000 Benefits and pension No change to current operation.
Short-Term Incentive Plan 2014 15 The STIP will be operated in 2014 15 in line with the remuneration policy and with previous Company practice on implementation.
Modification to Payout based payout based Overall on operating on average financial Personal profit only working capital payout element Total bonus Maximum 108.3% x1.2 130% 20.0% 150.0% On-target budget 65.0% x1.0 65% 13.3% 78.3% Threshold 15.0% x0.8 12% 0.0% 12.0% Below threshold 0.0% x0.8 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% As detailed in our remuneration policy, we believe that the detailed targets used for our short-term incentive plan are commercially sensitive.
We believe that our targets are set at a stretching level and will disclose achievement against them retrospectively in our 2015 Remuneration report as we have done for 2013 14.
As the committee has the right to claw back awards under the STIP, we will ask participants to confirm their acceptance of the terms of the award to ensure that they have understood this.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Remuneration report Long-Term Incentive Plan 201417 The LTIP will be operated in line with the remuneration policy and with the continuing Company grant policy see page 67.
As the committee has the right to claw back awards under the LTIP, we will ask participants to confirm their acceptance of the terms of the award to ensure that they have understood this.
Service contracts Date of current contract Unexpired period of Date of appointment letter of appointment Notice from Company Notice from individual service contract Executive directors George Weston 19.04.99 01.06.05 12 months 12 months Rolling contract John Bason 04.05.99 16.03.99 12 months 12 months Rolling contract Non-executive directors Charles Sinclair 01.10.08 21.04.09 6 months 6 months Rolling contract 78 Tim Clarke 03.11.04 03.11.04 6 months 6 months Rolling contract Lord Jay 01.11.06 01.11.06 6 months 6 months Rolling contract Javier Ferrn 01.11.06 01.11.06 6 months 6 months Rolling contract Peter Smith 28.02.07 28.02.07 6 months 6 months Rolling contract Emma Adamo 09.12.11 09.12.11 6 months 6 months Rolling contract Ruth Cairnie 01.05.14 01.05.14 6 months 6 months Rolling contract Non-executive directors fees for 2014 15 Increase in Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2014 Chairman 350,000 40,000 390,000 Senior Independent Director 82,500 10,000 92,500 Chairman of Audit committee 82,500 10,000 92,500 Director 65,000 7,500 72,500 The non-executive directors fees were last revised in December 2012.
Since then the group has grown in scale and complexity and corporate governance responsibilities have increased.
The fee levels proposed for December 2014 are consistent with market rates.
Annual report on remuneration governance Remuneration committee The committee comprises the following members, all of whom are independent non-executive directors: Meetings attended Name Role on committee Independence Year of appointment total of 6 Charles Sinclair Chairman Chairman 2008 6 Tim Clarke Member Senior Independent Director 2004 6 Lord Jay Member Independent Director 2006 6 Peter Smith Member Independent Director 2007 6 Javier Ferrn Member Independent Director 2006 6 1 Ruth Cairnie Member Independent Director 2014 3 1 Ruth Cairnie attended all meetings from her date of joining.
All committee members, George Weston Chief Executive and Des Pullen Group HR Director attended all six of the meetings of the committee and Julie Withnall Group Head of Reward attended all except the June meeting.
No individual was present when their own remuneration was being considered.
Remuneration committee advisors and fees Following a competitive tender in 2003, Towers Watson then Towers Perrin was selected to provide independent market information and remuneration advice to the Remuneration committee.
The committee has retained Towers Watson in this role because it values the robust data provided and continuity of advice over the long term.
The committee remains satisfied that the advice from Towers Watson is independent, thoughtful and challenging.
Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its code in relation to executive remuneration consulting.
The only other advice that Towers Watson provides to the Company is in survey provision and remuneration benchmarking.
The fees paid to Towers Watson for committee assistance over the past financial year totalled 80,151.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Remuneration report Role of the committee The Remuneration committee is responsible to the board for determining: the remuneration policy for the executive directors and Chairman taking into account remuneration trends across the Company: the specific terms and conditions of employment of each individual director: the overall policy for remuneration for the Chief Executives first and second line reports: the design and monitoring of the operation of any Company share plans: stretching incentive targets to encourage enhanced performance: an approach that rewards fairly and responsibly contribution to the Companys long-term success: and other provisions of the executive directors service agreements and ensuring that contractual terms on termination, 79 and payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company and that failure is not rewarded and loss is mitigated.
The committees remit is set out in detail in its terms of reference, which are reviewed regularly and were updated in July 2014.
They are available on the website at www.
co. uk investorrelations under corporate governance board committees, or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
Remuneration principles The overall remuneration policy of the Company aims to: provide alignment between remuneration and the Companys business objectives: align executive rewards with shareholder value: attract and retain high-calibre executive directors: motivate executive directors to achieve challenging performance levels and reward them for so doing: recognise both individual and group achievement: and reflect the diversity of the groups interests.
Statement on shareholder voting At the last AGM in December 2013 the voting results on the remuneration resolution To receive and approve the Remuneration report for the year ended 14 September 2013 were as follows: i the total number of votes cast in relation to the resolution was 656,638,825: 643,199,668 for and 13,439,157 against ii the percentage for was 97.95% and the percentage against was 2.05% iii the number of abstentions was 1,405,427 Compliance statement The Remuneration committee has made major changes to the structure and content of the 2014 Remuneration report in recognition of the governments new reporting requirements set out in the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The Policy section of this report will be subject to a binding vote at the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company.
It is our intention that this policy will be reviewed annually.
However, we expect this policy to apply for three years and will seek shareholder approval before making any changes to the policy.
The Annual Implementation section of this report will be subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company.
The vote will have advisory status in respect of the remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages and will not be specific to individual levels of remuneration.
KPMG LLP has audited the report to the extent required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
By order of the board Paul Lister Company Secretary 4 November 2014 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014
