63 ANNUAL STATEMENT FROM THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN ear Shareholders Annual bonus We are mindful of the challenging macro environment and its impact on the sector On behalf of the Board, we are including the Company and its shareholders.
We pleased to present the Directors have therefore decided that no cash bonus will be Remuneration Report for the financial awarded in 2014.
However, based on the strong year ended 31 December 2014. performance during the year, the Committees This report has been prepared in December 2014 assessment of performance Daccordance with section 421 of against the weighted performance measures set at Companies Act 2006 and Schedule the beginning of the year resulted in a calculated 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and award level for Directors of 80% of maximum.
Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 Accordingly, the Committee determined that as amended and is set out in two parts: 100% of any bonus should be deferred into SOCO shares vesting after two years.
This is greater than ANTNIO MONTEIRO The Directors Policy Table.
The full policy report the stated policy where any bonus over 100% of was approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual salary will normally be deferred, and results in REMUNERATION General Meeting and is set out in its entirety on the the consequence that the bonus payout will be COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Companys website.
impacted by share price movements during the deferral period, in line with all other shareholders.
The Annual Report on Remuneration which Factors arising in 2015 will be considered in the provides details on how Directors were paid in assessment of 2015 performance.
2014 and the link between remuneration and SOCOs performance.
This section of the report Long Term Incentive Plan 100% of the also outlines how we intend to implement the potential maximum has vested in respect of LTIP remuneration policy in 2015.
This section of the awards made in December 2011.
This reflects report will be subject to an advisory shareholder TSR performance against the comparator group vote at the 2015 AGM.
at the 88th percentile in the three-year period to December 2014.
PERFORMANCE OF THE GROUP KEY DECISIONS AROUND As reported throughout the Strategic Report, the REMUNERATION FOR 2014 downturn in the macro environment following the dramatic fall in the oil price in the latter part of 2014, Given our review of the executive remuneration and the resulting uncertainty in 2015 over partner framework last year, we are not proposing any alignment on a development plan and appetite changes to our policy.
We believe that it continues to commit capital, has impacted the Company to be well placed and aligns Executive Directors with including negative consequences to cash flows, our overarching strategic objective of building and reserves classifications and asset values.
However, recognising value for our shareholders.
as also reported, 2014 was a strong year for SOCO.
In Vietnam, we delivered the TGT development In addition, no increases are being proposed to programme, got the H5 development underway Executive Directors salaries for 2015. and on target for a fast track to first oil, and finalised the ERC Equipoise study demonstrating TGTs full Further to the publication in 2014 of the updated UK potential.
A successful exploration well was drilled Corporate Governance Code, we are implementing on Marine XI which significantly exceeded pre-test malus and clawback provisions on all variable pay expectations and appears to suggest an extension of arrangements from 2015 onwards.
a field discovered on a contiguous block.
Although commitments on Block V were fulfilled, since no value We take an active interest in shareholder views and for this project has been reflected in the share price, the voting on the Remuneration Report.
Both our the Committee determined to treat these objectives remuneration policy and our Remuneration Report as unfulfilled for the purpose of determining bonus received strong support from shareholders, with payouts.
This resulted in a discretionary downwards over 98% of votes case in favour of the resolutions.
The strategy was In response to feedback from shareholders, we have delivered with a second material cash return sought to improve the level of detail and clarity in this to shareholders, representing 60% of free cash years disclosure of performance targets assessed for flow thereby exceeding the targeted 50%, while annual bonus payouts.
In addition, we will seek to maintaining a strong balance sheet, ending the year improve our shareholder communications in respect with no debt and over $166 million of cash, cash of any future proposed policy changes.
Our operations results were accomplished while maintaining an We look forward to receiving your support at the exemplary record from a health and safety aspect.
HOW THIS PERFORMANCE WAS REFLECTED IN THE PAY OF OUR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Full details on incentive payments for performance achieved to December 2014 are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration, however in summary Antnio Monteiro they are as follows: Remuneration Committee Chairman DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
