Governance Directors Remuneration Report The 2014 annual bonus awards were based on a mix of financial and non-financial metrics.
On the basis of the reported EBITDAR outcome of 219.9 million and the achievement of strategic and personal objectives, including delivering a successful IPO of the Group, approximately 34% of the maximum bonus potential was paid to the executive directors, of which one-third will be deferred into shares.
During the year, the Committee also considered the terms of the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, adopted at IPO.
The Tony Bourne first awards were granted in September 2014.
The Committee has Chair, Remuneration Committee determined that these 2014 awards to senior executives, including Other members: John Gildersleeve, Robert Lerwill executive directors, are based on stretching relative Total Shareholder Return TSR and Earnings Per Share EPS performance targets.
ANNUAL STATEMENT FROM THE REMUNERATION Subject to achievement of the relevant targets, these awards will COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN vest in early 2017 in accordance with the normal business cycle.
Dear Shareholder The Committee is satisfied that the targets are appropriately linked to delivery of demanding long-term financial goals and the creation On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our first Directors of shareholder value.
Remuneration Report DRR following the IPO in July 2014, which has been prepared in accordance with the relevant legislation, As noted in the Prospectus, executive directors are expected to build including Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and retain a shareholding at least equivalent to twice their salary.
and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended This will create further alignment with shareholders.
Both executive and the Listing Rules.
This Report is, therefore, set out in two parts: directors meet this guideline.
Policy Report This sets out our Remuneration Policy Policy REMUNERATION DECISIONS FOR 2015 for all directors of the Group, which will be subject to a binding In relation to remuneration arrangements for the executive directors shareholder vote at our 2015 AGM.
in respect of 2015 performance and beyond, the only structural change is to introduce clawback provisions for both the annual bonus ii.
Annual Report on Remuneration This sets out how our directors and LTIP awards see page 77 for more detail.
The Committee is of were paid in 2014 and how we will apply our Policy in 2015.
There the view that this change further strengthens the existing malus will be an advisory shareholder vote on this section of the Report provision that already applies to our incentive plans.
Apart from a change to the annual bonus metrics replacing EBITDAR OUR APPROACH TO REMUNERATION with EBITDA measures and introducing a balanced scorecard of The overall remuneration structure was designed prior to the IPO strategic objectives and weightings, no other changes are proposed and detailed in the Prospectus.
The approach was intended to in respect of 2015 bonus awards.
LTIP awards to be granted in 2015 provide a simple and transparent structure that reflected our will continue to be subject to EPS and relative TSR targets.
business operations and future strategy.
The structure also took into account evolving market norms and best practices.
SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am committed The Committee has spent considerable time focusing on how the to ensuring an open dialogue with our shareholders.
remuneration structure adopted prior to IPO should be implemented in practice.
The Committee wanted to enshrine core behaviours and If you have any questions about remuneration generally, the values that have been integral to Spire Healthcares success to date presentation or contents of this Report, please contact me via and to tie variable pay to future Group success with @spirehealthcare.
com related payments being aligned with sustainable shareholder value, THE DRR AND THE AGM and subject to the achievement of rigorous and stretching targets.
The Committee recommends both elements to you for approval The Committee considers that our new policy provides a welland we look forward to your support at the 2015 AGM.
balanced remuneration package that will continue to attract and Tony Bourne retain people of the right calibre, and incentivise our executive Chair, Remuneration Committee directors and senior executives to achieve the short and longer-term 23 March 2015 business targets of the Group and to deliver shareholder value.
The Committee operates under terms of reference approved by the Board, available on the Groups website www.
com REMUNERATION DECISIONS IN RESPECT OF 2014 As described elsewhere in the Strategic Report and in the financial highlights on page 1, during our first year as a listed Group, we achieved a strong financial performance, and continue to deliver on our strategic and operational priorities.
74 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Policy Report The following sections set out our Directors Remuneration Policy Policy, which will be put forward for shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM.
Subject to shareholder approval, the Policy will take effect from the date of the AGM on 21 May 2015.
REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE FIXED REMUNERATION Purpose and Performance Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity measures Salary To provide fixed The Committee takes into account While there is no defined maximum None remuneration a number of factors when setting opportunity, salary increases normally that is salaries, including: take into account increases for full-time appropriate employees across the Group.
scope and responsibility of the role: for the role The Committee retains discretion to make the skills and experience and to secure higher increases in certain circumstances, of the individual: and retain the for example, following an increase in the salary levels for similar roles talent required scope and or responsibility of the role, or a within appropriate comparators: by the Group.
significant change in market practice or the overall structure of the remuneration development of the individual in the role.
package: and The current salaries effective from pay and conditions elsewhere 1 January 2015 are: in the Group.
CEO: 525,000 Salaries are normally reviewed annually, CFO: 350,000 with any increase usually taking effect in January.
Benefits Fixed element A range of role-appropriate benefits Whilst no maximum limit exists, individual None of remuneration may be provided to executive directors, benefit arrangements take into account providing including such items as private medical a number of factors, including market market insurance for the executive director and practice for comparable roles within competitive their family, permanent health assurance, appropriate pay comparators.
benefits to participation in an income protection Participation in any HMRC-approved both support scheme, life assurance, an annual health all-employee share plan is subject to retention and assessment for the executive director and the maximum permitted by the recruit people their spouse and a car allowance.
of the necessary Additional one-off benefits may also be calibre.
provided where the Committee considers this appropriate e. g on relocation.
Executive directors are also eligible to participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company from time to time on the same basis as other eligible colleagues.
The Committee keeps the benefits package offered to existing and new executive directors under review.
Retirement Fixed element Executive directors can opt to join the The maximum level of retirement benefits None benefits of remuneration Companys defined contribution scheme, is 25% of base salary, and the current to assist with receive a contribution into a personal provision for the executive directors retirement pension scheme, take a cash supplement is 18% of base salary.
or any combination of the three.
They are set by taking into account a number of factors, including market The employer defined contribution level, Retirement practice for comparable roles at the contribution into a personal pension benefits are appropriate pay comparators.
scheme and or cash supplement are provided to kept under review by the Committee.
both support For new executive directors, the nature and retention and The retirement benefits are not included value of any retirement benefits provided recruit people in calculating bonus and long-term will be, in the Committees view, reasonable of the necessary incentive quantum.
in the context of market practice for calibre.
comparable roles and take account of both the individuals circumstances and the cost to the Group.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 75 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued VARIABLE REMUNERATION Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual To incentivise Objectives are set annually to ensure that Maximum Awards are based on a combination bonus and reward the they remain targeted and focused on the award of financial, operational and achievement of delivery of strategic goals.
opportunity individual goals measured over annual financial, for executive one financial year.
The Committee sets targets that require operational directors is appropriate levels of performance, taking At least 50% of the award will be and individual 150% of base into account internal and external assessed against Group financial objectives that salary for each expectations of performance.
The remainder of the are key to the financial year, award will be based on performance As soon as practicable after the year delivery of a portion against strategic objectives and or end, the Committee meets to review the Groups of which individual objectives.
Details of the performance against objectives and strategy.
is normally performance measures for 2014 and determines payout levels.
The Committee deferred into an 2015 are set out in the Annual Report may adjust payments to ensure they are award of shares on Remuneration.
under the DBP A sliding scale between 0% and 100% A portion of any bonus as determined by currently of the maximum award pays out for the Committee is normally deferred into one-third.
achievement between the minimum an award of shares under the Deferred and maximum performance Bonus Plan DBP.
any bonus is deferred for a period of three years although the Committee may vary For annual bonuses in respect of this approach.
2015, the targets will be based on EBITDA and a balanced scorecard DBP awards may be in the form of of strategic metrics.
conditional share awards or nil-cost options The details of measures, targets or any other form allowed by the plan and weightings may be varied by rules.
This deferred bonus element is the Committee year-on-year based not normally subject to any further on the Groups strategic priorities.
performance conditions, although it is subject to continued employment.
Further details of the malus and clawback provisions applicable are set out on page 77.
Long Term To incentivise Awards granted under the LTIP vest The maximum Vesting of awards will be dependent Incentive and reward subject to achievement of performance award on a range of financial, operational Plan LTIP the delivery conditions measured over a period of at opportunity or share price measures, as set by the of long-term least three years, unless the Committee at grant Committee, which are aligned with the strategic determines otherwise.
for executive long-term strategic objectives of the objectives.
directors in Group and shareholder value creation.
Awards may be in the form of conditional respect of a To align the share awards or nil-cost options or any Not less than 30% of an award will financial year interests of other form allowed by the plan rules.
be based on share price measures.
is 200% of the executive The remainder will be based on either Further details of the malus and base salary.
directors financial and or operational measures.
clawback provisions applicable with those of are set out on page 77.
At the threshold performance, no more shareholders.
than 25% of the award will vest, rising To assist to 100% for maximum performance.
recruitment For awards granted in 2015, vesting and retention will be based on EPS 50% and relative of executive TSR 50% targets.
The details of measures, targets and weightings may be varied by the Committee prior to grant based on the Groups strategic objectives.
76 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE LEGACY ARRANGEMENTS PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND TARGETS Directors Share Bonus Plan Awards Awards were granted to Annual bonus Rob Roger, Simon Gordon and Garry Watts in recognition of his The annual bonus performance measures are designed to provide performance as Executive Chairman to reflect their contribution an appropriate balance between incentivising executive directors to the Company prior to Admission.
These awards were made over to meet financial targets for the year and to deliver specific strategic, shares in the form of nil-cost options.
The awards are split into two operational and personal goals.
This balance allows the Committee equal tranches, which normally become exercisable on the first and to review the Groups performance in the round against the key second anniversary of Admission, respectively.
elements of our strategy, and appropriately incentivise and reward Although these awards were made in recognition of services the executive directors.
provided to the Company prior to Admission, the awards will only Bonus targets are set by the Committee each year to ensure that be exercisable in full if the 90-day average share price prior to the executive directors are focused on the key financial and strategic first and second anniversary of Admission is at least 359 pence.
If, objectives for the financial year.
In doing so, the Committee usually at the relevant anniversary, the average share price is at or below takes into account a number of internal and external reference 224 pence then the number of shares in the relevant tranche to points, including the Groups business plan.
which the options relate will be reduced by approximately 35%.
Where the average share price at the relevant anniversary is LTIP between 224 pence and 359 pence, the proportion exercisable The Committee believes it is important that the performance will be reduced on a pro-rata basis.
conditions applying to LTIP awards support the long-term ambitions of the Group and the creation of shareholder value.
The Committee RECRUITMENT POLICY currently considers that a combination of relative TSR and financial In determining remuneration for new executive directors, the metrics currently EPS are the most appropriate measures to assess Committee will consider all relevant factors, including the calibre of the underlying performance of the business, while creating alignment the individual and the external market, while aiming not to pay more with shareholders and rewarding long-term value creation.
than is necessary to secure the required talent.
The Committee would seek to act in what it considers to be the best interests of the Group The Committee will keep the measures and weightings under review and its shareholders.
Normally, the Committee will seek to align the to ensure that the most appropriate measures to incentivise the new executive directors remuneration package to the remuneration long-term success of the Group are used.
RECOVERY PROVISIONS MALUS AND CLAWBACK Salary and benefits including any retirement benefits will be Prior to vesting, the Committee may cancel or reduce the number determined in accordance with the policy table above.
In certain of shares subject to, or impose additional conditions on, LTIP, DBP instances, the Committee may decide to appoint an executive awards and Directors Share Bonus Awards in circumstances director to the Board on a lower-than-typical salary, with the where the Committee considers it to be appropriate malus.
Such intention of gradually increasing the salary to move closer to market circumstances may include: a serious misstatement of the Groups level as they build experience in the role.
Normally, benefits will be audited financial results, a serious miscalculation of any relevant limited to those outlined in the policy table above, including a performance measure, a serious failure of risk management or relocation allowance in certain circumstances.
regulatory compliance by a relevant entity, serious reputational damage to the Group, or the participants material misconduct.
The maximum level of variable pay excluding any buyouts that may be awarded to a new executive director will be limited to 350% of In addition, for cash bonus awards in respect of 2015 and future base salary, which is consistent with the policy table above.
Incentives years, and for LTIP awards granted after 1 January 2015, the will normally be granted under the existing plans: however, where Committee may also claw back vested awards in certain extreme appropriate, the Committee may tailor the award e. g timeframe, circumstances including those listed above for up to two years form, performance criteria based on the commercial circumstances.
following the determination of the relevant performance outcome.
The Committee may buyout remuneration terms a new hire has Prior to applying malus or clawback, the Committee will take into had to forfeit on joining the Group.
Buyout awards are intended account all relevant factors including, where a serious failure of to be of comparable commercial value, and capped accordingly.
risk management or regulatory compliance or serious reputational The Committee will take into account all relevant factors when damage has occurred, the degree of involvement of the employee determining the quantum and form structure of any buyout, in that failure or damage in question and the employees level including any performance conditions attached to any forfeited of responsibility in deciding whether, and to what extent, it is awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, and the reasonable to operate malus and or clawback.
The Committee proportion of the vesting performance period remaining.
is satisfied that the above provisions provide robust safeguards against inappropriate payment of incentive awards.
The service contracts for new appointments will be consistent with the policy described below.
Where an executive director is appointed from within the organisation, the policy of the Group is that any legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an executive is appointed following an acquisition of, or merger with, another company, legacy terms and conditions would be honoured.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 77 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SERVICE CONTRACTS AND PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE The key employment terms and other conditions of the current executive directors, as stipulated in their service contracts, are set out below: Provision Policy Notice period 12 months notice by either the Group or the executive director.
This is also the policy for new recruits.
Benefits The Group may agree that certain benefits will be specified within the executive directors service contracts.
The current executive directors are contractually entitled to private medical insurance for the executive director and his family, permanent health assurance, income protection, life assurance, an annual health assessment for the executive director and their spouse and a car allowance.
Termination payment It is the Groups policy that service contracts contain provisions that allow the Group to terminate employment by making a payment in lieu of notice PILON equivalent to i 12 months base salary and ii the cost of specific benefits including retirement benefits.
Upon termination by the Group, the Group can determine whether a PILON is made as a single lump sum or paid in instalments, subject to mitigation.
Where the sum is paid in instalments, the executive director has a duty to use reasonable endeavours to secure alternative employment as soon as reasonably practicable.
In the event the executive director commences alternative employment with an annual salary of greater than 30,000, there will be a pro-rata reduction in the PILON payments.
Immediate termination The service contract of an executive director may also be terminated immediately and with no liability to make payment in certain circumstances, such as the executive director bringing the Group into disrepute or committing a fundamental breach of their employment obligations.
External appointments Executive directors may accept one position as a non-executive director of another publically listed company that is not a competitor of the Group, subject to prior approval of the Board.
External appointments to any other company and treatment of any fees are also subject to the prior approval of the Board.
In the event that the employment of an executive director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Group and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans in which they participate.
Where an executive directors employment with the Group ceases prior to the payment of the annual bonus in respect of a financial year, the Committee in its absolute discretion will determine whether any bonus should be paid and the extent to which deferral into shares should be applied.
Any awards would normally be pro-rated.
For bonuses in respect of 2015 onwards, clawback provisions will also apply.
For the avoidance of doubt, in the event the executive director is dismissed for misconduct, no bonus will be payable.
78 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The treatment of share awards made by the Company is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
The following table summarises the leaver provisions of share plans under which executive directors may currently hold awards.
Plan Leaver reasons where awards may continue to vest Vesting arrangements Deferred Bonus Plan Death LTIP awards will vest to the extent determined by the DBP and LTIP Committee, which, unless the Committee determines Injury, ill health or disability otherwise, will be calculated on the basis of the Retirement achievement of any performance conditions at the relevant vesting date and, unless the Committee determines The transfer of the individuals employing company otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed between or business out of the Group grant and cessation of employment directorship.
Any other scenario in which the Committee The vesting date for such awards will normally be the determines good leaver treatment is justified original vesting date, although the Committee has the flexibility to determine that awards can vest upon cessation of employment.
DBP awards will normally vest in full on the original vesting date, although the Committee has the flexibility to determine that awards can vest earlier.
DBP and LTIP awards will continue to be subject to the malus provisions outlined on page 77 until the vesting of the awards.
LTIP awards granted from 2015 onwards will also be subject to a clawback provision, as described above.
Any other reason Awards lapse in full.
Directors Share Any circumstance other than dismissal for cause These awards were made in recognition of services Bonus Plan provided to the Company prior to Admission and, as such, Legacy arrangements are not subject to continued employment except in the granted prior to case of dismissal for cause.
Admission Awards vest on the first and second anniversary of Admission to the extent the share price performance targets have been met.
Awards will continue to be subject to the malus provisions outlined on page 77 until the vesting of the awards.
Dismissal for cause Awards lapse in full.
Where directors participate in any HMRC approved all-employee share plans, the leaver treatment will be consistent with the relevant legislation on the same terms as all other employees.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 79 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Group seeks to appoint non-executive directors who have relevant professional knowledge and or specific technical skills to support the current expertise of the Board and to match the healthcare sector within which the Group operates.
In the event of the appointment of a new Chairman and or non-executive director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those detailed in the relevant table below.
Fees to non-executive directors will not include share options or other performancerelated elements.
Remuneration of independent non-executive directors, with the exception of the Chairman, is determined by the Chairman and the executive directors.
The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Committee.
Directors are not involved in any decisions in relation to their own remuneration.
The table below sets out the remuneration policy with respect to non-executive directors.
Non-executive directors do not participate in the Groups bonus arrangements, share incentive schemes or retirement benefit plans.
Approach to setting remuneration for non-executive directors Opportunity Fees are set at appropriate levels to ensure The total fees paid to non-executive directors will remain within the limit stated non-executive directors are paid to reflect in the Articles of Association of the Company.
the individual responsibility taken, as Individual fees reflect responsibility and time commitment, as well as the skills and well as the skills and experience of the experience of the individual.
Additional fees may be paid for further responsibilities, individual.
such as chairmanship of committees.
When setting fee levels, consideration is Any benefits provided will be reasonable in the market context and take account of the given to a number of factors, including individual circumstances and benefits provided to comparable roles.
Expenses reasonably responsibilities and market positioning.
incurred in the performance of the role may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Group, Where appropriate, benefits to the role as appropriate, including any tax due on the benefits.
Non-executive directors will also be may be provided.
Travel and other covered by the Groups indemnity insurance.
reasonable expenses including fees The fees as at 31 December 2014 were: incurred in obtaining professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and any Chairman: 257,000 associated taxes incurred in the course Deputy Chairman and Senior independent director: 140,000 of performing their duties may be paid Non-executive director basic fee: 50,000 by the Group or reimbursed to nonCommittee chairmanship: 10,000 executive directors.
Individuals appointed to the Board by Cinven Funds pursuant to the Relationship Agreement do not currently receive any annual fees from the Company.
Under the terms of his appointment, Garry Watts is entitled to private medical expenses insurance for both himself and his spouse and any dependent children, life assurance, annual health assessment for both himself and his spouse and office facilities to perform his duties as Chairman.
Medical expenses insurance and life assurance will be provided under the Groups arrangements or, if he obtains equivalent benefits directly, the Group will meet his costs up to a specified cap.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT The Chairman and non-executive directors have letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities.
They do not have service contracts with either the Group or any of its subsidiaries.
The key terms of the appointments are set out in the table below.
This is the policy for current and any new non-executive directors.
Provision Policy Period In line with the UK Code, the Chairman and all independent non-executive directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
After the initial three-year term, the Chairman and the non-executive directors are typically expected to serve a further three-year term.
Termination The appointment of the Chairman is terminable by either the Group or the director by giving 12 months notice.
The appointment of the Deputy Chairman is terminable by either the Group or the director by giving three months notice.
The appointment of any independent non-executive directors is terminable by either the Group or the director by giving two months notice.
The non-executive directors nominated by Cinven Funds pursuant to the terms of the Relationship Agreement are terminable without notice.
80 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information FURTHER DETAILED PROVISIONS The DBP and LTIP, as well as the outstanding legacy Directors Share Bonus Awards, will be operated in accordance with the relevant plan rules which were summarised for shareholders in the Prospectus.
The Committee may adjust or amend awards only in accordance with the provisions of the relevant plan rules.
This includes making adjustments to awards to reflect one-off corporate events, such as a change in the Groups capital structure.
In accordance with the plan rules, awards may be settled in cash rather than shares, where the Committee considers this appropriate.
The performance conditions applicable to incentive awards may be amended on an appropriate basis determined by the Committee, if an event occurs or circumstances arise that cause the Committee to consider the performance condition is no longer a fair measure of performance and, in the case of the Directors Share Bonus Award, the Committee determines fairly and reasonably that the circumstances prevailing at grant have changed.
For LTIP and Directors Share Bonus Awards, the amended performance condition will be at least as challenging as the original condition.
Under the DBP, LTIP and Directors Share Bonus Awards, participants may receive an additional amount, in cash or shares, to take account of the value of dividends the participant would have received on the shares that vest.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, LTIP awards may vest to the extent that the Committee determines, taking into account the extent to which any performance conditions have been satisfied, and such other factors as the Committee considers relevant in the circumstances, provided that, unless the Committee determines otherwise, awards will be adjusted to reflect the period of time that has elapsed between grant and cessation of employment directorship: DBP awards will normally vest in full: and legacy Share Bonus Awards may vest based on the per-share price payable to shareholders on the relevant transaction, or, in the case of a winding-up, the share price at the time.
Alternatively, awards may be exchanged for equivalent awards in the acquiring company.
The Committee may make any remuneration payments including vesting of incentives and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above, where the terms of that payment were agreed before this Policy came into effect: or at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
The DBP and LTIP incorporate dilution limits.
These limits are 10% in any rolling 10-year period for all plans and 5% in any rolling 10-year period for executive share plans.
Shares issued out of treasury will count towards these limits for so long as this is required under institutional shareholder guidelines.
Shares issued, or to be issued, pursuant to any awards granted on or before the date of Admission will not count towards these limits.
In addition, awards that lapse shall be disregarded for the purposes of these limits.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
ILLUSTRATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY The remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of stretching short-term and long-term performance targets aligned with the Groups objectives, and on delivering shareholder value.
The Committee considers the level of remuneration that may be received under different performance outcomes to ensure that this is appropriate in the context of the performance delivered and the value added for shareholders.
The charts that follow provide illustrative values of the annual remuneration packages for executive directors in 2015 under three assumed performance scenarios.
These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from those shown.
Chief Executive Officer Rob Roger Chief Financial Officer Simon Gordon 3,000k 3,000k 3000 3000 2,473k 2,500k 2,500k 2500 2500 2,000k 2,000k 2000 2000 42% 1,652k 1,554k 1,500k 1,500k 1500 1500 42% 11% 34% 1,040k 1,000k 1,000k 8% 1000 1000 34% 21% 11% 17% 636k 8% 427k 21% 500k 500k 17% 500 500 100% 41% 26% 100% 41% 26% 0k 0k 0 0 Minimum Mid-point Maximum Minimum Mid-point Maximum Performance Performance Performance Performance Salary Benefits Cash Bonus Deferred Shares LTIP Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 81 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Assumed performance Assumptions used Fixed pay All performance scenarios Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, benefits and retirement benefits.
Base salary salary effective as at 1 January 2015.
Variable pay Minimum performance No payout under the annual bonus.
No vesting under the LTIP.
Mid-point 50% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus.
This represents 75% of base salary for both executive directors.
One-third of the bonus payable is deferred into shares under the DBP.
This represents 100% of base salary for both executive directors.
Maximum performance 100% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus.
This represents 150% of base salary for both executive directors.
This represents 200% of base salary for both executive directors.
DBP and LTIP awards have been shown at face value, with no share price growth, dividend accrual or discount rate assumptions.
Excludes payouts under the Legacy Share Bonus Award, which were granted to the executive directors in recognition of services prior to Admission.
REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS THROUGHOUT THE COMPANY The Policy for our executive directors is designed in line with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration across the Group.
When making decisions in respect of the executive director remuneration arrangements, the Committee takes into consideration the pay and conditions for employees throughout the Group.
As stated in the policy table, salary increases are, in practice, normally aligned to the general employee population.
The Committee does not directly consult with our employees as part of the process of determining executive pay.
DIFFERENCES IN REMUNERATION POLICY FOR ALL EMPLOYEES The remuneration of the wider employee population is based on the same reward philosophy, whilst the components of remuneration vary with seniority.
All employees, including executive directors, receive a salary and role appropriate benefits.
Role-specific annual bonus arrangements are operated across the Group.
For more senior roles, a portion of the bonus is deferred on a similar basis to executive directors.
Only senior individuals who can have significant influence on the performance of the Group as a whole are invited to participate in the long-term incentive plans.
This provides those individuals with an incentive to help achieve the Groups medium and long-term objectives and create shareholder value, whilst ensuring their remuneration varies to the extent these goals are achieved.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The structure of remuneration for Board members was presented to shareholders in the Prospectus prior to Admission.
The Committee is mindful of shareholder views when evaluating and setting ongoing remuneration strategy, and intends to appropriately consult with shareholders prior to any significant proposed changes to the remuneration policy.
82 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Annual Report on Remuneration SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The following table sets out the total remuneration for the executive directors for the year ended 31 December 2014.
This comprises the total remuneration received over the full year from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014, including remuneration received from the Group prior to Admission and the incorporation of the Company on 12 June 2014.
As Spire Healthcare Group plc was a newly listed company during 2014, there is no disclosure in this report of prior year information.
Rob Roger Simon Gordon 000s CEO CFO Salary 450.0 302.1 Benefits 16.1 14.4 Retirement benefits 80.5 54.1 Annual bonus including deferred element 195.4 118.2 Long-term incentives Sub-total 742.0 488.8 1 1 Legacy Accrued Incentive Payments 4,450.0 2,050.4 2 Legacy Share Bonus Award 1,031.1 562.4 Total 6,223.1 3,101.6 1 The Accrued Incentive Payment for R Roger was paid wholly in cash, and for S Gordon was paid half in cash less the repayment of a loan of 12,890 and half in shares as noted on page 84.
2 The value of the Share Bonus Award is calculated at the date of Admission based on a share price of 2.10.
ADDITIONAL NOTES TO THE TABLE SALARY On Admission, the salary for the Chief Executive Officer was 525,000 and the salary for the Chief Financial Officer was 350,000, and their salary for 2015 remains unchanged.
BENEFITS The benefits consist of private medical insurance for the executive director and their family, permanent health assurance, life assurance and a car allowance.
Under his contractual terms, Simon Gordon also has an annual health assessment for himself and his spouse.
Under his contractual terms, Rob Roger also has income protection cover.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS The amount set out in the table represents the Group contribution to the directors retirement planning at a rate of 18% of base salary.
Simon Gordon is a member of the the Spire Healthcare Pension Plan and Rob Roger has a personal pension scheme.
ANNUAL BONUS The executive directors annual bonus targets were set at the beginning of the financial year, prior to Admission, and were amended on Admission by pro-rating to reflect the new circumstances of the company.
The EBITDAR reported for the full year of 219.9m was ahead of the amended threshold target.
Additionally, both Rob Roger and Simon Gordon achieved their strategic and personal objectives in full, including the successful delivery of the IPO, such that each has earned in total a bonus of 34.3% of their maximum potential annual bonus.
The Committee is satisfied that the resulting payments of 195,400 and 118,200 to Rob Roger and Simon Gordon respectively are fully merited.
The performance targets in relation to the 2014 awards, which were set prior to Admission, are considered to be commercially sensitive.
The Committee have implemented a revised bonus framework for 2015 as set out on page 86.
Two-thirds of the bonus will be paid in cash.
The remaining one-third of the bonus in respect of 2014 will be deferred into shares under the DBP.
These shares will be deferred for a period of three years, conditional on continued employment.
These shares will remain subject to a malus provision.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVES No awards under the LTIP vested in the 2014 financial year and, subsequently, no award is shown in the single figure table above.
The first awards under the LTIP were granted on 30 September 2014.
These awards were granted in the form of nil-cost options over Spire Healthcare Group plc shares, with the number of shares that may vest conditional on performance to the end of the 2016 financial year.
The maximum award granted to executive directors was equivalent to 200% of base salary.
Shortly following Admission, the Committee considered the key long-term objectives over the 2014 to 2016 performance period.
The Committee determined that the awards for the performance period to 31 December 2016 should be linked to the value created for shareholders over the period, and as a consequence that the awards should be equally weighted against relative TSR and EPS performance targets.
Further details of the performance conditions are set out on page 84.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 83 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued EPS 50% of award Relative TSR 50% of award Vesting of this element is based on the adjusted EPS outcome Vesting of this element is based on TSR performance measured for the 2016 financial year.
against the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
Percentage of the Percentage of the 2016 EPS element vesting TSR performance element vesting Less than 20.6 pence 0% Below median 0% 20.6 pence 25% Median 25% 23.9 pence or more 100% Upper quartile 100% Straight-line vesting operates between these points.
Straight-line vesting operates between these points.
Based on relative TSR performance from Admission to 31 December 2016.
The following table provides details of the awards made on 30 September 2014: Name Type of award Number of shares Face value at grant End of performance period Rob Roger CEO 372,340 1,050,000 Conditional Share Award 31 December 2016 in the form of nil-cost options Simon Gordon CFO 248,226 700,000 The share price used to determine the number of shares under awards was 2.823, the average of the middle market quotation at close of business over the last five dealing days prior to the date of grant.
The face value is equivalent to 200% of base salary.
LEGACY ARRANGEMENTS VARIABLE INCENTIVES RELATING TO THE PERIOD PRIOR TO ADMISSION As disclosed in the Prospectus, the Company granted, conditional on Admission, Accrued Incentive Payments and Share Bonus Plan Awards.
These are legacy arrangements that were adopted and operated prior to Admission.
These figures have been included in the single-figure table above in the interests of transparency: however, it should be noted that they relate to performance delivered prior to Admission.
LEGACY ARRANGEMENT ACCRUED INCENTIVE PAYMENTS Bonus awards were made to approximately 160 current and former employees of the Group, including the executive directors Rob Roger, Simon Gordon and Garry Watts in respect of his pre-Admission role of Executive Chairman.
Half of the award made to Simon Gordon was delivered in shares.
All remaining awards were paid in cash.
LEGACY ARRANGEMENT DIRECTORS SHARE BONUS PLAN AWARDS Awards were granted to Rob Roger, Simon Gordon and Garry Watts in recognition of his performance in his pre-Admission role of Executive Chairman to reflect their contribution to the Company prior to Admission.
Details of these awards are set out below.
In order to create further alignment with shareholders, these awards were made over shares in the form of nil-cost options and split into two equal tranches, which become exercisable on the first and second anniversary of Admission, respectively.
Although these awards were made in recognition of services provided to the Company prior to Admission and, as such, are not subject to continued employment, the Share Bonus Awards will only remain exercisable in full if the 90 day average share price prior to the first and second anniversary of Admission is at least 359 pence.
If, at the relevant anniversary, the average share price is at or below 224 pence then the number of shares in the relevant tranche, to which the awards relate, will be reduced by approximately 35%.
Where the average share price at the relevant anniversary is between 224 pence and 359 pence then the proportion exercisable will be reduced on a pro-rata basis.
As the awards were made in respect of the period prior to Admission, they are not subject to continued employment, except in the case of dismissal for cause, and remain subject to the malus provisions detailed in the remuneration policy.
The amounts shown in the single-figure tables is the minimum number of shares that may vest valued at the share price on Admission 210 pence.
No further awards will be made under this arrangement.
The following table provides details of the Directors Share Bonus Awards: Minimum Maximum exercisable award exercisable award Face value Name Type of award No.
of shares of maximum Vesting date 491,000 766,000 1,608,600 Rob Roger CEO Vesting date for all Conditional Share participants: Simon Gordon CFO 267,800 417,800 877,380 Award in the form 50% 23 July 2015 Garry Watts in respect of previous of nil-cost options 50% 23 July 2016 role as Executive Chairman 312,500 487,400 1,023,540 These awards were granted on 4 July 2014.
The face value shown is based on the maximum number of shares exercisable valued at the share price on Admission 2.10.
84 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The following table sets out the total remuneration for the non-executive directors for the year ended 31 December 2014.
This comprises the total remuneration received by them since the incorporation of the Company on 12 June 2014.
Full year information is shown for the Chairman including detail relating to his pre-Admission role as Executive Chairman As Spire Healthcare Group plc was a newly listed company during 2014, there is no disclosure in this report of prior year information.
000s Fees Benefits Total John Gildersleeve 75.0 75.0 Simon Rowlands Dr Supraj Rajagopalan Tony Bourne 30.0 30.0 Dame Janet Husband 30.0 30.0 Robert Lerwill 30.0 30.0 Total 165.0 165.0 CHAIRMAN Garry Watts Garry Watts as Executive as Non-Executive 000s Chairman Chairman Salary Fees 143.3 114.0 Benefits 2.2 1.0 Retirement benefits Annual bonus 144.2 Long-term incentives Sub-total 289.7 115.0 Variable incentives prior to Admission Legacy Accrued Incentive Payment 1,298.7 1 Legacy Share Bonus Award 656.3 Total 2,244.7 115.0 1 The value of the Share Bonus Award is calculated at the date of Admission based on a share price of 2.10.
NOTES TO THE TABLE FEES The fees shown are paid to the non-executive director from the date of their appointment.
The non-executive directors nominated by Cinven Funds, subject to the Relationship Agreement, do not receive any fees.
BENEFITS Only Garry Watts has a contractual entitlement to benefits, which consist of private medical insurance for himself and family: life cover for himself only: annual health assessment for himself and spouse: and office facilities to enable him to perform his duties as Chairman.
Reasonable expenses incurred by any non-executive director will be reimbursed by the Company.
CHAIRMAN As disclosed in the Prospectus, Garry Watts was entitled to a time pro-rated bonus for the period prior to Admission, in respect of his previous role as Executive Chairman.
The amount shown is equivalent to 100% of his previous salary pro-rated for the period from 1 January 2014 to the date of Admission.
Details of the legacy awards relating to performance prior to Admission are set out on page 84.
Following Admission, Garry Watts was appointed as a non-executive Chairman and, in line with corporate governance guidelines, he will not participate in any future incentive plans.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 85 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued IMPLEMENTATION FOR 2015 The following table summarises how remuneration arrangements will be operated for 2015.
Shareholders will note: salaries remain unchanged for the year: and the maximum opportunity under the incentive plans will remain unchanged.
Salary and benefits Following the year end, the Committee reviewed the base salary for executive directors as part of the annual salary review process and decided not to increase them at this point in time.
On Admission 2015 salary Rob Roger 525,000 525,000 Simon Gordon 350,000 350,000 No changes to benefits for 2015 benefits include private medical insurance, permanent health assurance, income protection, life assurance, an annual health assessment and car allowance.
Company contributions to the executive directors retirement benefits remain at 18% of salary.
Annual bonus The maximum opportunity for both executive directors will remain at 150% of salary.
The performance targets in respect of the 2015 bonus will be based on EBITDA, and a balanced scorecard based on strategic targets linked to productivity, customer, quality and staff measures.
The detail of targets for the coming year is commercially sensitive: however, the Committee will look to provide expanded disclosure regarding bonus outcomes in next years report.
One-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares for three years.
LTIP Conditional award over shares will be made in 2015 of 200% of base salary in the form of nil-cost options.
Performance will be measured over the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017.
Awards conditional on relative TSR and adjusted EPS targets: Threshold Full vesting 25% vests 100% vests TSR v FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts 50% Median Upper quartile Adjusted EPS outcome in 2017 50% 23.8 pence 27.5 pence Straight-line vesting between points shown.
No vesting of element for performance below threshold.
Shareholding guideline Executive directors are expected to build up and maintain, over a period of five years, a shareholding equivalent to twice their respective base salaries.
As at the date of this report, both executive directors have holdings that exceed this guideline.
Non-Executive The current fees payable to the Chairman and non-executive directors are shown in the following table.
These fees Directors will be subject to review on the appointed date.
Role Fee Chairman 257,000 Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director 140,000 Basic fee for other non-executive directors 50,000 Additional fee for chair of a Board Committee 10,000 86 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDING AND SHARE INTERESTS AUDITED The table below sets out the directors shareholdings in the Group.
As noted above, executive directors are expected to build up and maintain a holding equivalent to twice their base salary.
Shareholding Guidelines Proportion of shareholding 1 As at 31 December 2014 guideline achieved Executive Directors Rob Roger 518,216 188% Simon Gordon 262,596 143% Non-Executive Directors Garry Watts 266,532 n a John Gildersleeve 4,761 n a Simon Rowlands 0 n a Dr Supraj Rajagopalan 0 n a Tony Bourne 11,904 n a Dame Janet Husband 4,761 n a Robert Lerwill 23,809 n a 1 Calculated based upon the closing share price on 31 December 2014 of 3.80, both executive directors significantly exceed the guideline of 200% of salary.
The table below sets out the directors interests in shares of the Group which remain unvested as at the year end.
Shares Unvested and subject Unvested and not subject 1 2 Name to performance conditions to performance conditions Executive Directors Rob Roger 647,340 491,000 Simon Gordon 398,226 267,800 Non-Executive Directors Garry Watts 174,900 312,500 John Gildersleeve Simon Rowlands Dr Supraj Rajagopalan Tony Bourne Dame Janet Husband Robert Lerwill 1 A wards granted under the LTIP 372,340 for Rob Roger and 248,226 for Simon Gordon, plus the proportion of the Directors Share Bonus Plan that is delivered dependent on share price performance 275,000 for Rob Roger, 150,000 for Simon Gordon and 174,900 for Garry Watts.
2 Consists of the proportion of the Directors Share Bonus Award that is not subject to performance 491,000 for Rob Roger, 267,800 for Simon Gordon and 312,500 for Garry Watts.
Unvested awards are structured as nil-cost options.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 87 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT Non-Executive Director Date of appointment Notice period Date of expiry G Watts 4 July 2014 12 months 23 July 2017 J Gildersleeve 24 June 2014 3 months 23 July 2017 T Bourne 24 June 2014 2 months 21 May 2018 R Lerwill 24 June 2014 2 months 21 May 2018 J Husband 24 June 2014 2 months 21 May 2018 SERVICE CONTRACTS Each of the executive directors, who both put themselves up for re-election at the AGM to be held on 21 May 2015, are employed under ongoing service contracts with the Group.
These contracts do not have a fixed term of appointment.
A copy of each executive directors service contract is available at the registered office for inspection.
PERFORMANCE TABLE The table below illustrates Spire Healthcares TSR performance against the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts since listing.
23 July 2014 31 Dec 2014 FTSE 250 100 107 Spire Healthcare 100 148 The table below shows the total remuneration paid to the Chief Executive Officer since Admission.
Chief Executive Officers remuneration 2014 CEO single figure of remuneration 000s 398.6 Annual bonus payout % of maximum 34% LTIP vesting % of maximum N A PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF THE DIRECTOR UNDERTAKING THE ROLE OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER There is no comparative data from previous year, as shown in the single-figure table.
Hence, there will be no percentage changes in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the CEO or for the comparator group of all UK permanent employees.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below illustrates the year-on-year change in the total remuneration costs for all employees and shareholder distributions.
million 2013 2014 % change 1 Total remuneration 210.9 283.1 34% Distributions to shareholders N A 1 Included in total remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2014 are exceptional IPO bonuses: see notes 7 and 8 on pages 107 and 108 of the Notes to the financial statements for further detail.
ADVICE PROVIDED TO THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE During the course of the year, Deloitte LLP was appointed by the Committee to provide external advice.
Its total fees for advice provided to the Remuneration Committee were 60,500.
Deloitte has voluntarily signed up to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting during the year.
The Committee is comfortable that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team that provides remuneration advice to the Committee do not have connections with the Company that may impair their independence.
During the year, Deloitte also provided unrelated tax and consultancy services to the Group.
The Chairman, CEO, CFO and Simon Rowlands attended committee meetings by invitation in order to provide the Committee with additional context.
The Company Secretary or in his absence, the Deputy Company Secretary act as the Committees secretary.
No individual participates in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee Tony Bourne Chair, Remuneration Committee 23 March 2015 88 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014
