Directors' Report Remuneration Report The Chairmans statement Our Issues Transparent The Committee considered the following key issues in the course of last year: appropriate salaries on the appointment of disclosure Alistair Phillips-Davies as Chief Executive, and Gregor Alexander, in his expanded role as Finance Director: As Chairman of the Committee, I find the new performance assessment against both longer-term and shorter-term incentive plans: regulations this year reassuring.
They call for changes to the design of the incentive plans, transparency and context in reporting remuneration to align the plans more closely to future business priorities, and to ensure that the issues.
We have always tried to report in that way.
plans have a specific customer focus as a key element of them.
We welcome the chance to disclose the major issues we have discussed over the year, along An important factor for these key decisions with our key decisions.
Indeed, one of the is that SSE remains committed to maintaining advantages of being listed on the London Stock a fair and balanced pay policy.
Exchange, as SSE is, is that a company must be transparent in its disclosures and accountable SSE is also committed to embracing the to its shareholders.
letter and the spirit of the new regulations on remuneration reporting.
We would welcome any feedback on how they have been interpreted in this report and should be interpreted in future reports.
Our Decisions Salary Setting the remuneration for the new Chief Executive, Alistair Phillips-Davies and for Gregor Alexander, with his enhanced responsibilities, was a key focus for the Committee during the year.
We retained our core principle of offering total executive remuneration at below the market median for FTSE 20-50 companies excluding financial services.
Reflecting also guidance from our shareholders, we appointed our new CEO on a salary more than 15% below the outgoing incumbent, with the potential for further increases in the following couple of years as he settles into the role.
Incentive Plan Structure Another important consideration for the Committee was to ensure that incentive plans have the potential to reward Executives fairly for delivering business performance in a changing and challenging environment.
The Committee reviewed its approach to the incentive plans and concluded that they should be reshaped to align more explicitly with both shareholder and customer expectations.
The plans also have to be achievable but stretching with the aim of paying around half of maximum levels for good performance.
We have also introduced an additional 2 year post-vesting holding period for new awards made under the PSP scheme.
Importantly, while the measures in the plans have been reshaped, the quantum of each plan remains unchanged, reflecting our commitment to maintain a balanced and conservative pay policy.
