31 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder During the year I was appointed as the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Group and I am delighted to present our first Directors remuneration report as a listed company comprising this statement, the Directors' remuneration policy on pages 33 to 38 and the annual report on remuneration on pages 39 to 44.
At our AGM in March 2015 we will put our remuneration policy to a binding vote and the annual report on remuneration will be put to an advisory vote for the first time.
During the 2014 financial year the Remuneration Committee the Committee has primarily been focused on the review and consequent restructuring of SSPs pay arrangements ahead of our Admission to the London Stock Exchange on 15 July 2014 Admission and our transition to life as a listed company.
There have been a number of changes to the Remuneration Committee during the year and I would like to thank my colleagues for all of their contributions.
Pay for performance The Committee considers it essential to ensure that our executive pay arrangements are fully aligned with our ambition to reward our profitable growth strategy.
The Groups financial performance over the last 12 months has exceeded our expectations.
The Group has also successfully listed on theLondon Stock Exchange.
The Executive Directors each performed strongly against the challenges of the year.
This performance provided the backdrop to the decisions of the Committee and was reflected in the remuneration outcomes for the year.
Aligned with our profitable growth strategy In determining SSPs remuneration policy the Committee was conscious of the need to take into account shareholder expectations of executive remuneration in the listed environment, whilst minimising complexity.
The pay arrangements adopted by the Committee which are outlined in full in the Directors remuneration policy below are designed to promote the long-term success of the Group, with the following aims: To recruit, reward and retain Executive Directors Base salary levels and incentive plan opportunities have been set at levels that r eflect the individuals who can deliver our strategic objectives skills, performance and experience in the context of the size and scope of the Executive Directors role.
To reward the Executive Directors for the A significant portion of the Executive Dir ectors remuneration is based on the achievement of delivery of the Groups strategic and business transparent, stretching and rigorously applied financial targets.
In line with best practice this is through objectives, and to promote a strong and an annual bonus plan and a single long-term incentive plan: sustainable performance culture whilst avoiding Annual bonus awar ds will be based on the achievement of annual profit targets.
paying more than is necessary Performance Shar e Plan PSP awards will be subject to Earnings Per Share EPS growth targets and Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to a comparator group of companies, normally measured over three years.
This is consistent with best practice.
To align the interests of Executive Directors with The Executive Dir ectors are required to hold a significant minimum shareholding in SSP.
Individual those of shareholders in the long-term success guidelines are currently 200% of salary for Kate Swann and 125% of salary for Jonathan Davies.
of the Group by encouraging equity ownership The Executive Dir ectors are also required to hold shares in respect of their pre-Admission holdings for a lock-up period of up to two years following Admission.
In addition to establishing SSPs post-Admission remuneration arrangements, other major decisions reached by the Committee for this year include: Annual bonus payments in respect of performance for the year ended 30 September 2014 We believe in pay for performance.
Based on a combination of the financial performance of the business and personal performance achieved in the financial year, an annual bonus of 200% of salary was paid to Kate Swann and an annual bonus of 84% of salary was paid to Jonathan Davies.
Performance Share Plan PSP awards following Admission Following Admission, the Committee granted awards under the PSP to the Executive Directors in accordance with the statement in our prospectus.
These awards, based on the Admission price, increase the alignment between the interests of our senior executives and our new shareholders.
75% of these awards will vest subject to an EPS growth performance test measured over the three years to 30 September 2017.
The remaining 25% of these awards will vest based on the relative TSR performance of the Group compared with selected comparator companies and measured from the date of Admission of the Group to the three months following the announcement of the Group results for the year ended 30 September 2017.
One-off awards in respect of Admission made by the previous shareholder We are required by the prevailing Regulations to include in this report remuneration awarded for the year ended 30 September 2014 both before and after Admission.
As disclosed in our Prospectus, in recognition of their contribution to the Company in achieving Admission, Kate Swann and Jonathan Davies were each provided with cash and share awards.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors also received awards.
These awards were made prior to Admission, supported by our previous majority shareholder and disclosed in the Prospectus.
Remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2015 The proposed approaches to base salary, annual bonus and PSP awards for the year ended 30 September 2015 are set out on pages 33 to 36.
There are currently no changes proposed to the remuneration arrangements which were announced in the Prospectus, with the exception of the introduction of clawback and malus on variable remuneration.
32 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee continued Changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code were announced in mid-September 2014.
As disclosed in the Prospectus, the PSP includes a malus provision.
As stated in the remuneration policy below, a clawback provision will be introduced for incentive awards made to Executive Directors in respect of future years.
What is included in this report The remainder of the remuneration report is split into two sections in line with legislative reporting regulations.
The Directors remuneration policy contains details of the various elements of our approach to Directors remuneration.
The Directors remuneration policy will be subject to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM in March 2015 and if approved by a majority of our shareholders will apply from that date.
The annual report on remuneration contains details of pay received by Directors for the whole of the year ended 30 September 2014.
It is a technical requirement of the disclosure regulations that this report covers remuneration paid both before and after the date of Admission.
We have also explained how we intend to implement our pay model during the year ended 30 September 2015.
The annual report on remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM in March 2015.
I hope very much that shareholders will support the Committees continuing overall approach to remuneration and, on behalf of the Committee, I commend both the policy and our report to you.
John Barton Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 November 2014
