33 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Directors remuneration policy This section sets out the Directors remuneration policy of the Company.
In accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006, a bindingshareholder resolution to approve this policy will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in March 2015 the 2015 AGM.
The policy will apply to payments made to Directors after the 2015 AGM, subject to shareholder approval of the policy.
Key principles of remuneration policy The remuneration policy for the Directors of the Company is intended to help recruit and retain executives who can execute SSPs strategy by rewarding them with appropriate compensation and benefit packages.
The policy seeks to align the interests of Executive Directors with the performance of the Company and the interests of its shareholders.
Our incentive arrangements are designed to reward performance against key financial and strategic performance objectives.
Our aim is to reward management for delivering sustainable long-term performance and support the retention of critical talent.
Future policy table The table below describes the policy in relation to the components of remuneration for Executive Directors and, at the bottom of the table, the policy for the Non-Executive Directors.
Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Executive Directors Base salary Normally reviewed annually.
The Remuneration Salary increases in percentage terms None Committee may however award an out-of-cycle will normally be in line with increases A core element of the increase if it considers it appropriate.
awarded to other head office employees remuneration package in the relevant geography, but may be used to recruit, Base salaries are set by the Committee taking higher in certain circumstances.
reward and retain into account a number of internal and external Executive Directors factors including: The circumstances may include but are who can deliver our not limited to: the individual s skills, experience and performance: strategic objectives.
Wher e a new Executive Director has the size and scope of the Executive Dir ectors role been appointed at a lower salary, and responsibilities: higher increases may be awarded market positioning and inflation: and over an initial period as the Executive pay and conditions elsewher e in the Group.
Director gains experience in the role Wher e there has been an increase in the scope or responsibility of an Executive Directors role Wher e a salary has fallen significantly below market positioning.
There is no maximum increase or opportunity.
Pension The Company operates an approved defined Company contributions or cash None contribution pension arrangement, to which the allowance of up to 35% of base salary To provide an income Company may make contributions.
may be paid in respect of each financial following retirement year of the Company.
and assist the A cash allowance may be provided in lieu of Executive Director in pension contributions.
building wealth for their future.
Other benefits Each Executive Director receives a tailored benefits Car allowance of up to 13,000 None package including but not limited to private health perannum.
To provide appropriate insurance for themselves, their spouse and dependent benefits as part of The cost of insured benefits may vary children, annual health screening, smartphone or a remuneration from year to year depending on the similar devices, life assurance, business travel and package that assists in individuals circumstances, and therefore permanent health insurance.
recruiting, rewarding the Committee has not imposed any and retaining Travel benefits, including car allowance, company car, overall maximum value on the benefit.
driver, the cost of fuel for private mileage, insurance, maintenance and servicing and travel to and from work including any associated tax and social security charges may also be provided.
In the event that an Executive Director is required by the Group to relocate, other benefits may include, but are not limited to, the costs of relocation, housing, travel and education allowances and subsistence costs.
Expenses incurred in the performance of duties for the Group may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate, including any tax or social security charges due on the expenses.
The Executive Directors are eligible to receive other benefits such as a colleague discount card on the same terms as other eligible employees of the Group.
34 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance Directors remuneration policy continued Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Annual bonus Performance objectives will be determined by the The maximum annual bonus Performance is measured Committee at the beginning of the financial year.
opportunity is 200% of base salary relative to targets in key To reward per annum.
financial, operational and or performance on an The Committee will assess performance against strategic objectives over the annual basis against these objectives following the end of the relevant For 2014 15 maximum annual financial year.
opportunities are: The measures selected and Awards are delivered wholly in cash, and are paid once Chief Executive Of ficer, Kate Swann their weightings may vary the results for the year have been audited.
each year according to the The Committee may clawback awards up to three Chief Financial Of ficer, Jonathan strategic priorities.
years after vesting if the Groups accounts have been Davies 125% of salary per annum.
Entitlement to bonus materially misstated or there has been an error in only starts to accrue at a the calculation of any performance conditions which minimum threshold level results in overpayment.
of financial and individual performance.
Below this level, no bonus will be paid.
To earn a maximum bonus there must be outperformance against stretching objectives.
Performance Share Awards may be made to Executive Directors at the The maximum award that may be made It is currently anticipated that Plan PSP discretion of the Committee in the form of conditional is up to 200% of salary per annum for PSP awards performance share awards, nil-cost options, forfeitable shares or under the rules of the plan in respect of will be based on: The PSP rewards the equivalent rights.
any financial year of the Company.
delivery of Company 25% on r elative Total performance and Awards will normally be subject to performance Shareholder Return shareholder value over conditions set by the Committee measured over TSR the longer term.
a period of at least three years.
Awards will vest 75% on Ear nings per following the end of the performance period.
The awards are share Share EPS based to align the Awards other than forfeitable shares may incorporate If the minimum level of interests of Executive the right to receive in cash or shares the value of performance is not achieved Directors with those dividends that would have been paid on the award then none of the award of shareholders.
shares that vest between the grant and vesting of will vest and the award awards, which will, unless the Committee determines will lapse.
otherwise, assume the reinvestment of those dividends For performance at the in the Companys shares on a cumulative basis.
threshold levels 25% of the The Committee has the discretion to reduce the award will vest.
number of shares subject to unvested awards if prior The whole award will vest to vesting there is a material misstatement in the if the maximum level of Companys annual financial statements, or a material performance, or above, failure of risk management, or serious reputational is achieved.
damage to a member of the Group or relevant Long-term incentive business unit.
performance conditions are The Committee may clawback awards up to three reviewed on an annual basis, years after vesting if the Groups accounts have been and may vary to ensure that materially misstated or there has been an error in they are aligned with the the calculation of any performance conditions which corporate strategy.
The Committee would seek to consult with its major shareholders as appropriate on any proposed material changes.
All-employee share Executive Directors may participate on the same basis Participants can contribute up to None plans as other employees.
the relevant limits set out in the country plan.
35 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Non-Executive Directors Fees The Chairmans fees are determined by the Committee.
None To attract and retain The Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the Board.
Non-Executive The total fees for Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, will not exceed the maximum Directors of the calibre stated in the Companys Articles of Association.
required to oversee The level of fees takes into account the time commitment, responsibilities, market levels and the the development skills and experience required.
and execution of the Non-Executive Directors normally receive a basic fee and an additional fee for specific Board Companys strategy.
responsibilities, including chairmanship or membership of Board committees or acting as the Senior Independent Director.
Additional fees may be paid to Non-Executive Directors on a per diem basis to reflect increased time commitment in certain limited circumstances.
Expenses incurred in the performance of non-executive duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate, including any tax and social security due on the expenses.
Non-Executive Directors may be provided with benefits to enable them to undertake their duties.
Notes to the tables on pages 33 to 35 The Company also operates a shareholding policy details can be found on page 41 of this report.
The PSP will be operated in accordance with the plan rules.
In accordance with the rules of the PSP, any performance condition may be substituted or varied if the Committee considers it appropriate, provided that the amended performance condition is in its opinion reasonable and not materially less difficult to satisfy.
The plan rules also provide for the adjustment of awards in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital, capital distribution, demerger, special dividend or other event having a material impact on the value of shares.
Malus applies where stated in the above table.
Other elements of remuneration are not subject to recovery provisions.
Under Kate Swanns service contract, if her employment is terminated by the Company making a payment in lieu of notice and the Company subsequently discovers that there were grounds for her summary dismissal, Kate Swann may be required to make a repayment equal to the net of tax value of any payments, benefits or shares received under any relevant bonus or incentive plan.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments that are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the policy came into effect including payments relating to the Admission : or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and an award over shares is agreed at the time the award is granted.
Performance measures and targets Annual bonus Annual bonus metrics and targets are selected to incentivise Directors to meet objectives for the year and are chosen in line with the following principles: The targets set for financial measures should be incentivising and appropriately stretching.
Targets may be adjusted by the Committee totake into account significant capital transactions during the year.
There should be flexibility to change the measures and weightings year-on-year in line with the needs of the business.
PSP Performance conditions and targets are determined by the Committee to reflect the Groups strategy and having regard to market practice within the Companys business sector.
For 2014 awards the measures were selected taking into account that: Earnings per Share is considered by the Company to be the best indicator of long-term performance.
Total Shareholder Return is a key objective of most of our shareholders.
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group Differences in the policies for Executive Directors and other employees in the Group generally reflect differences in market practice taking into account role and seniority.
The remuneration policies for Executive Directors and the senior executive team are generally consistent in terms of structure and the performance measures used.
All eligible employees may participate in the Companys all-employee share plans in the relevant territory.
36 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance Directors remuneration policy continued Illustrative scenario analysis The following charts show the potential split between the different elements of the Executive Directors remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Target and Maximum see table below.
CEO: Kate Swann CFO: Jonathan Davies 4,044k 1,497k 37% 34% 2,169k 872k 14% 17% 37% 33% Long-term incentive 497k 29% Long-term incentive 35% 1,044k Annual Bonus Annual Bonus 100% 57% 33% 100% 48% 26% Fixed Pay Fixed Pay Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Component Minimum Target Maximum Base salary Annual base salary for 2014 15 Fixed remuneration Pension Chief Executive Officer: 35% of salary: Chief Financial Officer: 21% of salary Benefits Taxable value of annual benefits provided in the year ended 30 September 2014 Maximum opportunity Chief Executive Officer: 200% of salary: Chief Financial Officer: 125% of salary Annual bonus 0% of 50% of 100% of Vesting maximum opportunity maximum opportunity maximum opportunity Maximum opportunity Chief Executive Officer: 200% of salary: Chief Financial Officer: 125% of salary Performance share plan Vesting 0% vesting 25% vesting 100% vesting Excludes share price growth and dividends.
Approach to recruitment remuneration In the event that the Group appointed a new Executive Director, remuneration would be determined in line with the following principles: The Committee will take into account all relevant factors, including the calibre and experience of the individual and the market from which they are recruited, whilst being mindful of the best interests of the Group and its shareholders and seeking not to pay more than is necessary.
So far as practical the Committee will look to align the remuneration package for any new appointment with the remuneration policy set out in the table above.
Salaries may be higher or lower than the previous incumbent but will be set taking into account the review principles set out in the policy table.
Where appropriate the salaries may be set at an initially lower level with the intention of increasing salary at a higher than usual rate as the Executive Director gains experience in the role.
For interim positions a cash supplement may be paid rather than salary for example a Non-Executive Director taking on an executive function on a short-term basis.
To facilitate recruitment the Committee may need to buy-out terms or remuneration arrangements forfeited on joining the Company.
Any buy-out would take into account the terms of the arrangements, in particular any performance conditions and the time over which they would vest.
The overriding principle would be that the value of any replacement buy-out awards should be no more than the commercial value of awards which have been forfeited.
The form of any award would be determined at the time and the Committee may make buy-out awards under LR 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules for buy-out awards only.
The maximum variable pay opportunity in respect of recruitment excluding buy-outs comprises a maximum annual bonus of 200% of annual salary and a maximum PSP grant of 200% of annual salary, as stated in the policy table above.
The Committee retains the flexibility to determine that for the first year of appointment any annual incentive award within this maximum will be subject to such terms as it may determine.
Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the Company or following corporate activity reorganisation e. g. merger with another company, the normal policy would be to honour any legacy arrangements in line with the original terms and conditions.
Where the recruitment requires relocation of the individual, the Committee may provide for additional costs and benefits.
On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the remuneration package will be consistent with the policy set out above.
37 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Details of Directors service contracts Executive Directors Executive Directors have rolling service contracts.
None of the existing service contracts for Executive Directors makes any provision for termination payments, other than for payment in lieu of notice.
Kate Swanns payment in lieu of notice would be calculated by reference to the base salary and pension contributions or equivalent allowance in respect of any unexpired portion of the notice period.
This payment can be made in instalments over the notice period and can be reduced where alternative employment is commenced during the notice period.
Any such payment to Kate Swann would be repayable net of tax if it was subsequently discovered that the Company would have been permitted to dismiss her summarily.
Jonathan Davies payment in lieu of notice would be calculated by reference to the base salary in respect of any unexpired portion of the notice period.
This payment can be made in instalments over the notice period and can be reduced where alternative employment iscommenced during the notice period.
The Executive Directors service contracts contain provisions relating to salary, car allowance, pension arrangements, medical insurance, life insurance, business travel insurance, company car, holiday and sick pay, and the reimbursement of reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by the Executive Directors while on company business.
Kate Swanns service contract includes the provision that she is entitled to participate in the annual bonus scheme.
For any new Executive Directors appointed their participation in the Companys incentive plans will be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The following service contracts in respect of Executive Directors who were in office during the year are rolling service contracts and therefore have no end date: Date of commencement of contract Notice period for Director Notice period for Company Kate Swann 15 July 2014 9 months 12 months Jonathan Davies 15 July 2014 9 months 12 months Service contracts for new Executive Directors will be limited to nine months notice for the Director and 12 months notice for the Company.
Chairman The terms of the Chairmans appointment broadly reflect the terms of the three-year appointments of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairmans appointment can be terminated at any time upon written notice, resignation or in accordance with the articles of association of the Company.
The Chairman receives no benefits from the office other than fees and reimbursement of expenses incurred in performance of his duties, including any tax due on the expenses.
He is not eligible to participate in Group pension arrangements.
Non-Executive Directors All Non-Executive Directors have been appointed on an initial term of three years, subject to renewal thereafter.
All are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which can be terminated at any time upon written notice, resignation or in accordance with the articles of association of the Company.
Per Franzns appointment may be terminated by the Board if EQT and their associates no longer exercise or control the exercise of 10% of the Company.
Non-Executive Directors receive no benefits from their office other than fees and reimbursement of expenses incurred in performance of their duties, including any tax due on the expenses.
They are not eligible to participate in Group pension arrangements.
Effective date of appointment letter Current term expires Vagn Srensen 15 July 2014 14 July 2017 John Barton 15 July 2014 14 July 2017 Ian Dyson 15 July 2014 14 July 2017 Denis Hennequin 15 July 2014 14 July 2017 Per Franzn 15 July 2014 14 July 2017 Directors service contracts are kept for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Payments to departing Directors In the event that the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined by reference to the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
The Committee may structure any compensation payments in such a way as it deems appropriate taking into account the circumstances of departure.
In the event of the Company terminating an Executive Directors contract, the level of compensation would be subject to mitigation if considered appropriate.
38 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance Directors remuneration policy continued Payment in lieu of notice In the event of termination by the Company of an Executive Directors employment, a payment in lieu of notice may be paid.
This payment would be equal to a maximum of annual base salary and cash allowance in lieu of pension in respect of any unexpired portion of the notice period.
Annual bonus Executive Directors may, at the determination of the Committee, remain eligible to receive an annual bonus for the financial year in which they ceased employment.
Any such bonus will be determined by the Committee taking into account time in employment and performance.
Performance Share Plan On cessation of employment any outstanding unvested awards will lapse unless the participant dies or is deemed to be awards a good leaver by the Committee in its discretion.
Where the participant is deemed to be a good leaver, any outstanding unvested awards will normally continue and will vest at the normal vesting date to the extent the original performance conditions have been satisfied.
Awards will normally, unless the Committee determines that an alternative proportion of the awards should vest, be pro-rated for the portion of the vesting period completed in employment.
The Committee may, in exceptional circumstances, or if the participant dies, decide to allow awards to vest on cessation of employment subject to the Committees assessment of performance against the original performance conditions at that time or the Committees assessment of the likely achievement of the performance conditions over the original performance period.
Payments in relation to The Company may pay an amount considered reasonable by the Remuneration Committee in respect of an Executive statutory rights Directors statutory rights.
Payments required by law The Company may pay damages, awards, fines or other compensation awarded to an Executive Director by any competent court or tribunal or other payments required to be made on termination of employment under applicable law.
Professional fees The Company may pay an amount considered reasonable by the Remuneration Committee in respect of fees for legal and tax advice, and outplacement support for the departing Executive Director.
2 Were an award to be made under LR 9.4.
2 then the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of award.
Takeovers and other corporate events Under the PSP on a takeover or voluntary winding-up of the Company PSP awards will vest in accordance with the rules of the plan.
Vesting would be determined by the Committee based on the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed and the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied, although the Committee has the discretion to determine that such greater proportion asitconsiders appropriate of the awards should vest, including where it considers the level of shareholder returns is at a superior level.
In the event of a variation of share capital, demerger, capital distribution or any other event having a material impact on the value of the shares, the Committee may determine that outstanding PSP awards shall vest on the same basis as set out above for a takeover.
Alternatively the Committee may with the consent of the acquiring company decide that PSP awards will not vest on a corporate event but will be replaced by new awards over shares in the new acquiring company or another company determined by the acquiring company.
Bonuses may be paid in respect of the year in which the change of control or winding up of the Company occurs, if the Committee considers this appropriate.
The Committee may determine the level of bonus taking into account any factors it considers appropriate.
Amendments The Committee may make amendments to the terms of the Companys incentive plans in accordance with the rules of those plans which were summarised for shareholders in the Companys IPO prospectus.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax, administrative purposes orto take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group In making remuneration decisions, the Committee also considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
When reviewing and setting Executive Director remuneration, the Committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions of Company employees.
The Company-wide pay review budget is one of the key factors when reviewing the salaries of the Executive Directors.
Although the Group has not carried out a formal employee consultation regarding Board remuneration, it does comply with local regulations and practices regarding employee consultation more broadly.
Consideration of shareholder views In reviewing and setting remuneration, including that of Executive Directors, the Committee receives updates on investors views, and may from time to time engage directly with investors and or investor representative organisations on remuneration topics as appropriate.
These lines of communication ensure that emerging best practice principles are factored into the Committees decision-making.
39 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Annual report on remuneration Audited information The information presented from this section up until the relevant note on page 41 is the audited section of this report.
Single total figure of remuneration The following table sets out the total remuneration for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 30 September 2014.
All figures are for the full financial year unless otherwise stated.
a b c d Salary and fees Benefits Pension Annual bonus Long-term e f incentives Other Total All figures shown in 000 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Executive Directors Kate Swann joined Board 16 June 2014 211 15 74 440 3,807 4,547 Jonathan Davies joined Board 16 June 2014 117 4 25 98 1,393 1,637 g Non-Executive Directors Vagn Srensen 70 43 100 170 43 John Barton joined Board 4 April 2014 19 75 94 Ian Dyson joined Board 4 April 2014 17 75 92 Per Franzn 10 10 Denis Hennequin joined Board 14 Feb 2014 18 75 93 John Barry Gibson left Board 16 June 2014 15 21 50 65 21 Simon Marinker left Board 16 June 2014 16 16 Kate Swann and Jonathan Davies wer e appointed as Directors of the Company on 16 June 2014.
Prior to 16 June 2014 they were employees of SSP Financing UK Limited.
As such the table above shows their remuneration for the period from appointment as Directors to 30 September 2014.
Notes to the table a Salary and fees this r epresents the base salary or fees paid in respect of the relevant financial year.
b Benefits this r epresents the taxable value of all benefits paid in respect of the relevant financial year.
Executive Directors benefits may include private healthcare for the Executive and their family, carallowance or a company car, and travel to and from work including associated tax paid.
c Pension allowance Executive Dir ectors receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions.
Kate Swann received a cash allowance of 35% of salary per annum and Jonathan Davies received a cash allowance of 21% of salary per annum.
d Annual bonus this r epresents the bonus awarded in respect of the period from appointment to the Board.
e Long-term incentives this figur e represents the value of long-term incentive plans with a performance period ending in the relevant year.
No long-term incentive plans vested in 2013 or 2014.
The first award under the SSP Performance Share Plan was made in July 2014 and will measure performance in the period from the date of the Companys Admission to the London Stock Exchange on 15 July 2014 to the date falling three months after the publication of preliminary results for the year ending 30 September 2017. f Other As disclosed in the Pr ospectus, certain individuals received additional awards in recognition of their contribution to the successful Admission of the Company onto the London Stock Exchange.
Kate Swann received a cash award of 1,325,000 from the Company and an award of 1,181,862 shares from the previous majority shareholder on Admission worth 2,482,000 based on the IPO offer price of 210p.
Jonathan Davies received a cash award of 400,000 from the Company and an award of 472,746 shares from the previous majority shareholder on Admission worth 993,000 based on the IPO offer price of 210 pence.
g Non-Executive Dir ectors The Chairman receives a fee of 175,000 per annum.
Other Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee of 45,000 per annum.
The Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee each receive an additional 10,000 per annum per appointment.
The Chairman, Vagn Srensen received a fee of 100,000 and John Barton, Ian Dyson and Denis Hennequin each received a fee of 75,000 from the Company on Admission to reward the work undertaken in preparing the Company for Admission to the London Stock Exchange.
They all used the post-tax amount of the fee to purchase shares in the Company upon Admission.
John Barry Gibson received a fee of 50,000 funded by the previous shareholder under a pre-existing entitlement.
40 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance Annual report on remuneration continued Additional disclosures in respect of the single figure table Base salary The table below shows base salaries of the Executive Directors which were effective on the date of the Companys Admission to the London Stock Exchange on 15 July 2014.
Base salaries on 15 July 2014 Kate Swann 750,000 per annum Jonathan Davies 400,000 per annum Annual bonus The bonus for the year ended 30 September 2014 was primarily based on EBITDA performance.
Any bonus earned in respect of above target EBITDA performance was subject to a multiplier based on an assessment of individual performance including financial, personal and or strategic objectives.
If the individual performance rating is significantly below expectations the Committee could decide not to award a bonus.
Under this framework Kate Swann had the opportunity to receive an annual bonus up to a maximum of 200% of her base salary and Jonathan Davies had the opportunity to receive up to 105% of his base salary.
EBITDA performance in the year was 174.0m, meeting the maximum target of 174.0m at 2014 budget foreign exchange rates, andadjusted for the costs of Admission and other exceptional items.
Based on this performance, and individual performance in the year, KateSwann earned a bonus of 200% of salary and Jonathan Davies earned a bonus of 84% of salary.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year SSP Performance Share Plan 2014 awards As outlined in the policy table, PSP awards in the form of nil cost options are granted over SSP Group plc shares with the number of shares under award determined by reference to a percentage of base salary.
The following table provides details of the performance share awards made under the PSP on 16 July 2014.
Face value Face value End of performance % of salary period Kate Swann 1,500,000 200% 3 months after the announcement of results for financial year ending Jonathan Davies 500,000 125% 30September 2017 Face value has been calculated using the IPO offer price of 210 pence.
The performance conditions attached to this share award are detailed below.
75% of the award Earnings per share EPS growth over the 25% of the award Relative Total Shareholder Return TSR three-year period from 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2017. performance against a peer group of companies.
Relative TSR performance Percentage of the award vesting EPS compound annual growth Percentage of the award vesting Below median 0% Less than 7% per annum 0% Median 25% 7% per annum 25% Upper quartile 100% 12% per annum or more 100% Straight-line vesting operates between these points.
Straight-line vesting operates between these points.
SSPs TSR will be calculated using the IPO offer price of 210 pence EPS growth will normally be calculated using the actual foreign as the starting value.
The Committee decided that this approach exchange rates.
However, given the international nature of SSPs maximises the alignment between executives and the shareholders business, in order to ensure that management performance during following IPO.
For constituents of the peer group a three-month the performance period is appropriately rewarded, the Committee average from 16 June 2014 will be used.
may make an adjustment upwards or downwards where there have been exceptional movements in foreign exchange rates during the performanceperiod.
41 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements The relative TSR peer group for the 2014 award is set out below.
Autogrill Dunelm Group Inchcape Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Stagecoach Group Booker Group Elior Intercontinental Hotels Group Mitchells & Butlers Tesco Carphone Warehouse Group Enterprise Inns JD Sports Fashion N Brown Group Thomas Cook Group Compass Group First Group J D Wetherspoon National Express TUI Travel Debenhams Go-Ahead Group J Sainsbury Next UDG Healthcare Dignity Greene King Kingfisher Ocado Group WHSmith Dixons Retail Halfords Group Marks and Spencer Group Restaurant Group Whitbread Dominos Pizza Group Home Retail Group Marstons Sports Direct International Wm Morrison Supermarkets Share Incentive Plan awards Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in the all employee Share Incentive Plan 'SIP' on the same basis as other eligible employees, butno SIP offer was made in the year ended 30 September 2014.
Payments for loss of office There have been no payments to Directors for loss of office in the 2014 financial year 2013: nil.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests Directors shareholdings and share ownership guidelines Shareholding guidelines require Executive Directors to build up over time a personal shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to 200% of salary for the CEO and 125% of salary for the CFO.
Executives are encouraged to retain vested shares earned under the Companys incentive plans until the shareholding guidelines have been met.
The Chairman and each Independent Non-Executive Director are expected to build and then maintain a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to 100% of their annual gross fee.
The period over which the minimum shareholding must be built up is a three year period either from the date of Admission, or from the date of appointment if later.
Shareholding Interests in share incentive requirement schemes, awarded subject to as a % of salary Shares owned outright at performance conditions at Director % of salary achieved 30September 2014 30September 2014 Kate Swann 200% 1,593% 4,601,800 714,286 Jonathan Davies 125% 849% 1,308,164 238,096 Vagn Srensen 493,147 John Barton 57,142 Ian Dyson 18,928 Per Franzn Denis Hennequin 18,928 For the purposes of determining Executive Director shareholdings, the individuals salary at the year-end and the share price at 30 September 2014 259.70 pence has been used.
The interests in the share capital of the Company of the Directors are beneficial or are interests of a person connected with a Director.
This is the end of the audited section of the annual report on remuneration.
42 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance Annual report on remuneration continued Historical TSR performance As the Company is a constituent of the FTSE 250, the FTSE 250 Index provides an appropriate indication of market movements against which to benchmark the Companys performance.
The chart below summarises the Companys TSR performance against the FTSE 250 Index over the 11-week period from Admission on 15 July 2014 to 30 September 2014.
TSR performance since Admission 125 120 115 116 110 105 100 100 95 FTSE 250 SSP Group 90 Admission 15 07 2014 30 09 2014 Chief Executive Officer remuneration outcomes The table below summarises the Chief Executive Officer single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus payable and long-term incentive 1 plan vesting levels as a percentage of maximum opportunity for the 2014 financial year.
Chief Executive Officer 2014 Chief Executive Officer single figure of remuneration m 4.5m Annual bonus payable as a % of maximum opportunity 100% Long-term incentive vesting out-turn as a % of maximum opportunity n a 1 The additional awards of cash and shares made on Admission by the Company and the previous majority shareholder are included in the above.
Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive Officer was appointed as a Director of SSP on 16 June 2014, part way through the financial year to 30 September 2014.
Given that the required disclosure of the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer only covers part of a financial year, the change in the Chief Executive Officers remuneration between 2013 financial year before the Chief Executive Officer was appointed and the 2014 financial year a part year does not provide any meaningful indication of the ongoing relationship between the pay of the Chief Executive Officer and pay for other employees.
We will provide additional information in the 2015 annual report on remuneration, once the Chief Executive Officer has been in role for a full financial year.
Relative importance of the spend on pay The Company did not pay dividends or undertake a share buy-back programme during the year ended 30 September 2014.
Details of total staff costs are provided in note 6 to the Group accounts page 68.
TSR 43 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Fees from external directorships Kate Swann was a non-executive director of Babcock International Group PLC during the year.
She retained a fee of 15,889 in respect of that directorship for the period from her appointment as a director of SSP Group plc to 30 September 2014.
Jonathan Davies did not receive any fees from external directorships during the year.
Implementation of remuneration policy in the year ended 30 September 2015 This section provides an overview of how the Committee is proposing to implement our remuneration policy in the year ended 30 September 2015.
Base salary The Remuneration Committee considers a number of factors when reviewing the base salaries including: the individuals skills, experience and recent performance: business performance: affordability: market practice for comparable roles at companies of a similar size and complexity: and pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
The table below shows base salaries at 1 October 2014.
Base salary at 1 October 2014 Kate Swann 750,000 Jonathan Davies 400,000 Benefits The benefits received by each Executive Director will continue to include private healthcare for the executive and their family, life insurance, car allowance or a company car, driver and travel to and from work including associated tax paid.
Pension allowance The current Executive Directors will receive a cash allowance of in lieu of pension.
The table below shows the expected cash allowances for the year ended 30 September 2015.
Cash allowance in lieu of pension % of salary Kate Swann 35% Jonathan Davies 21% Annual bonus As disclosed in the Prospectus, the maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors will be 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 125% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer for the year ended 30 September 2015.
Profit is the key financial measure for the Company and is therefore the most appropriate measure of the Executives performance.
Bonuses for the year ended 30 September 2015 will use Group Operating Profit as the primary financial target as the Remuneration Committee considered that for the future it is more aligned with shareholders interests than EBITDA.
The Group Operating Profit targets are considered commercially sensitive so have not been disclosed.
The Company will disclose the targets retrospectively when they are considered no longer commercially sensitive.
For the year ended 30 September 2015 the multiplier based on the individual performance assessment will be extended to apply to any bonus earned based on financial performance.
Performance Share Plan The Committee does not intend to make an award under the SSP Performance Share Plan in the year ended 30 September 2015 given the award post IPO was made in July 2014 and vesting for that award will be measured over the period to three months after the announcement of results for the year ending 30 September 2017.
The next award to Executive Directors is likely to be made in November 2015.
44 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance Annual report on remuneration continued Non-Executive Director remuneration The Non-Executive Director fees are not expected to be reviewed in the coming year and therefore the fees will remain as outlined in the table below.
2015 fees Chairman of the Board 175,000 Board member 45,000 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 10,000 Additional fee for Chairman of Audit Remuneration Committee 10,000 Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The SSP Board entrusts the Remuneration Committee with the responsibility for setting the remuneration policy in respect of Executive Directors and senior executives and ensuring its ongoing appropriateness and relevance.
In setting the remuneration for these groups, the Committee considers the pay and conditions of the wider workforce and roles in relevant geographies.
The table below shows the Committee members and their attendance at Committee meetings since Admission.
Meetings attended John Barton 1 1 Ian Dyson 1 1 Denis Hennequin 1 1 Internal advice The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Group HR Director and the Company Secretary attended Committee meetings by invitation, other than when their personal remuneration is being discussed.
The Company Secretary acted as secretary to the Committee.
External advice During the year ended 30 September 2014, the Committee received independent advice on executive remuneration matters from DeloitteLLP.
Deloitte received 90,000 in fees for these services.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
During the year Deloitte also provided the Company with internal audit services, consulting services, a working capital review, taxservices and transaction-related services.
The Committee appointed Deloitte to the role of independent advisors to the Committee.
The Committee has reviewed the advice provided by Deloitte during the year and is comfortable that it has been objective and independent.
The Committee has reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflict.
Statement of shareholder voting As SSP has not yet held an AGM since Admission to the London Stock Exchange there are no voting figures to report.
