TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors report on remuneration for FY14 Introduction Remuneration Policy for FY15 The structure of this Remuneration Report for the year ended The Group aims to achieve its objectives of a simple and transparent 31March 2014 has been reviewed and amended in line with the approach to remuneration.
The Remuneration Policy is set out on Largeand Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and pages 27 to 32 and details of how this policy will be implemented for Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
the financial year ahead are set out on pages 33 to 39, with the following key changes being highlighted: The structure of the report is therefore split into two sections: base pay award for Dido Harding effective from 1 July 2014, to The Remuneration Policy, which sets out the Companys policy reflect both her past and future contribution to the Company: onremuneration for ExecutiveDirectors.
This policy will be put forward to shareholders for a binding vote at our 2014 AGM and introduction of an all-employee Share Match Plan, which was willbe effective immediately.
It is intended that the policy will approved by shareholders at the July 2013AGM: and applyfrom that date for a period of three years.
a further award under the Value Enhancement Scheme.
The Annual Report on Remuneration, which explains how the Remuneration Policy was applied in relation to Executive Directors for the year ended 31 March 2014 and how it will be implemented forthe year ending 31March 2015.
John Gildersleeve Aligning the Remuneration Policy withCompany Remuneration Committee Chairman strategy and performance 14 May 2014 The Remuneration Committee recognises the importance of linking its Remuneration Policy and approach to business strategy and this has continued tobe a focus over the past twelve months.
The Groups remuneration approach applies throughout the Highlights of FY14 Company and continues to be focused on enabling itto attract, No changes have been made to the Remuneration Policy motivate and retain high quality talent andensuring there is a during the year ended 31 March 2014 transparent link between remuneration and strategy at all levels, aswell as the long term performance of the Company.
We have reviewed and amended the structure of the Directors Remuneration Report in line with new regulations, Board changes during FY14 to make it simpler and more transparent for our shareholders Board resignations Amy Stirling stepped down from the Board in her role of Chief Financial Officer, effective from 31 May 2013, and left the Company after 15 years on 30 September 2013.
Our priorities for FY15 David Goldie stepped down from the Board in his role of Group To review the performance metrics for both our short term Commercial Director, effective from 27 September 2013, and left and long term incentive plans to ensure they remain aligned theCompany after 14 years on 30 September 2013. with both shareholder interests and the strategic growth plans of the Company Board appointments Stephen Makin joined the Company on 15 April 2013 and was appointed To make a further awards under the Value Enhancement to the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 31 May 2013.
In line with our Scheme VES for Executive Directors and a small number pay policy, the Remuneration Committee decided that base pay would ofsenior management, aligned to delivering significant initially be set at the same level as that of the former Chief Financial shareholder value Officer, increasing by 25,000 from 1 October 2013.
To launch the Companys first Share Match Plan to further Joanna Shields was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive encourage all-employee shareownership Director on 16 May 2013.
Remuneration Policy during FY14 Over the course of the past twelve months, the Remuneration The current regulations require the Companys auditor Committee fully reviewed the Remuneration Policy for Executive to report to the members on the auditable part of this report Directors to ensure it was appropriate and fit for purpose.
marked and to state, in its opinion, that this part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the The Annual Bonus scheme pay-out for Executive Directors and Companies Act.
members of the Executive Committee this year has been determined by the Remuneration Committee to be paid at 64% of base pay.
26 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy This section sets out the Companys policy on remuneration for Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee intends that, subject to approval by shareholders andthe binding vote, the Remuneration Policy will take immediate effect following theAGM and will apply for a period of three years Remuneration Committee Remuneration components The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making We define our main fixed and performance related elements recommendations to the Board in relation to the individual ofremuneration as follows: remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and the base pay, car allowance, benefits and pension contribution Chairman.
These recommendations comply with the Remuneration fixed :and Policy, which is set by the Board and the terms of reference of the Committee.
The Committee works with the Board to determine the annual performance bonus variable.
balance of allocation of profits between employee incentives, In addition, for Executive Directors, Executive Committee members shareholder dividends and reinvestment into the Group.
and other key senior management, there are two long term incentive plans the Discretionary Share Option Plan DSOP and the Value Remuneration approach Enhancement Scheme VES.
The aim of the Remuneration Policy is to support the Group in: The VES is an alternative reward mechanism for Executive Directors aligning individual and business performance with the interests of and other members of the senior leadership team who will not shareholders through the delivery of clear and stretching targets: participate in the DSOP.
The Remuneration Committee intends that, generally, in any one year, participants may only receive an award strengthening the link between employee output and the delivery under the VES and no other long term incentive plan.
of shareholder value: The Committee reviews, at least on an annual basis, pay-out levels for supporting the Groups overarching philosophy, to maintain Executive Directors at minimum, on target, stretch and super stretch itsvalue player positioning in the marketplace: levels of performance, in order to ensure alignment with our shareholders.
attracting, motivating and retaining high quality talent: Malus and clawback maintaining a stable, efficient cost base: The rules of the annual performance bonus and long term incentive enabling the Groups remuneration strategy to be tailored plans allow the Remuneration Committee to exercise its discretion in toitschanging circumstances: and using malus or clawback provisions, should itfeelthat itis in the best reflecting corporate governance best practice.
interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Committees policy on the exercise of its discretionis set out in this Remuneration Policy.
The Company firmly believes that remuneration should be structured in a fair and competitive way, in order to incentivise individuals to Executive Director shareholding requirement achieve the highest levels of performance, and takes a consistent To ensure that the interests of the Executive Directors are closely approach throughout the Group.
aligned to those of its shareholders, the Company requires Executive Packages are designed to be market-competitive with fixed Directors to build over a number of years and retain a shareholding remuneration set at market median levels.
Variable rewards, which inthe Company of at least 200% of their annual salary.
arelinked to challenging objectives based on the performance For the purpose of this requirement the Company requires these oftheGroup, are designed to reward exceptional performance tobe in unfettered and beneficially owned shares.
andfor the delivery of shareholder value creation.
Employee and shareholder consultation The Remuneration Committee did not formally consult with employees of the Company on the details of the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Inreaching this decision the Committee is mindful that with its strong culture of employee share ownership, with over 50% of employees holding shares in the Company, employees have the opportunity to comment and vote on all elements of this report and policy in their capacity as shareholders.
Employees are also given the opportunity to share their views through regular employee surveys and the all-employee consultation body One Voice.
The Remuneration Committee consults with major shareholders when setting the Remuneration Policy.
If any of these shareholders are opposed to the policy, the Committee endeavours to meet with them, as appropriate, to understand and respond to any issues they may have.
27 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy continued Summary of remuneration components of Executive Directors Further detail on maximum opportunity Component Aim and link to strategy Description of operation and any performance measures andframework used to assess performance Fixed To attract and retain talent by Paid monthly in cash.
ensuring base pay is competitive Base pay Benchmarked against external market in the market.
Set at a level which incentivises Takes into account the individuals Executive Directors to implement skills, experience and performance.
and deliver our business strategy.
The Remuneration Committee considers the level of the allemployee pay review when making recommendations and decisions on pay for Executive Directors.
Any increase typically takes effect from 1 July annually.
Under normal circumstances no Executive Director will receive an increase in excess of 10% of their base pay in any given financial year.
Fixed Designed to be competitive Core benefits typically include: Reviewed annually relative to in the market.
Core benefits a defined contribution pension scheme, ora cash payment in lieu of a pension Pension contributions are made contribution in certain circumstances: through salary sacrifice, with the Company making a contribution of private medical insurance for Executive 10% of base pay for the CEO and Directors andtheirimmediate family: and the CFO.
If cash is paid in lieu of a pension Executive Directors are also entitled contribution this will be subject to to participate on the same terms as normal tax and NI deductions.
all other employees in respect of Although the levels of Company the following benefits: contributions vary, all employees four times base pay life assurance: have the ability to join the Companys defined contribution pension scheme.
income protection: and annual leave.
Fixed Benefits may vary dependent on These voluntary benefits arrangements Reviewed periodically relative the role of the individual and the include the purchase of additional holiday to the market.
Voluntary personal choices they make.
and the ability to participate in all-employee benefits share plans.
28 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Summary of remuneration components of Executive Directors continued Further detail on maximum opportunity Component Aim and link to strategy Description of operation and any performance measures andframework used to assess performance Variable Designed to focus Executives The bonus scheme is based on a balanced Payment is typically made in June.
on the business priorities for the scorecard that is comprised of financial and Annual The Remuneration Committee financial year ahead and to align non-financial measures, which are reviewed performance retains the ability to exercise the individuals remuneration annually.
Such measures include Group bonus discretion to adjust payments up or with the delivery of superior EBITDA, operating free cash flow, customer down in exceptional circumstances, business performance.
and employee satisfaction measures and where they feel this course of action innovation.
The measures and targets are set annually The bonus scheme pays at the by the Remuneration Committee, to ensure following levels: they are appropriately stretching for the delivery of on target, stretch and on target awards for Executive super stretch performance.
Directors are equivalent to 60% ofbase pay: At least 40% of the balanced scorecard will be based on financial measures.
stretch awards for Executive Directors are equivalent to 110% ofbase pay: and super stretch maximum awards are equivalent to 170% of base pay.
Variable Designed to reward and Discretionary awards of nil-cost options are Awards do not vest until the third retain Executives over the granted over TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC shares.
anniversary of the date of grant and Share-based longer term whilst aligning may have a deferral element.
incentive plans Level of vesting is dependent on achievement an individuals interests of performance targets, usually over a If employment ceases during the Discretionary with those of shareholders.
three year performance period from the vesting period, awards will by default Share Option date of grant.
lapse in full, unless the Remuneration Plan DSOP Committee exercises its discretion.
For awards up to 2013, the performance measures have been 50% EPS and 50% TSR.
The maximum level of award is a 200% base pay multiple, unless the Awards vest after three years from grant.
60% Board determines that exceptional of the total vested options are exercisable in circumstances exist, which justify the third year with the remaining 40% being exceeding this limit, in which case eligible for exercise from the fourth year.
options will not exceed 300% of There is no intention to award DSOP awards base pay.
for those Executive Directors participating The DSOP scheme rules were approved in the Value Enhancement Scheme VES.
by shareholders in March2010 However, this plan is included in the Remuneration aspart of the demerger from Policy to give the Remuneration Committee Carphone Warehouse.
flexibility to make an award in the case of a new hire.
29 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy continued Summary of remuneration components of Executive Directors continued Further detail on maximum opportunity Component Aim and link to strategy Description of operation and any performance measures andframework used to assess performance Variable Designed to reward and retain The Value Enhancement Scheme VES Awards are discretionary and are Executives over the longer term is designed to enable participants to share made as a block award to last four Share-based whilst aligning an individuals in the incremental value of the Group in excess years rather than an annual award.
incentive plans interests with those of shareholders of an opening valuation, as determined by the Each participant is entitled to Value and in turn delivering significant Remuneration Committee and agreed with purchase an agreed number of Enhancement shareholder value.
Each award entitles the participant to Participation Shares, with no Scheme VES purchase a fixed number of separate shares participant being awarded more than Participation Shares in the subsidiary 10% of the value of the pool created.
company, TalkTalk Group Limited, the holding company for the TalkTalk business.
60% of the award vests after three years, with the remaining 40% of The number of TalkTalk shares issued the award vesting after four years.
to each participant is determined by the incremental value pool created above a A cap on the total value of the awards 7% return to shareholders.
that vest at the end of the four year period applies and total awards will not In order to avoid the possibility that value is result in a dilution of the issued share created by a rising tide rather than management capital of the Company of more performance, the Companys total shareholder than 2.75%.
return will also be required to outperform the FTSE 250 before any vesting is possible.
The VES rules were approved by shareholders in March 2010 as The vesting of awards will be subject to part of the demerger from continued employment and the satisfaction Carphone Warehouse.
of performance conditions and or other specified events as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Participation Shares that are purchased by participants are acquired at market value and participants offered a loan from TalkTalk at a commercial rate of interest in order to fund such a purchase.
When the awards vest the participation shares will have a value equal to the corresponding percentage they represent of the incremental value if any of the TalkTalk businesses at the time of vesting in excess of the applicable opening valuation and shall then be purchased by the Company for cash and or by the issue or transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company.
Any loan made to the participants to acquire participation shares will be required to be repaid at that time.
If the market value of the participation shares is less than the amount of the outstanding loan and any accrued interest then the participant may be required to repay a proportion of the loan, the amount of which the Remuneration Committee may use its discretion to determine.
Executive Directors and Executive Committee members will be required to hold 100% of any vested shares for a period of twelve months following vesting.
Other participants will be required to hold 50% of vested shares for a twelve month period.
Participation shares are generally forfeited to the value of the original loan plus accrued interest in the event that a participant leaves the Company prior to the vesting date.
30 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Remuneration scenarios The charts below illustrate the level of total remuneration the current Executive Directors could receive under the Remuneration Policy basedon four levels of performance to ensure alignment with returns, which are received by our shareholders: at minimum, on target, stretchand super stretch levels of performance.
The on target level of total remuneration represents performance in line with the Companys expectations and super stretch is considered to be the maximum level of total remuneration in practice, but the cap on theVEShas intentionally been set at a level higher than this.
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer D Harding S Makin 100% 621,000 100% 455,000 Minimum Minimum 65% 35% 951,000 65% 35% 695,000 On target On target 42% 41% 17% 1,476,000 45% 43% 12% 1,020,000 Stretch Stretch Super Super 15% 23% 62% 4,056,000 19% 29% 52% 2,385,000 stretch stretch m m 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 Share-based incentive plan VES Annual performance bonus Base pay, taxable benefits and pension Notes 1 Base pay is level of base pay from 1 July 2014, taxable benefits are at the level over the past year and pension is based on a 10% Company contribution cash in lieu.
2 Annual performance bonus is at 60% of base pay for target performance, 110% of base pay for stretch performance and 170% of base pay for super stretch performance.
3 VES outcomes include assumed share price increases over the four year performance term.
4 As VES is a block award over a four year term rather than an annual award, we have annualised the potential pay-out over a four year period.
Other share-based remuneration Service contracts and remuneration packages TalkTalk SAYE Scheme Service contracts for Executive Directors The Company operates an all-employee, HMRC approved, Sharesave Under the Executive Directors service contracts both parties are scheme, which all eligible employees and Executive Directors are able required to give twelve months notice of termination of employment.
All eligible employees are invited to join the scheme At the Companys discretion they may terminate the contract immediately on an annual basis, subject to maximum participation levels, which and not require the Director to work their notice and instead pay are 500 per month from 6 April 2014, or in line with HMRC limits twelve months contractual pay plus benefits.
The Executive Directors ifthese are increased.
Details of current schemes can be found in service contracts also include a twelve month non-compete period.
theAnnual Remuneration section ofthis report.
These contracts are available for inspection at the Companys TalkTalk Share Match Plan TTG Share Match registered office.
During the course of the year, the Remuneration Committee approved Recruitment policy for new hires the introduction of an all-employee, HMRC approved, Share Match Plan.
When hiring a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee This enables eligible employees to purchase market priced shares will align the remuneration package with the Remuneration Policy byentering into a partnership share agreement and holding such stated above, including the maximum limits for each remuneration shares in trust for up to a five year period.
The rules of the Plan allow component.
The Remuneration Committee will take all relevant factors anemployee maximum contribution of 1,800 per annum, or in line into consideration when making a remuneration decision on a new with HMRC limits if these are increased.
Approval forthe TTG Share Executive hire to ensure that these decisions are being made in the Match was granted by shareholders at the AGM on 24July 2013. best interests of the Company and its shareholders including, but not The Remuneration Committee, at its discretion may award matching limited to: and or free shares to eligible participants.
Matching shares may quantum: begranted up to a maximum ratio of two matching shares for each partnership share purchased by a participant.
Free shares may type of remuneration being offered: beawarded up to a maximum value of 3,600 tax free per annum, the impact on existing remuneration arrangements for other Directors: orin line with HMRC limits if these are increased.
the remuneration package of any exiting equivalent Director: and It is proposed that employees will be invited to join the TTG Share Match from June 2014 onwards, with the Company providing one the remuneration arrangements of the candidate in their previous role.
matching share for each partnership share purchased.
31 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration policy for internal promotions Service contracts and remuneration packages When an existing employee of the Company is promoted internally continued tothe role of Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will Recruitment policy for new hires continued align the remuneration package with the Remuneration Policy stated In hiring a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee may above, including the factors it takes into account for new hires.
also make a buy-out award to an external candidate in compensation for any remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous Any remuneration awarded prior to promotion as an Executive employer.
In making such an award, the Committee will take into Director will be retained and will be subject to the previous payment consideration relevant performance conditions, vesting periods and terms.
The shareholders will be informed of any such remuneration the form in which the award was made.
It is usual that any buy-out awards inthe Directors Remuneration Report following promotion.
will be made on a comparable basis.
In exceptional circumstances, Exit payments the Remuneration Committee may make an exceptional award under The Company operates the following policy in respect of exit payments: one of the Companys existing long term incentive plans in order tocompensate a candidate for any remuneration arrangements Executive Directors have a twelve month notice period from the forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Company and they in turn are asked to give the Company twelve months notice.
The Remuneration Committee would only consider making such awards where the individual has lost an award as a result of joining Exit payments in relation to the service contract are limited to no theGroup and awards will be subject to continued employment and more than one years contractual pay plus other benefits, and any performance conditions, as appropriate.
Following the appointment contractual notice pay, unless determined otherwise by the Board of a new Executive Director the shareholders will be informed of the in exceptional circumstances, or unless otherwise dictated by law.
details as soon as practicable.
The Remuneration Committee may use its discretion to determine There may be exceptional and unforeseen circumstances where appropriate bonus amounts and the vesting of any share-based theRemuneration Committee considers it appropriate to exercise award, taking into consideration the individual circumstances discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R to grant an award to under which an Executive Director is leaving the Company.
facilitate the recruitment of an Executive Director.
Where a variable The default position is for annual bonus amounts and the vesting of orperformance related award is made under such circumstances, share-based awards for good leavers to be pro-rated for time served the Remuneration Committee confirms that the award will be within from the start dateof the scheme to the individuals exit date and will the limits specified in the Remuneration Policy table.
be subject to the applicable rules of the scheme.
TheRemuneration The Remuneration Committee emphasises that such discretion would Committee will have sole discretion to determine the good leaver only ever be used in genuinely unforeseen and exceptional events status of an Executive Director.
The Committee willdetermine on where it would be disproportionate to seek shareholder approval at acase by case basis whether any vesting of a share-based award ageneral meeting.
The Remuneration Committee considers that in isappropriate.
practice such events would arise highly infrequently, if at all, for the Fees for Non-Executive Directors duration of the Remuneration Policy.
Where such an event arises, The Non-Executive Directors do not take part in discussions on their theRemuneration Committee will consult with major shareholders remuneration.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has a letter of and an explanation on how discretion has been exercised would be appointment substantially in the form suggested by the Code, and provided in the following years Remuneration Report.
each has a three month notice period with no compensation for loss Relocation packages of office.
The Company has no age limit for Directors.
The dates of There may be occasions when hiring a new Executive Director that a each contract are set out on page 37. relocation package is awarded, where a candidate and or the candidates The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set out on page 37 of thisreport.
immediate family relocate either on a temporary or permanent basis These fees are reviewed but not necessarily increased on anannual in order to fulfil their role for the best interests of the Company and basis, taking into account the responsibilities of the role and their itsshareholders.
In such instances, the Remuneration Committee participation in the various governance committees of the Company.
retains the right to compensate for reasonable and appropriate relocation expenses.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in any annual or long term incentive plans, or any pension arrangements.
Expatriate packages On appointing a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee External appointments may offer assistance where a candidate and or the candidates The Board supports Executive Directors holding Non-Executive immediate family is asked to relocate either on a temporary or Directorships of other companies and believes that any such permanent basis, from an overseas location to the UK or from the appointments are part of the continuing development of the UKto an overseas location.
In such instances, the Remuneration Executive Directors from which the Company will ultimately Committee retains the right to compensate for reasonable and benefit.
The Board has reviewed all such appointments and those appropriate relocation expenses.
appointments that the Board believes require disclosure pursuant tothe Code are set out on page 38.
The Board has also agreed that theDirectors may retain their fees from such appointments.
32 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration The following sections set out how the Companys Remuneration Policy was implemented inthe year ended 31 March 2014 and how it will be implemented fortheyear ending 31 March 2015 Single figure of remuneration To aid shareholders understanding and in line with the new Regulations, in the table below we provide a single figure of remuneration for each Executive Director.
The information for Non-Executive Directors is included in the table on page 37.
2 Value of benefits received by the Director in the year.
The components of taxable benefits are as follows: car allowance cash amount received in the year: and private medical insurance cost to the Company in the year for the Executive Director and their family.
3 Value of pension contribution or cash in lieu made by the Company in the year.
4 Value of annual bonus payable in respect of the year and based on performance for the financial year.
5 Value of VES and DSOP awards which vested during the year and any dividend payments due on these vestings.
6 Under the 2013 SAYE scheme both D Harding and S Makin were granted 4,687 options on 14 June 2013 at an option price of 1.92.
7 The figures in this table are for the period A Stirling was a Director to 31 May 2013.
The base pay, taxable benefits and pension received for her employment not as a Director upto30September 2013 amounted to 134,000 and LTIP amounted to 3,411,994.
8 The figures in this table are for the period D Goldie was a Director to 27 September 2013.
The LTIP received whilst in employment after that date amounted to 3,411,994.
9 S Makins base pay was 375,000 from his start date to 30 September 2013.
It was increased to 400,000 effective 1 October 2013.
6 No SAYE options were granted to Executive Directors as part of the 2012 SAYE.
Base pay Year ended 31 March 2014 Year ending 31 March 2015 During the course of the year ended 31 March 2014, remuneration for Following the Committees review of Executive remuneration during Executive Directors was reviewed in line with market trends, peer group the year ended 31 March 2014, it was decided to increase the base pay benchmarking and current internal practices.
Peer group analysis was of the CEO to 550,000 effective from 1 July 2014.
This increase will conducted by Towers Watson, using a group of 21 companies in the be the first since her appointment in 2010, therefore on an annualised FTSE, with comparable revenue and market capitalisation.
No base basis represents an increase of approximately 2.5% per annum, and pay increases were made to Executive Directors in the year, except isin line with the Groups policy to set base pay at market median.
for Stephen Makin who received a base pay increase to 400,000 Indetermining this increase the Committee also took into consideration effective 1October 2013, in line with his employment offer.
the contribution the CEO has made to the business.
Inparticular, the DidoHarding has received no base pay increase since joining the significant strength in leadership, which has resulted in the growth of Company in 2010. the market capitalisation of the Company from 900m to around 2.8bn since her appointment in February 2010.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, average base pay increases for all other employees was 3%.
For the year ending 31 March 2015, average base pay increases for allother employees will be 3%.
This is applied as a 2.5% allemployee increase with a further 0.5% for performance and market related increases on a discretionary basis.
33 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued When determining bonus payments, the Remuneration Committee Pension contributions takes into account performance against the measures above, Year ended 31 March 2014 overallbusiness performance and individual performance of During the course of the year, Executive Directors received Company Executive Directors.
pension contributions in line with the Remuneration Policy.
There were no Directors who were members of a defined benefit pension Significant investment in the year in our rapidly growing TV business scheme during the year.
has resulted in some financial measures being confirmed at below minimum.
Strong performance against the remainder of the scorecard Dido Harding received a 10% of base pay employer contribution to her has resulted in bonus being paid out to Executive Directors at just pension and made a contribution of 5% of her base pay up to 1 March 2014 above target levels.
when she left the pension scheme.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, this 10% of base pay was paid partly to the pension arrangement with The Remuneration Committee has judged that the targets are the balance being paid as cash in lieu.
commercially sensitive and remain so even on a retrospective basis as they could give competitors insight into TalkTalks business Stephen Makin received a 10% of base pay contribution into his planning process.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that this bonus has provided David Goldie received a cash equivalent of 20% of base pay in lieu an excellent link between reward and operating performance and the ofpensionpayments.
creation of further shareholder value.
The pension schemes provided for other employees of the Group Year ending 31 March 2015 areincluded in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
During the course of the year, a review of the annual bonus scheme Year ending 31 March 2015 was conducted to ensure that the performance measures in the In the year ending 31 March 2015, pension contributions from the balanced scorecard continue to be aligned to Company strategy.
Company for Dido Harding and Stephen Makin will continue to be Theperformance measures and their weightings for the year ending capped at 10%of base pay, in line with the Remuneration Policy.
31 March 2015 are set out below: Performance measure Weighting Dido Hardings pension contribution will be paid as a cash payment in lieu.
Headline Group EBITDA 15% Annual performance bonus Operating free cash flow 10% Year ended 31 March 2014 Consumer revenue 10% For the year ended 31 March 2014, the annual performance bonus was TalkTalk Business revenue 10% based on a balanced scorecard blend of financial and non-financial Net Promoter Score 10% measures as set out in the table below.
Churn 25% Executives had an incentive opportunity in the range of 0% to 170% TV launch and customer experience 10% ofbase pay.
Performance for the year achieved 106% of the target bonus potential resulting in a bonus payment of 64% of base pay.
Innovation 10 % Performance against each of the measures is set out below: The Board has determined that the disclosure of performance Measure Weighting Achievement targets continue to be deemed commercially sensitive and are Headline Group EBITDA 20% Missed therefore not disclosed in this report.
These targets are determined Operating free cash flow 10% Missed within the context of a longer term business plan and the disclosure ofthese targets could give information to TalkTalk competitors to the On-net ARPU 10% Super stretch detriment of business performance.
TalkTalk Business revenue 10% Stretch The Committee will disclose performance against all these measures Net Promoter Score 10% Between minimum in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
and target On-net churn 20% Missed There is no change to the annual bonus policy for Executive Directors which is set out in the Remuneration Policy table, with the exception TV launch and customer 10% Super stretch of new performance measures and weightings shown above.
experience Employee engagement 5% Stretch Innovation 5% Super stretch 34 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 TalkTalk Discretionary Shares Share-based incentive plans The TalkTalk Discretionary Share Option Plan DSOP is designed Year ended 31 March 2014 toprovide a long term incentive plan for certain employees of the The single figure of remuneration includes amounts for the value of TalkTalk Group.
It is the intention of the Committee that, generally options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held inany one year, participants may only receive an award under one by the Directors.
Details of the options for the Directors who served such scheme.
during the year are as follows: Awards under the DSOP granted during the year or where The TalkTalk Group Value Enhancement Scheme performance periods ended during the year are set out below.
As stated in the Remuneration Policy, the Value Enhancement Scheme VES was designed to enable participants to share in the 2010 grant incremental value of the Group in the excess of an opening valuation, The DSOP awarded in 2010 was approved by HMRC and the exercise as determined by the Remuneration Committee and agreed with of the options is subject to continuing employment and performance HMRC, with the initial valuation being on 1 April 2009. conditions, which are set out below.
As performance conditions are satisfied and the award vests, the These awards were made at the time of demerger from the Carphone Participation Shares are purchased by TalkTalk through the issue Warehouse Group, in order to incentivise senior Directors and other ofTalkTalk Telecom Group PLC shares or satisfied by shares held members of the management population to develop and grow the new bythe Group ESOT.
Participation Shares, which are purchased by stand-alone business.
Therefore, the Board awarded all participants participants are acquired at market value and participants are amultiple of 200% base pay, which vested on achievement of a 5% TSR offereda loan from TalkTalk at a commercial rate of interest in hurdle being reached.
A further 100% base pay award also vested orderto fund such a purchase.
providing that the share price of the Company was calculated as at least 2.40 in the five day period leading up the vesting date.
50% of 60% of the scheme vested in 2012, with the remaining 40% vesting theoptions granted under this award vested on 28 March 2013, but in2013.
were exercisable following the announcement of the preliminary The Remuneration Committee determined that the performance results on 16 May 2013.
The remaining 50% vested on 12 November 2013. condition of a 5% TSR hurdle, once 7% has been returned to Other than the CEO, no Executive or Non-Executive Directors shareholders, had been achieved and therefore the scheme vested, participated in this scheme.
resulting in a pool shared amongst TalkTalk participants of 42m.
Thecalculations, which determined the value of this pool have There was no clawback in respect of this scheme during the year beenindependently audited.
Vesting of the remaining 40% of the VES resulted in the Directors 2013 grant receiving the following share holdings: A further DSOP was granted in June 2013 DSOP 2013, under the DSOP rules approved by shareholders in 2010 and is an unapproved 2014 2014 % share Number scheme.
The exercise of these options is subject to continuing Director of pool of shares employment and two performance conditions, which are set out 1 D Harding 10 1,881,567 inthe table below: 2 A Stirling 6 1,210,356 Vesting EPS TSR 2 Level of performance level CAGR CAGR D Goldie 6 1,210,356 Minimum 25% 50% 50% 22 4,302,279 Target 40% 50% 50% 1 All shares must be held for a minimum of twelve months from receipt.
Stretch 70% 50% 50% 2 No holding restriction due to the fact that employment ceased on 30September 2013.
Super stretch 100% 50% 50% The remaining percentage of allocated shares in the VES pool is held by other senior management of the Group.
Awards are triggered within a range from 18% to 26% for compound annual growth of EPS and from 5% to 14.7% for compound annual Interest on outstanding loans was charged at 4% during the year growth of TSR.
If the minimum performance requirement is met, 2013: 4% and interest bearing loans, which the Directors had in atotal of 25% of the award will vest, rising to 40% for target, 70% relation to the VES were repaid in full when the remaining 40% of forstretch and 100% for super stretch performance.
Awards under this scheme vest in May 2016.
The awards held by There was no clawback in respect of this scheme during the year Executive Directors are detailed in the table on the following page.
ended 31 March 2014 and no Non-Executive Directors participated inthis scheme.
In addition, no further VES awards were made in the There was no clawback in respect of this scheme during the year year ended 31 March 2014. ended 31 March 2014 and no Non-Executive Directors participated inthis scheme.
The performance conditions for the DSOP 2012 were also based on an equal split of achieving a compound TSR and a compound EPS measure over the performance period.
Awards being triggered within a range from 10% to 19% for compound annual growth of both these measures.
35 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Share-based incentive plans continued Year ended 31 March 2014 Scheme interests awarded in the year Number of shares Director allocated D Harding 452,489 S Makin 339,367 791,856 Total DSOP under option at year ended 31 March 2014 Performance Average share Scheme Type conditions price used Face value Minimum level Vesting 4 1 Director type of award apply for grant of award of award date 2 D Harding DSOP 2012 Nil priced unapproved Yes 1.22 1,250,000 25% May 2015 3 DSOP 2013 Nil priced unapproved Yes 2.21 1,000,000 25% June 2016 3 S Makin DSOP 2013 Nil priced unapproved Yes 2.21 750,000 25% June 2016 3,000,000 1 Face value is calculated as the number of options awarded multiplied by the average share price over the five day period prior to grant.
2 60% exercisable from May 2015 and remaining 40% exercisable twelve months thereafter.
3 60% exercisable from June 2016 and remaining 40% exercisable twelve months thereafter.
4 Performance conditions are set out on page 35.
Year ending 31 March 2015 All-Employee Share Plans The TalkTalk Group Value Enhancement Scheme VES All-Employee Share Option Award The Company proposes to make a further VES award under the rules The All-Employee Share Option Award was granted in September 2012 of the VES, already approved by shareholders, as a one-off award to and vested in September 2013, under the DSOP rules approved by Executive Directors and a limited number of members of the senior shareholders in 2010.
A shareholder resolution approved at the 2013 leadership team.
AGM permitted a waiver of the three year vesting period.
The award was designed to reward all employees not currently part of another share The Board strongly believes that due to the evolving and dynamic option plan to foster all-employee share ownership.
Each qualifying nature of the Company and its growth aspirations, a further award employee was awarded 1,000 nil priced share options.
No awards under the VES will continue to closely align the senior team to were made to Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors or senior shareholders interests and to further incentivise the Executive team managers.
The exercise of the options was subject to continuing to create significant value for shareholders for the next phase of employment on the vesting date in September 2013 and there were development of the business.
noperformance conditions in relation to this grant.
These options The level of award granted to each individual during the year ending lapsed on resignation of an employee.
31March 2015 will be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
On vesting of the scheme, a total of two million shares were awarded The awards will recognise the individuals performance, including tothe Companys employee population.
exceptional performance, but no individual Executive Director shall beawarded more than 10% of the VES pool.
In addition, the total value TalkTalk SAYE Scheme of the VES awards will be subject to the cap set out in the The TalkTalk SAYE Scheme is a Save-As-You-Earn share option scheme Remuneration Policy.
The SAYE Scheme is administrated by a duly authorised committee of the Board.
All UK Executive Directors It is expected that all Executive Directors will participate in the VES and employees of TalkTalk and participating companies within the rather than the DSOP in the year ending 31 March 2015.
Group are eligible to participate in the SAYE Scheme as long as they TalkTalk discretionary shares have been employed for a qualifying period.
To participate in the SAYE The Remuneration Committee intends to make an award in 2014 under Scheme an eligible employee must enter into a SAYE contract and the DSOP rules approved by shareholders in 2010 to members of the agree to make monthly contributions between 5 and 250 increasing senior management group.
to 500 per month from 1 April 2014 for a specified period of three orfive years.
The exercise of any options awarded under this scheme will be dependent on continued employment and the achievement of Options granted to acquire TalkTalk Shares under the SAYE Scheme performance conditions, which have not currently been determined have an option price determined by the TalkTalk Board, which will be and will be published in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
not less than the higher of 80% of the middle market quotation price or their nominal value.
Awards under this scheme will vest in 2017.
36 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Whilst there are no shareholding requirements for Non-Executive All-Employee Share Plans continued Directors, this is encouraged within the Company.
TalkTalk SAYE Scheme continued Details of the share options for Executive Directors under the TalkTalk Ordinary shares of 0.1p SAYE Scheme, which were exercised from 1 July 2013 are shown below.
Director 31 March 2014 31 March 2013 Date of contract Any unexercised options expired on 1 January 2014.
Amy Stirling also C Dunstone 294,059,396 294,059,396 20 January 2010 exercised 8,897 options on the same date, but was no longer a Director J Gildersleeve 245,138 245,138 20 January 2010 of the Company on the date of exercise.
I West 346,023 346,023 8 February 2011 Exercises J Allwood 10,000 10,000 20 January 2010 Shares Scheme under option Option price maturity date B Hoberman 12,882 12,882 20 January 2010 D Harding 8,897 1.02 1 July 2013 H Stringer 10,000 26 July 2012 D Goldie 8,897 1.02 1 July 2013 J Powell 1,000 26 July 2012 J Shields 16 May 2013 No Non-Executive Directors participated in this scheme.
Further details of the features and operations of the SAYE can be Fees for Non-Executive Directors found in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is set by the Board, taking account of the commitments and responsibilities of the role and their All-employee Share Match Plan TTG Share Match participation in the various governance committees of the Company.
During the course of the year, the Remuneration Committee approved the introduction of an all-employee, HMRC approved, Share Match Plan.
The fees for Non-Executive Directors and their appointment dates This enables eligible employees to purchase market priced shares by are set out in the tables below.
Non-Executive Directors are not entering into a partnership share agreement and holding such shares eligible to participate in annual bonus, LTIP and pension arrangements.
in trust for up to a five year period.
Approval for the TTG Share Match Taxable 2014 Taxable 2013 was granted by shareholders at the AGM on 24 July 2013.
Fees benefits total Fees benefits total Non-Executive Director 000 000 000 000 000 000 No awards were made under this scheme during the period.
C Dunstone 360 1 361 360 1 361 The Remuneration Committee notes that the TTG Share Match is due J Gildersleeve 85 85 85 85 to launch to all employees in June 2014.
I West 78 78 73 73 J Allwood 68 68 60 60 Additional information B Hoberman 50 50 50 50 Shareholding requirements Executive Directors are required to build and retain a minimum H Stringer 50 50 34 34 shareholding in the Company, equivalent to 200% of base pay.
J Powell 50 50 34 34 Current shareholdings are set out below for Executive Directors: 1 J Shields 39 39 Holding Actual share Aggregate requirement ownership as a % of Actual Requirement as a % of emoluments 780 1 781 696 1 697 2 Director base pay holding satisfied base pay D Harding 200% 4,253,390 Yes 2,725% 1 Appointed to the Board on 16 May 2013.
1 S Makin 200% 20,000 No 17% There were no changes to fee levels for Non-Executive Directors in the year and no increases are proposed in the year ending 31 March 2015, 1 Appointed to the Board on 31 May 2013. except where there are changes in the membership of the various 2 Share price on 31 March 2014 used for calculation.
Payments to past Directors There were no payments made to past Directors in the year ended 31March 2014 not disclosed elsewhere in the report.
Payments for loss of office There were no payments made to Executive Directors past or present in the year ended 31 March 2014, in compensation for loss of office.
The 2012 DSOP award of 614,754 options made to Amy Stirling lapsed on 30 November 2013.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment The Committees that Non-Executive Directors serve on and dates of appointment are set out below.
Effective date of Date first appointed current letter Non-Executive Director Committee membership to the Board of appointment C Dunstone 20 January 2010 16 January 2013 J Gildersleeve Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Compliance 20 January 2010 16 January 2013 J Allwood Audit, Nomination 20 January 2010 20 January 2013 B Hoberman Remuneration 20 January 2010 20 January 2013 I West Audit, Remuneration, Nomination 8 February 2011 16 May 2013 H Stringer Remuneration 26 July 2012 26 July 2012 J Powell Audit 26 July 2012 26 July 2012 1 J Shields 16 May 2013 16 May 2013 1 Appointed to the Board on 16 May 2013.
37 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Additional information continued Fees for external appointments Relative importance of spend on pay 2014 The difference in actual expenditure between FY13 and FY14 on Director Organisation 000 remuneration for all employees in comparison to distributions to D Harding British Land PLC, The Jockey Club 71 shareholders by way of dividends is set out in the graphs below: D Goldie Energy Assets Group PLC, 9 Node4 Holdings Ltd, WHP Holdings Ltd Dividend paid m 12m Charles Dunstone is also Chairman of Carphone Warehouse Group PLC, which the Company believes is a significant other commitment for him.
2014 99m Advice and services provided to the Remuneration Committee Except when matters concerning their own positions are being 2013 87m considered, the Chief Executive Officer and the Group Human Resources Director are normally invited to attend the meetings oftheRemuneration Committee.
TheCommittee may discuss any matter affecting the Chairman without the Chairman being present.
Total employee pay m 8m Over the course of the year ended 31 March 2014, the Remuneration Committee appointed and was advised on matters relating to executive 2014 125m remuneration by Towers Watson.
The Remuneration Committee deems the advisors to be independent from the Company and the advice they received during the year to be appropriate and objective.
2013 133m Towers Watson is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration Comparing pay to performance consulting in the UK.
The following tables and chart show a comparison of total pay for the CEO since the listing of the Company on 29 March 2010, with the Towers Watson has also been appointed by the Group HR Director remuneration of all other employees and with TSR.
toadvise the Company on other matters in relation to employee remuneration, such as variable pay plans and organisational pay The Regulations require a comparison with TSR performance over banddevelopment over the course of the year.
afive year period, but due to the Companys listing in 2010, it is only possible to report for a four year period in this years report.
The fees paid for services are set out below: 2014 Company Nature of service 000 Bonus as a % Shares vesting 1 Towers Watson Remuneration benchmarking 76 Single figure of of maximum as a % of 1 2 remuneration available maximum and long term incentive design 2011 1 Appointed on 28 November 2013.
2 It is not possible to show this value as the VES does not have a maximum % of shares.
However, for information the 2010 DSOP award vested at 100% of the maximum.
The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration between 2013 and 2014 for the CEO and all other employees of the Group.
Base pay Taxable benefits Annual bonus % change % change % change CEO 4 % Employees 3% 1% 2% 38 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Additional information continued TSR performance graph The graph below shows the Groups performance compared to the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 from the date of the Groups listing on29March 2010.
The FTSE 250 was selected as it is a broad market index of which the Group is a member.
300 250 200 150 100 50 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC FTSE 250 0 29 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 This Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the In framing its Remuneration Policy the Committee has given full Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports consideration to the matters set out in Schedule A of the Code and Amendment Regulations 2013 Regulations issued under the the Regulations.
As required by the Regulations, resolutions to Companies Act, the UK Corporate Governance Code, The GC 100 approve the Remuneration Policy Section and the overall Directors andInvestor Group Directors Remuneration Reporting Guidance and Remuneration Report will be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
Voting the Executive Remuneration Principles published by the Association regarding the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report was as follows: of British Insurers in November 2013.
The constitution and operation Discretionary Votes for votes Votes against Votes withheld Total votes of the Remuneration Committee are in compliance with the Code.
