Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Chairmans introduction Dear shareholder Business performance and t Performance Share Plan.
Adjusted The purpose of this introductory letter to remuneration outcomes for the year earnings per share has grown by 7.2% the Directors Remuneration Report for The Committee judges that the Company on a compound annual basis over the the year ended 31 March 2014, is to made further progress in executing its three financial years ended 31 March provide some context for the Committees strategy despite facing a number of 2014: and adjusted return on capital decision-making during the year, and challenges that held back financial employed in the year to 31 March 2014 to summarise the key points of the performance.
profit growth in starch-based is 19.2%, which is signicantly above Report.
Hopefully, this will make reading speciality ingredients and Food Systems our cost of capital.
As a result, the the detailed Report that follows and strong growth in emerging markets, awards granted under the Performance somewhat easier.
were offset by the impact of cold weather, Share Plan will vest at 63.4%.
including the extremely cold and prolonged In conrming these outcomes, the Guiding principles US winter, and an increasingly competitive Committee discussed the Companys Our philosophy remains unchanged: market for sucralose.
Good momentum in health and safety performance during the Companys remuneration framework emerging markets, a robust innovation the past year.
should be simple, and provide for pipeline and a strong balance sheet, bodes a close alignment between executive Key committee activities well for the longer term.
during the year We aim to achieve this primarily by With regard to the financial metrics used in The last significant changes in the making a significant proportion of our incentive plans: Companys remuneration arrangements pay conditional on the achievement were made in 2010, to introduce the t Annual Bonus Plan.
Growth in net sales of stretching performance conditions Annual Bonus Plan and the Performance less cost of raw materials of 2.0% and and by ensuring that executives maintain Share Plan in their current forms, like-for-like profit growth of 0.5% in significant personal shareholdings receiving significant support from constant currency for the year ended in the Company.
shareholders at the 2010 Annual 31 March 2014 demonstrate continued General Meeting AGM.
Four years on, We were early adopters of features such progress in the context of significant yearthe Committee felt it would now be as claw back provisions which apply to on-year profit growth over prior periods.
appropriate to undertake a detailed both annual bonus and long-term share The cash conversion cycle improved by review to test the continued awards, and the single-gure and pay 4.8%.
As a result, the Committee has appropriateness of the performance scenario disclosures that have now been approved annual bonus payments in the metrics used in our current incentive adopted into standard reporting.
range of up to 3% of base salary for framework.
This review confirmed that executive directors.
these metrics remain closely aligned with Net sales less raw materials change vs prior Adjusted diluted EPS long-term incentive Tate & Lyle PLC adjusted closing share year per bonus metric % metric pence price pence 56.6 56.0 55.7 4.6 2.0 900 800 16.0 700 600 500 400 300 03-2009 03-2010 03-2011 03-2012 03-2013 03-2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Adjusted ROCE long-term incentive Adjusted PBTEA change vs prior year per metric % bonus metric % 0.5 21.4 19.7 19.2 28.0 3.9 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 52 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Chairmans introduction continued our strategic objectives and that I can confirm that the Committee has Approval of the remuneration policy remuneration outcomes have been made no change to the structure of the for the year ahead closely aligned with business remuneration package for the year ahead, In view of the discussion above, we have performance.
The chart below illustrates and executive directors salaries remain made no changes to our remuneration this alignment in respect of the Annual unchanged since 1 April 2012, the second design or framework at this time, and Bonus Plan through to the end of the year of no increase.
the report on remuneration policy, which financial year to which this Report relates.
we ask shareholders to support at the Engagement with shareholders The chart shows relative year-on-year AGM, is consistent with our approach As part of our annual cycle of activity, growth in sales and profits both key to date and the arrangements which in addition to the normal shareholder metrics in the Annual Bonus Plan against shareholders have previously approved.
engagement activities which the a trend line in bonus outcomes over the Itrust we can count on your support.
Board undertakes, I write to our key same period: institutional shareholders in my capacity Robert Walker as Remuneration Committee Chairman Chairman of the Remuneration Relative annual in order to offer a meeting to discuss sales growth Committee any shareholder issues or concerns.
Relative annual profit growth This year, Ihave already written to our Trend line in bonus top 20 shareholders: this is a larger outcomes number than in the past to ensure that we consult on the widest possible basis.
It is a reection of the sig gnicant levels 2011 2012 2013 2014 of shareholder suppor ort t ffor or our our cur curr re en nt t remuneration arrange em me ents th nts that at Based on this review, the Committee shareholders had no issues issues t to o raise raise wit with h concluded that the choice of our financial me as part of that pro oc ce es ss s.. A As s a a g gr ro ou up p, metrics across the annual bonus and shareholders indicated ed th the eiir r s st tro rong ng suppor support t long-term share plan remain appropriate.
for our approach, wh hiich ch wa was s re re e ec ct te ed d in in Looking ahead, we will of course continue a 96% vote to approve o five ou ur re r rem mu un ne er ra ati tio on n to review targets on an annual basis to report resolution at th he A e AG GM i M in n 2 20 01 13 3.. ensure that these remain appropriately stretching and aligned with the business strategy and outlook.
Robert Walker About these Reports The information regarding directors remuneration is presented in two Reports: the first relates to our remuneration policy the Directors Remuneration Policy Report, and the second relates to the way in which our established policy has been implemented during the year under review the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Resolutions to approve each of these Reports will be proposed at the AGM.
It is our intention that the policy approved by shareholders will apply for a period of three years, and will not be put to an annual shareholder vote, although we intend to report on both policy and implementation each year.
These Reports have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations, the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
 LLP has audited such content as required by the Act the information on pages 67 to 71 marked as audited.
Resolutions to approve each Report will be proposed at the AGM on 24 July 2014.
Directors Remuneration Policy Report Introduction This Report sets out the Companys policy in relation to directors remuneration.
This approach was originally established in 2010 in connection with the review of the business strategy following Javed Ahmeds appointment as Chief Executive, and the policy is fundamentally unchanged from that set out in the 2011, 2012 and 2013 Annual Reports.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 24 July 2014, the Committee will operate within this policy from that date.
The Committee will retain discretion on specic aspects of policy and implementation, as described in this report along with an overriding discretion to determine bonus outcomes and judge the level at which share awards vest, in order to ensure that payments are consistent with the underlying health and performance of the business, within the maximum opportunity stated in the policy tables.
The Committee may make minor changes to the policy without seeking shareholder approval, for example to benefit the administration of arrangements, or to take account of changes in legislation.
Any such changes will be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 53 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT | CONTINUED Remuneration strategy and key principles The Companys remuneration strategy, and supporting principles which apply consistently across employee, management and executive populations, is summarised in the table below.
Remuneration strategy Key principles The Companys t Base pay and benets are generally positioned at local market median levels remuneration strategy t For all employees, our pay for performance framework provides for meaningful differentiation is to provide packages in salary progression and opportunities for career progression, based on each individuals contribution that enable the Company t The total package opportunity should provide meaningful reward for superior performance and encourage to recruit, retain and the achievement of genuinely stretching short-term and long-term objectives motivate high-calibre t Below executive level, key individuals who have a specic accountability for driving annual and longer-term individuals in the performance may be selected to participate variously in our sales incentive plan, the Annual Bonus Plan, markets in which and or the Performance Share Plan we operate to deliver superior operational t Alignment with shareholders long-term interests is carefully preserved, for example through: a significant proportion of pay being based on performance: effective governance around remuneration decisions: performance and outstanding a considered approach to setting performance targets: the adoption of shareholding guidelines at senior executive levels: and claw back provisions on incentive awards financial results t All aspects of remuneration are designed to encourage a focus on long-term, sustained performance and risk management t Our approach is intended to be equitable and transparent and operate across the Group, recognising that we recruit talented individuals and operate in an international market t Outcomes must be achieved in a way that is consistent with the Groups core Values and Code of Ethics, and that fosters sustainable, profitable growth The charts below illustrate the international nature of our business although we are UK-listed and headquartered in London, a very significant proportion of our people, our shareholders, and our customers are based outside the UK.
Accordingly, it is important that our remuneration arrangements are appropriately competitive in that international context.
1 2 3 Our sales Our shareholders Our people 1 2% UK 3 17% Other European 1 50% UK 3 4% Other European 1 4% UK 3 35% Other European 2 59% US countries 2 40% US countries 2 46% US countries 4 22% Rest of world 4 6% Rest of world 4 15% Rest of world 1 1 1 2 4 2 3 4 4 3 2 3 1 Sales by destination from continuing operations as per Note 4 to the Financial Statements.
2 Shareholders are represented by an analysis of the largest 20 institutional shareholdings covering 48% of the register at 31 March 2014.
A clear link between our strategy and directors remuneration The Companys remuneration arrangements place a clear emphasis on driving Company performance, through incentives that are directly linked to the key performance indicators KPIs which come from our business strategy.
In this way, we maintain a keen focus on delivering long-term growth, thereby enhancing long-term value for shareholders.
The table opposite summarises the KPIs that we use to measure the Groups success against our strategy.
The right-hand column describes how these KPIs link directly to remuneration arrangements.
Key Performance Indicators Pages 18 and 19 54 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Key performance indicators Link to directors remuneration Financial results Adjusted operating profit This is a key determinant of awards under the Annual Bonus Plan.
Adjusted diluted EPS growth Awards under the Performance Share Plan depend on this metric.
Dividend per share The dividend has a direct impact through individual executive share ownership and dividend equivalents on deferred bonus awards.
Net debt Objectives are reected in incentive plan target setting, but this metric does not directly impact remuneration.
Performance and financial strength in addition to the above Speciality food ingredients sales growth Informs the sales target in the Annual Bonus Plan that is set by the Committee each year.
Return on capital employed Awards under the Performance Share Plan depend on this metric.
Cash conversion cycle This is a performance metric in the Annual Bonus Plan.
Net debt to EBITDA and interest cover Objectives are reected in Annual Bonus Plan targets, but this metric does not directly impact remuneration.
Corporate responsibility Safety metrics Safety and broader corporate responsibility matters are specic factors that the Committee may factor into decisions on pay and annual incentive plan outcomes.
Key components of directors remuneration As a Committee, we believe that our approach to remuneration provides a relatively simple but effective overall framework that is aligned with long-term success and returns to shareholders.
The executive directors remuneration consists of base salary, annual bonus, long-term incentives, and retirement and other benets as described in the table overleaf.
Claw back provisions apply to incentive awards following release as described in the policy table on pages 56 to 59, and a strong alignment with shareholders interests is maintained through significant personal shareholding requirements imposed on each director.
The key components of the remuneration framework for executive directors are summarised in the graphic below, and the full policy in relation to each item is described in the tables that follow.
Fixed Variable short-term Variable long-term Base salary: providing xed Annual bonus: to deliver Long-term share incentive: to deliver shareholder value remuneration which reects the Companys annual linked to efficient use of capital and profitable long-term growth the market value of the role financial performance objectives Employment retirement Claw back provisions mean cash and share incentives may be recouped in specic circumstances benets: consistent with localmarket practice Personal share ownership: strengthens alignment between executives and shareholders Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 55 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT | CONTINUED Executive directors remuneration policy table Purpose and alignment with strategy Operation Opportunity Base salary short-term, xed remuneration To provide xed remuneration that reects the t Base salaries are positioned at around the t Base salary reviews take into account market value of the individual, his or her skills median of the relevant market based on increases awarded to employees below and experience and performance company size and operations for UK executive level, and the impact on pension directors, the Committee currently has and other consequences of increases regard to the 50th to 130th largest UK-listed t Increases arising from the normal annual companies, and taking account of personal review will normally be limited to the local performance, as well as individual market increase applicable to employees circumstances e. g. following promotion into at the same location generally.
However, a new role the Committee may use its discretion to award a higher or lower increase to ensure that salaries remain appropriately aligned with the external market, and to reect changes in experience, role or responsibility Employment and retirement benets short-term, xed remuneration To provide employment and retirement benets t Retirement benets are provided by way t The value of retirement and or cash in line with the relevant local market of dened contribution arrangements, benets in lieu of pension is set by or an equivalent cash allowance reference to external market practice t Other employment benets include car using the same market reference point or car allowance, health insurance, group as for base salary, and is subject to income protection and, where appropriate, periodic review life cover t The value of non-cash benets is determined by the cost of provision, e. g. third-party health insurance premiums Annual bonus short-term, performance-related remuneration To support the Companys strategy by t The discretionary Annual Bonus Plan t No bonus is payable if performance is rewarding the achievement of the Companys rewards the achievement of financial and below threshold, regardless of annual performance objectives other objectives established by the performance against other metrics Committee for the relevant financial year t The target bonus is 75% of base salary t The bonus award is made, subject to for the Chief Executive, and 50% of base the Committees approval, following the salary for the Chief Financial officer end of the financial year and the audit t The maximum cash bonus is 100% of full-year results of base salary: any annual bonus above t The bonus award may comprise cash and 100% of base salary is delivered in deferred shares, depending on the level of Tate & Lyle PLC shares which are award that is made deferred for two years t The maximum cash and share bonus is 175% of base salary t Deferred shares carry the right to receive a cash payment in lieu of the dividend that would have been paid on those shares between award and release 56 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Performance framework Commentary t Base salary is a xed element of the remuneration package, paid monthly t A consistent framework applies to t Employees generally participate in a merit-based review, which means that the general market employees generally salaries are increase which applies will be sufficient to maintain competitiveness against the local market, positioned by reference to the local while individual high performers may be rewarded with higher salary increases market median, and salary reviews take into account local market increases, external benchmarking, and personal performance t No changes to the policy for executive directors have been made in the year or are proposed for the year ahead t Benets are a xed part of the remuneration package, and typically accrue monthly t The provision of employment and t Retirement benets are dened contribution in nature, limiting the financial risk and potential retirement benets to executive directors costs to the Company is consistent with our policy and approach for employees generally: appropriate benets are provided in line with local competitive market practice t No changes to the policy for executive directors have been made in the year or are proposed for the year ahead t Performance is assessed over the relevant financial year t Claw back provisions apply, which t Performance metrics are selected by the Committee at the start of the relevant year, means cash and share elements may and are drawn from key financial metrics.
Additionally, the Committee may select be recouped in specic circumstances quantiable metrics that are aligned with our strategic and or operational objectives during the two-year period following on a personal or collective basis the end of the financial year to which t Targets for each metric are set at the start of each financial year, taking account of the the bonus relates business strategy, performance in previous years, market expectations and the prevailing t The discretionary Annual Bonus Plan economic climate applies to a broad population who have t The greatest weighting will be given to financial performance: specically, a minimum profit roles which allow them to contribute hurdle applies before any bonus is payable against any of the metrics materially to the successful delivery t The final bonus award is made at the Committees discretion.
Subject to the overall maximum, of the Companys annual performance the Committee may make appropriate adjustments to ensure that the bonus outcomes are a fair objectives.
The Annual Bonus Plan reection of the underlying performance of the Company and may also take into account factors operates within a consistent framework such as Group safety, operational performance, and personal performance for all participants, with financial targets typically set by reference to the business area that is most relevant to the employees role t No changes to the policy for executive directors have been made in the year or are proposed for the year ahead Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 57 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT | CONTINUED Executive directors remuneration policy table continued Purpose and alignment with strategy Operation Opportunity Performance Share Plan long-term, performance-related remuneration To support the Companys strategy t Awards over Tate & Lyle PLC shares may be t The Committee has the exibility to make by incentivising sustained profit growth made, at the Committees discretion, on an awards of up to 300% of base salary at and capital efficiency over successive annual basis taking an individual executives the time of award if appropriate to ensure three-year performance periods, contribution and performance into account market competitiveness and taking and to help retain senior executive talent t Awards will only vest to participants if account of the Companys performance demanding financial performance t The award will lapse entirely if threshold requirements have been achieved over a performance targets are not achieved period of at least three financial years t Only 15% of any award made to commencing with the financial year in which executive directors vests for achieving the award is made threshold performance Personal share ownership requirements this information is provided here to explain a key feature of the remuneration framework, but these requirements do not form part of the binding policy To strengthen long-term alignment t Executive directors are subject to individual t Share ownership requirements for of interests between senior executives minimum share ownership requirements executive directors are as follows: and the Companys shareholders t specified holdings must be built up over an Chief Executive: four times base salary initial five-year period following the adoption Chief Financial officer: three times base of the policy or appointment, if later and salary retained for the duration of employment Other potential benets Operation Opportunity To address specic commercial or t If a director is required to relocate at the t No directors currently receive relocation administrative situations, the following benets Companys request, e. g. as a result of benets may be provided: changing business requirements, additional t The cost of provision will be determined benets may arise in accordance with the by the policy and will depend on the t Director relocation and associated benets, Group relocation policy.
Benets may specic circumstances including international healthcare include without limitation : relocation t Specic benets and the cost of provision t Payment in lieu of dividend on specic assistance: health cover: travel: would be approved by the Remuneration share awards accommodation: and tax equalisation Committee at the time t UK savings-related share options t Certain share awards carry the right to t The value of any payment in lieu of Sharesave Plan receive a cash payment in lieu of the dividend will depend on: the value of the dividend that would have been paid on those relevant dividends paid over the relevant shares pending delivery period, and the number of shares to which t The Company operates a Sharesave Plan the participant is entitled which is open to all employees in the UK, t The value of individual grants is capped by and provides a mechanism for employees to reference to maximum participant savings purchase shares at a discounted price monthly savings deductions from salary through savings that accumulate from may not exceed HMRC limits, and a monthly deductions from net salary savings contract may run for a threeor five-year period 58 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Performance framework Commentary t Long-term performance is assessed over three financial years, commencing with the year in t Claw back provisions apply to awards which the award is made made from 2013, which means they may t Awards are subject to the achievement of financial performance metrics which are confirmed by be recouped in specic circumstances the Committee in advance of each new grant.
Two performance metrics have applied to awards during the two-year period following the made since 2010, and equal weight has been given to each: end of the performance period as Growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations EPS over the described on page 69 three-year performance period t Participation in the Performance Share Adjusted return on capital employed ROCE achieved at the end of the performance period Plan is extended to a targeted population t These metrics were selected because together they represent key determinants of shareholder of senior executives who are expected to value creation: measuring the effectiveness of strategic investment decisions and the quality of make material individual contributions to earnings generated.
If material changes to the metrics or weightings are proposed, the the successful delivery of the Companys Committee would consult with key shareholders in advance of making a new award strategy and long-term performance.
t Targets for each new award are carefully considered by the Committee ahead of the grant of All awards under the Performance Share awards in any year, to ensure these remain appropriately stretching over the three-year Plan are subject to the same performance performance period, taking into account: the business strategy and long-term financial plan, framework, ensuring alignment and focus market expectations and the prevailing economic climate on our financial goals t Before any shares are released at the end of the performance period, the Committee must also t No changes to the policy for executive be satisfied that the level of vesting determined by performance against these targets is justied directors have been made in the year by the broader underlying financial performance of the Company or are proposed for the year ahead t The value of an individual directors interests in shares is directly affected by share t Similar share ownership requirements price performance extend to Executive Committee members at three times base salary, and to a broader group of executives in senior leadership roles at a level equal to their base salary t No changes to the policy for executive directors have been made in the year or are proposed for the year ahead Performance framework Commentary t Relocation benets are xed in accordance with Group policy t Any such benets would be payable in t The payment in lieu of dividend is a benefit attached to specic awards, where accordance with policies applicable more applicable conditions have been satisfied at vesting.
Accordingly, no additional generally to employees within the Group performance conditions apply t The value of any payment in lieu t No performance conditions are attached to Sharesave awards because the Sharesave of dividends will be included in the Plan is an all-employee scheme single gure table in the year the payment is made t Executive directors are entitled to participate in the Sharesave Plan because the plan must be open to all employees in the UK Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 59 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT | CONTINUED Status of previously approved Service contracts Remuneration policy for the remuneration policy statements The Companys policy regarding Chairman and non-executive It is intended that provisions consistent executive directors service contracts directors with previously disclosed directors and appointment terms is to take account remuneration policies and or incentive of market practice, and to ensure that Terms of appointment plans previously approved by shareholders provisions in relation to notice periods The Chairman and non-executive directors will continue to apply after the resolution or termination payments are not excessive, have letters of appointment and do not have to adopt the remuneration policy set out as well as to ensure that contracts provide service contracts or notice periods.
Under in this Policy Report is approved.
Such appropriate protection for the Company, the terms of their appointment, they are provisions will allow, without limitation: for example in relation to restrictions on usually expected to serve on the Board for competition, solicitation of customers or between three and nine years, subject to t Contractual commitments entered into employees, and the protection of their re-election by shareholders.
The before the policy takes effect, or before intellectual property.
Company Chairman and non-executive an individual was subject to this policy on directors receive a fee for their services, and directors remuneration, to be honoured Executive directors are employed under do not participate in the Groups incentive or t The satisfaction of awards and or service contracts commencing on dates pension schemes, do not receive any other commitments made in relation to as follows: Javed Ahmed Chief Executive benets, and have no right to compensation short-term and long-term incentive plan 1 October 2009: Tim Lodge Chief if their appointment isterminated.
awards providing they were consistent Financial officer 4 December 2008: with the policy in effect at the time the and provide for six months notice from Chairman and non-executive original award commitment was made.
the executive or 12 months notice from directors fees the Company.
Such arrangements shall remain in effect and be included in the current Non-executive directors fees excluding Service contracts for executive the Chairman are reviewed annually by remuneration policy by reference, even if directors and letters of appointment for the Chairman and executive directors of they are not specically provided for within the Chairman and non-executive directors the Board.
The Chairmans fee is reviewed the policy set out in this Policy Report.
are available for inspection at the annually by the Committee excluding Companys registered ofce.
Executive directors external the Chairman.
appointments Beyond the items disclosed in this Report, Aggregate fees depend on the The Board believes that the Company can there are no further obligations on the responsibilities assumed by each nonbenefit from executive directors holding executive director.
A basic fee is paid to Company which could give rise to a external non-executive directorships.
Such the Chairman, to the Senior Independent remuneration or loss of ofce payment appointments are subject to approval by Director and to each non-executive director.
In addition, supplemental fees are payable the Board and are normally restricted to to each Committee chairman.
Accordingly, one position for each executive director.
supplemental fees are paid to the chairmen Fees may be retained by the executive of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, and director concerned.
Remuneration Committees as well as to the chairman of the Research Advisory Group, Additional share plan disclosures to reect the extra responsibilities required Potential impact of mergers and by each of these positions.
acquisitions or other corporate activity Increases in fees arising from the normal annual review will generally be limited to the In the context of a merger or acquisition, market increase applicable to UK employees or other relevant corporate activity, any generally.
However, a higher or lower increase potential impact on the incentive plans may be awarded to ensure that fees paid are would be specically considered by the commensurate with those paid by other Committee.
In such circumstances, the UK-listed companies over time and are set at Committee retains the authority to vary the a level to retain individuals with the necessary performance target or the vesting outcome experience and ability to make a substantial to ensure that outcomes are equitable for contribution to theGroup.
both the participant and shareholders.
Change of control and voting All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time, and in proportion to the time served during the performance period.
60 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Policy on payments in connection Policy on the terms of directors t The current policy provides for a with loss of ofce appointment maximum level of variable remuneration It is the Companys policy that executive In order to ensure the continued growth that is equivalent to 475% of base salary directors are normally employed on and success of the business over time, in the financial year of appointment.
This contracts that provide for not more than the Company must have the exibility to is consistent with the aggregate current 12 months notice from the Company appoint new individuals to the Board, either maximum award under the Annual Bonus and at least six months notice from the by way of internal promotion or external Plan including any deferred shares and executive.
To protect the Companys appointment, on terms that are sufficient the maximum award value under our interests, restrictive covenants nonto attract and motivate individuals of the Performance Share Plan, although the compete non-solicitation apply for a period highest calibre.
balance between short-term and of 12 months following termination, less long-term elements may be different from The following key principles describe our any period of garden leave.
The Chief the current policy, and awards may be intended approach in these circumstances Executive and Chief Financial officer are made on different terms.
and are consistent with the principles that each employed on contracts consistent t Where an internal candidate is appointed, apply to the broader employee population.
contractual commitments that have been t The starting point for negotiating any made prior to appointment to the Board, The Committees policy in respect of the package on appointment will be the along with any benets and or incentive treatment of executive directors leaving the structure of the annual package in the awards that have been awarded at that Company is summarised in this section.
future policy on remuneration that has time, may remain in effect and be The key principles are that the framework is been approved by shareholders and is honoured, even if they would not designed to support a smooth transition current at the time of the appointment.
otherwise be consistent with the from the Company, encouraging an orderly t We will review the appropriateness of the shareholder-approved remuneration transfer of responsibilities, and taking into total package both xed and variable policy in effect at the time.
account the interests of shareholders in elements, to ensure that it is appropriate t In order to secure the appointment securing the sustained performance of the in the context of relevant external market of a suitable external candidate, the business beyond the executives departure.
practice, the complexity and scope of Committee retains the exibility to provide Termination for dishonesty or misconduct the role, the particular needs and additional compensation for the value of are circumstances in which the executive requirements of the Company at the time, incentive awards or other benets that would retain the minimum contractual internal relativities, and the appointees are forfeited on leaving a former entitlements on departure as described skills, experience and qualications.
In such circumstances, the in column A of the table on page 62, t To respond to specic circumstances Committee may make use of cash and or consistent with the need to avoid providing and or to allow for differences in practice shares, as it considers appropriate in any element of reward for failure.
An over time and by location, the Committee the circumstances.
The Committee will executives departure in compassionate accepts that employment benets may exercise careful judgment in formulating circumstances such as death or permanent need to be structured differently from the the terms on which such a compensatory disability would generally result in the specic provisions in place for current award will be made, taking into account most beneficial terms being received directors.
The Committee therefore the form of award s that are forfeited, as described in column B of the table retains exibility to make appropriate the timeframes over which they may on page 62. adjustments in provision, as considered otherwise have been earned and any appropriate, to provide marketperformance conditions that would The terms that will apply if an executive referenced benets which are necessary have applied.
departs from the Company in other or appropriate in the proper performance This policy is intended to enable the circumstances would be considered at the of the role, for example in relation to: Committee to structure an offer on terms Committees discretion and approved on healthcare and insurance: transport that it considers to be in the best interests a case-by-case basis, in keeping with the and security: and provision for retirement.
of the Company and its shareholders.
Such circumstances t Where an appointment requires an Depending on the circumstances, and would potentially result in treatment that individual to relocate, internationally any restrictions or requirements that may is more favourable than the minimum but or otherwise, the Company may agree apply, the Company may consult with key no more generous than that which applies to make payment s to offset certain shareholders as part of this process in the compassionate circumstances expenses incurred as a consequence of and or disclose terms on which a described above.
relocation or may provide benets in line new appointment is made through with our global domestic mobility policy, the Regulatory Information Service, on appointment and on an ongoing or in the following Annual Report.
basis, depending on the circumstances.
Such benets may include, without limitation: travel: relocation and taxrelated assistance: and similar benets on repatriation at the end of the term.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 61 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT | CONTINUED Summary of policy on payments in connection with loss of ofce A Termination for dishonesty or misconduct B Death or permanent disability Fixed elements of Cash elements, including accrued holiday pay, are Cash elements, including accrued holiday pay, are paid remuneration: paid pro rata to the termination date.
Non-cash pro rata to the end of the relevant notice period.
Non-cash benets benets may continue to be provided until the may continue to be provided until the end of the notice period, t Base salary termination date, or paid as a cash equivalent based or paid as a cash equivalent based on the cost of provision t Pension on the cost of provision on a pro rata basis.
t Benets Annual bonus No discretionary bonus would be awarded in these Any discretionary bonus that is payable will be approved on a awards circumstances.
More generally, no discretionary case-by-case basis by the Committee.
bonus will normally be awarded unless an individual is Any bonus will normally be pro-rated to reect the portion of the in active employment on the payment date for cash financial year prior to cessation, and would be paid at the normal awards and or the award date for deferred share time, reecting the extent to which the original performance targets awards.
Dishonesty or misconduct may lead to the operation However, within a discretionary bonus framework, the Committee of claw back provisions within the terms of the plan.
retains the exibility to approve the timing and amount of the bonus on some other basis.
Deferred share Unvested deferred shares will lapse.
Previously vested but unexercised awards may be released awards in the normal way.
Vested awards that have not been transferred released exercised prior to cessation will lapse.
In respect of unvested awards: Dishonesty or misconduct may lead to the operation t If a participant dies, a deferred bonus award will vest in full of claw back provisions within the terms of the plan.
on that date t In the event of permanent disability, a deferred bonus award will continue on its existing terms, unless the Committee exercises its discretion to approve the release of the award on an earlier date.
In the event of a change of control, an award may, at the Committees discretion, be released on or prior to the event, or be exchanged for a replacement award with an acquiring company.
Long-term share Unvested awards will lapse.
Previously vested but unexercised awards may be released during incentive a period ending six months following cessation.
Vested awards that have not been transferred, Performance released or exercised prior to cessation will lapse.
In respect of unvested awards: 1 Shares Plan Dishonesty or misconduct may lead to the operation t Awards made in prior years will remain in effect and, unless the of claw back provisions within the terms of the plan.
Committee determines that awards should vest on some other basis, an individual may receive a proportion of the potential award depending on the extent to which the original performance conditions have been achieved at the end of the normal performance period t Other than in the case of death or permanent disability, awards will generally be reduced to reect the proportion of the performance period which has elapsed prior to cessation.
The same provisions apply in the event of a change of control, but for the fact that the achievement of performance conditions will be assessed when the change of control is effective.
Provision for The Company has the option to make a payment in lieu of notice in relation to the xed elements of remuneration only base payments in lieu of salary, pension, and contractual benets.
Depending on the circumstances, such a payment may be subject to a duty of notice, and mitigation.
The Chief Financial Ofcers contract gives the Company the contractual right to phase the payments and to requirements for reduce them if the executive mitigates his loss.
mitigation Other elements of remuneration described in the table are not affected by these provisions.
1 Savings-related share options granted under the HMRC-approved Sharesave Plan will vest or lapse in keeping with HMRC regulations applicable to the circumstances at the relevant date.
In addition to contractual rights to any payment on loss of ofce, any employee, including executive directors, may have statutory and or common law or other rights to certain additional payments, for example in a redundancy situation.
Similarly, additional consideration may be provided, if necessary, to secure specic agreements following separation for example an enhanced non-compete provision that protect the Companys interests.
Depending on the role and circumstances of departure, a director who has been relocated may be repatriated in accordance with previously agreed terms.
The Company may pay some or all of the costs incurred by the executive in respect of legal, financial, outplacement or other relevant personal advisory services and or expenses in connection with relocation.
The Committee will approve such arrangements on a case-by-case basis, with a view to maintaining compliance with regulatory requirements and consistency with internal Company policies that may apply.
62 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Application of remuneration policy The tables and charts below illustrate the application of the remuneration policy described in this report, by showing the value that may be delivered from each element of the package under different performance scenarios.
Chief Executive Chief Financial officer Below Below Element value 000s threshold Threshold Target Stretch threshold Threshold Target Stretch Base salary 721 721 721 721 406 406 406 406 Pension allowance 252 252 252 252 102 102 102 102 Other benets 20 20 20 20 14 14 14 14 1 Annual bonus 541 1 262 203 711 2 Performance Share Plan 324 1 244 2 163 183 700 1 218 Total potential value 993 1 317 2 778 4 418 522 705 1 425 2 451 5m 49% 4m 3m 45% 50% 2m 29% 19% 25% 49% 1m 29% 26% Composition of remuneration: 100% 75% 36% 22% 14% Performance Share Plan 100% 74% 37% 21% 0 Annual Bonus Plan Base salary, pension Below Threshold Target Stretch Below Threshold Target Stretch and other benefits threshold threshold 1 Annual bonus shows cash and deferred shares.
No bonus is paid at or below threshold: the target opportunity is 75% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 50% for the Chief Financial Officer, while the maximum is 175%.
2 The maximum award is 300% of base salary.
15% vests at threshold, and the target shown is half way between threshold and stretch i. e. 57.5% of maximum.
Consideration of shareholder views The remuneration strategy and policy described here were established in 2010 following a review and extensive consultation with major shareholders.
Shareholders overwhelmingly approved the continuing use of the Performance Share Plan as our long-term incentive at the AGM in 2012.
The Committee led by the Committee Chairman engages with our major institutional shareholders each year specically on remuneration topics, alongside the Boards wider-ranging shareholder engagement programme.
The Committee also receives regular updates on investors views and corporate governance matters.
These lines of communication ensure that emerging best practice principles are factored into the Committees decision making during the year.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The principles on which we base remuneration decisions for executives as described on page 54 are broadly consistent with those on which we base remuneration decisions for all employees.
In particular, the Committee takes into account the general pay and employment conditions of other employees of the Company when making decisions on executive directors remuneration.
This includes considering the levels of base salary increase for employees below executive level, and ensuring that the same principles apply in setting performance targets for executives incentives as for other employees of the Group.
The Committee also reviews information on bonus payments and share awards made to the broader management of the Group when determining awards and outcomes at executive director level.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 63 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT | CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction As explained on page 53, this Report sets out how our established remuneration policy has been implemented during the year.
The Report also covers details relating to the composition and key responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee and provides more information on how our incentive plans operate.
Implementation of the remuneration policy in the financial year ending 31 March 2015 The Company intends to implement the approved directors remuneration policy for the financial year ending 31 March 2015.
Remuneration Committee consideration of matters relating to directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee comprises independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee met four times during the year.
Membership and attendance during the year were as follows: Directors as at 31 March 2014 Number of meetings Meetings attended Robert Walker Committee Chairman 44 Sir Peter Gershon 44 William Camp 44 Anne Minto 44 Dr Ajai Puri 44 The Company Secretary serves as secretary to the Committee.
The Chief Executive, the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, the Vice President, Global Compensation and Benets and the Executive Vice President, General Counsel are normally invited to attend meetings to assist the Committee, although none is present or involved when his or her own remuneration is discussed.
Main responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee The main responsibilities of the Committee include: t Assessing the appropriateness of executive remuneration in the context of the Companys strategy and priorities as well as overall competitiveness, taking into account data from independent, external sources t Setting the detailed remuneration of the executive directors, designated members of senior management, and the Company Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive, including: base salary or fees, annual bonus, long-term incentives, benets and contract terms t Setting performance targets for awards made to senior executives under the Annual Bonus Plan and the long-term incentive plan and reviewing performance outcomes t Reviewing the broader operation of the Annual Bonus and Performance Share Plans, including participation and overall award levels.
The Committee has a formal calendar of items for consideration.
The Committees terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, are available on the Companys website, www.
Committee advisor The Committee appointed Deloitte LLP as external advisor to the Committee, following a review and competitive tender process during 2012.
As part of its annual processes, the Committee considered and confirmed that advice received from Deloitte LLP is objective and independent.
Deloitte LLP is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct, giving additional confidence to the Committee that the advice received is objective and independent of conicts of interest.
Fees charged by Deloitte LLP for the provision of remuneration advice to the Committee amounted to 51,750 for the year ended 31 March 2014 in accordance with standard terms of business and a work plan that primarily reects the Committees planned activities during the year.
During the year, Deloitte LLP also provided services to the rest of the Group on internal audit, corporate finance, systems, tax compliance and accounting.
Statement of shareholder voting A resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report was passed at the AGM on 24 July 2013.
The voting outcome, which has previously been disclosed, was as follows: 1 Total against Votes withheld Total for Resolution Number of votes % of vote Number of votes % of vote Number of votes Directors Remuneration Report 293 142 434 95.92 12 471 975 4.08 593 308 1 Votes withheld are not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or against a resolution.
On 24 July 2013, there were 466,378,765 ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
64 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Chart showing total shareholder return and Chief Executive pay The chart, as required under the Regulations, illustrates the cumulative total shareholder return TSR performance of Tate & Lyle PLC against the FTSE 100 Index over the past five years.
The FTSE 100 Index is considered to be an appropriate benchmark for this purpose since it is a broad equity market index with constituents comparable in size to Tate & Lyle over the five-year period.
The graph shows the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index and Tate & Lyle in the five years from 31 March 2009.
The table provides the accompanying statistics required by the Regulations: a total compensation gure determined on the same basis as for the single gure for amounts paid to the individual serving as Chief Executive, and the proportion of any annual bonus and long-term incentive LTI that vested in the year as a percentage of the maximum opportunity.
Iain Ferguson was Chief Executive in the period until that date.
The total remuneration figure shown for the year ended 31 March 2012 includes the value from a number of one-off compensatory awards made to Javed Ahmed on his appointment, as disclosed and explained in the 2009 and 2012 Annual Reports.
Comparison of movement in Chief Executive and broader employee remuneration 3 Change in value: year ended 31 March 2014 vs 31 March 2013 Base salary Value of benefits Annual bonus Chief Executive 0% 0% -91% 2 2.7% 20% -56% Broader employee population 2 The broader employee population refers to a global population of salaried employees for salary comparison and the UK employee population for the benefits comparison, reflecting the context in which executive directors salaries and benefits are determined: and refers to the global group of participants in the Annual Bonus Plan for the bonus comparison, so that the combination of business performance across our divisions that contributes to the Groups results is appropriately represented.
3 Includes deferred shares where applicable.
Relative importance of spend on pay Year ended Year ended 31 March 2013 31 March 2014 % change Remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the Group 234m 225m -3.8% Distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and purchase of ordinary shares into treasury 140m 153m 9.3% Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 65 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT | CONTINUED The sections that follow provide more information on remuneration decisions and the operation of incentive plans during the year ended 31 March 2014.
Base salary Executive directors salaries are reviewed annually, with effect from 1 April.
At the 2014 review, the Committee agreed that no changes would be made to executive director salaries for the year ahead, taking current market positioning into account.
The average increase awarded to other UK-based employees was approximately 2.7%.
Executive directors base salaries as at 1 April 2014 2013 % change Javed Ahmed 721 000 721 000 nil Tim Lodge 405 820 405 820 nil Chairmans and non-executive directors fees Fees are reviewed annually, in accordance with our stated policy, by the Committee excluding the Chairman in respect of the Chairmans fee, and by the Chairman and the executive directors in respect of other non-executive directors fees.
Taking into account the competitiveness of current fees against the comparable market position, and the time commitment required of each role, the adjustments in the table below were approved with effect from 1 April 2014.
The aggregate increase is broadly in line with the rate of increase applicable to UK-based employees being approximately 2.7%.
Fees per annum as at 1 April 2014 2013 % change Basic fees 1 Chairman 324 500 315 950 2.7% Non-executive director 62 850 61 500 2.1% Senior Independent Director 72 850 68 600 6.2% Supplemental fees per annum Chairman of Audit Committee 16 650 16 300 2.2% Chairman of Remuneration Committee 12 500 10 850 15.2% Chairman of Corporate Responsibility Committee 11 100 10 850 2.3% Chairman of Research Advisory Group 23 300 22 800 2.2% 1 The Chairmans fee includes his role as Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Annual bonus The bonus structure described here applied to the year ended 31 March 2014: we propose to retain this structure for the coming year.
The bonus focuses performance on three objectives: profitability: sales performance: and cash conversion.
Before any bonus is payable, a minimum level of profit has to be achieved by the Company, regardless of performance against other metrics.
For each performance metric, there is a corresponding multiplier, which varies between threshold, target and stretch levels of performance.
Once the minimum profit threshold is achieved, bonuses are calculated by applying the multipliers which have the effect of increasing or decreasing the value of the bonus depending on performance against each metric in turn.
To achieve the maximum payout, performance against all three metrics must be at or above the stretch level.
Step 1Step 2Step 3 Target bonus profitability % of base salary multiplier Chief Executive Sales performance Cash conversion Bonus achieved X once minimum X X 75% multiplier multiplier as % of base salary threshold is Chief Financial achieved officer 50% profit performance is the most important of the three metrics, so multipliers for the profitability factor are more heavily geared than for the other two metrics, that is, improvements in profitability have the greatest impact on bonus payments.
All multipliers and their weightings are agreed by the Committee when targets are set at the start of the year, reecting the importance of each of the metrics in the context of the progress made against the Companys long-term business strategy.
66 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Annual bonus for the year ended 31 March 2014 audited The table below provides further information on each metric.
The Committee considers that bonus targets are commercially sensitive because they may reveal information about the business plan in the year ahead that may damage our competitive advantage, and accordingly does not disclose these on a prospective basis.
However, we continue our practice of reporting the level of performance required to achieve maximum bonus for the year just ended relative to the prior years performance, and the level of performance actually achieved against those targets.
Bonus objective profitability Sales performance Cash conversion Metric PBTEA Net sales less cost of raw materials Cash conversion cycle Denition Adjusted profit before tax, exceptional Gross sales net of associated selling The number of days between cash items, amortisation and net retirement costs, less the costs of raw materials expenditure and collection, taking benefit interest used in production account of inventory, payables and receivables: based on the average of the four quarter-end results Rationale Measures the underlying profit Measures whether management is Measures whether the business is generated by the business and growing the business: by assessing managing its working capital and whether management is converting growth after deducting the cost of raw converting profit into cash effectively growth into profit effectively materials, this metric better reects the value added by the business Performance required 11.4% improvement vs prior year 8.0% improvement vs prior year 6.7% improvement vs prior year for maximum bonus Actual performance 0.5% improvement vs prior year 2.0% improvement vs prior year 4.8% improvement vs prior year Bonus outcome Between threshold and target Between threshold and target Between target and stretch Comments on actual Speciality Food Ingredients Lower sales largely driven by the This improved by three days as a performance operating profit growth of 1% with impact of pass through of signicantly result of lower inventory levels in the good volume growth in Asia Pacic, lower corn prices in Bulk Ingredients US and signicantly lower corn prices Europe and Latin America offset by and starch-based speciality slightly lower US volumes and lower ingredients SPLENDA Sucralose prices: Bulk Ingredients operating profit 4% lower as a result of soft US beverage season, lower returns from coproducts and the impact of the protracted severe cold winter in North America Performance is measured on the basis of constant exchange rates for the Groups continuing operations.
The Committee reviews and approves the performance outcomes, considers the Groups safety performance and then may make adjustments on an exceptional basis to ensure that the results are a true reection of the underlying strength and performance of the Company.
On the basis of these performance outcomes, an annual bonus was awarded by the Committee of 2.81% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 1.88% of base salary for the Chief Financial officer for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Deferral and claw back provisions Any bonus amount up to 100% of base salary is paid in cash.
Any excess above 100% of base salary is paid in the form of deferred shares.
The shares are released after two years subject to the executive remaining in service with the Company, and carry the right to receive a payment in lieu of dividend between award and release.
Both the cash and share elements are subject to claw back provisions, which mean that they may be recouped in whole or in part, at the discretion of the Committee in the exceptional event that results were found to have been misstated or if an executive commits an act of gross misconduct.
Long-term incentive Performance Share Plan The Performance Share Plan PSP was reviewed in 2010 to provide a long-term incentive that is consistent with the business strategy.
We specically consulted with shareholders in detail at that time and again when we renewed the PSP on the same key terms in 2012.
The PSP closely aligns executive directors and senior executives interests with the strategy and with the interests of shareholders over the long term, and is therefore an important component of the overall package.
At the 2012 AGM, 98% of shareholder votes were cast in support of the resolution to approve the PSP.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 67 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT | CONTINUED Maximum award level Since the 2010 AGM, awards to the executive directors and other senior executives have been granted at the discretion of the Committee, with exibility for the Committee to make awards of up to 300% of base salary where necessary to ensure market competitiveness, while taking into account Company performance.
Performance conditions The release of awards depends on the Groups performance during the three-year performance period beginning on 1 April in the year of the award.
For awards made since 2010, the performance conditions comprised two elements, explained in the table below, consistent with the principles established following the review and consultation with shareholders at that time.
Metric Adjusted diluted earnings per share EPS Adjusted return on capital employed ROCE Denition Performance is measured by comparing the compound Performance is measured by the adjusted ROCE annual growth rate CAGR of the Companys adjusted on continuing operations achieved at the end of the diluted EPS from continuing operations over the three-year three-year performance period against the pre-determined 1 performance period against pre-determined targets targets Weighting 50% of the award depends on this metric 50% of the award depends on this metric Rationale The Committee selected this metric as it is a key The Committee selected this metric as it is a good determinant of shareholder value creation indicator of the effectiveness of strategic investment decisions and of the quality of earnings generated Vesting outcome Vesting outcome Vesting schedule EPS performance CAGR % of maximum ROCE performance % of maximum Below 6% Nil Below 13.4% Nil 6% 15% 13.4% 15% Between 6% and 15% On a straight line between Between 13.4% and 16.4% On a straight line between 2 2 15% and 100% 15% and 100% At or above 15% 100% At or above 16.4% 100% 1 The ROCE outcome would be adjusted downward in the event of any asset impairment adding this back into capital employed : this is to encourage a prudent investment strategy.
For this reason, in the event of there being an impairment of assets during the performance period, the ROCE figure for PSP purposes can be significantly lower than the unadjusted ROCE number reported in the Companys accounts.
2 Under the special arrangements that were agreed in 2009 on the Chief Executives appointment, 25% of his 2011 award vests at threshold performance.
The Committee reviews the appropriateness of metrics and targets ahead of the grant of awards in any year to ensure these remain sufciently stretching.
In practice, no changes to the performance targets have been made since they were established in 2010, and accordingly shares awarded under the PSP in 2011, 2012 and 2013 vest in accordance with the schedule set out in the table above.
Before any shares are released, the Committee must also be satisfied that the level of vesting determined by performance against these targets is justied by the broader underlying financial performance of the Company.
2011 PSP awards vesting by reference to the period ended 31 March 2014 audited PSP awards made in 2011 were dependent on EPS growth and ROCE targets as described above, with each condition applicable to half of the award.
Performance against these conditions and the vesting outcome is indicated in the table below.
Performance Weighting Performance Vesting outcome Combined vesting outcome condition outcome for this element EPS growth 50% 7.2% growth 26.8% Based on the combination of EPS and ROCE performance, the Committee has confirmed ROCE 50% 18.9% 100% that 63.4% of the PSP awards made in 2011 have vested Under the arrangements agreed in 2009 on the Chief Executives appointment, 25% of the award made to Javed Ahmed in 2011 vests at threshold.
Accordingly, the EPS element vests at 35.4%, the ROCE element vests at 100%, and the overall combined award vests at 67.7%.
In conrming these outcomes, the Committee also considered the broader underlying financial performance of Tate & Lyle over the performance period, to ensure that vesting results based on these performance outcomes were consistent with a broader view of the financial health and performance of the business.
68 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Claw back provisions Awards made under the PSP from 1 April 2013 are subject to claw back provisions for a period following the vesting date and extending to the fifth anniversary following the date of grant.
During this period, the Committee may determine that an award will lapse wholly or in part or may require that a participant shall repay up to 100% of the value of any award that has vested by virtue of performance, in the event of circumstances including the following: material misstatement of financial results: misconduct which justifies, or could justify, summary dismissal of the participant: or if information has emerged which would have affected the value of the original award that was granted to a participant, or the level at which the performance conditions were judged to have been satisfied.
Single gure table audited Other 1 2 Salary fees Benefits Annual Bonus PSP Shares Pension remuneration Total Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Chairman Sir Peter Gershon 316 307 316 307 Executive directors Javed Ahmed 721 721 23 20 20 233 1 712 4 141 252 252 2 728 5 367 Tim Lodge 406 406 15 14 8 87 903 1 956 101 101 1 433 2 564 Non-executive directors Liz Airey 78 76 78 76 William Camp 72 67 72 67 Douglas Hurt 62 60 62 60 Virginia Kamsky 62 20 62 20 Anne Minto 62 20 62 20 Dr Ajai Puri 84 82 84 82 Robert Walker 79 70 79 70 Former directors Evert Henkes 47 47 1 Benefits for executive directors include health insurance and car allowance.
2 PSP awards were released to participants based on the achievement of performance conditions over the period ended 31 March 2014 as described on page 68.
PSP awards vested following the Remuneration Committee meeting in May 2014 and are valued at a share price of 668.50 pence, being the closing share price on 27 May 2014 which is the vesting date.
Total pension entitlements audited Directors participate in arrangements that are dened contribution in nature.
Contributions made to or in lieu of pension in respect of each director during the year are shown in the single gure table.
As a deferred member of the Group Scheme, Tim Lodges total accrued pension from the Group Scheme at the end of the year amounted to 193,340 per annum 31 March 2013 188,000.
The Scheme was closed to future accrual from April 2011: the year-on-year change relates only to the ination-linked contractual uplift in deferred pension values that applies under the Scheme rules.
His normal retirement date is the end of the month in which he attains age 62.
No additional benets would arise in the event of his early retirement.
Termination and loss of ofce payments audited There have been no payments to past directors and no loss of ofce payments made during the year.
Share awards made during the year audited Number of Face value Face value Performance Performance % of vesting 3 3 4 Award Type of award Date of grant shares of award as % of salary conditions period at threshold Javed Ahmed Performance Nil cost 2 July 2013 267 418 2 163 010 300% 50% adjusted Three Share Plan option diluted EPS financial growth: years ending Tim Lodge Performance Nil cost 2 July 2013 150 518 1 217 465 300% 50% adjusted 31 March Share Plan option ROCE 2016 15% 3 Under the terms of the Plan approved by shareholders, the number of shares comprising an award in any year is calculated based on the average share price over the last three months of the preceding financial year, being 808.85 pence for the 2013 award.
4 Performance conditions are described on page 68.
| 69 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT | CONTINUED Share awards made in prior years audited The table below sets out the current position of share-based awards made to executive directors.
The shares were available to exercise from 1 October 2011, being the second anniversary of Javed Ahmed joining the Company and will remain exercisable until 30 September 2017.
Pending delivery, he receives a payment in lieu of dividend on these shares which is subject to the deduction of tax.
In the event of a change in control, the shares will be delivered immediately.
2 The three-year performance period for these awards begins on the first day of the financial year in which the award is granted.
3 This award is subject to the same performance conditions as PSP awards made in 2009.
4 This award is subject to the same performance conditions as PSP awards made in 2010.
5 2010 PSP awards vested in full, based on the achievement of adjusted diluted EPS growth and adjusted ROCE performance, as described in the Annual Report 2013.
6 This award is subject to the same performance conditions as PSP awards made in 2011.
7 The performance conditions for PSP awards made in 2011, 2012 and 2013 are 50% adjusted diluted EPS and 50% adjusted ROCE, as described in this Report.
8 Deferred shares granted under the Annual Bonus Plan as described on page 67.
The full value of these awards has been disclosed previously in the emoluments table s in the relevant bonus year s. For example, the values of deferred shares relating to performance in the year ended 31 March 2012 are included in the emoluments table for the year ended 31 March 2012 contained within the Annual Report 2012.
9 The shares awarded in relation to the 2010 bonus vested at the end of their two-year deferral period.
All-employee schemes audited Details of the directors who were in ofce for any part of the financial year, and who hold or held options to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company, are set out in the table below.
Savings-related share options are options granted under the HMRC-approved Sharesave Plan.
Options are not subject to performance conditions and are normally exercisable during the six-month period following the end of the relevant threeor five-year savings contract.
Options Options Options As at 31 As at granted exercised lapsed March Exercise 1 April 2013 during year during year during year 2014 price Exercise number number number number number pence period Chief Executive Javed Ahmed 01 03 15 to Savings-related options 2009 3 720 3 720 418.00 31 08 15 Chief Financial officer Tim Lodge 01 03 18 to Savings-related options 2012 2 471 2 471 607.00 31 08 18 70 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited Personal share ownership requirements policy on executive share ownership The Committee and executive management believe that personal investment in Company shares is an important part of our overall remuneration framework.
Material personal investment in Company shares serves to strengthen the long-term alignment of interests between senior executives and the Companys shareholders.
Our executive shareholding requirements are more demanding and extend to a greater number of senior executives in the Group when compared with similar UK-listed companies.
t The Chief Executive has a target share ownership requirement of four times base salary, and his shareholding currently exceeds this target.
t The Chief Financial officer has a target shareholding of three times base salary, and his shareholding currently exceeds this target.
t Other Executive Committee members are subject to the share ownership policy, with target holdings at three times salary.
t This policy was extended to a broader group of executives from 2011 who have senior leadership roles within the Company.
The shareholding target for this group is equal to their base salary.
The Committee monitors progress against the share ownership requirements annually.
Directors interests audited The interests held by each person who was a director during the financial year in the ordinary shares of 25p each in the Company are shown below.
All of the interests set out in the table are beneficially held and no director had interests in any class of shares other than ordinary shares.
The table also summarises the interests in shares held through the Companys various share plans.
Shares Shares not Options not conditional on conditional on conditional on 1 2 3 4 Interest in shares performance performance performance Total Chairman Sir Peter Gershon 82 080 82 080 Executive directors Javed Ahmed 1 204 457 956 322 1 808 965 3 720 3 973 464 Tim Lodge 316 391 538 273 1 131 2 471 858 226 Non-executive directors Liz Airey 16 000 16 000 William Camp 2 200 2 200 Douglas Hurt 10 000 10 000 Virginia Kamsky 5 000 5 000 Anne Minto 8 600 8 600 Dr Ajai Puri 2 018 2 018 Robert Walker 22 162 22 162 1 Includes shares owned by connected persons.
2 Includes awards under the Performance Share Plan and the special arrangements that were put in place to facilitate Javed Ahmeds recruitment which are subject to performance conditions.
3 Includes deferred share awards made under the Annual Bonus Plan, and vested but unexercised awards granted to Javed Ahmed in connection with his appointment.
4 Includes HMRC-approved Sharesave Plan awards.
There were no changes in directors interests in the period from 1 April 2014 to 28 May 2014.
The market price of the Companys ordinary shares at the close of business on 31 March 2014 was 667.50 pence, and the range during the year ended 31 March 2014 was 624.0 pence to 883.0 pence.
On behalf of the Board Robert Walker Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 May 2014 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 71
