Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Remuneration Report Remuneration policies and practices must drive behaviour that is in the long term interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Committee members Number of meetings in 2014: 4 Directors Attendance Baroness Ford of Cunninghame 4 a Kate Barker 2 Kevin Beeston 4 Rob Rowley 3 b Tony Reading 2 a appointed to the Committee on 17 April 2014. b resigned from the Board on 17 April 2014.
With regard to salaries, the general increase throughout the Dear Shareholder Company to take effect from 1 April 2015 will be 3%.
This will I am delighted to take this opportunity, as the first year of my also apply to Pete Redfern Chief Executive and James Jordan Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee comes to an end, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary.
As disclosed to to summarise the Companys remuneration strategy and the way shareholders in previous years and in line with our policy of, where it has been implemented during 2014. appropriate, setting the starting salaries of new promotions to the As always, the Committee remains very mindful of the interest in Board at a below market level and increasing them to a mid-market executive remuneration and has sought to ensure that the remuneration level as they prove themselves in the role, the Committee intends policies and practices at Taylor Wimpey drive behaviour that is in the to carry out a one-off realignment of Ryan Mangolds salary to reflect long term interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Accordingly, an increase of 12.4% will be awarded taking his salary from 355,744 to 400,000 with Shareholders approved the Remuneration Policy the Policy, effect from 1 April 2015. as set out in the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report at the 2014 AGM, and this Policy will apply until replaced by a new or amended With regard to the 2014 short term incentive cash bonus in place policy.
As confirmed last year, it is the Committees intention that it will for Executive Directors, the Company performed strongly against submit its policy to shareholders for approval once every three years certain of the Group KPIs during the year, particularly in respect unless circumstances dictate otherwise.
The Remuneration Committee of the Earnings Before Interest and Tax, ROCE and Operating Margin is of the view that the Policy continues to remain appropriate and targets.
Accordingly, the actual bonus outturn was towards the upper should therefore continue to operate for 2015.
There are no changes end of the performance range and as a result, bonuses of 90% of the proposed to the Policy other than minor differences in the way in maximum bonus potential have been awarded in respect of 2014. which the Policy will be implemented in 2015 compared with 2014.
One-third of this incentive will be deferred into shares to be held on Where additional information has been included this has been clearly trust for three years with no matching element.
indicated for ease of reference for shareholders, namely, the pay With regard to the Performance Share Plan, the ROCE and Margin scenario chart on page 72 and the additional information for 2015 performance conditions of the 2011 and 2012 awards are measured set out on pages 72 and 73 in italicised text.
at different times to the relative TSR performance conditions for these Although no changes are proposed, the Policy has, nevertheless, awards with the consequence that the ROCE and Margin elements been included in this Report in full, for ease of reference, so as to and relative TSR elements of each award are included in the single assist shareholders in reviewing the Companys implementation figures of different financial years.
We reported last year that the of the Policy during 2014.
The Annual Report on Remuneration ROCE and Margin elements of the 2011 award would vest at levels which describes the implementation of the Policy during the year of 74.4% and 100% respectively and I can now report that 100% will again be subject to an advisory vote, and this will take place of the relative TSR vs FTSE 250 element vested and that 93.85% of at the forthcoming AGM in 2015. the relative TSR vs Sector Peers element vested.
As a result 91.09% of the 2011 PSP award vested in April 2014.
The Committee has continued its much valued practice of engaging with key institutional investors and shareholder representative The level of vesting under these plans reflects the continuing bodies with regard to Director remuneration.
As in previous years, improvement in the Groups performance including Return on Capital the Committee has taken into account the feedback which it has Employed and Operating Margin from 14.6% to 20.6% and 13.6% received and is, as ever, very grateful for the constructive engagement to 17.9%, respectively, between 2011 and 2014 achieved as a result and feedback.
of managements focus on these key measures.
This improvement in financial performance has contributed to a c. 267% increase in Taylor Wimpeys share price over the same period from 37.5p on 31 December 2011 to 137.8p on 31 December 2014 and total 66 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk shareholder return of c. 282% over the same period, resulting team during 2014 and the incentives for further improving in a significant increase in value for our shareholders and this performance that have been awarded during the year, support the is reflected in the value of the awards that vest.
Companys strategy to deliver enhanced returns to shareholders, and that the short term incentive payments and the proportionate For the 2012 PSP award which vested in 2015, 100% of the vesting of awards under the Companys Performance Share Plan ROCE and Margin performance measures have been achieved.
reflect our success to date in the delivery of that strategy.
The outcome of the other two measures, namely TSR relative to the FTSE 250 and TSR relative to the Sector Peer Group are dependent I do hope that you will feel able to support the level of remuneration on the Companys TSR to 5 March 2015 and the level of vesting will paid with respect to 2014 at this years Annual General Meeting.
These are currently forecast to be 100% and 68.9% respectively.
Vested shares are subject to the enhanced shareholding guidelines which we put in place for our Executive Directors in 2013 and details of each Directors shareholding are set out on page 84.
The Baroness Ford of Cunninghame Committee strongly believes in ensuring strong alignment between Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Executive Directors and senior management with shareholders.
See pages 68-85 for more information KPI The Committee has reviewed both the setting and the achievement of targets for both short-term and long-term incentive plans in respect Main objective of 2014, taking into account the impact of Government support schemes such as Help to Buy upon volumes, selling prices, cost To establish and maintain formal and transparent procedures for of sales, cash flow and carrying value of inventory, and is satisfied developing policy on executive remuneration and for agreeing the that there has been no significant distortion of incentive target remuneration packages of individual Directors and senior performance based on these factors in 2014. executives and to monitor and report on them.
The levels of achievement under both plans therefore reflect the In 2014 the Committee has Companys excellent underlying performance described elsewhere in this Annual Report, including the Chairmans Statement on page Supported delivery of the Companys strategy through a 8 and the Chief Executives Review on page 10.
In setting incentive remuneration policy which links a significant proportion of targets for 2015, the Committee has also factored in the potential executive reward to the achievement of defined and stretching impact of such support schemes, and the Committee will keep this strategic goals: under review in 2015 and beyond.
Further details on the vesting of the April 2011 PSP together with an update on the 2012 PSP Obtained shareholder approval for the Companys first binding award are set out on page 81. vote on its Remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM: The operation of the incentive arrangements for 2015 will be largely Engaged with major shareholders and shareholder bodies and unchanged, save for some changes to the weighting of metrics took into account their views in assessing the continued used in the short-term incentive where there will be a greater appropriateness of the current Remuneration Policy: weighting on a challenging customer service measure, and changes to the metrics and their weightings used for the PSP awards granted Reviewed the 2014 edition of The UK Corporate Governance Code Code including the requirement for remuneration to be in April 2015.
The Margin metric used in the PSP in recent years will designed to promote the long-term success of companies: be replaced by a Cash Conversion metric which will apply to 25% of the 2015 awards.
A greater focus on cash conversion is a key Reviewed and updated the malus and clawback provisions element of the strategy that has been previously outlined to to comply with the 2014 edition of the Code and, following the shareholders.
Margin remains an important KPI for the Company consultation with shareholders referred to above taken steps to and Margin performance will be taken into consideration as part apply those provisions to the Companys long term Performance of the Committees assessment of the financial underpin that applies Share Plan PSP : to awards under the PSP.
In addition, in light of the growth in the Groups market capitalisation, the FTSE 250 peer group used for one Continued to support employee participation, as either of the TSR components of the PSP awards will be replaced by a peer shareholders or participants in all-employee share plans, in excess group comprised of the 50 companies ranked above and 50 ranked of 50%, withasmall increase during the year.
below Taylor Wimpey by market capitalisation.
Priorities and actions for 2015 Executive Directors interests continue to be sufficiently aligned with those of the Companys shareholders through the shareholding To carefully monitor Company performance in relation to the achievement of its strategic goals, and to ensure executive requirements described on page 83, and also via the bonus deferral rewardis closely linked to those achievements: into shares requirement described in more detail on page 70.
This is being further enhanced for PSP awards made in 2015 by the To further align employees and shareholders interests through: introduction of a requirement to not sell shares within two years of their vesting other than to pay tax on exercise.
extending participation in the PSP to members of the Companys Regional Boards, who are a key determinant of the Groups The Committee continues to believe that the remuneration policy set success through performance at business unit level: and out in the Remuneration Policy Report will both support and motivate the senior team whilst aligning them both to the Companys strategic further increasing participation in all-employee share plans and objectives and to achieving long term growth for our shareholders.
the percentage of employee shareholders.
We also believe that the remuneration of executives and the whole 67 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Remuneration Report continued Introduction Policy Overview This Report has been prepared to comply with the provisions of the A key part of the Committees role is to ensure that the remuneration Companies Act 2006 and other applicable legislation, including the of Executive Directors and senior management is aligned to the regulations covering remuneration reporting the BIS Regulations, Companys strategic objectives.
It is, of course, key that the and has also been prepared in line with the recommendations of Company is able to attract and retain leaders who are focused the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the UKLA and also appropriately incentivised to deliver the Companys strategic ListingRules.
objectives within a framework which is aligned with the interests of the Companys shareholders.
This alignment is achieved through a This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee combination of deferral into shares of a percentage of the short term on behalf of the Board.
incentive arrangements and also via share ownership guidelines which require executives to build up holdings of Taylor Wimpey The 2014 Remuneration Report includes again disclosures which shares by retaining vested share awards.
These guidelines were reflect in full the BIS regulations on remuneration reporting, divided increased in 2012 so as to require Executive Directors to put in place into two sections: a plan to accumulate a holding in the Company of twice their basic Remuneration Policy Report, setting out the framework within salary within a specified period.
which the Company remunerates its Executive Directors and other The Committees remuneration policy ensures that a significant senior executives.
This was approved by shareholders at the 2014 percentage of the overall package of Executive Directors and senior AGM and is binding on the Company from the 2014 AGM: management remains at risk.
With all packages substantially geared Annual Report on Remuneration, setting out how the Companys towards share incentive schemes and performance, the Committee present remuneration policy was applied during 2014 and how believes that the pay and benefits of its Executive Directors and the policy will be implemented in 2015.
The Annual Report on senior management adequately takes account of reward versus risk.
Remuneration will be subject to an advisory resolution at the In line with The Investment Associations formerly the ABI Guidelines AGM on 23 April 2015.
Details of the resolution and its status on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Remuneration Committee as an advisory vote are set out in the Notes to the Notice of ensures that the incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior Meeting on page 150. management will not raise environmental, social or governance ESG The BIS Regulations require that the Companys auditors report risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
to shareholders on certain parts of this Report and state whether More generally, the Committee under its terms of reference may, in their opinion those parts of it have been properly prepared in where it considers appropriate, take ESG matters into account accordance with the BIS Regulations.
The Remuneration Policy when considering the overall remuneration structure.
The Committee Report, which describes the Committees remuneration policy for considers that no element of the remuneration arrangements, which Executive Directors for the year commencing 1 January 2014 and are all very carefully considered, will encourage inappropriate risk future years, contains unaudited information.
Elements of the Annual taking or behaviour by any executive.
The table below summarises Report on Remuneration, which describes how the Committee has the Committees Policy for the Remuneration of Executive Directors implemented its existing policy in 2014, contains audited information.
which, since being approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, became effective from the conclusion of the 2014 AGM and will be Remuneration Policy Report binding until the AGM in 2017.
It also summarises the remuneration Unaudited information position of the Chairman and Non Executive Directors and the This part of the Report has been prepared in accordance with Part 4 Companys all-employee share schemes.
of the revised Schedule 8 set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The Companys Remuneration Policy was put to a shareholder voteat the 2014 Annual General Meeting of the Company AGM andwas approved by 98% of shareholders who voted.
There is no requirement to vote on the Policy in 2015 unless any changes to the policy are proposed, and the Committee does not intend to make any changes to the Policy at this time.
The Policy is set out below for information only: the chart, showing remuneration scenarios on page 72 has been updated to reflect proposed 2015 remuneration levels and minor changes to the text of the policy have been made to reflect the fact that the policy was approved by shareholders.
In order to assist shareholders, we have also added additional explanations where there are any differences in the way in which the policy will be implemented in 2015 compared with 2014.
Where additional information has been included this has been clearly indicated in italicised text.
68 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Purpose and Link to Element strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Salary To recruit and reward Salaries are normally reviewed annually to ensure The maximum annual salary Company and individual performance are factors executives of a suitable that salaries remain competitive with external increase will not normally exceed considered when reviewing calibre for the role and market practices and are competitive when the average increase which applies salaries duties required.
measured against FTSE peers other nonacross the wider workforce.
financial companies of a similar size in terms However, larger increases may be of market capitalisation and other large UK awarded in certain circumstances housebuilders.
There is no automatic including but not limited to: entitlement to an increase each year.
increase in scope or responsibilities of the role: Takes into account the following: to apply salary progression for a the performance, role and responsibility of each newly appointed Director: and individual Director: where the Directors salary has the economic climate, general market conditions fallen significantly below the and the performance of the Company: market positioning.
the level of pay awards across the rest of the business: and salary levels in comparably-sized companies and other major housebuilders.
Chairman The Chairmans and Fees consists of a single consolidated fee for the Aggregate annual limit of 1 million N A NonExecutive Director fees and Non Chairman plus the payment of a cash amount to imposed by the Articles of 1 should be in line with Executive cover his office expenses, an annual fee for the Association.
recognised best practice Director fees other Non-Executives and additional fees for the and be sufficient to attract Chairman of the Audit Committee and the and retain high calibre Remuneration Committee.
An additional fee is nonexecutives.
also paid to the Senior Independent Director in recognition of the responsibilities of that role.
Set by reference to the responsibilities undertaken by the non-executive, taking into account that each Non Executive Director is expected to be a member of the Nomination Committee and or the Audit Committee and or Remuneration Committee.
Reviewed periodically but generally annually and at least every other year.
Takes into account levels in comparably-sized companies and other major housebuilders.
Fees are paid monthly in cash.
Non Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive, share scheme, benefits-in-kind or pension arrangements.
The Chairman is entitled to participate in the Companys private medical insurance scheme.
N A Other Provides a competitive The main benefits offered include: Life assurance of up to four times package of benefits to benefits, basic salary and a pension of up company-provided car or a cash allowance assist with recruitment and including to two-thirds of the members in lieu: retention of staff.
 for a spouse on death provision of a fuel card: kind in service, or in retirement, are provided, together with a childrens life assurance: allowance of up to 100% of the private medical insurance: and dependants pension for three or a 5% discount on the price of a new or part more eligible children.
The cost of exchange home acquired from the Group these benefits is not predetermined.
The value of a company-provided Benefits-in-kind are not pensionable.
car or a cash allowance in lieu is of a level appropriate to the individuals role and is subject to review from time to time.
The fuel card covers the cost of all fuel, for both business and personal use.
For home purchases, the price discount is calculated at the plot release price less the average discount to third party buyers for that house type, less a further 5%.
69 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Remuneration Report continued Purpose and Link Element to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Short term Rewards the achievement Bonus awards are determined by the Committee The maximum STIA opportunity The STIA measures are based incentive of stretching objectives that after the year end, based on annual performance for Executive Directors is set at on a scorecard of key annual arrangement support the Companys against targets set at the beginning of each year.
Target is financial, operational and STIA annual and strategic goals.
set at 75% of salary and threshold environmental measures and One-third of any bonus payable is deferred into at 0%.
the measures for 2015 are Compulsory deferral in shares for three years.
No further performance described in the Annual Report shares with no matching conditions apply.
is designed to further align Dividends or other distributions will accrue in the interests of Directors The Committee may vary the favour of participants during the three year with shareholders.
metrics and weightings from year deferral period and will be received with any to year according to strategy and shares that vest after the applicable deferral the market, however financial period.
measures will normally have the most significant weighting.
A clawback mechanism applies to all participants in the event of a material misstatement of the Groups accounts and also for other defined reasons.
The period of the clawback is three years from the date of payment.
No element of any STIA is pensionable.
Long term Annual grants of shareExecutive Directors and other designated Measures for 2014 are based The maximum award currently incentive plan based long term incentives senior executives can receive annual awards of in performance shares is normally on: ROCE RONA : Relative 2 LTIP assist with retention and performance shares or share options TSR measured against the FTSE, although over shares with a face value of help to incentivise senior it is the Companys normal policy to grant 200% of base salary.
In exceptional 250: TSR measured against an executives to achieve unweighted industry peer group: performance shares only.
circumstances this can be increased returns for shareholders up to 300%.
Vesting of awards is Awards of performance shares provide alignment through the inclusion of also subject to the achievement with shareholders as they deliver subject to If share options were to be relative Total Shareholder of a financial underpin.
meeting performance conditions the full value granted in addition to or instead of Return TSR as a measure, of the shares, which can increase and decrease performance shares then the limits The Committee may vary the driving further UK operating over the three year performance period.
would be doubled to reflect the measures that are included in margin progression and relative fair value of options to the plan and the weightings improving return on net Dividends or other distributions will accrue for performance shares.
between the measures from operating assets through Directors during the performance period and year to year.
Any changes to the the cycle.
The use of will be received with any shares that vest in metrics would be subject to prior shares and the introduction favour of participants after the applicable consultation with the Companys in 2014 of a post-vesting performance period.
share holding period, helps For awards made in 2014 there was a align the interests of senior The targets and weightings for requirement to hold net after tax shares executives with those of the 2015 are described in the Annual resulting from any vesting for at least one Companys shareholders.
year post-vesting, rising to two years for awards made in 2015 and beyond.
Performance measures are currently measured over three financial years.
70 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Purpose and Link Element to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Pension The Company aims to Pension benefits for Executive Directors are Pete Redfern: cash allowances of N A provide competitive provided through one or more of the following 20% of salary up to a scheme retirement benefits that arrangements: specific cap and 25% of salary represent an appropriate above the cap.
4 Personal Choice Plan : level of cost and risk for the James Jordan: cash allowances of 3 Groups shareholders.
5 Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme : 20% of salary up to a scheme specific cap and 28% of salary or as cash allowances.
Ryan Mangold: cash allowance of 15.6% of salary.
Company contributions to any pension scheme in respect of the recruitment of a new Executive Director will not exceed 30% of base salary per annum.
A Flexible Pension Arrangement is available, allowing the sacrifice of a portion of salary, to be paid into a pension scheme as a Company contribution.
All-employee All employees including The Sharesave plan and SIP have standard terms Sharesave: Employees can elect for N A share Executive Directors are under which all UK employees with at least three a savings contract of either three or schemes encouraged to become months service can participate.
five years, with a maximum monthly shareholders through the saving set by legislation or by operation of all-employee HMRC.
Options can be exercised share plans such as the during the six months following the HMRC approved end of the contract.
Sharesave plan and a SIP: Employees can elect to Share Incentive Plan SIP.
contribute an amount per month or per tax year by one or more lump sums.
The maximum saving or contribution level is set by legislation or Government from time to time and the Committee reserves the right to increase contribution levels to reflect any approved Government legislative changes.
Executive Directors and senior executives are Executive Directors 200% of salary Shareholding Encourages greater levels N A guidelines of shareholding and aligns expected to achieve and maintain a holding of 100% within five years of employees interests with the Companys shares at least equal to a appointment and balance by 6 those of shareholders.
significant proportion of their respective salary.
The Company makes a contribution to the Chairmans office-related and other expenses, as reported on page 78.
Taylor Wimpey Share Option Plan Awards made under this plan may include Income Tax-approved awards made up to HMRCs aggregate limit of 30,000.
Awards normally vest after three years from the start of the performance measurement period four years for awards made during 2009 provided that the performance condition has then been achieved.
No awards have been made under this plan since 2009 and no further awards are intended.
Taylor Wimpey Pension Schemes The Group has two principal UK pension schemes: Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan: Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS : The latter was created on 7 March 2013 and all members of the George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme and the Taylor Woodrow Group Pension & Life Assurance Fund, the two legacy defined benefit schemes, were transferred into the TWPS on 1 October 2013.
Two Directors are members of the TWPS, which is closed to future accrual.
Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan PCP The PCP was introduced on 1 April 2002.
It is a defined contribution stakeholder pension scheme, which all new eligible UK employees are invited to join.
All active members of the two legacy defined benefit arrangements were invited to join the PCP when those arrangements closed to future accrual.
TWPS Pete Redfern and James Jordan are members of the Executive section of the TWPS.
They have a Normal Retirement Age under the TWPS of 62.
Until the 200% target is achieved, an Executive Director will be required to retain in shares at least 50% of the net of taxes gain arising from any shares vesting or acquired pursuant to the LTIP.
71 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Remuneration Report continued The chart below illustrates the level and mix of remuneration based on the current policy depending on the achievement of threshold, target and maximum for the Executive Directors.
It has been updated to reflect 2015 salary levels but the assumptions used are the same as in the Policy Report that was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Performance criteria pay chart 2015 000s 4,000 3,816 42% 3,200 2,400 1,946 31% 1,901 1,796 16% 1,600 42% 41% 31% 1,030 961 928 800 32% 17% 16% 27% 100% 53% 31% 503 501 31% 30% 100% 52% 26% 100% 54% 28% 0 Below Target Maximum Below Target Maximum Below Target Maximum Target Target Target Pete Redfern Ryan Mangold James Jordan Fixed Pay Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Legal Director Bonus and Company Secretary LTIP 1.
Salary is 795,849, 400,000 and 369,501 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan, respectively with effect from 1 April 2015.
Benefits are 43,000, 21,000 and 42,000 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan, respectively.
Pension is 191,492, 80,000 and 91,508 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan, respectively.
For the Short Term Incentive Arrangement the target and maximum award is 75% and 150% of salary, respectively.
For performance share awards under the long-term incentive plan PSP the target assumed for these purposes to be at threshold performance and maximum is 40% and 200% of salary, respectively.
Additional information for 2015: Malus and clawback With regard to the STIA and LTIP, the Committee, consistent with As disclosed in the summary of the Committees activities in 2014 market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating onpages 66 and 67, the Committee has reviewed and updated the to the operation and administration of these plans but in all cases malus and clawback provisions to ensure compliance with the 2014 within the rules.
These include but are not limited to the following Code and has taken the opportunity to extend these provisions so albeit with the level of award restricted as set out in the policy table that they apply, in addition to future STIA awards, to all Long Term on pages 69 to 71 : Incentive Plan PSP awards made in 2015 and future years.
who participates in the plans: Where there has been a misstatement of results: error in calculating the timing of grant of award and or payment: the incentive payment: or misconduct on the part of the individual, the Committee will have the ability to seek to recover any overpaid the size of an award and or a payment, subject to the limits bonus or PSP award.
This will apply for a period of up to three years of the rules: following the determination of the performance conditions applying to discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event the award and can be effected by reducing if necessary to zero the of a change of control or reconstruction: payment or vesting of any future STIA or PSP award or by requiring determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified the individual to repay the overpaid amount.
categories for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each Committee discretion plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: The Committee fully recognises that the exercise of discretion must discretion to dis-apply time pro-rating in the event of a change be undertaken in a very careful and considered way and that it is an of control or good leaver circumstances: area that will quite rightly come under scrutiny from shareholders and adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, other stakeholders.
It is however important for the Committee to corporate restructuring, acquisition, divestment, change of control, retain some discretion to make payments outside of its Remuneration special dividend or a change in prevailing market conditions : and Policy in exceptional circumstances.
The Committee confirms that the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional any exercise of discretion in such circumstances would be within the events so that they can still fulfil their original purpose.
available discretions set out in this Report and the maximum levels available set out in any plans would not be exceeded.
72 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk above and 50 ranked below Taylor Wimpey by market capitalisation.
How shareholder views are taken into account The Remuneration Committee considers very seriously all shareholder This comparator group is felt to be more appropriate given the Companys current size than the FTSE 250. feedback received in relation to remuneration each year and guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally.
Shareholder External non executive director positions views are key inputs when shaping the remuneration policy and the Subject to Board approval and provided that such appointments fall Committee welcomes any comment or feedback on any aspects within the general requirements of the Code and do not give rise to of remuneration and will always consider and respond.
any conflict issues which cannot be managed by the Board and the The Committee regularly engages with its largest shareholders Executive Director, Executive Directors are permitted to take on non regarding the ongoing remuneration policy and implementation and executive positions with other companies.
Executive Directors are will take into account any feedback when determining any changes permitted to retain their fees in respect of such positions.
In early that might apply.
The last such consultation took place in early 2015 2014, none of the Executive Directors held an external directorship and included the performance targets and weightings of the PSP of a disclosable nature.
Any such appointments would be the subject and STIA and salary proposals for 2015. of a public announcement to the London Stock Exchange.
The Committee follows the principles of good governance relating to Additional information for 2015 Directors remuneration as set out in the Main Principles, Supporting On 11 November 2014 Pete Redfern was appointed as an Principles and Code Provisions of the Code.
The Committee reviews independent non executive director of Travis Perkins plc where and takes into account any governance related developments and he also serves on its Audit and Remuneration Committees.
guidance that arise, on an ongoing basis.
Hewill receive fees totalling 55,000 per annum for this position.
Remuneration policy for the wider workforce How performance measures were chosen The performance metrics that are used for each of the short and When setting the policy for Executive Directors, the Committee is made fully aware of pay structures across the workforce.
In addition, long-term incentive plans have been selected to reflect the Groups key strategic goals and are designed to align the Directors interests the Committee will conduct a formal review of remuneration across the Group and for all levels of employee every three years.
with those of the Companys shareholders.
The STIA performance metrics include a mix of financial and personal Virtually all of the Companys employees participate in incentive metrics reflecting the key annual priorities of the Group.
The financial arrangements and many employees can elect to take their performance metrics will generally determine at least 50% of the bonus and include related payment in shares rather than cash further enhancing the link profit before interest and tax as this reflects the Companys strategic and alignment between shareholder value and employee reward objective to increase profit.
The other metrics, selected on an annual throughout the Company, which both the Company and the basis, will be measurable and will ensure that executives are Committee remain keen to promote.
In addition, the Company has motivated to deliver across a scorecard of key objectives.
operated a long-term incentive arrangement the Land Value Plan LVP for senior divisional and functional roles with payouts in shares.
The performance conditions applicable to the LTIPs were selected The LVP is open to designated senior executives below Executive by the Remuneration Committee as they are consistent with the Director level and is designed to reward participants for managing overall longer term success of the Company.
TSR provides an the landbank in a way which adds value, through a combination of external assessment of the Companys performance against its managing and adding value to the existing land portfolio and buying competitors via an unweighted industry peer group and relative TSR land and adding value over and above the base case for each measured against the FTSE 250.
It also aligns the rewards received acquisition.
Performance is measured over a three year period and by executives with the returns received by shareholders.
The Margin awards to senior participants are in shares which are required to then and ROCE targets ensure that returns to shareholders are the result be retained for 12 months.
At the time this policy was approved, the of long-term sustainable financial performance.
Committee retained discretion to consider linking part of the longterm incentive awards to the Executive Directors to similar measures, The Committee will review the choice of performance measures and subject to a prior and comprehensive shareholder consultation.
The the appropriateness of the performance targets each year.
Targets Company also offers both Sharesave and SIP schemes to all eligible are set based on a sliding scale that takes account of internal UK employees with more than three months service.
planning and external market expectations for the Company.
Only modest rewards are available for delivering threshold performance Additional information for 2015 levels with maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance The Committee reviewed the operation of the LVP at the end of 2014. of our challenging plans approved at the start of each year.
The LVP was introduced in 2012 and has operated for three years with the last awards made in 2014.
During the period of its operation Additional information for 2015 the land bank has improved significantly.
It is not intended to make As referred to in the letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration any further awards under the LVP and participants will instead Committee on page 67, the Margin metric used in the PSP in recent participate in the PSP.
Executive Directors have not participated in years, has been replaced by a Cash Conversion metric which will theLVP.
A greater focus on Cash Conversion is a key element of the strategy that has been outlined to shareholders during 2014.
However, Margin remains an important KPI for the Company and Margin performance will be taken into consideration as part of the Committees assessment of the financial underpin that applies to awards under the PSP and remains a key performance target under the 2015 STIA.
In addition, in light of the growth in the Groups market capitalisation, the FTSE 250 peer group used for one of the TSR components of the PSP awards will be replaced by a peer group comprised of the 50 companies ranked 73 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration policy on recruitment or promotion Each service contract contains the following performance-related Base salary levels will be set in accordance with the current provisions: remuneration policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of participation in the STIA: and the individual.
Where appropriate, the Company may offer a below participation in one or more LTIP.
market salary initially with a view to making above market and workforce increases over a number of years to reach the desired In respect of pay in lieu of notice PILON, it is the Companys policy salary positioning, subject to individual and Company performance.
that liquidated damages should not automatically apply on the Benefits and pension will be provided in line with those offered to termination of an Executive Directors contract.
Such contracts do other Executive Directors, with relocation expenses arrangements provide for PILON to be paid, with the amount determined having provided for if necessary.
Tax equalisation may also be considered if regard to normal legal practices.
In accordance with this approach, an executive is adversely affected by taxation due to their payment for early termination of contract without cause by the employment with the Company.
Legal fees and other costs incurred Company is to be determined, in the case of each Executive Director, by the individual may also be paid by the Company, if considered having regard to normal legal principles which require mitigation of appropriate and reasonable to do so.
Any such payment would typically be determined by reference to the main elements of a Directors The variable pay elements that may be offered will be subject to the remuneration, namely: salary, STIA entitlement subject to Committee maximum levels described in the policy table above.
The Company discretion as appropriate, benefits-in-kind and pension entitlements.
may also apply different performance measures if it feels these Phased payments will be considered by the Company where appropriately meet the strategic objectives and aims of the Company appropriate.
There are no change of control provisions that apply in whilst incentivising the new appointment.
relation to the service contract of any Executive Director.
The above policy applies to both an internal promotion to the Taylor Other than in certain good leaver circumstances including, but not Wimpey plc Board or an external hire.
limited to, redundancy, ill-health or retirement, no STIA would usually In the case of an external hire, the Company may choose to buy-out be payable unless the individual remains employed and is not under any incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited notice at the payment date.
Any STIA paid to a good leaver would on leaving the previous employer.
This will only occur where the be based on an assessment of their and the Companys performance Company feels that it is a necessary requirement to aid the over the applicable period and pro-rated for the proportion of the recruitment.
The replacement value would be provided for, taking into STIA year worked.
account the form cash or shares and timing and expected value i. e. Where an Executive Director is considered by the Remuneration likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of the Committee to be a good leaver, deferred bonus awards shares remuneration being forfeited.
Replacement share awards, if used, will would vest.
In other circumstances, awards would lapse.
be granted using Taylor Wimpeys existing share plans wherever and to the extent possible, although in exceptional circumstances awards With regard to long term incentive awards, the LTIP rules provide that may also be granted outside of these schemes if necessary and as other than in certain good leaver circumstances, awards lapse on permitted under the Listing Rules.
Where an individual is a good leaver, the Committees normal policy is for the award to vest on cessation of In the case of an internal hire including a promotion, as previously employment following the application of performance targets no later reported, the Company will honour any commitments entered into than the normal vesting date of the award and a pro-rata reduction to prior to their appointment to the Board even where it is not consistent take account of the proportion of the applicable performance period with the policy prevailing at the time such commitment is fulfilled.
The Committee has discretion to Directors contracts deem an individual to be a good leaver.
In doing so, it will take It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors should have account of the reason for the departure and the performance contracts of employment providing for a maximum of one years of the individual through to the time of departure.
Service contracts for all Executive Directors and In situations where an Executive Director is dismissed, the Committee letters of appointment for all Non Executive Directors are available reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such for inspection as described in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
payments are made in good faith: Each of the Executive Directors service contracts provides for: in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages the payment of a base salary details of which are set out on for breach of such an obligation : or page 76 : by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in an expensed Company-provided car or a cash allowance in lieu: connection with the termination of Directors office or employment.
a fuel allowance: life assurance: and private medical insurance The terms of engagement of the Chairman and the Non Executive details of which are set out on page 78 : Directors are regulated by letters of appointment over a term of three employers contribution to a pension scheme details of which years, which are reviewed annually.
Both the Company and the are set out on page 78 : aforementioned Directors have a notice period of six months and the a notice period by either side of 12 months: and Directors are not entitled to compensation on termination other than for the normal notice period if not worked out.
a provision requiring a Director to mitigate losses on termination.
The service contract for each of Pete Redfern and James Jordan Service contracts and letters of appointment may be inspected additionally provides for a pension allowance.
at the Companys Registered Office during normal business hours.
74 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Legacy arrangements Details of attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings held Any commitment made which is consistent with the approved during 2014 are set out below.
remuneration policy in force at the time that commitment was made Number of meetings in 2014 4 will be honoured, even where it is not consistent with the policy Directors Attendance prevailing at the time such commitment is fulfilled.
Baroness Ford of Cunninghame 4 Annual Report on Remuneration Kate Barker 2 Unaudited information This part of the Report has been prepared in accordance with Kevin Beeston 4 Part 3 of the revised Schedule 8 set out in the Large and MediumRob Rowley 3 sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Tony Reading 2 Regulations 2013, and 9.8.
This Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote Appointed to the Committee 17 April 2014. at the 2015 AGM.
The information in the Implementation of the Resigned from the Board 17 April 2014.
Remuneration Policy During 2014 section on pages 77 to 85 has been audited.
No Director or other executive is involved in any decisions about his her own specific remuneration.
Remuneration Committee The role of the Remuneration Committee the Committee is to Advice to the Committee recommend to the Board a strategy and framework for remuneration The Committee keeps itself fully informed on developments and best for Executive Directors and senior management in order to attract practice in the field of remuneration and it seeks advice from external and retain leaders who are focused and incentivised to deliver the advisers when appropriate.
Companys strategic business priorities within a remuneration The Committee appoints its own independent remuneration advisers framework which is aligned with the interests of our shareholders and and during the year it continued to retain the services of New Bridge thus designed to promote the long-term success of the Company.
Street an Aon Hewitt company which is not connected to Taylor The Remuneration Committee has clearly defined terms of reference Wimpey.
New Bridge Streets ultimate parent company is Aon PLC.
which are available on the Companys website www.
New Bridge Street is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants co. uk corporate investor-relations corporate-governance.
It provides no other services to the TheCommittees main responsibilities are to: Company.
Although the wider Aon PLC group of companies provide establish and maintain formal and transparent procedures for insurance broking and pension administration support services to the developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the Company, the Committee is entirely satisfied that the provision of remuneration packages of individual Directors, and to monitor such services does not create any conflicts of interest.
New Bridge and report on them: Street was appointed in February 2009 following a comprehensive tendering process.
The Committee reviews the performance and determine the remuneration, including pension arrangements, independence of its advisers on an annual basis.
of the Executive Directors: monitor and make recommendations in respect of remuneration The Committee also receives legal advice from Slaughter and May for the tier of senior management one level below that of the Board: as and when necessary.
This generally relates to technical advice on share schemes and also with regard to any senior appointments and approve annual and long term incentive arrangements together termination arrangements.
with their targets and levels of awards: determine the level of fees for the Chairman of the Board: and The fees paid to the Committees advisers in 2014 were: New Bridge Street 80,000 2013: 96,000 representing a full years select and appoint the external advisers to the Committee.
No significant amount of advice was sought from The Committee currently comprises three Independent Non Executive Slaughter and May during the year.
Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
Margaret Ford is the Pete Redfern, the Chief Executive: James Jordan, the Group Legal Committee Chairman, having been appointed after Tony Reading Director and Company Secretary: and the Group Human Resources stood down from the Board in April 2014 after nine years service.
Director each attend Committee meetings by invitation only but Theother members of the Committee are Kevin Beeston, Rob are not present for any discussions that relate directly to their Rowley and Kate Barker, who became a member with effect from own remuneration.
Membership of the Committee is, and was throughout 2014, in line with the Code.
75 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Remuneration Report continued Chairman and Non Executive Directors The terms of engagement of the Chairman and the Non Executive Directors are regulated by letters of appointment as follows: Notice period by Notice period by Name Date of appointment as a Director Date of initial letter of appointment Term of appointment Company months Director months Kevin Beeston 1 July 2010 13 May 2010 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Kate Barker 21 April 2011 7 February 2011 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Margaret Ford 25 April 2013 19 March 2013 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Mike Hussey 1 July 2011 30 June 2011 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Rob Rowley 1 January 2010 1 December 2009 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 How the Remuneration Policy will be applied in 2015 The above metrics and weightings have been reviewed from previous Base Salary years to reflect the Companys move to a new phase of its strategy, The Committee reviewed the Executive Directors salaries in February with the removal of the previous ROCE and energy reduction metrics, 2015 and has decided to award increases of 3% for Pete Redfern and on the basis that the key strategic imperatives lie elsewhere, although James Jordan, with effect from 1 April 2015, in line with the equivalent each will of course remain a key priority for the Company.
Customer general increase made to all employees subject to a very small Service is an area of particular focus by the Company and challenging number of exceptions.
As indicated to shareholders previously, Ryan targets have been put in place, in order to reflect this and the Mangolds salary was set at a below market level on his appointment additional weighting attached to this measure.
to the Board in 2010 with a view to increasing it to a market level Long Term Incentive Plans over time as he developed in the role.
Ryan Mangolds salary will be Taylor Wimpey Performance Share Plan TWPSP increased by 12.4% to reflect his strong performance and development.
The annual awards granted to Executive Directors in 2015 will be This will bring his salary to a broadly mid-market level.
Following this subject to the following performance conditions: realignment of his salary it is anticipated that his future increases will Weighting Below Maximum be in-line with increases awarded to the general workforce.
% of total Threshold Threshold 100% award 0% vesting 20% vesting vesting The salaries of the Executive Directors effective from 1 April 2015 will be as follows: TSR v Direct Peer Group Below Equal to Index Index 30% Index Index 8% p. a.
Salary at Salary at Name 1 April 2014 1 April 2015 Increase TSR v 50 FTSE 20% Less than Median Upper Pete Redfern 772,669 795,849 3% companies ranked above median Quartile Taylor Wimpey and 50 Ryan Mangold 355,744 400,000 12.4% ranked below by market James Jordan 358,739 369,501 3% capitalisation Absolute ROCE in 2017 25% Less than 16% 24% Short term incentive arrangements STIA 16% The STIA performance metrics and their weightings for 2015 are shown in the table below.
The targets themselves, as they relate to Conversion of operating 25% Less than 65% 70% the current financial year, are deemed to be commercially sensitive.
profit into operating cash 65% However, detailed, retrospective disclosure of the targets and flow averaged over a three performance against them will be provided in next years year performance period Remuneration Report.
2015-2017 Measure Strategic objective Weighting Awards vest on a straight line basis between these points.
The Group EBIT To increase profit 35% ROCE targets are based on the absolute ROCE in 2017, defined Cash generated Delivering sustainable growth 20% as operating profit, divided by the average of the opening and closing net operating assets, which is in turn, defined as capital employed Driving further UK operating plus intangibles less tax balances.
The Housebuilders index is an Margin margin progression 25% unweighted index comprised of Barratt Developments, Bellway, Customer Service Caring about our customers 20% Berkeley Homes, Bovis Homes Group, Crest Nicholson, Galliford Try, Persimmon and Redrow.
76 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk An underlying requirement for any vesting under the current shareImplementation of the Remuneration Policy During 2014 based incentive plans is that at the time of approving the vesting, Audited information the Committee must be satisfied with the overall financial performance Performance graph of the Group.
This will include inter alia the Companys ROCE and This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2014, of 100 invested Margin performance.
in Taylor Wimpey plc on 31 December 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the average of the housebuilder index introduced The Committee also retains the right as part of its overall discretion for the 2012 TWPSP awards onwards.
The other points plotted are to reduce the vesting of the award if it considers that volumes i. e. the the values at intervening financial year-ends.
number of homes sold have not been satisfactory during the relevant performance period.
Total shareholder return Dividends and other distributions will accrue on all awards during the performance period and be released in cash when, and to the extent Value that, the relevant awards vest.
1600 Non Executive Directors and Chairmans fees 1400 Fees of Non Executive Directors are determined by the Board in their absence taking into account the research carried out by independent 1200 remuneration consultants of fees paid to Non Executive Directors.
1000 The fees of the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee in his absence.
A summary of the current fees are set out 800 below.
The fees of the Chairman and the Non Executive Directors are 600 reviewed every other year with any increases taking place with effect from 1 July.
Fees were last reviewed in 2013 and are unchanged 400 since then but will be reviewed during 2015: 200 Fees at 0 1 April 2015 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 10 31 Dec 11 31 Dec 12 31 Dec 13 31 Dec 14 Chairman 256,250 Taylor Wimpey plc Housebuilders Index Basic Non Executive Director fee 55,000 Source: Thomson Reuters Senior Independent Director fee 10,000 Audit Committee Chairman 15,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman 15,000 All Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the AGM in accordance with the Code.
77 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Remuneration Report continued The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive over the same six year period.
The total remuneration figure includes the STIA and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years.
The STIA and LTIP percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
Due to the timing of the grant of the 2009 and 2010 awards the performance periods for the August 2010 and elements of the 2011 PSP awards both ended during 2013 and they are therefore included in the 2013 single figure.
As the 2011 PSP awards did not vest until April 2014, the final value of these awards at vesting was not known at the time the 2013 report was prepared and therefore an estimated value was used.
The 2013 single figure in this report has been restated to show the actual value of the shares at the vesting date.
Details of the percentage of each award vesting are summarised in the table on page 79. b The 2014 single figure includes the ROCE and Margin elements of the 2012 PSP awards.
Due to the timing of the grant of those awards, the performance periods for the two TSR elements will not conclude until later in March 2015 and will be included in a revised 2014 single figure in next years Report.
b The Company also paid 10,000 2013: 25,000 as a contribution towards the Chairmans annual office and related administration costs incurred in carrying out his role.
c Ryan Mangold is a member of the salary exchange scheme operated by the Company and the amount exchanged during the year was 9,000 2013: 34,000.
The Flexible Pension Arrangement is a voluntary arrangement, the effect of which is to allow members and the Company to benefit from savings in National Insurance contributions through the sacrifice of a portion of salary, which would then be paid into a pension scheme as a Company contribution, prior to NIC being calculated.
The Scheme therefore reduces the effective salary of the individual.
d This column shows the vesting during 2014 and 2013 of LTIPs as set out in the table at the top of page 79.
Note that the 2013 figures reported last year were based on estimates of the value of the shares at vesting.
These have been restated to reflect the actual value of the shares at the point of vesting.
e The 2013 LTIP figure includes the value of the August 2010 PSP awards and the ROCE and Margin elements of the 2011 PSP awards.
Due to the timing of the grant of the 2009 and 2010 awards the performance periods for the August 2010 and 2011 PSP awards both ended during 2013 and they are therefore included in the 2013 single figure.
Details of the percentage of each award vesting are summarised in the table at the top of page 79. f These figures represent the cash allowances payable as described in the Remuneration Policy Pension section.
For Pete Redfern this is 20% of salary up to a scheme specific cap and 25% of salary above the cap: for Ryan Mangold this is 15.6% of salary as reported in Non-Group Pension Arrangements on page 85: and for James Jordan this is 20% of salary up to a scheme specific cap and 28% of salary above the cap.
78 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk LTIP awards included in 2013 single figure Date of End of % Vesting Performance Share Price LTIP Award Performance Target Weighting max 100% Period Date of Vesting at Vesting 2010 PSP tranche 1 TSR FTSE 30% 100% 22 03 2013 22 03 2013 89.25 TSR Peer Group 30% 69.23% 22 03 2013 22 03 2013 89.25 2010 PSP tranche 2 TSR FTSE 30% 100% 06 08 2013 06 08 2013 112.8 TSR Peer Group 30% 100% 06 08 2013 06 08 2013 112.8 ROCE 40% 54.40% 30 06 2013 06 08 2013 112.8 a 2011 PSP ROCE 30% 74.40% 31 12 2013 01 04 2014 119.4 a Margin 30% 100% 31 12 2013 01 04 2014 119.4 a The share price shown is as at 1 April 2014: in the 2013 Remuneration Report these awards had not yet vested, therefore the share price at vesting was calculated as the average of the share prices for the dealing days in the last three months October to December 2013.
LTIP awards included in 2014 single figure Date of End of % Vesting Performance Share Price LTIP Award Performance Target Weighting max 100% Period Date of Vesting at Vesting 2011 PSP TSR FTSE 20% 100% 01 04 2014 01 04 2014 119.4 TSR Peer Group 20% 93.85% 01 04 2014 01 04 2014 119.4 a b 2012 PSP ROCE 30% 100% 31 12 2014 05 03 2015 123.7 b Margin 30% 100% 31 12 2014 05 03 2015 123.7 a The remaining performance test for this award, relating to TSR, will be calculated at the end of the TSR performance period in March 2015 and reported in next years Remuneration Report.
b The share price shown is the average of the share prices for the dealing days in the last three months October to December 2014.
79 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Remuneration Report continued Short term incentive arrangements STIA in respect of 2014 For 2014, the Committee measured performance against each individual performance target, which is directly linked to the achievement of the Companys strategy, as follows: % of salary Summary % of % of salary deferred in Measure Strategic Objective Weighting of targets Result maximum paid in cash shares PBIT To increase profit 40% Entry 380m 481m 40 26.67 13.33 Target 400m Stretch 420m ROCE RONA Delivering an average 15% 10% Entry 14% 19.8% 10 6.67 3.33 on net operating assets Target 15% through the cycle Stretch 17% Operating Margin Driving further UK operating 10% Entry 15% 17.9% 10 6.67 3.33 margin progression Target 16% Stretch 17.5% Net Cash Debt Cash generated 25% Entry 50 m 162.5m 25 16.66 8.34 Target 0m Stretch 100m Customer Service Delivering customer service 10% Entry 89% 83% 0 0 0 Target 90% Stretch 91% Energy Reduction Seeking to reduce the use of 5% Entry 80% 95.4% 5 3.33 1.67 energy in building our homes Target 85% Stretch 90% Total 100% 90 60 30 The amounts paid to Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan in respect of 2014 are set out in the remuneration table on page 78.
Vesting of long-term incentive awards in 2014 The BIS regulations require the value of long-term incentives vesting, by reference to performance period ending in the financial year being reported on, to be included in the single figure.
This applies to the TSR elements of the April 2011 TWPSP awards and the ROCE and Margin elements of the March 2012 TWPSP award.
The performance period for the TSR elements of the 2011 award ended on 31 March 2014, which was after publication of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, and was independently calculated by New Bridge Street.
The performance period for the ROCE element of the 2012 award ended on 31 December 2014 and the final measurement was undertaken at this date.
The TSR elements will be tested at the conclusion of their three year performance period on 5 March 2015 and the final measurement will be undertaken at this date.
For 2013 LTIP awards and onwards, testing of all performance targets including TSR will be based on the position as at 31 December of the final performance year.
80 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk The outcomes were as follows: Performance % of this award Award Measure Weighting Vesting Scale achieved vesting 1 April 2011 TSR FTSE 20% No vesting below median, 20% vests at median, 7th out of 203 100% 100% vests at upper quartile.
Pro-rata vesting between median and upper quartile TSR Peer 20% No vesting below median, 20% vests at median, 4th out of 13 93.85% Group 100% vests at upper quartile.
Pro-rata vesting between median and upper quartile a b 5 March 2012 ROCE 30% No vesting below median, 20% vests at median, 22.5% 100% 100% vests at upper quartile.
Pro-rata vesting between median and upper quartile a c Margin 30% No vesting below median, 20% vests at median, 17.9% 100% 100% vests at upper quartile.
Pro-rata vesting between median and upper quartile a As at 31 December 2014. b Median target is 10% and upper quartile target is 20% ROCE for year ended 31 December 2014. c Median target is 10% and upper quartile target is 13% Margin for year ended 31 December 2014.
In deciding whether, and to what extent, any vesting of awards should take place under any LTIP, the Committee also considers the overall financial performance of the Company during the period.
The Committee has determined that the overall financial performance of the Company has been very strong in respect of the performance periods of the above LTIPs.
Change in Company performance relative to change in remuneration 2014 2013 Change % Profit before tax, interest and exceptional items 480.7m 312.9m 53.6 Dividends paid per ordinary share 3.10p 0.69p 349.3 interim 2014 interim 2013 0.24p 0.22p final 2014 final 2013 1.32p 0.47p special 2014 special 2013 1.54p 0p Employee pay in aggregate see Note 7 to the financial statements 173.6m 168.6m 3.0 Employee pay average per employee see Note 7 to the financial statements 45,009 45,568 1.2 Change in Chief Executive pay compared to that for Taylor Wimpey employees The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between 2013 and 2014 for the Chief Executive compared to the average Taylor Wimpey employee during the year.
Salary Benefits STIA Pete Redfern 2.5% 43.3% 2.5% Typical Taylor Wimpey employee 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% Directors share-based rewards and options Performance awards were made in the year under the TWPSP scheme as summarised below: % vesting at Number of Face value threshold Award Type shares % of salary Performance conditions Performance period performance Pete Redfern TWPSP Nil cost 1,222,746 1,507,646 25% on ROCE: 25% on Group 01 01 2014 31 12 2016 20% options 200% operating margin: 20% on or later Preliminary TSR v FTSE 250: 30% on Announcement of results TSR v Peer Group index for 2016 Ryan Mangold TWPSP Nil cost 562,963 694,133 As above As above As above options 200% James Jordan TWPSP Nil cost 567,703 699,978 As above As above As above options 200% 81 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Remuneration Report continued Details of options and conditional awards over shares held by Directors who served during the year are as follows: Pete Redfern Dividend Date from re-investment Outstanding which Outstanding Granted shares added shares as at Exercise Market price exercisable shares at Awarded in during 2014 Exercised Lapsed 31 December price on exercise capable of Plan 1 January 2014 2014 number number vested number number 2014 pence pence Date of grant vesting Expiry date Deferred g Shares STIA 417,884 1,795 419,679 111.73 04.04.11 05.04.14 04.10.14 Deferred g Shares STIA 385,102 2,439 387,541 23.03.12 24.03.15 23.09.15 Deferred g Shares STIA 255,079 1,617 256,696 25.03.13 26.03.16 25.09.16 Deferred g a Shares STIA 298,346 1,891 300,237 25.03.14 26.03.17 25.09.17 Performance h d Share Plan 3,484,701 3,174,213 310,488 111.73 01.04.11 01.04.14 30.09.14 Performance h d Share Plan 2,906,623 2,906,623 05.03.12 05.03.15 04.09.15 Performance h e Share Plan 1,784,608 1,784,608 06.03.13 31.12.15 05.09.16 Performance h b f e Share Plan 1,222,746 1,222,746 04.03.14 31.12.16 03.09.17 Sharesave g Plan 63,331 63,331 24.04 11.10.11 01.12.16 31.05.17 Sharesave g c Plan 10,000 10,000 90.00 07.10.14 01.12.17 31.05.18 Total 9,297,328 1,531,092 7,742 3,593,892 310,488 6,931,782 Ryan Mangold Dividend Date from re-investment Outstanding which Outstanding Granted shares added shares as at Exercise Market price exercisable shares at Awarded in during 2014 Exercised Lapsed 31 December price on exercise capable of Plan 1 January 2014 2014 number number vested number number 2014 pence pence Date of grant vesting Expiry date Deferred g Shares STIA 21,266 91 21,357 111.73 04.04.11 05.04.14 04.10.14 Deferred g Shares STIA 156,790 994 157,784 23.03.12 24.03.15 23.09.15 Deferred g Shares STIA 109,933 696 110,629 25.03.13 26.03.16 25.09.16 Deferred g a Shares STIA 137,361 870 138,231 25.03.14 26.03.17 25.09.17 Performance h d Share Plan 1,418,771 1,292,357 126,414 111.73 01.04.11 01.04.14 30.09.14 Performance h d Share Plan 1,183,410 1,183,410 05.03.12 05.03.15 04.09.15 Performance h e Share Plan 769,123 769,123 06.03.13 31.12.15 05.09.16 Performance h b f e Share Plan 562,963 562,963 04.03.14 31.12.16 03.09.17 Sharesave g Plan 10,623 10,623 84.72 08.10.13 01.12.16 31.05.17 Sharesave g c Plan 10,000 10,000 90.00 07.10.14 01.12.17 31.05.18 Total 3,669,916 710,324 2,651 1,313,714 126,414 2,942,763 82 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
b Market value per share on date of grant 4 March 2014 was 124.50 pence.
c Market value per share on date of grant 7 October 2014 was 114.3 pence.
d Or later publication of the preliminary full-year or half-year results announcement on which the associated performance condition will be calculated.
e At later publication of the preliminary full-year or half-year results announcement on which the associated performance condition will be calculated.
f Vesting will be 20% for the 2014 award 2013 award: 20% for threshold performance 50th percentile for TSR: 10% ROCE: 14% margin and 100% 2013 award: 100% for upper quartile performance 75th percentile for TSR: 20% ROCE: 19% margin with straight line vesting between these two thresholds.
g Vesting is not dependent on any performance conditions.
h Vesting is subject to the achievement of performance conditions.
There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for outstanding share awards during the financial year.
The market price of the ordinary shares on 31 December 2014 was 137.8 pence and the range during the year was 101.3 pence to 137.8 pence.
Details of any share awards made to Executive Directors during 2015 will be included in the 2015 Remuneration Report.
Directors interests in shares of the Company Share ownership guidelines These guidelines are designed to encourage greater levels of shareholding by executives at various levels within the Company for the purpose of alignment with the Companys shareholders which the Committee strongly believes is very important.
The guidelines cover the Board and a number of executives who participate in long term incentive plans, namely the TWPSP, TWSOP and the LVP, with all participating executives required to build up shareholdings through the retention of shares vesting under the Companys share plans.
The level of shareholding for Executive Directors to attain under the current guidelines is two times base salary.
Executive Directors are expected to achieve a holding equivalent to one times base salary within five years of their appointment and although there will be no set time limit for achieving a two times salary holding, each Executive Director is required to agree a personal plan with the Chairman on the target to be achieved within an agreed time frame.
Executive Directors are also required to retain at least 50% of their net of taxes gain arising from any shares vesting or acquired pursuant to the Companys long term incentive share plans, until such time as the guidelines have been met.
Only beneficially owned shares count toward the guidelines.
Members of the Group Management Team and other designated executives are currently expected to maintain a shareholding of generally equivalent to 50% and 20% of their base salaries respectively, and will accordingly also be required to retain at least 50% of shares vesting or acquired net of taxes pursuant to the Companys long term incentive plans until such guidelines are met.
83 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Remuneration Report continued The Committee will keep the guidelines under regular review.
As mentioned earlier in this Report, any shares that vest under the 2014 award must, as a standard requirement, be retained by executives for at least 12 months and for at least 24 months under later awards.
The Chairman and the Non Executive Directors are also encouraged to hold shares in the Company in order to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Directors interests in 1p ordinary shares held fully paid ordinary shares are as set out in the table below: Beneficially owned Outstanding interests in share plans Share interests expressed as a percentage of salary Value of shares Value of shares at 1 1 14 at 31 12 14 including any SIP shares including any SIP shares ordinary ordinary as at 31 12 14: salary as at 26 2 15: a e e b c d Director shares shares STIA TWPSP TWSOP Sharesave as at 31 12 14 salary as at 1 4 15 Excluding STIA Excluding STIA shares v the Including STIA shares v the Including STIA shareholding shares for shareholding shares for e e guidelines information only guidelines information only Kevin Beeston 1,155,562 1,155,562 Pete Redfern 2,014,404 2,688,789 944,474 5,913,977 73,331 480% 568% 488% 578% Ryan Mangold 433,770 636,792 406,644 2,515,496 20,623 247% 330% 230% 307% James Jordan 945,032 1,309,330 438,507 2,745,774 73,331 503% 592% 512% 603% Kate Barker 40,000 40,000 Margaret Ford 84,940 84,940 Mike Hussey 125,000 150,000 Rob Rowley 200,000 200,000 a Or date of appointment.
b Only the net amount of shares has been included in this column.
c This is the percentage of shareholding achieved at 31 December 2014 towards the targets described on page 83 calculated on 2014 salary and at 31 December 2014 share price.
Salaries as at 31 December 2014 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan were 772,669, 355,744 and 358,739 respectively.
d This is the percentage of shareholding achieved at 31 December 2014 towards the targets described on page 83 calculated on 1 April 2015 salary and at 26 February 2015 share price.
Salaries as at 1 April 2015 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan will be 795,849, 400,000 and 369,501 respectively.
e Including partnership and matching shares held under the Share Purchase Plan SIP described on page 71.
Note: The share price on 31 December 2014 and used in the above calculation was 137.8 pence per share and on 26 February 2015 was 144.4 pence per share.
Note: The above table does not include the deferral into shares of 33% of the 2014 STIA for any Executive Director.
The only changes to the Directors interests as set out above during the period between 31 December 2014 and 2 March 2015 were the regular monthly purchases of shares and 1:1 matching by the Company under the Share Incentive Plan by Pete Redfern 446 shares and James Jordan 444 shares.
Directors pension entitlements Defined benefit schemes The Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme Pete Redfern and James Jordan are members of the Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS.
The following table sets out the transfer value of their accrued benefits under the TWPS calculated in a manner consistent with The Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Values Regulations 2008.
Increase in Transfer value Transfer value transfer value Increase in Transfer value of Increase in gross of gross of from 31 12 13 transfer value accrued pension Normal Accrued accrued pension Accrued Directors Directors to 31 12 14 from 31 12 13 increase retirement pension as at from 31 12 13 pension as at contributions at contributions at less Directors to 31 12 14 less less Directors a b b c Director Age 31 12 13 to 31 12 14 31 12 14 31 12 14 31 12 13 contributions inflation contributions d Pete Redfern 62 14,020 420 14,440 241,877 178,055 63,822 James Jordan 62 25,922 775 26,697 559,151 437,490 121,661 a The George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme GWSPS closed to future accrual on 31 August 2010 so pension accrual ceased on that date.
Members of the GWSPS were transferred into the TWPS on 1 October 2013 and there was no change to members benefit entitlement.
Pension accrual shown above is the amount which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to 31 August 2010.
Pension benefits include a two thirds spouses pension.
Pensions accrued up to 5 April 2006 are guaranteed to increase in payment in line with inflation limited each year to 5%.
Pensions accrued after 5 April 2006 are guaranteed to increase in payment in line with inflation limited each year to 2.5%.
Pensions accrued up to 5 April 2009 will revalue in deferment in line with inflation subject to an overall cap of 5% per annum.
Pensions accrued after 5 April 2009 will revalue in deferment in line with inflation subject to an overall cap of 2.5% per annum.
We have only taken into account defined benefits accrued over the period to 31 August 2010 and have not included any Defined Contribution pension benefits accrued after this date.
b Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Value Regulations 2008. c The increase in the transfer value includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and Directors, such as financial market movements.
d The 31 12 13 figure has been adjusted due to a change in the Directors entitlement at the end of 2013.
Note: The GWSPS closed to future accrual on 31 August 2010 and so no contributions were made after 31 August 2010.
There was no change to benefits during the year and consequently no difference between the changes to any Directors pension benefits in comparison with those of other employees.
84 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Non-Group pension arrangements Ryan Mangold has non-Group pension arrangements, to which contributions were paid by the Company as set out below: 2014 2013 Ryan Mangold 34,000 36,000 a Ryan Mangold also received a pension allowance of 37,000 in 2014 2013: 52,000 in lieu of Company pension contributions over the Annual Allowance limit introduced in April 2011 of 40,000 previously 50,000. b Ryan Mangold elected to have nil 2013: 20,000 of the non-deferred portion of his STIA cash bonus, earned for 2013 performance and paid in 2014, paid as additional pension contribution.
Statement of shareholder voting At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, the result of shareholders vote on the Companys Remuneration Policy Report was: For: 1.8 billion votes 98% : Against: 32.7 million votes 2% : Withheld: 43.8 million votes.
The result of the shareholders vote on the Companys Remuneration Report for 2013 was: For: 1.9 billion votes 99% 2013: 1.7 billion 84% : Against: 10.8 million votes 1% 2013: 331 million 16% : Withheld: 8.6 million votes 2013: 102 million.
As stated earlier, the Remuneration Committee has consulted further with our shareholders on remuneration matters during the year.
We hope that shareholders will, again, support the Remuneration Report at the AGM on 23 April 2015.
Approval This Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by the Remuneration Committee Chairman: Baroness Ford of Cunninghame 2 March 2015 85
