DIRECTORS REPORT: OTHER STATUTORy DISCLOSURES DIRECTORS REPORT: OTHER STATUTORy DISCLOSURES BoarD oF DirecTors reMuneraTion rePorT This scheme was introduced in July 2013 for executive directors and other senior executives across the Group.
The David alan Bernstein, cBe ronald stewart Annual Statement criteria used to measure performance are growth targets non-executive chairman 70 non-executive Director 66 Dear Shareholder, based on profit before tax per share over the performance David is Chairman of the British Red Cross.
Previously Ron spent all his 39 year banking career at The Royal Bank of period and share price growth over the award period.
The he was joint Managing Director of Pentland Group Plc, Scotland Plc, retiring in 2003 as Deputy Managing Director of The Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared Committee felt that these criteria were appropriate for Chairman of Blacks Leisure Plc, Manchester City Plc and its Corporate Banking Department in London.
He is a Trustee on behalf of the Board by the Remuneration Committee the Group in view of its recent investment in expansion the Football Association.
He is Chairman of the Nomination of several Christian charities and a Governor of Reeds School in the Committee in accordance with the requirements and should encourage management to focus on longer Committee and a member of the Audit and Remuneration Surrey.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large term profitable growth.
The share price growth target Committees.
David is an independent director.
In the of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Ron is an and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and has been favoured over a TSR based measure because New Year Honours List of 2014 David was appointed independent director and the senior non-executive director.
Reports Regulations 2008, as amended, and meets the the unique profile of the Groups business means that a Commander of the Order of the British Empire CBE for relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial readily comparable TSR benchmark was not available.
A anne sheinfield services to football.
Conduct Authority and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
commitment has, however, been made to apply the existing non-executive Director 48 dividend policy consistently.
raymond stuart kelvin, cBe The Remuneration Report is split into two parts: Anne was appointed as a non-executive director on chief executive 58 closest Man To Ted 15 June 2010.
Anne is a commercial lawyer with more The directors remuneration policy which sets out the The Committee would like to thank shareholders for their support Ray, the founder of Ted Baker, has worked in the fashion than two decades of post qualification experience in Companys proposed policy on directors remuneration in establishing scheme rules and performance conditions for industry for over 40 years.
In 1973 he founded PC Clothing the theatre, TV and music areas of entertainment and which will apply with effect from this years Annual General this scheme that are acceptable to all shareholders.
Limited, a supplier of womenswear to high street retailers.
has a wealth of intellectual property and commercial Meeting AGM and the key factors that were taken into In 1987 Ray developed the Ted Baker brand and has been legal experience.
She is Chairman of the Remuneration Last years remuneration report was approved by 99.02% account in setting the policy.
The directors remuneration of shareholders and the Ted Baker Plc Long-Term Incentive Chief Executive of Ted Baker since its launch in 1988.
Anne is an independent director.
policy is subject to a binding shareholder vote at this years Plan 2013 was approved by 94.40% of shareholders.
This the New Year Honours List of 2011 Ray was appointed AGM and after that at least every third year.
andrew Jennings Commander of the Order of the British Empire CBE for demonstrates our prudent approach to remuneration.
The annual report on remuneration sets out non-executive Director 65 services to the fashion industry.
payments and awards made to executive directors 2014 15 The Year Ahead Andrew was appointed as a non-executive director on and non-executive directors and details the synergy lindsay Dennis Page, Ma, aca 1 February 2014.
He has worked in the international retail The Committee undertook a review of base salaries in between Company performance and remuneration Finance Director 55 industry for over 40 years at some of the worlds most 2013 14, taking into account general economic and market for the 2013 2014 financial year.
The annual report on Lindsay joined Ted Baker as Finance Director in February respected high-end department stores.
Previously he was Chief remuneration together with this letter is subject to an conditions.
The resulting proposal for base salaries payable to 1997.
He joined Binder Hamlyn in 1981, became a founder Executive Officer of the Karstadt Group in Germany and prior to advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
executive directors in the year ahead is for a pay increase of member of the corporate finance department in 1986 and a this has held a number of senior executive positions at leading broadly 3% which is in line with employees across the Group.
Binder Hamlyn subsequently merged with UK and international retailers including Saks Fifth Avenue in the 2013 14 A Year in Review Arthur Andersen in 1994.
USA: Holt Renfrew in Canada: Harrods and House of Fraser in The Committee also undertook a review of the consistency 2013 14 has delivered a strong performance for the Group.
the UK: and Brown Thomas in Ireland.
He is a member of the of remuneration policy across the Group and is satisfied Unique and talented teams have exceeded expectations in Audit Committee.
Andrew is an independent director.
that an appropriate reward structure exists below Board a competitive trading environment as the Group continues level to recognise and retain our top talent, particularly to expand in new and existing markets.
In doing so, I am while we go through a period of change management with pleased to announce that 90% of the maximum potential the implementation of business systems to support our annual bonus has been achieved and will be paid to executive future growth.
directors and eligible employees across the Group.
In Conclusion Following the success of the Value Creation Plan VCP, The annual report on remuneration provides further details which has now run its course, the Committee consulted with remuneration advisers and certain key shareholders on and the directors remuneration policy sets out how we are a replacement for the VCP that will incentivise executives continuously building for the future.
to build on the Companys performance to date.
As a result, I hope that we can rely on your vote in favour of the annual the Ted Baker Plc Long-Term Incentive Plan 2013 the 2013 report on remuneration and our directors remuneration LTIP was approved at the General meeting on 20 June 2013. policy for future years at this years AGM.
anne sheinfield Chairman Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 25 26
