DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL STATEMENT Dear Shareholder, I am delighted to have the opportunity to provide an introduction to the Remuneration Committee report which appears on pages 49 to 67.
Telecom Plus has had a successful years trading as detailed elsewhere in the Annual Report and the new energy supply arrangements with Npower are a testament to the vision, enterprise and dedication of the executive team.
The Companys remuneration policy is set in full on pages 49 to 57.
We are totally aware that we operate within a competitive environment and aim to reward senior executives fairly - but not excessively.
We would not expect total remuneration to fall within the upper quartile relative to comparable organisations over the long term.
At present, executive directors are not paid bonuses in either cash or shares.
The Committees view is that full alignment of interest between executives and shareholders is achieved through the grant of market price share incentives at periodic intervals.
Thus, unless the share price increases the executive director receives nothing beyond his basic salary and fringe benefits.
As part of our remit, we have reviewed the performance of the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
We felt it appropriate to increase Andrew Lindsays base salary by 8.3% particularly in view of the greater range of responsibilities undertaken by him during the year.
Chris Houghtons salary was judged to be below current market rates: he received an increase of 33.3% and a further award of share options.
The Committee has acknowledged investor feedback and raised the performance conditions thresholds required for these options to vest.
Andrew Lindsay played an outstanding role in the successful negotiation of the new energy supply arrangements with Npower.
Over the next few years he will be leading the team to ensure that Telecom Plus, its shareholders and customers derive maximum benefit from the exciting opportunities it brings.
We anticipate granting further market value options to Andrew Lindsay later this year vesting over three, five and seven years reflecting the contribution that we expect him to make towards the achievement of the Companys objectives.
Finally, I should like to thank our shareholders for their support and constructive engagement over the past year.
Julian Schild Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20 May 2014 48 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION POLICY REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for reviewing and making recommendations to the Board regarding the policy relating to the total remuneration paid to the executive directors and members of senior management of the Company.
It meets regularly to review and set all elements of the remuneration paid to the executive directors of the Company, including pension rights, and monitors the level and structure of remuneration for other senior management of the Company.
It also exercises all the powers of the Board in relation to the operation of the Companys share incentive schemes, including the grant of options and the terms of those grants.
The Committee met formally four times during the year and details of attendance at this meeting are provided in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 37.
The Committees principal activities during the year included: Reviewing and approving executive remuneration packages: Monitoring senior management remuneration packages: Reviewing and approving the issue of share options to the Finance Director, certain employees and independent distributors of the Company: and Determining the performance conditions attached to the issue of share options.
REMUNERATION POLICY INTRODUCTION The Companys overall remuneration policy remains to ensure that the executive directors and other senior managers are fairly and responsibly rewarded for their individual contribution to the overall long term performance of the Company, in a manner that ensures that the Company is able to attract, motivate, and retain executives of the quality necessary to ensure the successful management of the Company.
The Companys current remuneration policy is based on the principle that the fortunes of the directors and senior management should be directly aligned with those of external shareholders, and this is predominantly achieved through the use of share incentive plans.
The Remuneration Committee currently believes that share incentive awards granted at market value provide a far more transparent method by which to directly align each directors interests with all shareholders when compared to the payment of regular annual cash bonuses based on short-term performance measures and or the granting of free shares with little or no downside risk to the participant.
The outstanding awards made under share incentive schemes to date are broadly consistent with the future policy set out below and, for the avoidance of doubt, will remain in place until exercise.
The future remuneration policy described in this part of the report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 8 of the Large and Mediumsized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in August 2013, and is intended to apply for the three years beginning on the date of the forthcoming AGM, subject to shareholder approval at the meeting.
The Committee will review the remuneration policy annually to ensure it remains appropriate for the Companys requirements and consistent with market practice, however there is no current intention to revise the policy more frequently than every three years.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 49 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FUTURE REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE How component supports Operation of component Maximum potential value Performance metrics strategic objectives of component used, weighting and time periods Base Salary To recognise status and Base salary is paid in 12 Increases normally for None, although overall responsibility to deliver equal monthly instalments inflation and in line with performance of the operational strategy on a during the year.
other employees, or in individual is considered day-to-day basis.
order to ensure that base by the Committee when Base salaries are reviewed salaries properly reflect setting and reviewing annually and any changes the size, complexity salaries.
are effective from 1 April and growth rate of the each year.
Company relative to other FTSE 250 companies.
Increases may also reflect any change in the level of responsibility of the director whether through a change in role or an increase in the scale and or scope of the activities carried out by the Company or an increase in experience and knowledge of the Company and its markets.
Benefits To provide benefits The Company pays for Market cost of the provision None.
commensurate with the role private healthcare for each of private healthcare, and market practice.
director and their immediate company cars and other family.
benefits as applicable from time to time.
The Company provides company cars for executive directors where appropriate.
The Company provides death in service benefits up to a maximum of four times annual base salary subject to prevailing policy caps.
The Committee reserves the right to introduce other benefits should this be necessary to attract and or retain key executive directors.
In relation to new directors the Company will pay for reasonable relocation expenses where required.
50 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements How component supports Operation of component Maximum potential value Performance metrics strategic objectives of component used, weighting and time periods Annual Bonus No regular annual cash Bonus payment to be Maximum potential bonus Performance measures are bonus scheme is currently dependent on achievement of 200% of annual Base likely to include similar in place although the of performance measures.
Salary, including the value metrics to the Company Committee wishes to retain of any share incentive performance measures the flexibility to introduce awards granted, as used for share incentive such a scheme should it detailed below.
schemes described below be deemed necessary to coupled with short term The overall combined limit attract and retain high strategic or operational for annual cash bonuses calibre executive directors objectives specific to the and share incentive in future.
awards to be 200% of annual Base Salary.
Save in exceptional circumstances, directors In years where no bonus is will be required to awarded and or no grant reinvest 25% of any bonus of share incentives is made payment after tax in the to a director the maximum Companys shares at the grant limit of 200% can prevailing market price.
be accumulated and These shares are then or brought forward to be expected to be retained used in other years.
for the directors period of service.
Individual Cash Bonus Only paid to recognise Bonus to be paid at Maximum potential bonus Remuneration Committee an exceptional short the discretion of the of 10% of base salary in to evaluate the contribution term contribution to a Remuneration Committee any one year.
of the director to any discrete project outside the and based on the formal project outside the ordinary course of business recommendation of the ordinary course of business requiring the director to Chairman.
with a particular emphasis commit time and effort on the level of commitment significantly over and made by the director above their normal duties.
and the complexity and importance of the project to the strategic success of the Company.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 51 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED How component supports Operation of component Maximum potential value Performance metrics used, strategic objectives of component weighting and time periods Share Incentive Schemes To directly align the Issue of share incentives at Maximum grant value Service and performance equivalent to 200% of salary directors interests market price on the date of conditions must be met per annum, assuming that no with those of all other grant which provide direct over the vesting period, annual cash bonus has been shareholders.
and transparent exposure weighted average of three awarded during that year.
to the Company share price performance measures for the director.
typically used for Chief Grants made periodically, Executive and Finance with awards vesting over 3 Share Incentive Schemes Director: to 7 years.
include HMRC approved share option awards, Adjusted EPS growth Larger awards may be made unapproved share option but any excess over 200% TSR growth awards and or the issue will be carried forward and of joint interests in shares taken into account in any Service number growth future share incentive grants under the Joint Share Weighting of each measure and or bonus payments.
to be determined by the Grant value of share Remuneration Committee incentives to be determined and dependent on each in accordance with FRC directors role and strategic Reporting Lab guidance responsibility.
issued in March 2013, i. e. The Committee also retains share options to be valued at the ability to amend the one third of the market value of the shares under option.
performance conditions for future grants to ensure that Vesting is dependent on they appropriately reflect service and the achievement the strategic responsibilities of performance conditions.
Pension To provide funding for Defined contribution Company contributes up to None.
pension scheme open to all a maximum of 20% of Base employees and executive Salary per annum.
Shareholding Requirement To strengthen the long term Shareholding requirement Subject to personal N A alignment of directors policy is primarily driven circumstances and existing interests with those of all from the issue of shares shareholding level, and the shareholders.
resulting from the exercise payment of relevant taxes, of awards made under the directors are encouraged Share Incentive Schemes.
to retain 25% of the shares resulting from each exercise of awards made under the Share Incentive Schemes.
52 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CHOICE OF PERFORMANCE MEASURES The Committee has chosen the performance measures described in the table above as these are deemed to directly align the executive directors interests with those of all shareholders in an easily understood and transparent manner.
The performance measures comprise a combination of relative TSR, Adjusted EPS excluding share incentive scheme charges and amortisation of intangible assets and service number growth measures.
Adjusted EPS is considered appropriate as a key strategic objective of the Company is to drive profitable growth in each year.
It also provides a balance to relative TSR, which considers shareholder value creation and reflects market expectations of future performance, and absolute service number growth which, when achieved responsibly, will also drive long-term value creation.
The use of relative TSR and Adjusted EPS growth measures provides a combined focus on the Companys financial performance and shareholder value creation.
Targets for Adjusted EPS are set by reference to internal budgeting plans and external market expectations.
TSR targets are set on a standard practice, median to upper quartile ranking range.
Only 30% of share incentive awards vest for threshold levels of performance.
The Committee wishes to retain the ability to change the composition of performance conditions for future grants to directors should this be required in order to appropriately reflect the strategic responsibilities of the particular director concerned.
ILLUSTRATIVE APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY The bar chart below seeks to illustrate the potential rewards available under the proposed remuneration policy for the coming financial year under varying levels of performance.
For the purposes of the illustration the values assume the maximum grant of share incentive awards during the year and no annual cash bonuses are paid.
However, as outlined in the above table, the Remuneration Committee reserves the right to bring or carry forward any unused annual share incentive scheme allowances.
Therefore, share incentives might not be awarded during a particular year, and or share incentive awards may be larger than 200% of base salary in any one year.
The amounts included for share incentive awards are based on one third of the market value of the shares under option.
The amounts for pensions and benefits included in the fixed remuneration figure have been calculated on the same basis as payments made for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The potential rewards available for ontarget performance under share incentive schemes have been based on 30% vesting of share incentive awards.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 53 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED All performance measures or targets for share incentive scheme awards relate to more than one financial year.
Fixed pay Share incentive 1,600,000 1,408,000 1,400,000 1,200,000 936,000 1,000,000 65% 771,000 800,000 64% 35% 600,000 498,000 516,000 336,000 35% 400,000 200,000 100% 65% 35% 100% 65% 36% 0 Below target On-target Maximum Below target On-target Maximum ANDREW LINDSAY CHRIS HOUGHTON The Executive Chairman, Mr Wigoder, has not been included in the above bar chart as he only receives fixed remuneration due to the size of his existing shareholding in the Company.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND POLICY FOR PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE The table below sets out the Companys policy regarding service contracts and payments for loss of office.
Standard provision Policy Details Other provisions in service contracts Notice periods in executive 6 - 12 months notice from Executive directors may be required to N A directors service contracts.
work during notice period or may be provided with pay in lieu of notice if 6 - 12 months notice from not required to work full notice.
All executive directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Compensation for loss of No more than base salary, Any statutory entitlements or sums N A office in service contracts.
benefits and pension to settle or compromise claims in contributions for the period connection with any termination of of the executive directors office would need to be paid as notice.
necessary, subject to the fulfilment of the directors duty to mitigate their No contractual provision loss.
for additional compensation in the event of loss of office resulting from poor performance.
54 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Standard provision Policy Details Other provisions in service contracts Treatment of unvested share All awards lapse except A good leaver may exercise any N A incentive scheme awards for good leavers: i. e. subsisting share options within the under plan rules.
death, injury, disability, period of 6 months from the date of redundancy, retirement cessation of employment.
or where the employing If a participant ceases to be employed company or the company within the Group otherwise than as with which the office is held a good leaver, no unvested share ceases to be a member of options held shall be exercisable the Group or the transfer after the date of such cessation unless of employment out of the the Remuneration Committee in its Group by reason of the absolute discretion provided that Transfer of Undertakings such discretion must be exercised Protection of Employment fairly and reasonably so decides Regulations 2006. but for a period of not more than 12 months from the date of cessation.
The Committee considers it unlikely that such discretion would be used in the event of a participant ceasing to be employed by the Company as a bad leaver.
In relation to unvested awards made under the Joint Share Ownership Plan JSOP for a good leaver, the Remuneration Committee will specify the extent to which such awards should vest having regard to the length of time since the award was acquired and the directors performance to that date.
If a participant in the JSOP ceases to be employed within the Group otherwise than as a good leaver, any unvested awards will be forfeited.
Discretion to be used only in The Remuneration Committee N A exceptional circumstances.
will take into account the recent performance of the director and the Company, and the nature of the circumstances around the executive directors departure.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 55 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Standard provision Policy Details Other provisions in service contracts Non-executive Directors.
Non-executive directors Non-executive directors are all Non-executive are appointed for an initial subject to annual re-election by directors have term of one year which is shareholders at the Companys AGM the right to seek then reviewed by the Board each year.
independent on annual basis thereafter.
professional Non-executive directors have a three advice at the month notice period and there is expense of the no provision for compensation if Company in the required to stand down.
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION The Committees approach to recruitment is to pay a sufficient amount necessary to attract the best candidates to the particular role.
In determining these amounts the Committee will be mindful of, inter alia, prevailing market rates, the chosen candidates skills, knowledge and experience, and their existing location and position.
Where the candidate has variable remuneration arrangements with a previous employer that will be lost on leaving employment, the Company will consider offering a sign-on award in compensation for the value foregone, either as an award under an existing share incentive scheme or a bespoke award under the Listing Rules exemption available for this purpose.
The face and or expected values of the award s offered will not materially exceed the value ascribed to the award s foregone, and would normally follow the same vesting timing and form i. e. cash or shares save that the Committee may award the whole of the value in shares, at its discretion.
The application of performance conditions would be considered and, where appropriate, the awards could be made subject to claw-back in certain circumstances.
For material amounts the Committee would, where practicable, consult with key institutional shareholders ahead of committing to make any such sign-on awards, and in any event a full explanation of any amounts awarded, an explanation of why it was necessary and a breakdown of the awards to be made will be announced to the markets at the time of granting.
For the avoidance of doubt, should a new director be internally promoted from the Companys senior management team they will not be expected to give up or amend any element of remuneration granted to them prior to becoming a director which is inconsistent with the remuneration policy set out above.
Any new executive directors remuneration package would include the same elements, and be subject to the same constraints, as those of the existing executive directors as outlined in the above policy table.
56 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES POLICY How component supports Operation of component Maximum potential value Performance metrics strategic objectives of component used, weighting and time periods To attract non-executive Non-executive directors Non-executive directors Non-executive directors are directors who have a fees are set by the Board remuneration will not be set not eligible to participate broad range of experience as a whole and aligned outside the parameters of in any performance-related and skills to support and with the responsibilities of prevailing market rates for arrangements or share oversee the implementation each director.
of strategy and ensure of equal complexity.
Annual fees are paid in 12 good corporate equal monthly instalments governance.
Non-executive directors fees are periodically reviewed by the Board in the light of any changes in role and prevailing market rates for non-executive directors in similarly sized listed companies.
STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Chairman of the Committee engages with certain of the Companys largest shareholders who have expressed an interest in being consulted in relation to remuneration matters to understand their expectations and monitor any changes in their views.
This year, major shareholders who had previously indicated an interest in being consulted were contacted in relation to the setting of performance conditions for share incentive scheme awards.
As a result of previous feedback received, and as described in the Remuneration Committee report for this year below, the Committee decided to reduce the threshold vesting level for share options and increase the level of challenge in the performance conditions set.
STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP The Committee considers pay levels across the organisation when setting remuneration for all directors both executives and non-executives.
However this review is undertaken against a background of ensuring that the prevailing market rates for all levels of employee in the organisation are taken into account in order to attract, retain and motivate the best employees at each level.
In relation to directors, specific account is taken of any change in the level of responsibility of the director whether through a change in role or the increased size of the Company or an increase in experience and knowledge of the Company and its markets which may not be relevant to roles elsewhere in the Company.
The Company does not deem it appropriate to formally consult with employees regarding the determination of the directors remuneration policy as the broad remuneration structure for directors mirrors that of all employees, i. e. the payment of a base salary, benefits and share incentive scheme awards at market price.
However, employees have the opportunity to make comments on any aspect of the Companys activities through an employee survey and any comments made which are relevant to directors remuneration would be considered by the Committee.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 57 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This report, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 and Schedule 8 of the Large and MediumSized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in August 2013 the Regulations, has been approved by the Board of directors for submission to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The sections under the headings Single Total Figure of Remuneration, parts of Share Incentive Schemes and Pension Schemes have been subject to external audit.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION The Committee recommended increases to the annual base salaries of each of the executive directors during the year.
Mr Wigoder received an increase of 2.8% to 370,000 and Mr Lindsay an increase of 8.3% to 390,000.
Mr Houghton received a larger percentage increase of approximately 33.3% to 300,000 in recognition of the increasing responsibility and complexity inherent in his role, his growing experience of the Company and its markets, and to reflect the fact that his previous salary was considerably below the market rate for Finance Directors of FTSE 250 companies of a similar size.
However, given the recent increases made to his salary over the past two years, Mr Houghton is not expected to receive routine salary increases of this magnitude in future.
In addition, share options with performance conditions attached were issued to Mr Houghton during the year, details of which are set out below in this report.
The non-executive directors receive fees for their services, the details of which are described below.
The level of these fees was unchanged during the year.
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 AUDITED Audited details of directors remuneration for the year are as follows: TAXABLE PENSION SHARE SALARY & FEES BENEFITS CONTRIBUTIONS INCENTIVES TOTAL DIRECTOR 000 000 000 000 000 Charles Wigoder 370 5 37 - 412 Julian Schild 35 - - - 35 Andrew Lindsay 390 3 39 - 432 Chris Houghton 300 6 30 - 336 Melvin Lawson 12 - - - 12 Michael Pavia 21 - - - 21 TOTAL 1,128 14 106 - 1,248 The amounts relating to benefits received relate principally to the provision of private health insurance and Company motor vehicles to the directors.
58 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Neither Mr Lindsay nor Mr Houghton held share incentive awards where final vesting was determined as a result of the achievement of performance conditions relating to a period ending in the financial year to 31 March 2013 or 31 March 2014.
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 AUDITED TAXABLE PENSION SHARE SALARY & FEES BENEFITS CONTRIBUTIONS INCENTIVES TOTAL 000 000 000 000 000 DIRECTOR Charles Wigoder 360 5 36 - 401 Julian Schild 35 - - - 35 Andrew Lindsay 360 3 36 - 399 Chris Houghton 225 3 23 - 251 Melvin Lawson 12 - - - 12 Michael Pavia 21 - - - 21 TOTAL 1,013 11 95 - 1,119 SHARE INCENTIVE SCHEMES The Company has two share option plans and a Joint Share Ownership Plan the JSOP.
The first share option plan and the JSOP are available to employees, and the second share option plan is available to the Companys independent distributors.
The Employee Share Option Plan Subject to serving the requisite probationary period, all employees are eligible to participate in the Companys employee share option plan and be issued with market price options over shares in the Company, the number of shares being related to their seniority and length of service.
The Committee recognises that the collective contribution of all employees is critical to the success of the Company and continues to believe that the granting of share options at all levels within the organisation generates employee loyalty and helps to ensure that staff turnover is kept to a minimum and below the levels seen across the industry for employees passing their probationary periods.
The Joint Share Ownership Plan Awards made through the JSOP provide participants with a joint interest in tranches of shares which are held until vesting by an independent employee benefit trust the JSOP Share Trust.
The trustee of the JSOP Share Trust is Barclays Wealth Trustees Guernsey Limited.
The value to participants of awards made under the JSOP is based upon the growth in the value of the Companys shares from the date of grant in a similar manner to the value achieved through participation in the conventional share option scheme.
However, participants in the JSOP only receive value to the extent that the share price increase exceeds a compound annual growth rate of at least five per cent the Hurdle Rate.
On vesting, participants receive any gain Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 59 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Hurdle Rate being retained by the JSOP Share Trust.
In addition, awards made under the JSOP to executive directors will only vest to the extent applicable performance conditions relating to the financial and trading performance of the Company are met.
It is currently considered unlikely by the Committee that further awards will be made under the JSOP.
The Networkers and Consultants Share Option Plan The Networkers and Consultants Share Option Plan exists to provide incentives and rewards to those distributors who have been most successful in gathering new customers for the Company.
These distributors, whilst not being employees of the Company, are nevertheless essential to its future growth, and it is the opinion of the Committee that this plan can in some cases be an important factor in their motivation.
During the year options were issued in two tranches to 218 distributors under a share option promotion scheme which requires the participants to achieve performance conditions in order for the options to vest.
These performance conditions will involve distributors consistently gathering customers throughout the threeyear vesting periods of the options.
Statement of Directors Shareholding and Share Interests audited Details of the directors shareholdings are set out in the Directors Report on page 68.
As set out in the Future Remuneration Policy Table above, a target level of share ownership is not stipulated for directors, however, subject to personal circumstances and existing shareholdings they are encouraged to retain a proportion of shares issued as a result of the exercise of share incentive awards.
Details of the share awards held by or granted to directors during the year are set out in the tables below further details on the estimated cost of these awards are set out in note 18 to the financial statements : 1 APRIL 31 MARCH EXERCISE EXERCISABLE EXPIRY ANDREW LINDSAY 2013 GRANTED EXERCISED 2014 PRICE FROM DATE Share options 12 Jun 2008 217,400 - 217,400 - 330.5p 12 Jun 11 11 Jun 18 JSOP interest shares held jointly with the JSOP Share Trust 31 March 2011 500,000 - - 500,000 N A 1 Apr 15 N A 1 APRIL 31 MARCH EXERCISE EXERCISABLE EXPIRY CHRIS HOUGHTON 2013 GRANTED EXERCISED 2014 PRICE FROM DATE Share options 10 Dec 2008 50,000 - - 50,000 340p 10 Dec 11 9 Dec 18 26 June 2009 50,000 - - 50,000 278p 26 Jun 12 25 Jun 19 26 June 2012 25,000 - - 25,000 828p 26 Jun 15 25 Jun 22 26 June 2012 25,000 - - 25,000 828p 26 Jun 17 25 Jun 22 16 Dec 2013 - 25,000 - 25,000 1739p 16 Dec 16 15 Dec 23 16 Dec 2013 - 25,000 - 25,000 1739p 16 Dec 18 15 Dec 23 60 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The share options granted to Andrew Lindsay on 12 June 2008 were fully exercised on 26 February 2014.
In accordance with the rules of the Employee Share Option Plan, the Company elected to satisfy these options by transferring 179,115 shares to Mr Lindsay at nominal value, representing the value of the gain made on these options at the market price for Ordinary Shares on the day of exercise.
Following the exercise of these options, Mr Lindsay sold 179,115 Ordinary Shares on 26 February 2014 for an average price of 1,853.34 pence per Ordinary Share.
Following the sale of these shares Mr Lindsay retained an interest in 132,312 Ordinary Shares, excluding his joint interest in the award made under the JSOP detailed below.
The award of a joint interest in 500,000 shares made to Mr Lindsay on 31 March 2011 under the JSOP the JSOP Share Award was made subject to performance conditions which were described in detail in the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2011.
The interest Mr Lindsay holds in the JSOP Share Award allows him, subject to the achievement of the performance conditions summarised below, to receive any increase in the value of the 500,000 shares over the share price on the date of grant 4.55 plus an annual compound growth rate of five per cent.
This means that if Mr Lindsay were to exercise his award on the first date of vesting, 1 April 2015, he would receive any value over 5.53 per share.
The table below sets out the compound annual growth rates required during the vesting period across the three performance conditions which will determine the percentage of the 500,000 shares that will be used to calculate the total gain attributable to Mr Lindsay, e. g. if the Company were to achieve compound annual EPS and TSR growth of exactly 5% over the vesting period the gain attributable to Mr Lindsay would be calculated based on the total value of 250,000 shares over the annual compound 5% Hurdle Rate.
The number of shares used to calculate the gain which Mr Lindsay will be entitled to receive on vesting will depend on the average growth achieved across the two highest performance conditions.
1 PERCENTAGE OF EPS GROWTH TSR GROWTH SERVICE NUMBER 500,000 SHARES GROWTH 100% 7.5% 7.5% 7.5% 50% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 2 50%-100% 5.0%-7.5% 5.0%-7.5% 5.0%-7.5% NIL 5% 5% 5% 1 compound annual share price growth assuming 22p annual dividend 2 percentage of shares to be calculated on a straight line basis The 50,000 options granted to Mr Houghton on 10 December 2008 were granted to him prior to his appointment to the Board on terms that performance conditions would not be imposed in respect of this grant.
However, the 50,000 options granted to him on 26 June 2009 after his appointment to the Board were made subject to performance conditions which were described in detail in the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2010.
The performance conditions in relation to these options were all met and the options have vested.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 61 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED The 50,000 options granted to Mr Houghton on 26 June 2012 were also made subject to performance conditions which were described in detail in the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2013 and are summarised in the table below.
PERCENTAGE OF RELATIVE SERVICE NUMBER 1 OPTIONS VESTING EPS GROWTH TSR GROWTH GROWTH 100% CPI 7.5% Upper quartile 10% 50% CPI 5.0% Median 5.0% 2 50%-100% CPI 5.0%-7.5% Median Upper quartile 5.0%-10.0% NIL CPI 5.0% Below median 5.0% 1 Company TSR performance relative to the FTSE 350 excluding Investment Trusts 2 Percentage of shares to be calculated on a straight line basis A further 50,000 options were awarded to Mr Houghton on 16 December 2013.
These options will vest in two discrete tranches of 25,000 over three and five year vesting periods, each representing shares with a face value of 434,750 representing approximately 150% of Mr Houghtons annual base salary.
However, it should be noted that as market price options their value to Mr Houghton rests solely on the increase in the Companys share price from the point of grant.
In accordance with guidance in the FRCs Lab Project Report: Reporting of pay and performance issued in March 2013, the value of market price share options can be measured as one third of the market value of the shares under option.
The total value of these options granted to Mr Houghton under this measure would therefore represent approximately 96% of his annual base salary for the year.
These options were made subject to performance conditions as described in detail below.
In determining the nature of these performance conditions, the Committee was mindful of views expressed by investors in relation to performance conditions previously used by the Company for share incentive awards.
The Committee therefore decided to reduce the percentage level for threshold vesting to 30% and use a weighted average across the three performance conditions rather than allowing the flexibility of using the highest two of three measures.
62 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The extent to which these options will vest will depend on the average growth, weighted equally in this instance, achieved across the three annual performance measures summarised in the table below: PERCENTAGE OF ADJUSTED RELATIVE SERVICE NUMBER 1 OPTIONS VESTING EPS GROWTH TSR GROWTH GROWTH 100% CPI 12.5% Upper quartile 20.0% 30% CPI 5.0% Median 10.0% 2 30%-100% CPI 5.0%-12.5% Median Upper quartile 10.0%-20.0% Nil CPI 5.0% Below median 10.0% 1 Company TSR performance relative to the FTSE 350 excluding Investment Trusts 2 Percentage of shares to be calculated on a straight line basis The base year for the Adjusted EPS performance measure will be the Adjusted EPS for the year ended 31 March 2013, but re-based to reflect the impact of the revised terms of the new energy supply agreement agreed with Npower in December 2013, as set out in the prospectus issued by the Company to shareholders on 20 November 2013.
The prospectus confirmed that, had the revised energy supply agreement been in place during the whole year ended 31 March 2013 the incremental pre-tax profit would have been 9.3 million.
This amount has therefore been used to re-base the Adjusted EPS for the year ended 31 March 2013.
At the year end the Companys share price was 1,793p and the range during the financial year was 1,035p to 1,914p.
Details of all the directors interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the table in the Directors Report on page 68.
DIRECTORS CONTRACTS OF SERVICE There are Service Contracts or Letters of Appointment for Charles Wigoder 5 May 2011, Andrew Lindsay 5 May 2011, Chris Houghton 16 February 2009, Julian Schild 25 May 2010, Melvin Lawson 27 September 2006, and Michael Pavia 13 December 2006.
These provide notice periods of three months on either side for the non-executive directors and the following notice periods for the executive directors: Mr Wigoder twelve months on either side and Mr Lindsay and Mr Houghton each with six months on either side.
PENSION SCHEMES AUDITED The Company makes no contributions to the pensions of any current directors except to Mr Wigoder, Mr Lindsay and Mr Houghton, details of which are shown within the table on page 58.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH SHOWING TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN The following graph shows the Companys performance measured by total shareholder return compared with the performance of the FTSE All Share Telecommunications Index and the FTSE 350 for the period 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2014.
As noted in previous years, the FTSE All Share Telecommunications Index was initially selected at a time when a larger proportion of the Companys revenues related to the supply of telephony services: only approximately 12.5% of the Companys revenues are now generated from such telephony services.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 63 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED The FTSE 350 Index is included as a further comparator in the light of the fact that there are no sector specific indices containing directly comparable quoted companies supplying a broad range of services similar to that provided by the Company.
TABLE OF HISTORICAL DATA The following table shows the total remuneration, as defined by the Regulations, and the amount vesting under share incentive schemes as a percentage of the maximum that could have been achieved, in respect of the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive was Mr Andrew Lindsay in all years shown in the table except for the year ended 31 March 2010 which represented Mr Charles Wigoders final year as Chief Executive before becoming Executive Chairman in July 2010.
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Single figure of total remuneration 000 217 473 1,150 399 432 Percentage of maximum of share N A 100 100 N A N A incentives vesting in year % 64 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The gains on share incentive schemes vesting in the years ended 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2012 represent the gains on share options based on the prevailing share price as at the earlier of the date of exercise of the share options and the year end in which the awards vested.
No share incentive awards vested to the Chief Executive in the years ended 31 March 2010, 2013 and 2014.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN THE REMUNERATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE The following table shows the change in certain aspects of the remuneration of Mr Lindsay.
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 2013 CHANGE 000 000 % Salary 390 360 8.3 Benefits 3 3 - The Companys pay review for the year ended 31 March 2014 which took effect on 1 April 2013 awarded average percentage increases in salaries to all employees of 2.75%.
The size of the increase awarded to Mr Lindsay reflected the increased responsibility inherent in his role specifically as the size of the Company grew during the period.
The increase also reflected the relative level of his salary compared to chief executives of other similarly-sized publicly listed companies.
At other levels within the Company increases of a comparable size to Mr Lindsays were made where appropriate to similarly reflect increases in responsibility for certain individuals.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF THE SPEND ON PAY The Regulations require an illustration of the significance of the Companys expenditure on pay in the context of its operations.
Set out below is a summary of the Companys levels of expenditure on pay and other significant cash outflows to key stakeholders.
CASH OUTFLOWS TO KEY STAKEHOLDERS 2014 2013 CHANGE 000 000 % Wages and salaries 20,666 17,536 17.8 Dividends paid 23,921 20,965 14.1 Corporation tax and social security costs paid 10,140 9,070 11.8 STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FOLLOWING FINANCIAL YEAR Base Salaries Against the background of the Companys future remuneration policy set out in this report, the Committee recommended that increases to the base salaries of the executive directors for the forthcoming year ended 31 March 2015, with effect from 1 April 2014, be made as described below.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 65 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Executive Chairman Charles Wigoders annual base salary was increased from 370,000 to 420,000.
This increase primarily reflects the fact that the Company will no longer be making pension contributions on behalf of Mr Wigoder as he has reached the limit of the lifetime allowance for pension contributions under current HMRC rules.
The contributions made by the Company to Mr Wigoders pension during the year ended 31 March 2014 amounted to 37,000, representing the majority of the salary increase for 2015, with the balance of the increase broadly reflecting inflation.
The annual base salary of Chief Executive Andrew Lindsay was increased from 390,000 to 455,000 reflecting his strong personal performance and the incremental responsibility resulting from the significant increase in the size and profile of the Company during the year following the entering into of the new energy supply arrangements with Npower in December 2013.
The annual base salary of Finance Director Chris Houghton was held at 300,000 reflecting the large increase made to his salary last year.
Share Incentive Schemes It is expected that a share option award will be made to Chief Executive Andrew Lindsay during the coming year.
The award will comprise the granting of market value options over 300,000 shares which will vest in three discrete equal tranches after three, five and seven years.
The award will fall within the limits set out in the Remuneration Policy above as Mr Lindsay has not received a share incentive scheme award since 2011.
The Committee will be mindful of the size of this award when considering any future awards to Mr Lindsay in future.
The performance measures to be applied to Mr Lindsays award will mirror those used for the award of options to Finance Director Chris Houghton in December 2013 as summarised below.
It is expected that each performance measure will be given an equal weighting.
The base year for measuring performance will be the year ended 31 March 2014.
PERCENTAGE OF ADJUSTED RELATIVE SERVICE NUMBER 1 OPTIONS VESTING EPS GROWTH TSR GROWTH GROWTH 100% CPI 12.5% Upper quartile 20.0% 30% CPI 5.0% Median 10.0% 2 30%-100% CPI 5.0%-12.5% Median Upper quartile 10.0%-20.0% Nil CPI 5.0% Below median 10.0% 1 Company TSR performance relative to the FTSE 350 excluding Investment Trusts 2 Percentage of shares to be calculated on a straight line basis Full details of the proposed award will be set out in the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
66 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other benefits Remuneration in relation to pension contributions and other benefits for the year will be made in accordance with the Remuneration Policy set out above.
SHAREHOLDER VOTE AND SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT As set out in the Remuneration Policy Statement above, the Committee encourages dialogue with the Companys major shareholders regarding remuneration matters and will endeavour to consult with these shareholders ahead of any significant future changes to the remuneration policy.
Details of the votes cast in relation to the remuneration report at last years AGM are set out below: 2013 AGM NUMBER % Votes cast in favour 38,623,684 90.08 Votes cast against 4,259,816 9.92 Total 42,883,500 100.00 In addition to the above there were 1,977,181 votes withheld.
Julian Schild Chairman of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board 20 May 2014 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 67
