94 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Annual Statement by Chair of Remuneration Committee Our approach to remuneration Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present our report on Directors remuneration.
My appointment as Chair of the Remuneration Committee coincided with Shareholders giving their support for our Remuneration Policy and report at our AGM in February 2014, with votes in favour of 98.9% and 99.56% respectively.
We are encouraged by this acknowledgement of the significant progress in the Companys performance and our positive, ongoing engagement with Shareholders.
My colleagues and I on the Remuneration Committee intend to continue to operate a best in class approach to remuneration governance and Shareholder engagement.
Our overriding objective is for our executives to be remunerated within our pay for performance philosophy so as to promote the long-term success of the Company.
Our overriding objective is for our executives to be remunerated within our pay for performance philosophy so as to promote the long-term success oftheCompany.
Warren Tucker Chairman of the  Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 95 Our performance in FY14 Alignment with our Transformation and profitable growth strategy We continue to make good progress as we deliver our Transformation and profitable growth strategy.
Our achievements against our targets In 2013, we developed and consulted widely on our Remuneration and key performance indicators are shown on page 9.
Policy and the performance measures for the Performance Share Plan, which together with our Group Bonus Plan fully align 1 As described on page 43, we have continued to build a people and executive reward with the goals of our ongoing Transformation, performance centred culture with our customers at the heart of asdemonstrated in the chart below.
everything we do to deliver in a sustainable way the Transformation and profitable growth strategy.
This required having the right people We do not propose any changes to our shareholder approved in the right roles focused on the right priorities, with the structure Remuneration Policy this year, but have made some refinements to anddiscipline described in the Thomas Cook Business System.
our practices in line with developing best practice.
In particular, we have added a malus provision clawback of unvested shares for our We have delivered these achievements in the context of challenging PSP, consistent with that already in place for the Group Bonus Plan.
macro-economic factors and a tough market for travel globally.
Reflecting the views of our Shareholders Remuneration outcomes in FY14 We will consult with our key Shareholders on the performance Despite the achievements outlined above and significant progress measures and targets for our next award under the Performance against our strategic KPIs, we have not met the two financial hurdles Share Plan, which we propose to grant in early 2015. the Committee required to be met in full before pay-out could be made against any Group Bonus Plan measure.
Consequently, the We look forward to your support at the 2015 AGM and throughout Committee has determined that no payment will be made under theyear ahead.
theGroup Bonus Plan for FY14 for any participant including Executive Directors.
Although the Group Bonus Plan targets for FY14 are still 2 Finally, I would like to thank my fellow members of the Committee considered to be commercially sensitive, the targets for FY13 are and the people who have assisted us for their contribution over the disclosed retrospectively on page 104. past year.
The performance conditions for the June 2012 PSP and COIP awards Warren Tucker have been met in full and accordingly the shares will vest in June 2015.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The 2011 PSP and COIP awards lapsed as performance conditions 25 November 2014 were not met.
Our targets and KPIs for our Transformation How our remuneration is aligned with our Transformation and profitable and profitable growth strategy growthstrategy FY15 Target Group Bonus Plan FY15 Performance Share Plan 1 New product revenue 700m Reflected as a core measure 3 Web penetration 50% Reflected as a core measure 1 Cost out profit improvement 500m Reflected in Group EBIT measure and Reflected in our Group EBIT core measure CEOand CFO role-specific objectives Sales CAGR three year 3.5% Role-specific objectives where appropriate Gross margin improvement 1.5% Reflected in Group EBIT and CEO and CFO Reflected in our Group EBIT core measure role-specific objectives UK underlying EBIT margin 5% Role-specific objectives where appropriate 1 Cash conversion 70% Reflected as a core measure Reflected as a core measure for 2012 and 2013 awards Share price performance N A Reflected as a core measure Notes: 1 As described on page 104, three of the targets set out above have been significantly increased since March 2013, when they were first set and communicated to the market reflecting the pace and extentof progress in respect of the continuing Transformation.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
