96 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Directors remuneration policy This Policy report on pages 96 to 101 was approved by Shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting held on 20 February 2014 with 98.9% of all votes cast in favour.
Accordingly, it had binding effect on the Company from that date.
As no changes have been made to the policy since its approval by Shareholders, it is not proposed to submit it to the Annual General Meeting scheduled to be held on 23 February 2015.
Although no changes have been made to the policy, certain best practice refinements to how we operate the policy have been made, which are fully described in the Annual remuneration report on pages 102 to 110.
The Committee is satisfied that the refinements do not provide for any additional payments above that permitted by the approved policy, are in line with best practice and are in the interests of Shareholders.
Future policy table Element Purpose and link to strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Base salary Provides fixed remuneration for the role, Salaries are paid monthly and are normally reviewed annually.
Current salaries are disclosed on page 103.
Performance, through our performance management processes, is one of the key considerations whichreflects the size and scope of the Consideration is typically given to a range of factors including: Increases may be made to salary levels in certain circumstances insetting and reviewing salary.
size and scope of the Executive Directors responsibilities: asrequired, for example, toreflect: Attracts and retains the high-calibre talent performance and experience: and increase in scope of role or responsibility: necessary to deliver the business strategy.
typical pay levels for comparable roles in companies of a similar size and complexity performance in role: and intherelevant market.
an Executive Director being moved to market positioning over time.
Ordinarily, salary increases will not exceed the average increase awarded to other employees in the Group.
Retirement To provide competitive post-retirement benefits Payment may be made either into a pension scheme for example, a defined contribution plan Current Company contribution rates are disclosed on page 103.
benefits or cash allowance equivalent.
ordelivered as a cash allowance with Company contributions set as a percentage of basic salary.
Set at a level which the Committee considers is appropriately positioned Attracts and retains the high-calibre talent Level of benefit is dependent upon seniority.
against comparable roles in companies of a similar size and complexity necessary to deliver the business strategy.
Benefits Ensures the overall package is competitive.
Provision of a range of benefits by the Company.
Such benefits may include those currently provided Benefits may include those currently provided to Executive Directors, None.
Attracts and retains the high-calibre talent to Executive Directors, as disclosed on page 103.
These are reviewed annually by the Committee to as disclosed on page 103, however the Committee reserves the right necessary to deliver the business strategy.
ensure that they provide a competitive package and facilitate the delivery of the business strategy.
toprovide such level of benefits as it considers appropriate to support The Company reserves the right to deliver benefits to Executive Directors depending on their individual the ongoing strategy of the Company.
circumstances, which may include housing, travel, education, healthcare and other allowances.
In the case of non-UK Executives, the Committee may consider additional allowances in line with standard practice.
Annual bonus Energises and focuses management on rigorous Measures and targets are set annually and pay-out levels are determined by the Committee after For maximum performance: The Committee will have regard to various performance metrics which will be determined by execution of Thomas Cooks strategy on an theyear end based on performance against those targets.
theCommittee measured over the relevant financial year, when determining bonuses.
The Committee has full discretion to amend the bonus pay-out upwards or downwards, if in its No less than 70% of the award is based on financial measures and up to 30% of the award may Rewards annual performance against challenging judgement any formulaic output does not produce a fair result for either the individual Executive bebased on the achievement of role-specific objectives, which may be financial or non-financial.
annual targets and key performance indicators Director or the Company, taking account of the overall business performance or situation of For achievement of a threshold performance level the minimum level of performance that results which are critical to the realisation of our business the Company.
in any payment, no more than 20% of the maximum for each element of the bonus pays out.
Executive Directors must defer one-third of their annual bonus into Company shares which then For achievement of a mid performance level, no more than 60% of the maximum for each Compulsory deferral into the Companys shares vest two years after the cash bonus payment date, subject to continued employment and claw-back performance metric in relation to the bonus pays out.
provides a link to the creation of long-term provisions but no additional performance conditions.
Regarding the claw-back provisions, unvested For achievement of a maximum performance level 100% of the maximum pays out.
sustainable value, and also a retention element.
share awards lapse in certain scenarios, as described on page 98.
The claw-back provision enables the Company Good leaver terms are described in more detail on page 99. tomitigate risk.
At the Committees discretion, Executive Directors may receive the value of dividend equivalents during the holding period on the vested shares.
Long-term Energises and focuses management on rigorous The current Performance Share Plan was approved by Shareholders in 2007, and is governed by Under the plan rules, the aggregate value of all awards made within any The performance measures for the Performance Share Plan will be a combination of financial share-based execution of Thomas Cooks strategy over the therules of the plan.
A summary of the key features is set out below: 12-month period must not exceed 200% of base salary or such other measures and share price based measures, measured over at least a three-year performance incentiveplan longer term.
awards may be made in the form of conditional shares or options with vesting dependent upon period as the Committee may determine in exceptional circumstances.
Normally, the weightings will be as follows: Rewards sustained performance against theachievement of performance conditions set by the Committee.
Vesting of awards will be subject The normal maximum face value of awards is 150% of salary.
However, at least 50% will be based on financial measures: challenging long-term targets and key to athree-year performance period: the Committee has a discretion to award up to the plan rules maximum, at least 30% will be based on share price based measures : and performance indicators which are critical to the Committee has full discretion to amend the number of shares that vest upwards or downwards, when it believes the situation warrants a higher level of award.
the remaining 20% may be based either on financial or share price based measures therealisation of our business strategy.
if in its judgement any formulaic output does not produce a fair result for either the individual The Committee will determine more specific performance measures for future awards as the Long-term performance targets and share-based Executive Director or the Company, taking account of the overall business performance or situation Company makes progress with its Transformation during 2014 and will consult with major remuneration support the creation of long-term of the Company: Shareholders ahead of the next award.
the award will lapse if the participant leaves employment before vesting unless in specific good The performance measures may be adjusted, following grant, by the Committee to ensure a leaver circumstances.
Good leaver terms are described in more detail on page 99: consistent basis of calculation and to provide a fair reflection of the Companys performance.
the Committee may in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital adjust or amend the For achievement of a threshold performance level which is the minimum level of performance terms of the awards in accordance with the rules of the plan: and that results in any part of an award vesting, no more than 30% of each respective element of if the Company pays any dividends in respect of record dates falling in the period from the award theaward will vest.
date to the vesting date, the Committee may consider that the Executive should receive a payment For achievement of a maximum performance level which is the highest level of performance following delivery of the shares in satisfaction of his award, the value of which is equivalent to the thatresults in any additional vesting, 100% of each respective element of the award will vest.
cash value of the dividends in respect of any shares that vest.
Normally, there will be straight-line vesting for any performance level between threshold andmaximum.
The Committee may substitute, vary or waive the performance targets if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that the target is no longer appropriate.
Chairman and To reward individuals for fulfilling the relevant role.
The Committee is responsible for determining the fees for the Chairman of the Company.
Set at a level which the Committee or the Board, as appropriate None.
Non-Executive Attracts and retains individuals with the skills, Thefees for the other Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board.
considers: Director fees experience and knowledge to contribute to an The fee structure may include: reflects the time commitment and contribution that is expected effective Board.
a basic fee: fromthe Chairman and Non-Executive Directors: and additional fees for chairmanship of Board committees: appropriately positioned against comparable roles in companies additional fees for further responsibilities for example, Senior Independent Directorship : and ofasimilar size and complexity in the relevant market.
travel and hotel costs that are deemed to be an employment benefit by the relevant tax authority may also be paid.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration or loss of office payments including the satisfaction of any outstanding awards of variable remuneration made to Executive Directors, wherethe terms of that payment were agreed: i prior to the approval of this policy under their original terms for these purposes, the terms of a share award are agreed at the time it is granted: or ii at a time where the individual was not a Director of the Company, and in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 97 1 Future policy table Element Purpose and link to strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Base salary Provides fixed remuneration for the role, Salaries are paid monthly and are normally reviewed annually.
2 In the case of non-UK Executives, the Committee may consider additional allowances in line with standard practice.
if in its judgement any formulaic output does not produce a fair result for either the individual The Committee will determine more specific performance measures for future awards as the 3 Long-term performance targets and share-based Executive Director or the Company, taking account of the overall business performance or situation Company makes progress with its Transformation during 2014 and will consult with major remuneration support the creation of long-term of the Company: Shareholders ahead of the next award.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 98 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Directors remuneration policy continued Explanatory detail for future policy table Approach to recruitment remuneration When agreeing a remuneration package for the appointment of new Changes made in the year Directors, the Committee will apply the following principles: No changes have been made to the policy during the year.
The package will be sufficient to attract and retain the high-calibre talent necessary to develop and deliver the business strategy.
Explanation of chosen performance measures and the The Committee will seek to ensure that no more is paid than target setting process is necessary.
Performance measures have been selected to reflect the targets and In the next Annual remuneration report, the Committee will explain key performance indicators that are critical to the realisation of our to Shareholders the rationale for the relevant arrangements and business strategy.
if and when the transition to the policy described on page 96 will occur.
Challenging performance targets are set by the Committee each year for the annual bonus plan and the PSP.
When setting these targets, The following elements may be considered by the Committee the Committee will take into account a number of different reference for inclusion in a recruitment package for an Executive Director, points, including the Companys business plan and consensus analyst inaddition to the policy elements set out in the table on page 96: forecasts of the Companys performance.
Full vesting will only occur for what the Committee considers to be stretching performance.
Element Approach Initial long-term An initial long-term incentive award may be made, Claw-back incentive award whichmay be higher than the maximum PSP opportunity, as set out on page 96.
As highlighted in the policy table, a claw-back arrangement is in The Committee will ensure: place.
Under this arrangement, the unvested deferred annual bonus The award is linked to the achievement of appropriate andchallenging performance targets.
shares may lapse in whole or in part if a claw-back event occurs, The award will be forfeited if the performance and which includes: continued employment conditions are not achieved.
a material adverse misstatement of the Companys Initial annual The initial annual bonus opportunity may be set higher than bonus opportunity the approved policy.
financial statements: The Committee will ensure the award is linked to the participant or their team having engaged in gross misconduct theachievement of appropriate and challenging orin conduct which resulted in significant losses, as determined performance targets.
bythe Committee: and or Compensation for The terms of any compensation will be determined by the Company having suffered serious reputational damage, forfeited awards taking into account the terms of any forfeited awards, including: asdetermined by the Committee, as a result of any action taken Performance achieved or likely to be achieved.
bythe participant or his team.
The proportion of performance vesting period remaining.
The form and timing of the original award.
In addition, under the PSP, the Committee has discretion to amend Sign on awards In certain limited circumstances, for example in order to the final vesting level should any formulaic output not reflect the compensate for a loss at a previous employer other than overall business performance.
This discretion allows the Committee forforfeited awards, the Committee may make a one-off sign-on award as part of the initial package.
to decrease or increase the pay-out in the range of 0%100% of the The Committee retains the discretion to determine, based number of shares awarded.
on the circumstances at the time, whether this would be incash or shares, whether or not performance conditions Salary, pension and benefits are not subject to claw-back.
oran additional holding period would apply.
Notice period The initial notice period may be longer than the Companys six-month policy up to a maximum of 24 months.
Policy for the remuneration of employees generally However, this will reduce by one month for every month served, until the Companys policy position is reached.
Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group Relocation costs Where necessary, the Company will pay appropriate based on the same principle that reward should be achieved for relocation costs, in line with standard practice.
The delivery of our business strategy and should be sufficient to attract Committee will seek to ensure that no more is paid than and retain high-calibre talent, without paying more than is necessary.
Thomas Cook has operations based in a number of different An enhanced initial notice period, sign-on awards or increased initial countries and at different levels of seniority, and though based on annual bonus or long-term incentive award opportunities would only theoverarching principle above, reward policies vary depending be made available in exceptional circumstances.
Senior Executives with a significant ability to influence Company results may participate in the annual bonus plan and the PSP.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 99 Under the reporting regulations, Thomas Cook is required to set Service contracts and loss of office payments out the maximum amount of variable pay which could be paid to a Executive Directors new Director in respect of their recruitment.
In order to provide the Company with sufficient flexibility in a recruitment scenario, the Executive Directors have Company service contracts.
For Harriet Green Committee has set this figure as 500% of base salary.
This covers and Michael Healy, the service contracts provide for a six-month notice themaximum annual bonus and the maximum face value of any 1 period, from both the Company and the Executive Director.
If the Company terminates the employment of the Executive Director This level of variable pay would only be available in exceptional with immediate effect, a payment in lieu of notice may be made.
circumstances, and in order to achieve such a level of variable pay, This may include base salary, pension and benefits.
stretching targets would need to be met, over both one year for the annual bonus and at least three-year for long-term incentive Outstanding awards under the performance-linked elements of the performance periods.
package will normally lapse if an executive leaves the Company before the payment or vesting date.
However, in good leaver scenarios For individuals becoming Executive Directors as a result of an internal these may vest.
promotion from within Thomas Cook or as a result of an acquisition, any awards under other arrangements which were made prior to This may include: joining the Board may be allowed to continue under the original terms, If the participant leaves during the annual bonus performance or under a revised basis such as a roll-over into Thomas Cook shares year and before the payment date, a bonus payment in respect if the Committee determines appropriate.
of the year may be made, pro-rated to reflect the portion of the performance year elapsed, and with reference to Fee levels for a new Chairman or new Non-Executive Directors will be performance achieved.
determined in accordance with the policy set out in the future policy If the participant leaves before the end of the holding period, table on page 96.
2 anyunvested deferred bonus shares may vest.
Outstanding unvested awards under the PSP vest to the extent determined by the Committee taking into account the period of time the individual has held the award and performance achieved against any relevant performance targets.
For reference, good leaver scenarios include death, disability, injury, ill-health, redundancy, retirement, the award holders employing company or business being sold out of the Group, or any other reason that the Committee determines appropriate.
Other than in the good leaver scenarios described, no pay-outs will be made under performance-linked elements.
Any good leaver awards may vest or be paid out immediately upon termination or in line with the original vesting or payment date, at the discretion of the Committee.
3 Awards granted under the PSP shall lapse at the time of cessation of employment unless the Committee has used its discretion to deem that an individual is a good leaver, when the Committee has the discretion to determine when awards vest and, if relevant, when they may be exercised.
Awards structured as options shall be exercisable for a period of six months or 12 months in the case of death from vesting unless the Committee determines any other period should apply.
Awards may also vest early if the participant is moved to a country where their capacity to hold the award or deal in shares would be restricted or they would suffer a tax disadvantage in connection with the award.
In the event of a takeover or winding-up of the Company otherthan as part of an internal reorganisation of the Thomas Cook Group, PSP awards may also vest to the extent determined by the Committee, taking into account the period elapsed since grant and the performance achieved against any relevant performance targets.
The awards may also be rolled over into new shares of an acquiring company.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 100 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Directors remuneration policy continued Non-Executive Directors Statement of consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed pursuant to a letter of appointment.
The notice period for the When setting the policy for Directors remuneration, the Committee Chairman is three months, and one month for the other Nonhas regard to the pay and employment conditions elsewhere within Executive Directors.
All Non-Executive Directors are subject to the Group.
This includes consideration of: annual re-election by shareholders at the AGM.
The Non-Executive Salary increases for the general employee population Directors letters of appointment continue until the date stated in Overall spend on annual bonus their appointment letter unless they are terminated for cause, or Participation levels in the annual bonus and any long-term incentives on the notice period stated, or if they are not re-elected at the AGM.
Company-wide benefit including pension offerings The Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are kept Any other relevant factors as determined by the Committee.
for inspection by Shareholders at the Companys registered office.
In order to take into account the views of the general employee Outside appointments population when formulating Director pay policy, the Committee may The Company recognises the benefits to the individual, and to the review information provided by the HR function and feedback from Group, of Executive Directors taking on external appointments as employee engagement surveys.
Subject to the approval of the Committee an Executive Director may accept such appointments at other companies Statement of consideration of Shareholder views or other similar advisory or consultative roles.
The Committee has set The Company is committed to ongoing engagement and seeks major a limit of one external appointment for each Executive Director, to one Shareholder views in advance of proposing significant changes to its FTSE 100 or 250 company, or an international company of a similar remuneration policies.
size, unless there is justification for a further appointment.
The Board will review the time commitment of all outside appointments and The following describes the 2013 consultation: ensure that it is satisfied that this will not negatively impact upon the Executives time commitment to the performance of Thomas In response to the advisory Shareholder vote on the Directors Cook duties.
remuneration report at the 2013 AGM, the Chairman of the Board met with major Shareholders to discuss the issues raised by them.
The Committee may allow Executive Directors to retain any In addition, after the announcement of the Companys new strategy fees payable.
in March 2013 the Chairman of the Board and the Remuneration Committee chairman met with major Shareholders, representing cumulatively over 50% of the Companys share capital in June and July 2013 to discuss the approach to performance conditions for the September 2012 and September 2013 PSP awards, and to present the Remuneration Policy set out under the then draft revised Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, which included the increased annual bonus deferral and the introduction of shareholding requirements.
At these meetings, soundings weretaken in respect of Executive Director base pay rises.
Subsequent follow-up consultation was carried out during September, October and November.
We were pleased with the level of engagement from our Shareholders, and the positive, supportive and constructive feedback we received on our proposals.
Views from all Shareholder meetings were taken into consideration when formulating Executive remuneration policy.
An example of how Shareholders views were taken into account was that the Committee decided to amend the share-price measurement basis to be in line with Shareholder requirements.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 101 Illustrative performance scenarios As at 20 February 2014, when this policy was approved by shareholders.
CEO Harriet Green CFO Michael Healy Total Remuneration 000 Total Remuneration 000 1 3,500 3,450 3,500 39% 3,000 3,000 2,500 2,500 2,397 42% 2,000 1,988 2,000 30% 15% 1,500 1,500 31% 1,322 1,070 31% 17% 1,000 1,000 100% 54% 31% 34% 647 500 500 100% 49% 27% 0 0 Base salary, Mid Maximum Base salary, Mid Maximum benets, pension benets, pension Total xed Annual bonus PSP Total xed Annual bonus PSP The charts show the level of remuneration that would be received by the Directors above in accordance with the Directors remuneration policy in the first financial year it applies i. e. financial year FY14, as at date of AGM approval.
The charts show three scenarios: a base salary, benefits and pension, b mid and c maximum.
In developing the scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: 2 Base salary, Based on what an Executive Director would receive if performance was in line with the following scenario: benefits Only total fixed pay is received, i. e. base salary, benefits and pension.
This is calculated as follows: and pension Base salary as at 20 February 2014, when this policy was approved by shareholders.
Benefits measured at benefits in single figure table in the FY13 report, when this policy was approved by shareholders.
Pension measured by applying cash in lieu rate against base salary as at 20 February 2014.
Base Benefits Pension Total fixed CEO 680,000 186,000 204,000 1,070,000 CFO 500,000 22,000 125,000 647,000 Mid Based on what an Executive Director would receive if performance was in line the Companys expectations, whichwouldresult in the following scenario: Annual bonus pays out at 60% of maximum for mid performance.
A PSP award with a face value of 150% in line with the normal grant policy pays out 30% of maximum, beingthreshold level of vesting.
Maximum Based on what an Executive Director would receive if performance was in line with the following scenario: Full pay-out of annual bonus, i. e. 150% of salary.
3 A PSP award with a face value of 200% in line with the maximum possible award under the plan rules pays out at100% of maximum.
Note: As required by the regulations, Performance Share Plan awards and amounts included within the bonus which have been deferred into shares are set out at face value, with no share price growth assumptions.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
