STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 79 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DiRectORS RePORt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Remuneration Committee I am pleased to introduce the Directors Remuneration Report for the committee activities during the year year ended 30 September 2014. tUi AG merger Since the summer of 2014, the Committee has been busy considering Directors Remuneration Policy the impact of the merger on senior management remuneration at TUI Last year, we made a number of changes to our Executive Director Travel.
As part of these discussions, Sir Mike Hodgkinson, our Senior remuneration framework.
These were set out in our Remuneration Independent Director, has met with a number of major shareholders Policy Report, which was subject to a binding vote at our 2014 AGM.
to discuss their expectations regarding the merger, including from a As a Committee, we were pleased with the level of support the Policy remuneration perspective.
We have listened to shareholders views Report received and would like to thank our shareholders for this.
and have fed these into our discussions, both internally and during our We are not proposing to make any changes for the year ending conversations with representatives of TUI AG.
30 September 2015 and therefore the Policy approved last year will Items of discussion for the Committee in relation to the merger included: remain in force.
For convenience, we have reproduced the Policy on pages 81 to 88. the treatment of outstanding employee share awards: input to the TUI AG Supervisory Board regarding corporate I would like to highlight that the Policy relates to TUI Travel PLC and governance expectations and remuneration arrangements for the therefore we will remain subject to its provisions whilst we remain an Executive Directors under the combined Group: and independent Company.
Once the merger with TUI AG completes, the communication with impacted TUI Travel individuals regarding the Policy will cease to apply from the date of the merger onwards.
merger negotiations and any remuneration implications.
The aims of our policy are: As a Committee, we are firmly of the view that no share awards should to provide a package that is simple and transparent to shareholders: automatically vest as a result of the merger.
As such, Performance Share to link a substantial proportion of the total remuneration Plan PSP and Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme DABS awards granted package to the achievement of demanding long-term financial in 2012 and 2013 will remain outstanding and will continue in line with performance targets: their original vesting timeframes and with performance conditions to provide an appropriate balance between fixed remuneration attached.
Following completion, some performance conditions may and variable performance-related reward: need to be amended to ensure that the targets remain appropriate in the combined Group.
to align the Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders over the long term by building a significant The 2011 DABS and PSP awards will vest in December 2014 in shareholding in our business: accordance with their original schedule.
to set the total remuneration package at a level that reflects Under the merger, the combined Group will be a German-domiciled the competitive markets in which the Group operates: company.
During our discussions with TUI AG representatives we to enable recruitment, retention and stability: and have provided input on UK institutional investor, advisory body and to reinforce a high-performance culture throughout the Group.
shareholder expectations regarding corporate governance best practice.
As an example, the Committee notes the revised UK Corporate We believe that these principles are fundamental in ensuring that our Governance Code, which was released by the Financial Reporting remuneration framework is fit for purpose and provides an appropriate Council in September 2014 and applies to reporting years beginning alignment between pay and performance.
Following the year-end, we have been considering the implications of the changes, particularly in relation to clawback provisions.
We recognise the importance of companies being able to recover amounts which have been paid out where it becomes clear that they should not have been, and we have discussed potential approaches for TUI Travel, which would augment our current malus provisions.
TUI AG is currently considering the framework for senior management remuneration, and this will include discussions around the potential inclusion of clawback provisions.
coline Mcconville TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 11 2014 | Proof 1 80 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Remuneration Committee continued Group Management Board review Looking ahead to the year ending 30 September 2015 Following the review of Executive Director remuneration in 2013, As highlighted above, we will continue to operate under our approved we have extended the framework across the full Group Management Remuneration Policy until the merger completes.
In aligning remuneration arrangements across our senior In line with the Executive Directors Remuneration Policy salaries were team, we have adopted a consistent approach to remuneration at the reviewed on 1 October 2014.
Benefits, pension top of our business.
This policy focuses the senior management team provisions and opportunities under the annual bonus are unchanged.
on key measures of business performance, ensuring that all individuals are focused on the same corporate goals.
At this stage, it is not currently planned to make any further TUI Travel PSP awards to Executive Directors, although this position may change volker Bttcher if the merger is cancelled or substantially delayed.
During the year we considered the arrangements for Volker Bttcher, who stood down from the TUI Travel PLC Board as an Executive Director On behalf of the Committee I thank you for your support and trust on 16 December 2013.
He remains employed within the TUI Travel PLC that you find the Remuneration Report informative.
group of companies until 31 December 2014. coline Mcconville Pay outcomes in the year ended 30 September 2014 Remuneration Committee Chairman 3 December 2014 The Company has continued to perform strongly, led by the executive team, and the remuneration received for the year ended 30 September 2014 recognises this strong performance.
We have delivered another year of out-performance against our growth roadmap achieving: an underlying operating profit growth of 11% on a constant currency basis: record customer satisfaction level of 79% maintained across our key markets: free cash flow increase of 12% on a constant currency basis: and an available net cash position cash and cash equivalents less loans, overdrafts and finance leases, excluding restricted cash of 371m.
As a result annual bonus payouts for Executive Directors reflect strong performance against financial targets and their individual personal objectives.
2011 DABS and PSP awards are due to vest in full in December 2014.
For context, over the performance period of these awards, we have delivered strong EPS growth and our market capitalisation has risen from under 2bn to well over 4bn.
This has resulted in excellent value creation for shareholders and we believe the reward for Executive Directors fairly reflects these achievements.
The Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2014 has been prepared on behalf of the Board by the Remuneration Committee the Committee.
The report has been compiled taking into account the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the relevant sections of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
The Committee adopts the principles of good governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This report will be subject to one vote at the AGM on 10 February 2015 an advisory vote in relation to the statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
tt27 | AR 2014 | 13 11 2014 | proof 1 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 81 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DiRectORS RePORt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Directors Remuneration Policy This section sets out the Policy which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 6 February 2014.
The Policy applies to any remuneration and loss of office payments made on or after 1 October 2014. executive Directors Future Policy table element Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Set at levels to attract and retain Executive Directors of the high calibre required to develop and deliver the strategy.
To reflect the individuals skills, experience and role within the Group.
Operation When determining salaries, the Committee typically takes into account: business and individual performance: salary levels at companies of a similar size, industry, global scope and complexity to TUI Travel PLC: and the pay and conditions of employees elsewhere in the Group.
Salaries are generally reviewed annually in October, although an out-of-cycle review may be conducted if the Committee determines appropriate.
A review will not necessarily lead to an increase in salary.
Maximum opportunity Salary increases will typically be in line with the general level of increase awarded to other employees in the Group.
In exceptional circumstances, at the Committees discretion, higher increases may be made.
These could include: increase in the scope and or responsibility of the individuals role: development of the individual within the role: and or where a larger increase is considered necessary for the retention of an Executive Director.
Performance measures Individual and business performance are considerations in deciding salary levels.
element Retirement benefits Purpose and link to strategy To attract and retain Executive Directors of the right calibre.
To provide a market-competitive retirement benefit.
To reassure Executive Directors about their provision in retirement.
Operation Executive Directors can choose to participate in the relevant local defined contribution pension or receive a cash allowance or a combination thereof.
William Waggott has deferred pension entitlements under the final salary section of the TUI Pension Scheme UK.
He ceased to be an active member on 3 September 2007.
When appointing new Executive Directors, the Committee may apply alternative pension provisions.
In such circumstances the Committee will consider a range of factors including cost, market practice and pension policy elsewhere in the Group.
Maximum opportunity The maximum Company contribution to an Executive Directors pension or equivalent cash allowance may not exceed 50% of base salary.
Performance measures Not performance related.
element Other benefits Purpose and link to strategy To ensure broad competitiveness with market practice.
To support personal health and well-being.
Operation Benefits provision is set at an appropriate market level, taking into account the individuals home jurisdiction, the jurisdiction in which the individual is based, market practice at similar companies and the level of benefits provided elsewhere in the Group.
The benefits to which Executive Directors are entitled include but are not limited to private medical insurance for the individual and his family, life assurance, permanent health insurance, car provision allowance, holiday travel concessions up to an annual limit of 2,500 and interest-free loans.
Global relocation support for up to five years and any associated costs or benefits including but not limited to housing benefits, personal tax advice and school fees may also be provided if business needs require it.
The Company may also provide tax equalisation arrangements.
The Committee may remove benefits that Executive Directors receive or introduce other benefits if considered appropriate to do so.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate, on the same basis as other employees, in the Companys tax-advantaged Share Incentive Plan or any other all-employee share plan operated in the future.
Maximum opportunity The maximum level of benefits provided to an individual Executive Director may not exceed 70,000 per annum.
In exceptional circumstances, at the Committees discretion, an exception to the above limit might be approved, e. g. where global relocation of an Executive Director is considered necessary to deliver business objectives.
Participation by Executive Directors in the Share Incentive Plan, and any other all-employee share plan operated in the future, is limited to the maximum award levels permitted by the relevant legislation.
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 11 2014 | Proof 1 82 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Remuneration Committee continued element Annual Performance Bonus and Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme Purpose and link to strategy To encourage and reward the attainment of challenging financial and strategic performance targets during an annual period.
The performance measures closely align to the strategy of the business and shareholder value creation.
The deferred element drives and rewards delivery of sustained long-term performance, aligns Executive Director and shareholder interests and supports retention.
Operation Performance is normally assessed over one financial year.
25% of any bonus paid must normally be deferred into shares under DABS for three years.
Participants may either voluntarily choose to defer up to an additional 25% or the Committee may, in certain circumstances, determine that an additional 25% of the bonus should be deferred on a compulsory basis.
As outlined in the Notes to this Table the last awards of matching shares under DABS were made in December 2013.
The awards related to performance in the year ended 30 September 2013.
These, and other previous DABS awards currently outstanding, will vest in subsequent years.
The vesting of matching awards is subject to continued employment, achievement of performance conditions and compliance with the policy on payment for loss of office.
Dividend equivalent payments may be made equal to the amount of dividends that would have been payable during the period between the grant and vesting of an award.
Share awards are normally made in the form of nil-cost options but may be awarded in other forms if appropriate such as conditional share awards.
Nil-cost options may normally be exercised until the 10th anniversary of the date of grant.
Awards may also be satisfied in cash and may be granted to a Directors personal service company at the discretion of the Committee.
For bonuses awarded in respect of the year commencing 1 October 2014, and subsequently, malus provisions apply.
These allow the Committee to cancel or reduce vesting of unvested awards in certain circumstances, including: a misstatement of results that resulted in a bonus or award being paid at too high a level: a material failure of risk management or health and safety: serious reputational damage to the Company: and or personal misconduct.
The Committee may adjust and amend the terms of the awards in accordance with the plan rules.
Maximum opportunity The maximum bonus opportunity as a percentage of salary is up to 175% for the CEO and up to 140% for the other Executive Directors.
The last award of DABS matching shares was made in December 2013.
The award related to performance in the year ended 30 September 2013.
The maximum multiple was a ratio of four matching shares to one deferred share.
Performance measures Annual bonus The annual bonus is based on a mix of financial and individual business objectives, with the majority of the weighting being given to financial metrics.
Financial performance-related measures typically 75% to 85% of total are chosen carefully to ensure a strong link between reward and underlying Company financial performance.
As an example, these measures may typically include profit, cash flow or other measures as appropriate.
Individual performance 15% to 25% of total is measured through an assessment of comprehensive business deliverables, financial targets, personal performance and the achievement of specific individual objectives.
The exact measures, weightings and targets are determined by the Committee each year taking into account the Groups key strategic priorities and the approved budget for the year.
A sliding scale between 0% and 100% of the maximum award applies for achievement between threshold and maximum performance under the bonus plan.
tt27 | AR 2014 | 13 11 2014 | proof 1 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 83 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DiRectORS RePORt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION element Performance Share Plan PSP Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise long-term value creation through the setting of stretching targets that ensure a strong link between reward, underlying Group financial performance and shareholder returns.
To support recruitment and retention.
Operation Awards are discretionary and normally vest subject to performance over a three-year performance period.
The vesting of awards is subject to continued employment or compliance with the policy on payment for loss of office.
For awards made in respect of the year commencing 1 October 2014, malus provisions apply.
These allow the Committee to cancel or reduce vesting of unvested awards in certain circumstances including: a misstatement of results that led to the award being granted at too high a level: a material failure of risk management or health and safety: serious reputational damage to the Company: and or personal misconduct.
Maximum opportunity The maximum award opportunity under the PSP is 400% of salary in any financial year.
It is currently envisaged that awards will be made of up to an operational limit of 300% of salary, although a larger award may be made in exceptional circumstances.
The Committee also retains power to increase the operational limit to up to the maximum plan limit without shareholder approval if it considers it appropriate to do so, in which case the Committee will aim to engage with shareholders.
Performance measures Awards vest based on performance against EPS as defined in the plan rules, relative TSR and ROIC measures over a three-year period.
Normally, these will be broadly weighted as below, although the Committee may vary the precise weightings, as well as setting the specific targets for each measure as appropriate to reflect business and strategic priorities.
EPS 50% Relative TSR 25% ROIC 25% To ensure that the PSP awards vest only when shareholder value is being created, awards will be subject to the achievement of an initial financial performance hurdle.
This will normally be based on a return on capital measure.
Failure to achieve this hurdle will usually result in none of the award vesting.
Should the hurdle be achieved, vesting for threshold performance will be up to, but no more than, 15% of the maximum award opportunity.
If events happen that cause the Committee to determine that the performance conditions are no longer a fair measure of the Companys performance, the Committee can amend the conditions as it determines to be appropriate, with due regard to the best interests of shareholders.
determine that any target is no longer a fair measure of the Companys notes to the executive Directors Future Policy table performance, the Committee can amend the target if considered Legacy matters appropriate, with due regard to the best interests of shareholders.
The Committee reserves the right to make remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including the exercise of any discretions Selection of performance measures annual bonus available to the Committee in connection with such payments that fall The Committee will choose annual bonus performance measures and outside the Policy where the terms of the payment were agreed before targets which will provide an appropriate balance between incentivising the Policy came into effect or at a time when the relevant individual was Executive Directors to achieve financial targets for the year and driving not a Director of the Company and the payment was not in consideration the delivery of specific business deliverables, strategic objectives and for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments include the Committee satisfying awards Selection of performance measures PSP of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the The Company aims to create sustainable long-term shareholder value.
terms of the payment agreed at the time the award was granted.
The To encourage and reward this, the Company aims to align performance share awards under the PSP and DABS held by the Executive Directors measures under the PSP with the strategy of the business and set which were granted, or which are anticipated to be, prior to the Policy stretching targets, achievement of which it considers should result in coming into effect are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In particular: Matching shares financial performance measures a direct measure of business health, The last award of DABS matching shares was made in December 2013. reflecting the strength of our underlying financial performance.
We The award related to performance in the year ended 30 September take into account a number of internal and external reference points 2013.
The maximum multiple was a ratio of four matching shares to to ensure that targets are appropriately stretching: and one deferred share.
These and other previous DABS awards that are share price performance measures the most focused indicator of currently outstanding will vest in subsequent years.
our ultimate delivery of shareholder returns and intended to promote alignment between investors and Executive Directors.
Targets are Matching awards are subject to performance measured over a threeset taking into account a number of factors, including reference to year period.
The framework used for assessing performance is the same typical market practice.
They are set at a level which the Committee as that for PSP awards.
If events happen that cause the Committee to considers represents stretching performance.
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 11 2014 | Proof 1 84 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Remuneration Committee continued Deferred bonus awards not subject to performance measures PSP and DABS rules No further performance measures apply to deferred share awards Renewed and updated versions of the PSP and DABS rules were granted under the DABS as these represent the deferral of annual approved at the AGM on 6 February 2014 and applied from this date.
bonus amounts that have already been earned.
non-executive Directors Future Policy table The Board aims to recruit high-calibre Non-Executive Directors, with broad commercial, international or other relevant experience.
The remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors with the exception of the Chairman is set by the Board having taken account of the fees paid in other companies of a similar size and complexity and the limits set by the Articles of Association.
The policy for the Chairman is determined by the Committee of which the Chairman is not a member.
When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the remuneration arrangements offered will generally be in line with those set out in the Non-Executive Directors Future Policy Table.
Approach to setting fees Basis of fees Other items Fees are set at an appropriate level to attract Each Non-Executive Director is paid a basic The Non-Executive Directors do not participate and retain high-calibre Non-Executive Directors.
fee for undertaking Non-Executive Director in the annual bonus or long-term incentive plans and Board duties.
A higher fee is typically and do not receive any pension benefits.
Fees are reviewed at appropriate intervals paid to the Chairman of the Board and the taking into account the time commitment The Group provides each Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
expected and practice in peer companies Director with relevant liability insurance of a similar size, sector and complexity.
Additional fees may also be paid for taking for the duration of their appointment.
on Committee responsibilities and other Non-Executive Directors receive holiday Board duties.
The maximum annual value is The maximum aggregate fees for all Non- 2,500.
There are currently no other benefits Executive Directors allowed by the Companys provided to Non-Executive Directors.
However, Articles of Association is 1.5m.
the Board may introduce additional benefits if it is considered appropriate to do so.
Non-Executive Directors fees are not subject to claw-back or withholding arrangements.
Remuneration arrangements across the Group Approach to the recruitment and retention of executive Directors Our reward philosophy is consistent across the Group, namely that reward should support our business strategy and be sufficient to attract We have a strong track record of succession planning and growing and and retain high-performing individuals.
this framework, there are differences for a range of reasons, including Principles global location and the local talent market.
When hiring a new Executive Director, or promoting to the Board from Salaries and benefits a range of factors are considered including within the Group, the Committee will offer a package that is sufficient business and individual performance, the pay of other employees to retain and motivate and, if relevant, attract the right talent whilst and external market data.
at all times aiming to pay no more than is necessary.
In determining Annual bonus consistent with the policy for Executive Directors, an appropriate remuneration package, the Committee will take into annual bonuses across the Group are typically linked to local consideration all relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the impact business performance with a focus on underlying profit growth on other existing remuneration arrangements, the candidates location and performance against key strategic business objectives.
Key and experience, external market influences and internal pay relativities.
management team members may also receive some of their annual Typically, the new appointment will be in line with, or be transitioned bonus in shares which have to be deferred for three years, in line onto, the policy as set out in the Executive Directors Future Policy with the policy for Executive Directors.
Following any Executive Director recruitment the Committee PSP a small number of senior executives who provide significant will include the rationale for the arrangements offered in the next strategic input may be invited to participate in the PSP in any year.
All Employee Share Plans a tax-advantaged Share Incentive Plan is open to all UK eligible employees including Executive Directors on components and approach the same terms, giving them the opportunity to become The package offered to a new Executive Director will typically include shareholders in the Company.
Participation in a global plan may those elements listed within the Executive Directors Future Policy Table.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may use other elements if it considers it appropriate to do so with due regard to the best interests of the shareholders.
In particular, in considering its approach, the Committee will take into account factors which include, but are not limited to, typical market practice, existing arrangements for other Executive Directors, internal relativities and market positioning.
tt27 | AR 2014 | 13 11 2014 | proof 1 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 85 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DiRectORS RePORt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Where expatriate appointments are made, the Committee may consider These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes providing additional benefits where considered appropriate and in the may differ from those shown.
Companys best interests to do so.
Peter Long In exceptional circumstances the Committee may, at its discretion, 6,000 5,339 Fixed pay Annual bonus LTI offer a service contract that contains a longer initial notice period, 5,000 tapering down to 12 months over a set period of time, if it is deemed to be in the best interests of our shareholders.
4,000 48% Buy-outs 3,000 2,364 The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate 14% to buy-out forfeited remuneration arrangements.
In doing so, the 2,000 28% 31% 1,302 Committee will typically take account of relevant factors including any 1,000 performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which 100% 55% 24% they were awarded e. g. cash or shares and the time over which they 0 would have vested.
Generally it is the Committees intention that Minimum performance Performance in line Maximum performance with expectations the buy-out of awards will be made on a comparable basis to those forfeited and will be share-based.
Johan Lundgren 4,500 In determining whether it is appropriate to offer a buy-out, the 4,032 Fixed pay Annual bonus LTI 4,000 Committee will ensure that any awards are made in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders and will give due regard 3,500 to all relevant factors.
3,000 52% 2,500 Maximum level of variable pay 2,000 1,705 The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to new 15% 1,500 24% Executive Directors is limited to 575% of salary.
This excludes any 952 29% 1,000 buy-out awards.
500 100% 56% 24% For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in 0 Minimum performance Performance in line Maximum performance respect of the previous role may either continue on its original terms with expectations or be adjusted to reflect the new appointment.
William Waggott It is appropriate for the Committee to have discretion to make additional 3,500 one-off cash or share-based awards to Executive Directors in order for 3,173 Fixed pay Annual bonus LTI the Committee to be able to respond in exceptional and unexpected 3,000 circumstances.
The Company will make full disclosure of any such awards 2,500 52% made, including the rationale, in the Companys Directors Remuneration Report for the relevant financial year.
2,000 1,344 1,500 illustrations of the application of the executive Directors 15% 24% Remuneration Policy 1,000 754 29% Our remuneration arrangements have been designed so that a 500 100% 56% 24% substantial proportion of pay is dependent on the achievement 0 of stretching short and long-term performance targets.
Minimum performance Performance in line Maximum performance with expectations As part of this process, the Committee reviews, on at least an annual Notes: basis, the impact of different performance scenarios on the potential 1.
These illustrations of the application of the Directors Remuneration Policy show the reward opportunity and pay-outs to be received by the Executive potential reward opportunity for the Executive Directors from 1 October 2014 onwards assuming PSP awards are made at the operational limit of 300% of salary.
The charts show hypothetical values of the remuneration 2.
Fixed remuneration is comprised salary, standard benefits package for Executive Directors in post on 30 September 2014 under provision company car or car allowance, medical insurance and holiday travel concessions based on maximum values for the year ended 30 September 2013 and employer pension three assumed performance scenarios: contribution allowance.
Minimum performance i. e. fixed elements of pay only, with no 3.
Performance in line with expectations is comprised fixed remuneration, annual bonus at 50% of maximum performance levels and long-term incentives at threshold performance levels.
bonus pay-out or vesting of long-term incentives.
Maximum performance is comprised fixed remuneration, annual bonus at maximum Performance in line with expectations assuming 50% pay-out performance levels and long-term incentives at maximum performance levels.
All scenarios assume no share price appreciation during the vesting period.
Therefore, under the annual bonus and threshold performance under the PSP, depending on share price performance, the actual outcomes could be higher or lower.
i. e. 10% vesting under the EPS element and 15% vesting under the 6.
All-employee share plans have been excluded, as have any legacy awards which TSR and ROIC elements.
Maximum performance assuming 100% pay-out under both the annual bonus and the PSP.
The charts are in line with our remuneration policy effective from 1 October 2014.
They have been updated from those published previously to reflect revised benefit costs.
Matching share awards under DABS are excluded as the last award was made in December 2013.
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 11 2014 | Proof 1 000s 000s 000s 86 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Remuneration Committee continued Directors Service Agreements The obligations on the Company, which could give rise to, or impact, remuneration payments or payments for loss of office, contained in In line with best corporate practice for listed companies, the Committees Volker Bttchers service contract are set out below.
Dr Bttchers policy is for Executive Directors to have rolling contracts with a 12-month service contract is governed by German law.
notice period although in some recruitment circumstances a longer notice period may be offered, tapering down to 12 months over a set notice period 12 months notice by the Company and 12 months period of time.
notice by the Executive Director.
expiry date Rolling service contract.
The following table sets out a description of any obligations on the Fixed retirement date.
Company, contained in the UK Executive Directors service contracts, Basic salary Contractual entitlement to receive a basic salary which could give rise to, or impact, remuneration payments or payments and for a salary review to take place each year.
The Company is not obliged to increase Dr Bttchers salary following a review.
notice period 12 months notice by the Company and six months Pension Pension contribution of up to 25% of basic salary.
contributions expiry date Rolling service contract.
contractual Contractual entitlement to: Basic salary Contractual entitlement to receive a basic salary benefits accident insurance to cover death or invalidity: and for a salary review to take place each year.
sick pay: The Company is not obliged to increase an company car allowance: and Executive Directors salary following a review.
Pension Pension contribution of up to 50% of basic Annual bonus Contractual entitlement to participate in the annual contributions salary for Peter Long and 33% of basic salary bonus scheme dependent on performance factors.
for Will Waggott and Johan Lundgren.
contractual Contractual entitlement to: Long-term Contractual entitlement to be considered for incentive plans participation in the PSP and DABS, subject to the benefits private medical insurance: Companys policy in relation to such schemes and permanent health insurance: to the approval of the Committee.
sick pay: Retirement date Dr Bttchers contract automatically expires at the life assurance: end of the month in which he reaches the age of 63. company car allowance: and termination If Dr Bttcher is placed on notice he may be eligible holiday travel benefits.
payments to be paid an annual bonus equivalent to at least Annual bonus Contractual entitlement to participate in the annual 50% of the maximum amount that could have been bonus scheme dependent on performance factors.
awarded had he worked his notice.
The normal Long-term Contractual entitlement to be considered for award required under German case law is the incentive plans participation in the PSP and DABS, subject to the average of the previous three-years bonus awards.
Companys policy in relation to such schemes and The Company may also apply a non-compete to the approval of the Committee.
In such circumstances under the German Retirement date There is no default retirement age.
Requests Commercial Code Dr Bttcher would be entitled for retirement are considered on a case-by-case to 50% of the annual remuneration he last received basis.
It is anticipated that at least 12 months in his role including variable remuneration as notice will be provided, albeit that the contractual compensation.
This would be paid in 12 monthly requirement on the part of an Executive Director instalments and would be subject to mitigation.
to give notice is only six months.
Compliance with the German Commercial Code termination The Director will be paid his salary and any other is a legal obligation.
payments contractual benefits in respect of the relevant In a termination situation the Committee would notice period.
If the Director is placed on notice strive to balance the interests of the Company he may be eligible to be paid an annual bonus with German legislative requirements.
equivalent to 50% of the maximum amount that could have been awarded had he worked his notice.
Executive Directors are able to accept non-executive appointments outside the Company as long as this does not lead to a conflict of The service contract for any new Executive Directors will not include interest with the consent of the Board as such appointments can any provision that is more generous than those listed above.
enhance their experience and add value to the Company.
Any fees received excluding positions where the Executive Director is appointed as the Companys representative are retained by the Executive Director.
tt27 | AR 2014 | 13 11 2014 | proof 1 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 87 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DiRectORS RePORt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The following table sets out a description of any obligations on the Executive Directors are entitled to 12 months base pay and contractual Company, contained in the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive benefits if served notice by the Company.
The Company is entitled Directors, which could give rise to, or impact on, remuneration payments to six months notice of termination by UK Executive Directors and or payments for loss of office: 12 months by Dr Bttcher.
notice period Three months notice by either party.
In the normal course of events, the Executive Director will work his expiry date Rolling appointment typically expected to last notice period.
six years save for Minnow Powell, Janis Kong, In the event of termination for cause e. g. gross misconduct neither Coline McConville and Val Gooding whose notice nor payment in lieu of notice PILON will be given and the letters of appointment are subject to a threeyear fixed term.
Executive Director will cease to perform his services immediately.
Fees and benefits Entitled to receive fees, together with such In the event of termination for other reasons than cause e. g. resignation holiday concession arrangements as may and the individual being requested to cease working before the end from time to time be made available to of his notice period, PILON may be payable.
If a portion of the notice Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are covered by the Companys directors indemnity period is served, the payment will be reduced on a pro-rata basis.
Payments may be made on a phased basis and may be subject to Pension contributions None mitigation.
Alternatively, rather than making a PILON, the Company Annual bonus and longNot eligible to participate in any annual bonus may instead place an Executive Director on garden leave for the term incentive plans scheme or long-term incentive plan.
duration of some or all of their notice period.
termination payments Not entitled to any compensation for loss In redundancy situations the Committee will comply with prevailing of office.
In addition, and consistent with market practice, the Company may pay a contribution towards the Executive Directors All Executive Director service contracts and Non-Executive Director legal fees for entering into a statutory agreement and may pay a letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys contribution towards fees for outplacement services as part of a registered office during normal hours of business, and will also be negotiated settlement.
available at the Companys AGM until the close of the meeting.
There is no provision for additional compensation on termination Policy on payment for loss of office following a change of control nor liquidated damages of any kind.
We are committed to ensuring a consistent approach so that we do not Payment may also be made in respect of accrued benefits, including pay more than is necessary.
In the event of an early termination of a untaken holiday entitlement.
contract, the policy is to seek to minimise any liability.
When managing such situations, the Committee takes a range of factors into account Executive bonus and share-based schemes will be managed as follows: including contractual obligations, shareholder interests, organisational stability and the need to ensure an effective handover.
Good leavers Other leavers Annual performance bonus The Committee considers it appropriate for Unless the Committee exercises its discretion the Company to have discretion regarding the to treat the Executive Director as a good leaver, payment of a full or partial bonus in termination no bonus will be payable.
When determining whether an Executive Director is a good leaver, the Committee will consider contractual terms, personal performance, the generally accepted definition of a good leaver and other factors outlined below.
PSP and matching awards under the Participants will be a good leaver on ceasing Unvested awards will lapse in full where the existing DABS employment due to injury, disability, ill-health, termination is on grounds of gross misconduct.
death, redundancy or the sale of the Company In other circumstances unvested awards will or business in which the participant is employed.
lapse in full unless the Committee applies Awards held by good leavers will normally vest discretion to treat the Executive Director after three years pro-rated for time and subject as a good leaver.
to the relevant performance measures.
The Committee has discretion to accelerate vesting to the date employment ends.
The Committee also has discretion to waive the time pro-rating requirement.
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme DABS Unvested deferred share awards which Unvested deferred share awards will lapse in full represent deferrals of earned bonus vest in where the termination is on grounds of gross full on ceasing employment other than on misconduct.
grounds of gross misconduct either at the date of termination or on the normal vesting date, at the discretion of the Committee.
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 11 2014 | Proof 1 88 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Remuneration Committee continued In considering the exercise of discretion as set out above, the Committee consideration of shareholder views will take into account all relevant circumstances.
In doing so, factors that The Committee is strongly committed to an open and transparent the Committee may take into account shall include, but not be limited to, dialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters.
We believe that considering the best interests of the Company, whether the Executive it is important to meet regularly with our key shareholders to understand Director has presided over an orderly handover, the contribution of the their views on our remuneration arrangements and discuss our approach Executive Director to the success of the Company during their tenure, going forward.
the need to ensure continuity, the need to compromise any claims The Committee will continue to engage with shareholders going forward that the Executive Director may have, whether the Executive Director and will aim to consult on any material changes to the application of the received a PILON payment and whether, had the Executive Director approved Policy or proposed changes to the Policy.
served out their notice, a greater proportion of the outstanding award may have vested.
The Committee may make minor changes to the Policy that do not have a material advantage to Executive Directors without seeking On a corporate event affecting the Company, the rules of the PSP and shareholder approval.
DABS, as approved at the AGM on 6 February 2014 apply.
A corporate event will include: a takeover of the Company: Additional Information a company or a person, already having control, making a general The following points are included for ease of reference.
offer to acquire shares in the Company: A statement regarding the Directors Remuneration Policy was a voluntary winding-up: and published on the Companys website on 22 January 2014.
The page under the rules of the new plans if the Board so determines, numbers refer to the Annual Report and Accounts for the year a fide-merger or other similar event materially affecting the value ended 30 September 2013. of shares.
In summary, awards under the PSP and matching awards under the Service contracts DABS will vest subject to the performance conditions and, unless the As set out on page 86, under the terms of their existing service Board determines otherwise, time pro-rating.
Deferred awards under contracts, the three UK-based Executive Directors may be eligible to the DABS, which represent previously earned bonuses, will vest in full.
receive an annual bonus equivalent to 50% of the maximum amount On a variation of share capital, a fide-merger, a sale of a substantial part that could have been awarded had they worked their notice period.
of the Groups business or similar event, the Committee may make such As has previously been communicated to shareholders, this is a legacy adjustment to awards as it considers appropriate.
issue contained within current contracts and will not be incorporated in service contracts for new appointments.
In a payment in lieu of notice In respect of the Share Incentive Plan, the same leaver conditions will situation, contractual termination arrangements for new appointments be applied as those applied to all employees.
will be restricted to salary and contractual benefits during the relevant In the event of death in service, the arrangements for the Executive notice period.
Directors provide lump sums for the purchase of dependants pensions Recruitment policy of the greater of eight times salary or the value of the pension fund, On page 85, we stated that the Committees intention is for the in addition to which a lump sum of four times salary is payable.
maximum level of variable pay to be limited to 575% of salary, The Company may enter into new contractual arrangements with an representing the current maximum opportunity under the annual bonus Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, and PSP.
In addition, it was considered appropriate for the Committee including but not limited to settlement of claims, confidentiality, to have discretion to make further one-off cash, or share-based awards, restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements, where to Executive Directors on recruitment to enable the Committee to the Committee determines it necessary or appropriate to do so.
respond in exceptional and unexpected circumstances.
The Committee Appropriate disclosure of any such arrangement will be made.
considered that this was in the best interests of the Company and our shareholders, allowing it to retain flexibility to act appropriately in a consideration of conditions elsewhere in the company commercial recruitment situation.
The Committee has oversight of the main compensation structures Following discussions with shareholder representatives, in order to throughout the Group and actively considers the relationship between provide additional comfort in how our recruitment policy will operate, general changes to employees remuneration and Executive Director the Committee has agreed that the total maximum level of variable reward.
When considering potential changes to Executive Director remuneration which may be offered in a recruitment event will be remuneration the Committee is provided with comparative employee limited in all cases to 725% of base salary excluding buy-out awards.
information, e. g. average salary reviews across the Group.
We reiterate that, other than in truly exceptional and unexpected The Committee does not consider it appropriate to consult directly with circumstances, we would continue to expect variable pay on employees when formulating Executive Director reward policy.
However, recruitment not to exceed 575% of salary excluding buy-outs.
it does take into account information provided by the Group HR Director and feedback from our global employee satisfaction survey, which includes questions about remuneration.
tt27 | AR 2014 | 13 11 2014 | proof 1 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 89 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DiRectORS RePORt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2014 The following section sets out the Directors remuneration for the financial year ended 30 September 2014.
The following information has been audited by  LLP: single total figure of remuneration: retirement benefits: scheme interests awarded between 1 October 2013 and 30 September 2014: payments to past Directors: loss of office payments: and Directors shareholdings.
Benefits for the year ended 30 September 2014 include where used holiday travel concessions.
Annual bonus figures include cash and the proportion that is deferred for at least three years.
The deferred element is not subject to performance conditions.
In accordance with the relevant legislation the anticipated value of the DABS and PSP shares that vested on 10 December 2013 was estimated in the Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 using a share price of 365.00p, this being the three-month average for the year ended 30 September 2013.
The actual share price at the date of vesting was 378.30p.
The anticipated value of the DABS and PSP shares that will vest for the three-year period ended 30 September 2014 has been calculated using a share price of 372.54p, this being the three-month average up to 30 September 2014.
Awards vest after the approval of the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2014 and such awards relate to a performance period ending on the same date as those financial statements.
Therefore, the figures in the 2014 DABS and 2014 PSP columns relate to awards that will vest in December 2014.
Dr Bttcher stood down from the Board as an Executive Director on 16 December 2013.
Each element that comprises his single total figure of remuneration is pro-rated and covers the period 1 October to 16 December 2013.
Dr Bttchers salary was revised on 1 October 2013 to 400,000 previously 545,000.
In line with the Directors Remuneration Policy published last year, and as required by German case law, his bonus payment for the year ended 30 September 2014 is equivalent to the average of his previous three-years bonus awards i. e. 578,441.
In accordance with the rules of the PSP and DABS, Dr Bttcher will be a good leaver with respect to his awards.
Payments in the table above have been converted at 1.1896 to 1 GBP, being the average exchange rate for the period 1 October 2013 to 31 December 2013.
Alignment of pay with performance This demonstrates the strong alignment of our Directors packages The remuneration policy at TUI Travel places substantial emphasis on with the shareholder experience.
The Committee considers that this is aligned with the best interests of shareholders and ensures that Executive Directors will only receive significant remuneration for exceptional performance.
PSP 1,700 2,145 Over the last three years, the Company has continued to perform strongly, led by the executive team.
For example, we have delivered excellent EPS growth over this period, and this has driven strong Matching share price performance.
This has resulted in our market capitalisation 2,975 3,754 Plan increasing from under 2bn to well over 4bn over these three years.
We consider that the remuneration received for the year ended 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 30 September 2014 recognises the management teams continued Value of share vest in 000s excellent performance.
For example, for Peter Long: Performance element Share appreciation element 90% of his total remuneration was delivered in variable pay: and Of this variable amount, over half was directly due to the significant increase in our share price over the last three years.
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 11 2014 | Proof 1 90 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Remuneration Committee continued Benefits excluding pension The specific financial targets under the annual bonus are considered by Benefits incorporate tax assessable benefits arising from the the Committee to be commercially sensitive, although the Committee individuals employment.
keeps this position under review and aims to provide shareholders with as much context as possible as to how the performance outcomes are Peter Long.
Car car allowance, private healthcare cover and holiday aligned with the remuneration received by Directors.
Overall bonuses for year ended 30 September 2014 Johan Lundgren.
Car car allowance, private healthcare cover, holiday Total bonus Maximum bonus Total bonus as Total bonus as travel concessions and school fees 42,760.
Executive Directors as % of salary % of maximum % of salary 000 William Waggott.
Car car allowance, private healthcare cover and Peter Long 175% 98% 172% 1,458 holiday travel concessions.
Retirement benefits do not include his Johan Lundgren 140% 100% 140% 980 deferred pension entitlements under the Final Salary section of the William Waggott 140% 100% 140% 770 TUI Pension Scheme UK.
Please refer to the Retirement benefits section for further details.
The graphs below provide more information about the awards: Retirement benefits Peter Long Total pension contributions or allowances accrued to the year ended 30 September 2014 were 856,000.
Payments totalling 1,037,000 Bonus achieved have been made as at the date of this report.
These payments include as % of Weighting Threshold Maximum maximum contributions for the year ended 30 September 2013 which were accrued Group but not paid at the date of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
80% 100% profit cash William Waggott has deferred pension entitlements under the Final Individual business Salary section of the TUI Pension Scheme UK.
He ceased to be an 20% 90% objectives active member on 3 September 2007 and therefore did not accrue 0 20 40 60 80 100 further benefits during the year.
The accrued benefits including Individual business objectives included review of strategic options to deferred revaluation to 30 September 2014 are a pension of 63,879 per maximise growth and value of the Online Accommodation businesses, annum, payable from age 62.
The transfer value as at 30 September continued focus on businesses in turnaround e. g. France and brand 2014 calculated on the current basis is 1,594,633.
The transfer value strategy review.
as at 30 September 2013 calculated on the basis in force at that time was 1,402,198.
The only change in accrued benefits over the financial Johan Lundgren year is another year of deferred revaluation fixed at 5% per annum.
Bonus The accrued benefits at the start of the year were 60,837 per annum achieved as % of so there has been an increase in pension of 3,042 over the year.
No Weighting Threshold Maximum maximum contributions were made in the year ended 30 September 2014.
Group 80% 100% profit cash Entitlement under the Executive Directors pension arrangements is not enhanced in an early retirement situation.
Individual business 20% 100% objectives Annual bonus 0 20 40 60 80 100 The annual bonus is driven by the achievement of Group, business Individual business objectives included continued delivery of One and individual targets which are weighted for each Executive Director.
Mainstream, digital transformation and achieving 3% underlying For the year ended 30 September 2014 the achievement of financial operating margin.
targets represented up to 80% of the bonus awarded with the balance being determined by the achievement of individual objectives.
William Waggott The financial element is weighted to the achievement of profit and cash Bonus achieved targets.
These are set by the Committee annually with reference to the as % of Weighting Threshold Maximum maximum Companys five-year strategic plan, analyst profit forecasts and cash flow performance.
The targets are designed to be stretching, drive Group 80% 100% profit cash improved results and align delivery with shareholders expectations.
Individual The individual business objectives were determined with consideration business 20% 100% objectives to the strategic goals set for each Executive Director by the Board.
0 20 40 60 80 100 Performance against these objectives was reviewed by the Committee against quantifiable individual performance metrics.
Further information Individual business objectives included decrease in average net debt, regarding these targets can be found under each graph.
restriction of overall Group SDIs to less than 20m, SAP programme management and review of strategic options to maximise growth and As reported earlier the Company has had a successful year and this value of the Online Accommodation businesses.
is reflected in the level of bonus awards.
Under the DABS, up to 50% of each Executive Directors annual We have delivered underlying profit of 654m and free cash flow of performance bonus will be deferred.
Due to the practical implications 477m both at constant currency rates.
These represent growth of of the merger, it is currently expected that DABS awards to be made 11% and 12%, respectively from last year delivering maximum financial in December 2014 will be made as cash-settled awards over notional performance.
We remain confident of delivering on our five-year shares on materially the same terms as the scheme rules.
In line with annualised target of 7-10% underlying operating profit growth at the policy communicated to shareholders last year, no matching DABS constant currency rates.
awards will be made in respect of the year ended 30 September 2014. tt27 | AR 2014 | 13 11 2014 | proof 1 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 91 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DiRectORS RePORt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Long-term incentives Following our strong performance over the last three years the The vesting of the matching shares element of DABS and PSP awards performance conditions attached to the Deferred Annual Bonus is subject to achievement of the following performance conditions over Scheme DABS and Performance Share Plan PSP awards made the three-year performance period and continued employment.
on 7 December 2011 were achieved in full and these awards will vest on 8 December 2014.
The Committee assesses the Earnings Per Share EPS and the Return on Invested Capital ROIC tests based on audited information.
Independent calculations of Total Shareholder Return TSR performance for outstanding awards are performed by Deloitte.
Performance measures Measure target Result Weighting A performance hurdle of ROIC requiring ROIC to be on average at least equal to WACC.
Growth in the Companys EPS Average annual EPS growth in excess of EPS growth in excess of RPI for the 50% as defined in the plan rules in relation RPI growth of: three-year performance period was 88.10%.
less than 4% results in nil achievement This performance measure was therefore achieved at 100%.
between a threshold level of 4% to 13% results in achievement between 10% and 100% on a straight-line basis greater than 13% results in 100% achievement The Companys TSR performance relative Average relative TSR per annum: The Companys achieved relative TSR 25% to an index of 23 international travel and performance was 174.68% over the threebelow index results in nil achievement leisure companies which are considered the year performance period, with the peer between index and index 8% per most relevant peers in terms of size, global group average achieving 91.99%.
annum results in achievement between scope, business type and exposure to This represents out-performance above the 15% and 100% on a straight-line basis external factors.
This at or above index 8% per annum performance measure was therefore results in 100% achievement achieved at 100%.
ROIC performance in relation to Average ROIC performance in excess ROIC performance in excess of ROIC 25% ROIC targets.
of ROIC targets: targets for the three-year performance period was 19.37%.
less than 14.1% results in nil achievement This performance measure was therefore between a threshold of 14.1% to 15.6% achieved at 100%.
results in achievement between 15% and 100% on a straight-line basis greater than 15.6% results in 100% achievement The companies included in the TSR index are: 1 Aer Lingus Group 13 International Consolidated Airlines Group 2 Air Berlin 14 Kuoni Group 3 Air France-KLM 15 National Express Group 4 Carnival 16 Norwegian Air Shuttle 5 Club Mediterranee 17 Pierre & Vacances 6 Deutsche Lufthansa 18 Priceline.
com 7 easyJet 19 Royal Caribbean Cruises 8 Expedia 20 Ryanair Holdings 9 Finnair 21 Stagecoach Group 10 First Group 22 Thomas Cook Group 11 Flight Centre 23 Wotif.
com Holdings 12 Hertz Global Holdings TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 11 2014 | Proof 1 92 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Remuneration Committee continued Single total figure of remuneration Scheme interests awarded between 1 October 2013 and 30 September 2014 non-executive Directors y e Y E y e Y E Awards under the DABS and PSP were made on 12 December 2013, 30 Sep 2014 30 Sep 2013 30 Sep 2014 30 Sep 2013 in respect of the preceding financial year.
total Total Fees Fees remuneration remuneration Under the DABS, each Executive Director deferred 50% of their annual Non-Executive Directors 000 000 000 000 bonus into deferred shares for a three-year period.
DABS matching Friedrich Joussen shares were awarded at a ratio of four matching shares to one deferred Chairman 300 163 300 163 share.
The vesting of the DABS matching shares is subject to continued Sir Michael Hodgkinson employment and the achievement of stretching performance conditions Deputy Chairman 200 200 200 200 over a three-year period to 30 September 2016.
Horst Baier 55 55 55 55 1 Tony Campbell 11 55 11 55 DABS deferred and matching awards Sebastian Ebel 55 29 55 29 Deferred awards made on 12 December 2013 are summarised below: Val Gooding 36 36 Number of nil-cost share Face value of award Rainer Feuerhake 20 20 Executive Directors options awarded 000 Dr Michael Frenzel Peter Long 181,546 684 Outgoing Chairman 145 145 Johan Lundgren 119,607 451 Janis Kong 55 55 55 55 William Waggott 98,063 370 Coline McConville 70 65 70 65 Minnow Powell 75 70 75 70 Matching awards made on 12 December 2013 are summarised below: Dr Erhard Schipporeit 55 55 55 55 Dr Albert Schunk 55 55 55 55 Number of Face value 2 nil-cost Threshold value Threshold value Harold Sher 53 55 53 55 of award share options of award of award as 3 Vladimir Yakushev 8 8 Executive Directors awarded 000 000 % of max award Total 1,028 1,022 1,028 1,022 Peter Long 726,184 2,737 342 12.5% Johan Lundgren 478,428 1,803 225 12.5% Notes William Waggott 392,252 1,478 185 12.5% 1.
Tony Campbell retired from the Board with effect from 16 December 2013.
Harold Sher retired from the Board with effect from 18 September 2014.
Vladimir Yakushev was appointed to the Board on 7 February 2014.
He resigned Notes on 24 March 2014.
DABS awards were allocated on 12 December 2013 using the mid-market share price 376.9p of TUI Travel PLC shares on the date immediately preceding the allocation date.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed with three months notice 2.
As disclosed last year, the last grant of matching awards was made in December 2013.
No DABS award was made to Volker Bttcher.
Minnow Powell, Coline McConville, Janis Kong and Val Gooding were appointed for a three-year term which expires 4 April psp 2017, 21 September 2017, 29 May 2015 and 7 February 2017 respectively Under the PSP, shares were awarded on 12 December 2013 which are but includes the three months notice on either side provision.
At the end also subject to continued employment and the achievement of stretching of each term their re-appointment is considered by the Nomination performance conditions over a three-year period to 30 September 2016.
In respect of Coline McConville and Minnow Powell, their The awards are summarised below: re-appointments were considered, and unanimously recommended, Number of Threshold to the Board at a meeting of the Nomination Committee held on nil-cost Face value value of 26 March 2014. share Face value of award as Threshold award as % options of award % of base value of of max A review of Non-Executive Director fees was carried out during the Executive Directors awarded 000 salary award 000 award year, taking into account the scope of the roles at TUI Travel and the Peter Long 338,286 1,275 150% 159 12.5% time commitment expected.
The review highlighted that the fees for Johan Lundgren 185,725 700 100% 88 12.5% the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees were lower William Waggott 145,927 550 100% 69 12.5% than their market comparators.
The decision was taken to increase the fees for those Chairmen by 10,000 each with effect from 1 April 2014.
PSP awards were allocated on 12 December 2013 using the mid-market share price The table below sets out the Non-Executive Director fees framework 376.9p of TUI Travel PLC shares on the date immediately preceding the allocation date.
No PSP award was made to Volker Bttcher.
as at 30 September 2014: Annual fee Share incentive Plan Friedrich Joussen Chairman 300,000 Peter Long, Johan Lundgren and William Waggott are participants in Sir Michael Hodgkinson SID and Nomination the Companys tax-advantaged Share Incentive Plan.
During the year Committee Chairman 200,000 ended 30 September 2014: Minnow Powell Audit Committee Chairman 80,000 Peter Long and William Waggott did not purchase any partnership Coline McConville Remuneration Committee Chairman 75,000 shares and were not awarded any matching shares in the year.
Horst Baier 55,000 Johan Lundgren purchased 443 partnership shares at a share price Sebastian Ebel 55,000 of 406.00p and was awarded 111 matching shares at a share price Val Gooding 55,000 of 406.00p.
Janis Kong 55,000 Dr Erhard Schipporeit 55,000 Under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan open to all shareholders Dr Albert Schunk 55,000 under the same terms on 4 October 2013 and 10 April 2014, William Waggott was allocated 44 and 99 additional shares respectively.
tt27 | AR 2014 | 13 11 2014 | proof 1 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 93 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DiRectORS RePORt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Payments to past directors In line with the rules of the PSP and DABS, Dr Bttcher will be a good leaver with respect to his awards.
Deferred share awards under the Aside from the arrangements for Volker Bttcher outlined below, there DABS, which represent the deferral of bonuses previously earned, will have been no payments made to Directors for loss of office.
vest in full at the normal vesting date.
Matching share awards under the DABS and share awards under the PSP will vest on the normal vesting Arrangements for volker Bttcher date, subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criteria.
Volker Bttcher stood down from the TUI Travel PLC Board as an Matching share awards that are not vested by 31 December 2014 will be Executive Director on 16 December 2013.
He remains employed within pro-rated for service accrued within the three-year performance period the TUI Travel PLC group of companies until 31 December 2014.
During from the date of award to 31 December 2014.
Consequently 107,416 his notice period, Dr Bttcher continues to be paid in line with the Matching share awards will lapse.
The last PSP award to Dr Bttcher terms of his service agreement, entitled to receive his normal benefits was made in December 2011.
Therefore there will be no unlapsed PSP and to participate in his existing pension arrangements.
Dr Bttchers salary was revised on 1 October 2013 to 400,000 No further payments for loss of office have been made.
A bonus will be paid in respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2014.
As required under German law, and in line with the approved Directors Remuneration Policy published last year, this payment will be equivalent to the average of his previous three-years bonus awards.
As at 30 September 2014 Dr Bttcher had the following awards outstanding under the PSP and DABS.
PSP shares Market price Planned nil-cost options Award date per share at award vesting date 283,843 07.12.11 164.70p 08.12.14 DABS shares Market price Planned nil-cost options Award date per share at award vesting date 170,306 07.12.11 164.70p 08.12.14 681,224 07.12.11 164.70p 08.12.14 87,886 06.12.12 284.00p 06.12.15 351,544 06.12.12 284.00p 06.12.15 Statement of executive Directors shareholding and share interests The Executive Directors are subject to a shareholding obligation that increased on 1 October 2014.
Peter Long is expected to hold shares at least equal to 400% of his base salary.
The remaining Executive Directors are expected to hold shares at least equal to 200% of base salary.
As shown below the Executive Directors in post on 30 September 2014 comply with the revised holding requirement.
Volker Bttcher is not expected to comply with the shareholding obligation during his notice period.
Shares held outright at Outstanding scheme interests at 30 September 2014 30 September 2014 as a percentage of salary based on share price of 389.10p Outstanding, Total of all share as at 30 September 2014 Outstanding, unvested unvested scheme Total shares subject interests and outstanding Shares held outright at and salary as at scheme interests subject interests not subject to outstanding scheme interests at Executive Directors 30 September 2014 30 September 2014 to performance measures to performance measures scheme interests 30 September 2014 Peter Long 3,025,860 1385% 5,528,136 889,770 6,417,906 9,443,766 Johan Lundgren 534,021 297% 3,374,793 510,816 3,885,609 4,419,630 William Waggott 556,763 394% 2,541,157 440,527 2,981,684 3,538,447 Volker Bttcher N A N A 1,316,611 258,192 1,574,803 1,574,803 Notes 1.
Interests in shares held at 30 September 2014 include shares held by connected persons.
All outstanding scheme interests take the form of rights to receive shares nil-cost share options or conditional share awards.
Details of each scheme interest awarded under the DABS and PSP held by each Executive Director are set out later in this report.
107,416 unvested DABS Matching share awards will lapse on 31 December 2014.
DABS deferred award: The deferred element of annual bonus, subject to forfeiture for gross misconduct, bankruptcy or certain other circumstances in accordance with the scheme rules.
DABS matching award: A multiple of the deferred award, subject to continued employment to the release date and performance conditions over the three-year vesting period as follows: The performance measures and targets applicable for matching awards that vested in December 2013 are outlined on page 91 of the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2013.
The performance measures and targets applicable for matching awards granted in 2011, 2012 and 2013 are outlined in this report.
The maximum value shown is based on the 30 September 2014 share price of 389.10p.
The anticipated value of the DABS shares that will vest for the three-year period ended 30 September 2014 has been calculated using the three-month average for the year ended 30 September 2014, i. e. 372.54p.
PSP awards are subject to continued employment to the release date and performance conditions over the three-year vesting period as follows: The performance measures and targets applicable for matching awards that vested in December 2013 are outlined on page 91 of the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2013.
The performance measures and targets applicable for PSP awards granted in 2011, 2012 and 2013 are outlined in this report.
The maximum value is based on the 30 September 2014 share price of 389.10p.
The anticipated value of the PSP shares that will vest for the three-year period ended 30 September 2014 has been calculated using the three-month average for the year ended 30 September 2014, i. e. 372.54p.
implications of the merger on outstanding awards Subsequent to the merger completing, outstanding PSP and DABS awards will roll-over and vest in line with the original schedule.
It is possible that any performance conditions attached to the awards may be modified to ensure that they remain relevant to the combined Group.
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 11 2014 | Proof 1 96 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Remuneration Committee continued Statement of non-executive Directors shareholdings The table below shows the historic levels of Peter Longs pay single figure of total remuneration and annual variable and long-term incentive As at 30 September 2014, the Non-Executive Directors interests in pay awards as a percentage of plan maxima.
ordinary shares of the Company were: Interests in shares held at Value of vested Non-Executive Directors 30 September 2014 Single figure of annual Annual variable pay long-term incentive remuneration awarded as percentage awards as percentage Friedrich Joussen Chairman Financial year 000 of maximum of maximum Sir Michael Hodgkinson Deputy Chairman 20,000 2013 14 13,333 98% 100% Horst Baier 2012 13 10,393 92% 100% Sebastian Ebel 2011 12 6,737 98% 65% Val Gooding 2,493 2010 11 4,935 100% 65% Janis Kong 15,000 2009 10 6,309 50% 74% Coline McConville 2008 09 5,041 100% 96% Minnow Powell 6,891 Dr Erhard Schipporeit Notes Dr Albert Schunk 1.
For the financial year ended 30 September 2010, the performance targets for the annual bonus were met in full.
However, the Committee decided that, in the context of an appropriate claw-back of prior year bonus due to the profit restatement and substantial Under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan open to all shareholders under one-off costs during the year, the cash portion of the bonus would not be payable.
the same terms, on 4 October 2013 Tony Campbell was allocated 525 2.
In accordance with the relevant legislation the anticipated value of the DABS and PSP shares that vested on 10 December 2013 was estimated for the purposes of the Annual additional shares.
Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 using a share price of 365.00p, this being the three-month average for the year ended 30 September 2013.
The actual share price The Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to was 378.30p.
The FY2012 13 data above is the actual value rather than the estimate inspection at the Registered Office, contains full details of Directors included in last years Annual Report and Accounts.
shareholdings and will be available for inspection before and during Percentage change in remuneration of ceO the Annual General Meeting on 5 February 2015.
The following table shows the percentage change in remuneration During the year, the price of the Companys ordinary shares ranged between the years ended 30 September 2013 and 30 September 2014 between 355.50 pence and 450.00 pence and the mid-closing price for the CEO and employees within our chosen comparator group.
Last on Tuesday 30 September 2014 was 389.10 pence.
year the comparator group was the UK Group Leadership team as this For the year ended 30 September 2014, Peter Long received and was considered to be the most meaningful comparator group given retained Non-Executive Directors fees in respect of an appointment that their remuneration is managed on a central, rather than local, with Rentokil Initial PLC of 60,000 2013: 60,000.
However, following shareholder feedback the comparator group Director currently holds an external non-executive director post.
Under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan open to all shareholders under The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration of the same terms, on 3 October 2014 William Waggott was allocated the CEO compared to all permanent employees based in the UK.
Salary Benefits Annual bonus Comparator group percentage There have been no further changes in the interests of the Directors change including travel concessions 4.1% 2.3% 16.2% between 30 September 2014 and the date of approval of the 2014 Comparator group percentage Annual Report and Accounts.
change excluding travel concessions 4.1% 2.3% 16.2% CEO percentage change including Performance graph and table travel concessions 0.0% 0.0% 6.1% The graph below compares the TSR performance of TUI Travel PLC, CEO percentage change excluding assuming dividends are re-invested, with the TSR performance of travel concessions 0.0% 0.0% 6.1% an index of international travel and leisure companies.
This index is considered by the Committee to be the most appropriate comparison Relative importance of spend on pay reference for these purposes.
From October 2011 this index has also Remuneration paid Distributions to been used for performance measurement under the Companys to or receivable shareholders by way long-term incentive schemes.
As a member of the FTSE 100, the by all employees of dividends and performance of this index is included.
of the Group share buyback m m 250 TUI Travel PLC Year ended 30 September 2014 1,833 153 International Travel & Leisure excluding TUI Travel PLC Year ended 30 September 2013 1,827 132 FTSE 100 200 Percentage change 0.3% 15.9% 150 100 50 0 30 Sept 08 30 Sept 09 30 Sept 10 30 Sept 11 30 Sept 12 30 Sept 13 30 Sept 14 tt27 | AR 2014 | 13 11 2014 | proof 1 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 97 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DiRectORS RePORt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION implementation of the executive Directors Remuneration consideration by the Directors of matters relating Policy for the year commencing 1 October 2014. to Directors remuneration The Committee advises the Board on overall remuneration policy.
Salary Annual salary It also determines, on behalf of the Board, and with the benefit of advice from external consultants and members of the HR Department, Peter Long 850,000 Johan Lundgren 700,000 the remuneration of the Executive Directors and other members of William Waggott 550,000 the Group Management Board.
The Committee formulates and applies the Policy with consideration Salaries were reviewed as part of the annual process in October 2014. to the prevailing economic climate in the major economies in which No changes were made.
It observes the spirit of the Groups core values which cultivate responsible leadership in the external and internal Benefits excluding pension social environment.
Consequently the Committee closely considers The benefits that are effective from 1 October 2014 are: the Companys performance in building both shareholder value and Peter Long.
Car car allowance, private healthcare cover and holiday a secure future for all stakeholders.
Car car allowance, private healthcare cover The activities of the Committee are governed by its Terms of Reference and holiday travel concessions.
which were last revised on 6 February 2014 and can be found on the Companys website.
Car car allowance, private healthcare cover and holiday travel concessions.
The Committee currently comprises four Non-Executive Directors each of whom the Company deems to be independent.
Retirement benefits Retirement benefits will continue to be applied as per the Policy and Coline McConville Chairman application in previous years.
Sir Michael Hodgkinson Retirement benefits allowance Val Gooding as % of salary Janis Kong Peter Long 50% Johan Lundgren 33% The Chairman, Sir Michael Hodgkinson and Janis Kong were in place William Waggott 33% throughout the year.
Val Gooding was appointed to the Committee on 1 July 2014.
Annual Bonus No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest, The Committee has set stretching targets focused on both profit other than as a shareholder, in the matters to be decided by the and cash performance for the business.
Although the target detail is Committee.
The members of the Committee have no conflicts of considered commercially sensitive, the measures and weightings for interest arising from cross-directorships and have no day-to-day the year commencing 1 October 2014 are: involvement in the running of the Company.
Group Profit Cash Individual Business Objectives The Committee met eight times during the year.
Details of attendance Peter Long 80% 20% can be found in the Corporate Governance Report see page 68.
Johan Lundgren 80% 20% During the year, the Committee carried out the following activities: William Waggott 80% 20% Consultation with shareholders and external bodies regarding the Executive Directors and GMB remuneration policy.
It is anticipated that the bonus targets will be reviewed when the merger Assessment of the achievement of Executive Directors and GMB completes to ensure that they remain appropriate in the combined members performance against their annual bonus objectives.
Group, and may be modified if appropriate to ensure that they remain relevant in the new business.
Assessment of performance for the vesting of the 2010 Performance Share Plan and Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme Share Plans awards.
In light of the merger it is not planned to make any PSP awards in Approval of PSP and DABS awards for performance in the year December 2014.
It is understood that TUI AG will include the Executive ended 30 September 2013.
Directors in their LTIP arrangements after the merger has completed.
Approval of the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended The Share Incentive Plan is on hold.
Consideration of market trends in executive remuneration and potential impact.
Review of how the Committee oversees the remuneration for the 50 most senior leaders below the GMB.
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 11 2014 | Proof 1 98 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Remuneration Committee continued Review of GMB salaries.
The Committee appointed Deloitte to the role of independent advisers to the Committee in 2008, following an interview process.
The Committee Review and discussion about corporate governance developments is comfortable that the Deloitte engagement partner and team, which and their potential impact.
provide remuneration advice to the Committee, do not have connections Assessment of the executive shareholding guidelines.
with TUI Travel PLC that may impair their independence or objectivity.
Evaluation of the effectiveness of support provided by Deloitte In addition, during the year ended 30 September 2014, Deloitte also in their role as independent advisers to the Committee.
provided various tax services to the Company.
Consideration of the impact on executive remuneration of the merger with TUI AG.
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP was appointed to provide advice on law and regulation in relation to share scheme matters which is provided Agreement of the Annual Bonus, PSP and DABS performance to the Company and is available to the Committee.
Legal fees relate targets for the year ended 30 September 2014. to advice provided to the Company and not the Committee, and are During the year the Committee considered the results of a Remuneration charged on a time-cost basis.
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP also provides Committee Effectiveness Survey.
No significant concerns were raised.
general legal advice to the Company.
Advisers Statement of shareholder voting While it is the Committees responsibility to exercise independent At the Annual General Meeting of TUI Travel PLC on 6 February 2014 the judgement, the Committee does request advice from management results of the votes regarding Resolutions 2 to approve the Directors and external professional advisers, as appropriate, to ensure that its Remuneration Report and 3 to approve the Directors Remuneration decisions are fully informed.
Advice or services were provided to the Policy were: Committee during the year by: Votes For Votes Against Resolution Votes Votes Deloitte LLP Deloitte : Number Number % Number % Total Withheld Joyce Walter Company Secretary: 2 971,095,978 99.40 5,873,376 0.60 976,969,354 2,172,449 Peter Long Chief Executive: 3 943,269,304 97.60 23,158,662 2.40 966,427,966 12,713,837 Jacky Simmonds Group HR Director: and The Remuneration Report was approved by a duly authorised Tim Taylor Group Reward Director.
Committee of the Board of Directors on 3 December 2014 and signed The Group HR Director has direct access to the Chairman of the on its behalf by: Committee and, together with the Group Reward Director, advised the Committee on reward matters relating to the Executive Directors and members of the GMB and broader Group HR strategy and policy.
coline Mcconville The Chief Executive attends meetings of the Committee by invitation to Chairman of the Remuneration Committee make recommendations relating to the performance and remuneration 3 December 2014 of his direct reports and the Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Executives are not in attendance when their own remuneration is considered.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information it requires from any employee of the Group.
The Committee is authorised to require the attendance of any Director at any of its meetings.
During the year, the Committee received independent advice on executive remuneration matters from Deloitte.
Deloitte received 179,500 in fees for these services.
The fees were higher than usual because of the additional work arising from the proposed merger with TUI AG.
Deloitte is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
