ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT The following sets out how Unilevers Remuneration Policy, which is available on our website, will be implemented in 2015 and how it was implemented in 2014. www.
com ara2014 downloads IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2015 FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION FIXED ELEMENTS AT A GLANCE DESCRIPTION OF REMUNERATION Salary effective from 1 January 2015: In its 2011 Report, the Committee signalled its concern that the CEOs BASE SALARY salary was positioned at the lower end of market practice compared to CEO 1,010,000 unchanged from similar sized UK and European companies.
The Committee expressed 2014 its intention to make further increases, as appropriate, to address this CFO 714,000 unchanged from 2014 over the next few years.
Having held their salaries steady for longer than intended and in view of the sustained track record of performance delivery, the Committee recommended, and the Boards approved, salary increases for the CEO and CFO with effect from January 2015.
In making these recommendations the Committee considered the strong performance of Unilever and alignment, both to increases in pay for the broader employee population and externally.
The CEO and CFO have turned down the salary increases recommended by the Committee for 2015.
Fixed allowance for 2015: A fixed allowance not linked to base salary is provided as a simple, FIXED ALLOWANCE competitive alternative to the provision of itemised benefits and pensions.
CEO 250,000 CFO 220,000 The CFOs allowance has been reduced from 260,000 in 2014 to reflect the final stage of the phasing-out of his annual housing allowance.
Amounts for other benefits are not In line with Unilevers Remuneration Policy, Executive Directors will be OTHER BENEFIT known until the year end.
provided with death, disability and medical insurance cover and actual ENTITLEMENTS tax return preparation costs in 2015. www.
com ara2014 downloads In line with the commitments made to the current CEO on recruitment and included in the Remuneration Policy, Unilever also pays the CEOs social security obligations in his country of residence to protect him against the difference between employee social security obligations in his country of residence versus the UK.
Conditional supplemental pension The CEO also receives a conditional supplemental pension accrual to compensate him for the arrangements forfeited on leaving his previous employer.
The CEO will receive a contribution to his supplemental pension of 12% of the lower of his actual base salary over the year and his 2011 base salary 920,000 plus 3% per annum.
The cap for 2015 has been kept at 976,028 with a maximum contribution of 117,123.
This supplemental pension accrual is conditional on the CEO remaining in employment with Unilever to age 60 and subsequently retiring from active service or his death or total disability prior to retirement.
PERFORMANCE ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION The actual targets for the annual bonus and the three business-focused performance measures for the MCIP and GSIP awards to be made in 2015 have not been disclosed up front.
The Boards deem this to be commercially sensitive information as targets could reveal information about Unilevers business plan and budgeting process to competitors, which could be damaging to Unilevers business interests and therefore to shareholders.
Where appropriate, targets will be disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report following the end of the respective performance period.
Performance measures are selected to align with Unilevers clearly stated growth ambition and our long-term business strategy.
Unilevers primary business objective is to generate a sustainable improvement in business performance through increasing underlying sales while steadily improving core operating margins and cash flow.
The measures chosen for the annual and long-term incentives support the delivery of this objective.
Performance measures focus management on the delivery of a combination of top-line revenue growth and bottom-line profit growth that Unilever believes will build shareholder value over the longer term.
The use of a performance measure based on total shareholder return measures Unilevers success relative to peers.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance 65
