ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT The following sets out how Unilevers Remuneration Policy, which is available on our website, will be implemented in 2015 and how it was implemented in 2014. www.
com ara2014 downloads IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2015 FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION FIXED ELEMENTS AT A GLANCE DESCRIPTION OF REMUNERATION Salary effective from 1 January 2015: In its 2011 Report, the Committee signalled its concern that the CEOs BASE SALARY salary was positioned at the lower end of market practice compared to CEO 1,010,000 unchanged from similar sized UK and European companies.
The Committee expressed 2014 its intention to make further increases, as appropriate, to address this CFO 714,000 unchanged from 2014 over the next few years.
Having held their salaries steady for longer than intended and in view of the sustained track record of performance delivery, the Committee recommended, and the Boards approved, salary increases for the CEO and CFO with effect from January 2015.
In making these recommendations the Committee considered the strong performance of Unilever and alignment, both to increases in pay for the broader employee population and externally.
The CEO and CFO have turned down the salary increases recommended by the Committee for 2015.
Fixed allowance for 2015: A fixed allowance not linked to base salary is provided as a simple, FIXED ALLOWANCE competitive alternative to the provision of itemised benefits and pensions.
CEO 250,000 CFO 220,000 The CFOs allowance has been reduced from 260,000 in 2014 to reflect the final stage of the phasing-out of his annual housing allowance.
Amounts for other benefits are not In line with Unilevers Remuneration Policy, Executive Directors will be OTHER BENEFIT known until the year end.
provided with death, disability and medical insurance cover and actual ENTITLEMENTS tax return preparation costs in 2015. www.
com ara2014 downloads In line with the commitments made to the current CEO on recruitment and included in the Remuneration Policy, Unilever also pays the CEOs social security obligations in his country of residence to protect him against the difference between employee social security obligations in his country of residence versus the UK.
Conditional supplemental pension The CEO also receives a conditional supplemental pension accrual to compensate him for the arrangements forfeited on leaving his previous employer.
The CEO will receive a contribution to his supplemental pension of 12% of the lower of his actual base salary over the year and his 2011 base salary 920,000 plus 3% per annum.
The cap for 2015 has been kept at 976,028 with a maximum contribution of 117,123.
This supplemental pension accrual is conditional on the CEO remaining in employment with Unilever to age 60 and subsequently retiring from active service or his death or total disability prior to retirement.
PERFORMANCE ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION The actual targets for the annual bonus and the three business-focused performance measures for the MCIP and GSIP awards to be made in 2015 have not been disclosed up front.
The Boards deem this to be commercially sensitive information as targets could reveal information about Unilevers business plan and budgeting process to competitors, which could be damaging to Unilevers business interests and therefore to shareholders.
Where appropriate, targets will be disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report following the end of the respective performance period.
Performance measures are selected to align with Unilevers clearly stated growth ambition and our long-term business strategy.
Unilevers primary business objective is to generate a sustainable improvement in business performance through increasing underlying sales while steadily improving core operating margins and cash flow.
The measures chosen for the annual and long-term incentives support the delivery of this objective.
Performance measures focus management on the delivery of a combination of top-line revenue growth and bottom-line profit growth that Unilever believes will build shareholder value over the longer term.
The use of a performance measure based on total shareholder return measures Unilevers success relative to peers.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance 65 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE DESCRIPTION ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION CEO target 120% of base salary, The performance measures for 2015 will be: ANNUAL BONUS maximum 200% of base salary CFO target 100% of base salary, Underlying sales Free cash flow Core operating growth margin maximum 150% of base salary improvement In addition, when determining annual bonus awards, the Committee will also consider personal performance and the quality of results in terms of both business results and leadership, including corporate social responsibility and progress against the delivery of USLP goals.
The Committee determined that free cash flow would replace underlying volume growth as a performance measure for 2015.
This change will assist Unilever in focusing on cost reduction and improving cash generation, as well as top-line growth, in a challenging market environment.
Underlying volume growth will remain a factor that is considered by the Committee as part of the quality of results assessment.
Out of their annual bonus awards, Matching shares awarded under the MCIP in 2015 will be subject to the MCIP 2015 Executive Directors are required to same measures as GSIP awards made in the year.
Further details of the invest 25% of their gross bonus and performance measures are disclosed below.
may invest up to 60% of their gross The Committee considers that using the same performance measures bonus in the MCIP investment shares across both the MCIP and GSIP is appropriate, as the performance which are held in the individuals name measures used reflect our key strategic goals and maintain the They are awarded an equal number alignment of our incentive plans to delivering our clearly stated growth of MCIP matching shares ambitions.
Given that we use four different performance measures, the Maximum vesting for matching shares Committee believes that the proportion of remuneration linked to each is 150% of the initial award performance measure is not excessive.
The maximum award of matching shares for the CEO and CFO as a percentage of base salary at grant, assuming maximum bonus, maximum deferral under the MCIP, would be 180% of base salary and 135% of base salary respectively Target award 200% of base salary Performance targets are assessed over a three-year period.
GSIP 2015 AWARDS for the CEO and 175% of base salary Performance measures for 2015 awards: for CFO Maximum vesting of 200% initial award Underlying Core operating Cumulative Relative total Maximum vesting of 400% of base sales growth margin operating cash shareholder a a b salary for the CEO and 350% of base 25% improvement flow 25% return 25% a 25% salary for the CFO Both performance conditions must reach threshold performance, before any payout in respect of either measure is made.
a For the three business-focused measures, 25% of target awards vest for achieving threshold performance.
200% of target awards vest capped at 150% under the MCIP for maximum performance.
b For the relative TSR measure, Unilevers TSR is measured against a comparator group of other consumer goods companies.
TSR measures the return received by a shareholder, capturing both the increase in share price and the value of dividend income assuming dividends are reinvested.
The TSR results are measured on a common currency basis to better reflect the shareholder experience.
The current TSR peer group is as follows: Avon Colgate-Palmolive Henkel LOral Reckitt Benckiser Beiersdorf Danone Kao Nestl Shiseido Campbell Soup General Mills Kelloggs PepsiCo Coca-Cola Este Lauder Kimberly-Clark Procter & Gamble The TSR comparator group consists of 18 companies 19 including Unilever.
No shares in the portion of the award subject to TSR vest if Unilever is ranked below position 10 in the peer group at the end of the three-year period, 50% vests if Unilever is ranked 10th, 100% vests if Unilever is ranked 7th and 200% 150% under the MCIP vests if Unilever is ranked 3rd or above.
Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
The Committee may change the TSR vesting levels set out above if the number of companies in the TSR comparator group changes.
66 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014
