GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT Bonus deferrals We note the increasing focus of institutional investors on mandatory bonus deferrals as part of FTSE 250 compensation practices.
In this regard, the Committee continues to monitor this practice in order to review options as appropriate for the Company to address corporate governance trends whilst safeguarding the flexibility required to determine year-on-year requirements for executive remuneration within the scope of the Companys existing Directors Remuneration Policy.
The use of malus and clawback provisions for LTIP and STI payments We have noted the increased focus on malus and clawback provisions applying to awards under executive incentive schemes.
In this regard, the Companys existing compensation practices already provide for the clawback of Executive Director STI and LTIP awards in the event Michael Kenyon, of individual misconduct or financial misstatement misreporting.
The Compensation Committee Chairman Committee is currently considering the practical effectiveness that the adoption of malus provisions in addition to the existing clawback Dear Shareholders, provisions would have in order to determine whether such provisions should be introduced over the longer term, as part of future policy revisions.
Company performance in 2014 was strong overall and during the year we saw the achievement of a number of important Company goals.
Extension of performance and retention periods applicable to LTIP awards Key performance highlights included exceeding production guidance, We have noted the increasing trend of extending LTIP performance delivering a reduction in AISC and cash costs during the year whilst periods beyond three years and or introducing additional holding progressing a number of wider business initiatives including the re-launch requirements for vested LTIP awards.
The Committee does not believe it of our company as Acacia Mining: the approval of the Gokona Underground is appropriate to adopt these practices at this stage, given the enhanced project: and our entry into West Africa through the execution of the performance requirements placed on the vesting of STIs and the grant exploration earn-in and joint venture arrangement for the South Hound of LTIs and specific considerations with regards to maintaining the project in Burkina Faso.
Companys free-float status, all of which must be taken into account when considering options available to us in the structuring of any As part of our ongoing review of compensation practices, during the retention period applicable to executiveawards.
year we decided to further align the interests of our executives with the longer-term interests of shareholders by adjusting the implementation The Committee will continue to monitor these and other compensation of the approved policy, as follows: trends throughout 2015 in order to assess ongoing requirements for the Companys compensation practices.
In addition and in line with current Increased performance targets for short-term incentive STI best practice, given the level of shareholder approval received at In order to promote the payment of bonuses for out-performance, we have the 2014 AGM for the Directors Remuneration Policy approximately toughened the performance requirements applicable to the vesting of 98.4% in favour of the policy, we will not be submitting the Directors STI awards.
From 2014 onwards, performance in line with budget will Remuneration Policy for approval at the forthcoming 2015AGM.
typically deliver no more than 30% of target bonus 100% of target bonus in previous years.
Further details as regards the performance assessment CEO Salary increase for 2015 applicable to the 2014 STI is provided on page 75.
For 2015, the Committee has decided to increase the salary payable to the CEO to 475,000.
This increase reflects both the CEOs strong Enhanced assessment of LTIP award grants performance since his appointment and the fact that no increases In 2013, we changed the basis of assessment for the LTIP TSR were given last year.
This new salary remains below market for the performance condition to ensure that vesting of all Executive Director industry in which Acacia operates and equates to a 5.7% per annum LTIP awards made from 2014 onwards is assessed on the basis of increase since appointment.
In addition to this, during the year we adopted additional criteria to assess individual performance ratings at the time of grant As required under the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups in order to further align LTIP awards with .
Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, the remaining content of this Remuneration Report is divided into elements of the All of the above amendments fall within the existing scope of the Directors Remuneration Policy pages 65 to 70, which are provided Directors Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 for continuing information purposes, and the Annual Report on AGM.
The policy report below is therefore as disclosed in the 2013 Remuneration for 2014 pages 71 to 81, which will be subject to Directors Remuneration Report save for a number of minor refinements an advisory shareholder vote at the 2015AGM.
in wording to clarify the operation of the policy.
As regards 2014 key corporate governance developments affecting remuneration practices, for the time being the Committee has made the following decisions: 64 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Directors remuneration policy Summary table for Executive Directors remuneration policy Fixed remuneration Base salary Pension Benefits Purpose To provide an appropriately competitive level of To help provide To provide benefits which are competitive in base salary with due regard to the size and nature for an appropriate the market in which the individual is employed.
of the responsibilities of each role, as well as retirement benefit.
Operation Reviewed annually, with any adjustments effective Executive Directors Executive Directors receive benefits, which 1January and made at the discretion of the receive contributions usually include the provision of a company car Compensation Committee.
into a personal pension or cash alternative, health and life insurance, scheme of their choice, liability insurance, fitness club membership Salaries are benchmarked against international or a cash supplement and professional membership: however, the gold mining, general mining and FTSE listed of commensurate value.
Compensation Committee retains discretion to companies of similar size and complexity.
approve any other form of benefit that it deems The Group does not The Compensation Committee also takes into appropriate to award depending on individual operate any defined account corporate and individual performance circumstances.
For example, relocation benefit schemes.
and experience: general market conditions: allowances and international transfer-related and salary increases applied within the Company benefits are often provided for, when required, as a whole.
in line with general industry practices for the recruitment of international employees.
Opportunity To avoid setting expectations of Executive Executive Directors The value of benefits will generally be assessed Directors and other employees, no maximum receive contributions on the basis of market norms at the relevant salary is set under the Remuneration Policy.
It is or an equivalent cash point in time.
not anticipated that salary increases for Executive supplement equal to a The Compensation Committee retains the Directors will exceed those of the wider workforce percentage of gross base discretion to approve a higher total cost of over the period during which this Remuneration salary in line with market benefits in exceptional circumstances Policy is effective.
Where increases are awarded norms at the relevant e. g. relocation or in circumstances where in excess of the wider employee population, point in time.
factors outside the Companys control have the Committee will provide the rationale in the changed materially e. g. increases in medical relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Short-Term Incentive STI Purpose To reinforce the delivery of key short-term operational objectives on an annual basis in order to promote performance as regards business priorities for each financial year in the context of individual and Company performance.
Operation Performance measure weightings and targets are set at the start of the year and weighted to reflect business priorities.
At the end of the year, the Compensation Committee determines the extent to which targets have been achieved, taking into account Company-wide performance and the individual performance of each Executive Director.
STI payments are delivered in cash: clawback provisions apply to any STI payment made to an Executive Director in the event of individual misconduct or financial misstatement misreporting.
Opportunity The STI provides Executive Directors with an annual bonus opportunity in the range of 0% to 150% of base salary, with target bonus opportunity of up to 75% of base salary.
Performance Bonus outcomes are assessed by the Compensation Committee on a scorecard assessment, based on the achievement measures of the targets set for each performance measure and the Committees broad assessment of Company performance.
Performance measures are based on challenging budget and stretch targets for Company-wide financial and operational performance and, where appropriate, individual performance.
Performance measures may include financial, operational, growth, production, cost and capital expenditure control and sustainability metrics.
Performance measures are selected annually to reflect key strategic initiatives and matters underpinning the key financial and non-financial performance indicators used to manage performance across the Acacia Group.
Performance measures will be weighted appropriately each year according to the business plan.
Weightings of performance measures may vary, typically up to 10% and 50%, with the range of performance required under each measure calibrated to reflect the Companys annual published guidance range, particularly as regards production, cash costs and capital expenditure.
For threshold performance, the STI is anticipated to be up to 75% of Executive Director base salary, unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee.
Whilst performance measures, weightings and targets for any given year will not be disclosed on a prospective basis due to commercial sensitivities, the Compensation Committee aims to provide such details retrospectively as part of the Annual Report on Remuneration, unless ongoing commercial sensitivities discourage such disclosures.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 65 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Purpose To reinforce an enterprise culture that promotes and protects shareholders long-term interests, so as to reward long-term decision making and performance that support the delivery of shareholder returns and drive shareholder value over the longterm.
Operation Awards of conditional shares, options or restricted stock units RSUs may be granted annually, with the maximum value that may be awarded to each Executive Director defined as a percentage of base salary at the date of grant.
Vesting is based on Acacias corporate performance over a three-year period.
There is no retest provision.
Clawback provisions are included in the LTIP for Executive Directors, whereby an award is subject to clawback for one year from the vesting date or exercise date, if relevant in the event of exceptional circumstances of individual misconduct or financial misstatement misreporting.
Opportunity The LTIP permits a maximum award with a value equal to 200% of base salary at the time of grant to be made each year under normal circumstances.
The Committee may exceed this limit in exceptional circumstances only.
Such circumstances would include, for example, specific recruitment or retention scenarios.
The exercise of this discretion would be assessed in each case on the circumstances in question.
The level of LTIP awards granted to Executive Directors each year is determined by the Committee, within the limits set out above, with reference to a range of factors including individual performance ratings.
Maximum performance, which will be assessed as 35% outperformance of the median TSR over the three-year performance period going forward, can deliver vesting of up to 2x the value of the award granted, e. g. an award with a value of 150% of base salary at the time of grant would, if maximum performance were achieved, vest at a value equal to 300% at the time of vesting.
Additional RSUs are credited to reflect dividends paid on Acacia Ordinary Shares prior to the vesting date.
Such RSUs are subject to the same vesting provisions as the underlying awards.
Performance measures Subject to continued employment and Acacias relative TSR performance over a three-year performance period when compared to the constituents of the Euromoney Global Gold Index, TSR performance must be at least equal to that of the TSR comparator group in order to receive any payment under LTIP awards, at which level 50% of the target award will vest.
If no entitlement has been earned at the end of a three-year performance period, awards will lapse.
The Compensation Committee reviews the comparator group of international gold miners against which TSR performance is measured from time to time to ensure it remains appropriate.
The Compensation Committee has the discretion to determine the treatment of comparators in the event of their delisting or otherwise in any event which, in the opinion of the Committee, compromises the suitability of a company as a comparator for Acacia.
Additionally, the Committee may, at its discretion, reduce the number of awards vesting in the event that the achievement against the performance condition is not a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the Company.
More generally, the performance measures applied to LTIP awards are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain aligned with shareholder interests and, in this regard, the Committee retains discretion to employ performance measures other than TSR to the LTIP in order to allow for performance assessments to evolve over time.
Share Option Plan SOP Purpose To reinforce an enterprise culture that promotes and protects shareholders long-term interests, so as to reward long-term decision making and performance that support the delivery of shareholder returns and drive shareholder value over the longterm.
Operation Whilst the LTIP is expected to be used as the main long-term incentive for Executive Directors going forward, the Committee retains the ability to grant stock options under the SOP where appropriate, such as in recruitment or retention scenarios.
The Compensation Committee will set a vesting period for SOP awards appropriate to the circumstances at the time of grant.
Historically, this has included vesting in equal parts over four years or vesting after three years.
All awards expire seven years from the date of grant.
There are no clawback provisions included under the SOP.
Opportunity The SOP permits a maximum share option award with a value equal to 200% of base salary at the time of grant to be made each year under normal circumstances.
In the event that a stock option award was used for annual incentive purposes, such awards would ordinarily be granted at a target level equal to 150% of base salary at the time of grant.
In this regard, the Committee would look to use an appropriate valuation model, for example, the Black-Scholes model, for purposes of ascertaining the fair value of any award made.
Performance The Compensation Committee determines the performance metrics applying to share option awards as appropriate to the measures circumstances at the time of grant, based on the purpose of making such award, i. e. whether for recruitment, retention or as a matter of annual performance incentive.
Generally, in the event that the Committee were to grant an SOP award as an incentive, it would look to apply an appropriate performance condition.
66 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholding guidelines Purpose To align the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders through the building up of a significant shareholding in theCompany.
Operation Executive Directors are required to establish a minimum shareholding equivalent to two times base salary over a period of five years.
Shareholding requirements may be satisfied by interests under LTIP awards.
Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis market-wide developments that were generally unforeseeable or The chart below provides an estimate of the potential future reward remote at the time of setting performance measures, but nonetheless opportunity for the Chief Executive Officer, and the potential split between occur during a performance period.
It is for such reasons that the the different elements of remuneration under three different performance Compensation Committee retains a number of discretions for the scenarios: Minimum, On-target and Maximum.
operation of all incentive schemes STI, LTIP and SOP including, but not limited to, the ability to determine the following: Brad Gordon Scheme participants 000 3,283 The timing of grant and size of awards Appropriate treatment of vesting of awards in the context 58% 1,977 of restructurings and or takeovers 48% Appropriate adjustments to awards in the event of variations 671 22% 18% to the Companys share capital 100% 34% 20% Absent specific bad leaver scenarios, the ability to determine and Minimum On-target Maximum designate leavers as good leavers in order to determine appropriate treatment of awards in exit scenarios Fixed remuneration Annual bonus Treatment, size and grant of awards in a recruitment context Long-term incentives The application, scope, weighting and targets for applicable performance measures and performance conditions from time to Potential reward opportunities are based on the Remuneration Policy, applied time, including any amendments to existing performance measures to the latest base salary.
The STI and LTIP are based on the level of maximum conditions and related targets opportunities applied in 2015.
Note that the LTIP awards granted in a year Whilst it may not be possible to give an exhaustive list of Compensation do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant, and the Committee discretions, the exercise of discretions and the rationale projected value excludes the impact of share pricemovement.
underpinning their use, if any, will generally be provided in context, as part of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In this regard we can confirm that The minimum scenario reflects base salary, pension and benefits i. e. fixed no discretions have been exercised during 2014. remuneration which are the only elements of the Chief Executive Officers remuneration package not linked to performance.
Approach to recruitment of Executive Directors When determining the remuneration package for a new Executive Director The on-target scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus target STI the Compensation Committee aims to offer a package that is sufficiently 75% of salary and target vesting of the LTIP 200% of salary.
competitive, to attract, motivate and retain candidates of the calibre and experience required to run our business.
This will generally be determined The maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus maximum payout in each case not only in the context of the skills required for a position under all incentives 150% of salary under the STI and full vesting of an LTIP and those of each candidate, but will also be determined on the basis award at maximum performance, which would be equal to 400% for an award of recruitment trends within the global mining industry and any additional granted at target of 200% of base salary.
considerations relevant to the recruitment of executives in the FTSE, and other markets outside London.
In addition, our approach to recruitment Use of Compensation Committee discretions will also depend on whether we use external recruitment or internal Generally, it is not possible for any remuneration policy to pre-empt promotion routes.
every possible scenario and for this reason the Compensation Committee has been provided with the ability to apply various discretions and judgements in order to ensure the achievement of fair outcomes and to maintain the flexibility required to balance the interests of individuals and those of the Company.
For example, the Compensation Committee may be required to exercise discretion when determining whether or not the outcomes of performance measures and targets applicable to incentive plans are fair in context, or if realities encourage the use of upward or downward adjustments.
By means of illustration, this may be the case as a result of the impact of wider socio-economic or political factors or ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 67 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED External recruitment In determining appropriate remuneration for an external candidate, the Compensation Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including quantum, the nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
For such purposes, the Compensation Committee may make use of all of the existing components of the Remuneration Policy as follows: Maximum annual Component Approach grant value Fixed Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, remuneration experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and their current basic salary.
Where new N A appointees have initial basic salaries set below market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over a period of two to three years subject to their development in the role.
Pension New appointees will receive pension contributions or an equivalent cash supplement, which is N A equivalent to that received by existing executives and in line with market norms.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits which may include but are not limited to the N A provision of a company car or cash alternative, private medical insurance and any necessary relocation expenses.
Variable STI The STI described in the Summary Table for Executive Directors Remuneration Policy will apply to 150% of salary remuneration new appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year.
Targets for the individual element will be tailored towards the executive.
LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP on the same terms as other executives, as 200% of salary described in the Summary Table for Executive Directors RemunerationPolicy.
SOP New appointees may be granted awards under the SOP, as described in the Summary Table for 200% of salary Executive Directors Remuneration Policy.
B ased on target level: award can be higher in circumstances deemed by the Committee to be exceptional, i. e. where it is necessary to buy out incentive arrangements or make offers equivalent to sign-on bonuses.
instances where they would not otherwise be consistent with the The Compensation Committee may also make an award under the terms prevailing Remuneration Policy at the time of appointment.
of one of the Companys incentive plans outlined above in respect of a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving Approach to Executive Director exit arrangements a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for early factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, termination, are carefully considered by the Compensation Committee the likelihood of those conditions being met and the term remaining to and are designed to recruit, retain and motivate directors of the quality their vesting.
In addition, where candidates are recruited from overseas, required to manage the Company.
The Committee considers appointments the Committee may be required to consider additional benefits received of an indefinite term and with a notice period of one year to be appropriate.
in the home jurisdiction or arrange for a form of substitution of such The service contract used for the Companys current CEO, being the sole benefits in addition to the payment of suitable relocation allowances.
Executive Director at present, provides for compensation of 12 months The Compensation Committee may also consider it appropriate to grant an salary in the event of early termination.
The Company has the discretion to award under a structure not included in the Remuneration Policy, exercising pay such compensation in instalments, requiring the Executive Director to the discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
Such mitigate loss i. e. by gaining new employment over the relevant period, or in an award would include, for example, a sign-on payment.
In connection with a lump sum.
If notice to terminate is served by either the Executive Director this, and as explained in assurances given at the time of publishing the or the Company, the Executive Director can continue to receive basic salary, 2013 Annual Report, the Compensation Committee confirms that, following benefits and pension for the duration of his her notice period during which discussions with shareholder representatives, any arrangement specifically the Company may require the individual to continue to fulfil his her current established to recruit an individual would take the form of performanceduties or may assign a period of garden leave, depending on the related variable remuneration.
On recruitment, the value of this remuneration circumstances in question.
The service contract used for any new hire would be capped at the limits contained in the LTIP and SOP or the value would be based on similar terms.
The CEOs service contract is available of awards which the individual had to surrender in order to be recruited, for inspection at the Companys registeredoffice.
The policy that exists for current Executive Generally, in an exit scenario the Company will honour all contractual Directors would then apply to the balance of the individuals remuneration entitlements, this being a matter required by the operation of law, and for package.
In addition, the Compensation Committee does not envisage individuals who relocated from overseas, reasonable relocation costs will that a cash payment such as a golden hello would be offered.
be considered as appropriate in the circumstances.
Internal promotion The treatment of incentive arrangements in exit scenarios are considered In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant contractual promotion, the Committee will be consistent with the policy used for terms of the individual, the circumstances of the exit and any applicable external appointees detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual duty to mitigate.
Generally, the payment of incentives as part of exit commitments made prior to his or her promotion to Executive Director arrangements is determined on the basis of good leaver bad leaver level, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements even in 68 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Summary table for Executive Director treatment of Executive Director exit arrangements Event Timing of vesting Calculation of vesting payment Short-Term Incentive Any event No automatic The Committee may exercise discretion to award a bonus for the performance year.
Such discretion would eligibility for generally only be used in good leaver scenarios.
If an award is made, the award will be made on a pro-rata payment.
basis for the period of time served to the agreed termination date.
Any STI payment would be subject to applicable STI performance measure and target assessments for the year in question.
RSUs and Stock Options Resignation Awards lapse Not applicable.
Retirement, injury, As set out in Vesting of RSUs is calculated based on performance to the end of the relevant performance period with disability, death or any the vesting awards pro-rated to reflect time employed.
Note the Committee may exercise discretion to waive time other leaver determined schedule pro-rating of award.
by the Committee to be determined Stock Options vest in full subject to the vesting schedule determined at grant.
Any Stock Options which a good leaver.
remain unexercised six months from the vesting date will lapse.
Change of control Date of change The Committee determines whether and to what extent outstanding RSUs and Stock Options vest based on not including internal of control.
all relevant facts and matters including performance, time elapsed since grant and the interests of Acacias reorganisations.
Alternatively, Acacia awards may be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquirer whereappropriate.
Any Stock Options which remain unexercised six months from the vesting date will lapse.
and change of control scenarios.
Summary termination, termination for re-election by shareholders at each AGM in accordance with the gross misconduct or gross negligence or termination in circumstances which requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Upon the would justify summary termination are all examples of bad leaver scenarios.
recommendation of the Nomination & Governance Committee, they may Good leavers include individuals who have left the Company as a result be re-appointed for two additional terms of three years, subject to their of retirement, injury, disability or death.
In addition, the Compensation continuing to satisfy requirements for continuing appointment and, again, Committee retains the discretion to determine any leaver that is not a subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The terms of engagement bad leaver as a good leaver.
This discretion is viewed as necessary by the of the Non-Executive Directors are set out in a letter of appointment.
Company given the vast range of scenarios in which an individual may leave These letters do not contain any provision for compensation for early the Company where conduct is not at issue.
The availability of this discretion termination of office.
Requirements for notice periods are reviewed on a is particularly relevant in exit scenarios in which an individuals performance case by case basis.
All letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors per se is not at issue.
Whilst it is not possible to provide an exhaustive list of are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
such scenarios, examples would include circumstances in which the Board Non-Executive Director remuneration primarily focuses on the payment of determines a need to change the Companys strategic direction or focus, fees.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in any of the or is required to review Board and management compositiongenerally, as a incentive plans available to Executive Directors.
However, Non-Executive result of operational or market developments, or other developments in the Directors may participate in the Companys DSU Plan.
This plan provides business, such as entry into new markets or a restructuring of the business.
Non-Executive Directors with the option to elect to waive some or all of their In any event, when exercising such discretion the Compensation Committee annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment, payable only would always recognise and take into account the balance of shareholder after a participant ceases to hold office with the Company.
Broadly, cash interests and those of the departing individual.
payments under this plan are calculated by reference to the fair market The table above summarises how the variable incentives are typically value of the Companys shares at the time of payment and remain subject treated in specific circumstances, subject to the exercise of the to market fluctuations in the context of the Companys share price until the discretions describedabove.
This plan was adopted by the Company in 2012 to address certain practices and trends of North American mining companies, which Executive Director external appointments provide for similar elections to be made in order to ensure that our practices It is the Boards policy to allow Executive Directors to accept nonexecutive for Non-Executive Director compensation structures remain flexible and directorships of other quoted companies for which they would normally be competitive against our global peers.
Elections under the plan are made allowed to retain fees.
Any such directorships must be formally approved annually, usually in April of each year.
In addition, to align Non-Executive by the Chairman of the Board.
Currently, no such positions are held by the Director interests with shareholders, the Company has adopted Non-Executive Companys sole Executive Director.
Director shareholding guidelines for its independent Non-Executive Directors, Approach to Non-Executive Director remuneration which require relevant individuals to acquire a minimum shareholding The Board aims to recruit Non-Executive Directors of a high calibre with equivalent to their annual base fee within two years from election to the broad commercial, international and other experience relevant to mining Board, which may be satisfied through the purchase of Acacia Ordinary operations.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board on the Shares or by electing to waive base fees for DSUs.
Details as regards current recommendation of the Nomination & Governance Committee.
Their outstanding awards under the DSU Plan and Acacia Ordinary Shares currently appointment is for an initial term of three years, subject to annual held by Non-Executive Directors are provided on page 80.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 69 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Summary table for Non-Executive Director remuneration policy Fees Purpose To attract and retain candidates with the required skill and experience to form part of the Board and to ensure fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors are competitive and comparable with other companies of equivalent size and complexity operating within the global mining industry.
Operation The base fee for Non-Executive Directors is reviewed annually, with any adjustments effective 1 April each year.
Fees payable to the Chairman are determined by the Compensation Committee, while the base fee and any other fee payable to the other Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board.
In addition to the base fee, additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Director and as chair of any of the Boards Committees Audit, Compensation, EHS&S, Nomination & Governance and for individual membership of such Committees.
These additional fees are also reviewed annually, with any adjustment effective 1 April each year.
In the event that the Board requires the formation of an additional Board Committee, fees for the chair and membership of such Committee will be determined by the Board at the time.
No base fee or fee for membership of Board Committees is payable to Non-Executive Directors appointed by Barrick pursuant to the nomination rights contained in the Relationship Agreement.
Non-Executive Director fee levels are benchmarked against international gold mining, general mining and FTSE listed companies of similar size and complexity.
Time commitment, responsibility, and technical skills required to make a valuable contribution to an effective Board are taken into account when reviewing fee levels.
Opportunity Non-Executive Director fee increases are set in response to the outcome of the annual fee review.
Fees for the year ending 31 December 2014 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The maximum aggregate annual fee for all Directors provided in the Companys Articles of Association is 3,000,000.
measures Deferred Share Unit Plan DSU Plan Purpose To ensure Acacia Non-Executive Director compensation structures remain flexible and competitive against global peers.
Operation Non-Executive Directors can elect to waive some or all of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment under the DSU Plan.
The value of additional DSUs is credited to reflect dividends paid on Acacia Ordinary Shares over the period of participation.
Cash payments become payable only after a participant ceases to hold office with the Company.
Opportunity Non-Executive Directors can waive up to 100% of their annual fee.
Performance Cash payments are calculated by reference to the fair market value of Acacias Ordinary Shares at the time of payment and remain measures subject to market fluctuations in Acacias share price until payment.
Awards lapse in the event that an individual is summarily terminated for: i breach of contract: ii breach of Directors duties: or iii misconduct, or if an individual resigns in circumstances justifying summary termination.
Approach to recruitment of Non-Executive Directors In the case of hiring or appointing a new Non-Executive Director, the Board will utilise the Remuneration Policy summarised in the table entitled Summary Table for Non-Executive Director remuneration policy, above.
A base fee which is aligned with the prevailing fee schedule would be payable for Board membership, with additional fees payable for acting as Senior Independent Director or as Chair of any of the Boards Committees and for individual membership of such Committees.
Non-Executive Directors would also be eligible to waive some or all of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment under the DSU Plan.
Approach to Non-Executive Director exit arrangements As regards Non-Executive Director resignation, retirement or termination, base fee and any additional fees would be payable to the resignation retirement termination date and treatment of any awards under the DSU Plan would be as follows: DSU Plan Event Timing of vesting Calculation of vesting payment Retirement, injury, disability, death On leaving office Save in the case of certain circumstances, DSU awards vest in full on leaving office, whereby the relevant cash payment made in respect of awards is determined Change of control not including On leaving office by reference to the fair market value of an Acacia Ordinary Share at the time  ofpayment.
Summary termination or termination for gross misconduct or termination in circumstances which would justify summary termination.
70 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Annual Remuneration Report for 2014 Compensation Committee membership in 2014 Advisers As of 31 December 2014, the Compensation Committee comprised four Kepler Associates Kepler was appointed by the Compensation Non-Executive Directors, three of whom were and remain independent: Committee in 2010 and retained during the year.
The Compensation Committee evaluates the support provided by its advisers annually and Michael Kenyon Chairman is comfortable that the Kepler team provides independent remuneration Kelvin Dushnisky advice to the Committee and does not have any connections with the Peter Tomsett Company that may impair its independence.
Kepler is a founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details Steve Lucas of which can be found at www.
com Kelvin Dushnisky stepped down from the Committee following year end and has been replaced by Graham Clow.
The following individuals also In 2014, Kepler provided independent advice on trends and developments, attended meetings by invitation during the year and provided advice to reporting regulations, the LTIP TSR performance condition, revisions to the the Committee to enable it to make informed decisions: Committees terms of reference and benchmarking data for selected senior Brad Gordon, Chief Executive Officer executives.
Kepler does not advise the Company on any issues outside compensation and governance thereof.
Keplers total fees for the provision Peter Geleta, Executive General Manager, Organisational Effectiveness of remuneration services in 2014 were 72,199 on the basis of time and Katrina White, General Counsel and Company Secretary materials.
The Committee also received legal advice from Travers Smith LLP No Director is present when his or her own remuneration is being determined.
as regards certain remuneration practices during the year and the legal The Compensation Committee met five times during the year and details of aspects to the structure of the Remuneration Policy, the total fees for which members attendance at meetings are provided on page 55.
Committee activities during the year is provided as part of the Committee Chairmans introduction to this report.
Details of Directors service contracts and letters of appointment As at 31 December 2014, Directors current appointments were as follows: Date of current service contract letter of appointment Unexpired term as of 31 December 2014 Executive Director Brad Gordon 21 August 2013 N A Non-Executive Directors Kelvin Dushnisky 6 June 2012 6 months Peter Tomsett 26 April 2013 1 year 4 months Graham Clow 26 April 2013 1 year 4 months Rachel English 23 October 2013 1 year 10 months Andre Falzon 18 April 2013 1 year 4 months Stephen Galbraith 18 April 2013 1 year 4 months Michael Kenyon 18 April 2013 1 year 4 months Steve Lucas 23 October 2013 1 year 10 months Ambassador Mwapachu 13 July 2014 2 years 7 months ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 71 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Single total figure of remuneration for Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Director for the year ending 31 December 2014. b c d Salary fees Taxable benefits STI 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Current Directors Executive Brad Gordon 425,000 154,744 124,587 189,770 227,269 113, 170 Non-Executive Kelvin Dushnisky Peter Tomsett 115,000 115,000 Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu 95,000 87,500 Andre Falzon 95,000 96,250 Michael Kenyon 95,000 109,350 Graham Clow 85,000 74,375 Steve Lucas 85,000 15,487 Rachel English 85,000 16,455 Stephen Galbraith Former Directors a David Hodgson 30,348 94,500 a Rick McCreary Notes: a D avid Hodgson retired from his position as a Director at the Companys 2014 AGM held on 24 April 2014.
Rick McCreary resigned as a Director with effect from 31 August 2014. b A s regards payments made to Brad Gordon in 2013, these reflect prorated amounts of total annual salary reflecting his period of appointment 21 August 2013 31 December 2013.
Non-Executive Director fees payable include all base fees paid in respect of the appointment as a Non-Executive Director and additional fees payable in respect of appointments as SID, Chair and or members of Board committees.
An overview of fees payable for 2014 is provided on page 74.
In addition, Non-Executive Directors can elect to waive all or some of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to receive a cash payment on leaving the Company, pursuant to the terms of the Companys DSU Plan.
Further details of this plan are provided on pages 69 to 70.
Details as regards DSU elections made during the year are explained in note f below.
Non-Executive Directors appointed pursuant to Barricks nomination rights under the Relationship Agreement Kelvin Dushnisky and Stephen Galbraith do not receive any fees in respect of their appointment.
c T axable benefits include: car allowance, private medical insurance and national insurance contributions paid on behalf of Mr Gordon in line with generally accepted practices for international employees stated as Other below.
A further breakdown of taxable benefits received for 2014 is provided below: Car allowance Medical Other Total Brad Gordon 32,289 5,876 86,422 124,587 d T his represents the short-term incentive payable in cash for annual performance.
Details as regards the performance assessment applicable to 2014 STI awards are provided on page 75.
The share price on the date of vesting was 2.44.
Further details of this award are included in page 77. f C ertain independent Non-Executive Directors elected to convert a proportion of their annual fee for 2014 into DSUs, pursuant to the terms of the Companys DSU Plan as follows: Graham Clow elected to convert an amount of approximately 42,500 of his total fee for 2014 into DSUs: Ambassador Mwapachu elected to convert an amount of approximately 71,250 of his total fee for 2014 into DSUs: Peter Tomsett elected to convert an amount of approximately 115,000 of his total fee for 2014 into DSUs: and Steve Lucas elected to convert an amount of approximately 20,000 of his total fee for 2014 into DSUs.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 73 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Executive Director salaries The following table shows Executive Director salaries for 2013 and 2014 and those payable for 2015: 2015 salary 2014 salary 2013 salary Brad Gordon 475,000 425,000 425,000 For 2015, the Committee has decided to increase the salary payable to the CEO to 475,000 to reflect continuing improved performance over 2014 and the fact that no salary increases were given to the CEO or other members of the SLT in 2014.
This new salary remains below the market average for the market in which Acacia operates and equates to a 5.7% per annum increase since his appointment.
Non-Executive Director fees For the year ending 31 December 2014, no fees were paid to Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, appointed by Barrick pursuant to its nomination rights under the Relationship Agreement.
Fees paid to independent Non-Executive Directors were paid as follows: Fee component Amount per annum Base fee 75,000 Senior Independent Director fee 25,000 Chair of Audit Committee fee 20,000 Chair of Compensation Committee, EHS&S Committee, and Nomination & Governance Committee fee 15,000 Board Committee membership fee 5,000 Non-Executive Director fees for 2015 will be reviewed prior to the 2015 AGM and will apply as of 1 April 2015.
74 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Executive Directors Short-Term Incentive awards For the year ending 31 December 2014, Executive Director STI awards were earned on the basis of Company-wide performance, this being representative of the overall leadership, management and performance of an individual holding this position.
During the year, we simplified the Company-wide performance measures to focus on the core metrics which we use to assess performance as regards safety, production, cost control and profit generation.
These performance metrics were assessed on the basis of individual weightings and in line with a range of performance targets to provide for threshold, target and maximum performance, as outlined in the table below.
2014 STI Scorecard assessment Overall Scorecard Strategic focus KPI Weighting Performance assessment Actual Rating % Safety Total reportable injury 10% Base 50% : 2013 actual i frequency rate TRIFR Target 100% : 10% improvement on 2013 0.86 0 Stretch 150% : 10% improvement on Target Wall 200% : 10% improvement on Stretch Production Ounces of gold 30% Base 20% : 95% of budget ii produced oz Target 30% : 100% of budget 714,545 19.8 Stretch 150% : 5% budget Wall 200% : 10% budget iii Profit generation Free cash flow 20% Base 20% : 95% of budget Target 30% : 100% of budget 86,410 40.0 Stretch 150% : 20% budget Wall 200% : 40% budget Cost control All-in sustaining cost 40% Base 20% : 4% budget iv per ounce sold AISC Target 30% : Approved budgeted AISC 1,078 11.5 Stretch 150% : 4% budget Wall 200% : 8% budget Overall outcome out of a maximum of 200% Sum of scorecard ratings 71.3 Bonus outcome as a % of salary Overall outcome x target bonus 75% of salary 53.5 Notes to STI scorecard table: i P lease refer to page 20 of this Annual Report for an explanation of how TRIFR is measured and its relevance to safety performance.
ii P lease refer to page 20 of this Annual Report for an explanation of how gold production is measured and its relevance to our productivity levels.
For STI KPI purposes production from Bulyanhulu Upper East was discounted in order to reflect normalised adjustments made to the applicable free cash flow KPI see iii below.
iii F or STI KPI purposes, free cash flow is calculated as: gold revenue, copper revenue, silver revenue all costs including sustaining capital, corporate social responsibility costs, finance leases relating to operations and exploration dividends - working capital.
For STI KPI purposes, free cash flow was normalised for the gold price and unbudgeted costs relating to Bulyanhulu Upper East and Lower West acceleration and the Gokona Underground project.
iv P lease refer to page 20 of this Annual Report for an explanation of how AISC is measured and its relevance to cost control achievements across the business.
For STI KPI purposes, AISC attributable to Bulyanhulu Upper East, Lower West and Gokona Underground was discounted in order to reflect normalised adjustments made to the applicable free cash flow KPI see iii above.
As noted in the Committee Chairmans introduction to this report, throughout 2014 we saw increasing levels of Company performance and the achievement of a number of important Company goals.
Key performance highlights include: annual production of 718,651 ounces, adjusted to 714,545 ounces for STI KPI purposes, ahead of our original 2014 production guidance and a 13% improvement on 2013 production levels: AISC of US$1,105 per ounce sold adjusted to US$1,078 per ounce sold for STI KPI purposes, 18% lower than 2013 AISC levels: and cash costs of US$732 per ounce sold, being 10% below 2013 cash cost levels.
Together these cost and operational achievements allowed us to achieve positive cash flow levels, assessed as approximately US$86.4 million for STI KPI purposes.
However, from a safety perspective TRIFR for 2014 was 0.86, a disappointing outcome.
On this basis, the Companys performance for the year was assessed as 71.3%, which has been reflected in STI award for the year paid to Brad Gordon see page 72.
For 2015, the CEOs STI opportunity will be 75% of base salary for target performance with a maximum opportunity of 150% for maximum performance.
Broadly, performance measures for 2015 will continue to focus on production, costs, safety and profitability and will be assessed primarily on Company performance with an element of individual performance.
Further details of 2015 performance measures, weightings and targets will be provided as part of the 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 75 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Executive Directors interests under the LTIP audited As at 31 December 2014 the following awards were outstanding under the LTIP: Shares over which Shares over which End of Shares over which awards held as of awards granted Market price at performance awards held on Award date 01-Jan-14 during the year date of award period Vesting date 31-Dec-14 Brad Gordon 21-Aug-13 795,036 1.60 20-Aug-16 20-Aug-16 803,005 Greg Hawkins 13-Feb-13 246,513 3.02 12-Feb-16 12-Feb-16 252,233 As explained in the introduction to this report, in the event that maximum performance is achieved, the TSR performance condition operates so as to deliver up to two times the value of the initial award at the date of vesting.
For all awards, additional RSUs are granted to reflect dividends paid on Acacia Ordinary Shares prior to the vesting date.
The August 2013 awards made to Brad Gordon represent awards made as part of Brads recruitment package.
This award is subject to the satisfaction of the TSR performance condition applicable at the time of making the award, this being the assessment of the Companys TSR on a weighted mean basis against the comparator group.
The comparator group for awards made to Brad Gordon in 2013 is as follows: Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd. IAMGOLD Corp. AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. Kinross Gold Corporation Buenaventura Mining Company New Gold Inc. Centamin plc Petropavlovsk PLC Centerra Gold Inc. Randgold Resources Ltd. Eldorado Gold Corp. Semafo Inc. Gold Fields Ltd. Yamana Gold Inc. Harmony Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
For purposes of assessing performance against the 2013 comparator group, TSR will be assessed over the performance period on a weighted mean basis, as follows: Acacias TSR % outperformance of comparator group weighted mean over three years % of target level of award 20% 200% 0% 100% -12.5% 50% Below -12.5% 0% Where performance is between the above levels, the percentage of target level of award is determined on a proportionate basis.
The ongoing treatment of RSU awards made to Greg Hawkins following his departure as CEO in August 2013 is outlined on page 79.
76 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Awards made in respect of 2014 performance were awarded post year end to allow for a full assessment of Company performance.
On 17 February 2015 Brad Gordon received the following award: an LTIP award equal to 307,303 Acacia Ordinary Shares, representing an award with a value of 200% of base salary.
The market price of Acacia Ordinary Shares at the time of the award was 2.77, the end of the applicable performance period and vesting date is 16 February 2018.
The award is subject to the satisfaction of the TSR performance condition applicable at the time of making the award, this being the assessment of the Companys TSR performance against the constituents of the Euromoney Global Gold Index.
The TSR performance against the Euromoney Global Gold Index constituents will be assessed over the performance period as follows: Acacias TSR % outperformance of comparator group median over three years % of target level of award 35% 200% 12% 100% 0% 50% Below 0% 0% Executive Directors interests under the SOP audited As at 31 December 2014 the following awards were outstanding under the SOP: Shares over Shares over Exercised Shares over which awards which awards lapsed Market price which awards held as at granted during Exercise during at date of Earliest Final held as at Award date 01-Jan-14 the year price the year exercise Expiry date vesting date vesting date 31-Dec-14 Brad Gordon 21-Aug-13 841,308 1.60 N A 20-Aug-20 20-Aug-14 20-Aug-17 841,308 As part of his recruitment package Brad Gordon received a stock option award equal to 841,308 Acacia Ordinary Shares on 21 August 2013, representing an award with a fair market value at the time of grant equal to one year of base salary 425,000.
The fair market value of the award was ascertained using the Monte Carlo Simulation valuation 31.5% of the market value of an Acacia Ordinary Share.
The market price of Acacia Ordinary Shares at the time of this award was 1.60, assessed on the basis of the average of middle market quotations from the Daily Official List of the LSE for the day of grant and the following two dealing days.
The award vests in equal parts over four years and expires seven years from the date of grant.
Vesting is subject to the satisfaction of a TSR performance condition similar to that outlined above for the RSU award made to Mr Gordon in 2013.
No SOP awards were granted in respect of 2014.
The first tranche of Mr Gordons 2013 SOP award was tested for performance as at 20 August 2014.
Over the relevant period, Acacia TSR of 101.3% exceeded the weighted mean of comparators by 109.4%, which resulted in 100% of this tranche vesting.
Consequently, 210,327 options became exercisable to Mr Gordon on 20 August 2014.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 77 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for SLT members.
Given that the Company operates across a number of diverse economies with pay levels and structures reflecting local market conditions, the Compensation Committee believes that using the SLT as a subset for purposes of comparing CEO pay against wider employee pay provides a more meaningful comparison than using pay data for all employees.
The CEOs remuneration includes base salary, taxable benefit and STI payments and for 2014 includes the sum of payments made to Brad Gordon.
SLT data is based on a consistent set of employees, i. e. the same individuals appear in the 2013 and 2014 populations.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows shareholder distributions i. e. dividends and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014, along with the percentage change in both.
Further details of the Companys economic contribution, including the economic value we add by paying our employees, Governments, suppliers, shareholders, contractors and communities, is included in the corporate responsibility review of this Annual Report.
2014 2013 % change 000 000 2013-2014 Shareholder distributions 8,448 36,360 -77% Total employee expenditure 136,741 144,121 -5% Comparison of Company performance The following graph shows Acacias TSR performance for the period from the IPO to 31 December 2014 calculated in accordance with the regulations against the FTSE 350 and Acacias LTIP comparator group.
The FTSE 350 was chosen on the basis of it being a recognised broad equity market index, of which Acacia was a member for the reporting period.
The CEO remuneration table below details the Chief Executives single figure remuneration over the same period.
Historical TSR performance CEO remuneration table Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding from IPO to 31 December 2014 Individual 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 160 CEO single Greg Hawkins 774 936 1,282 1,171 N A 140 figure remuneration 120 000 Brad Gordon N A N A N A 317 1,017 100 STI payout 80 Greg Hawkins 60% 50% 43% 90% N A as % of maximum 60 opportunity Brad Gordon N A N A N A 90% 36% 40 RSU payout 20 Greg Hawkins N A N A N A 44% N A as % of 0 18 Mar 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec maximum 2010 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 opportunity Brad Gordon N A N A N A N A N A Acacia Option payout FTSE350 Greg Hawkins N A 100% 100% N A N A as % of 2014 LTIP comparator group median maximum Based on spot share prices in GBP.
opportunity Brad Gordon N A N A N A N A 100% Note: table restated to reflect % of maximum opportunities vesting.
CEO single figure remuneration reflects all amounts payable from the single figure remuneration table, which for 2014 is available on page 72.
78 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Executive Director exit arrangements audited As noted in the 2013 Annual Remuneration Report, due to a number of commercial sensitivities, the Board took the decision to place Greg Hawkins on garden leave following his departure from the Company in August 2013, in accordance with the flexibilities provided to address exit arrangements under Executive Director service contracts.
As such Gregs official termination date was 20 August 2014.
During this period Greg continued to receive a monthly salary and the benefits afforded under his service contract as regards permanent health insurance, life assurance and the use of a company car payment of a car allowance.
The exit arrangements also provided for the following: The determination of outstanding LTIP awards on a good leaver basis to allow for vesting in accordance with existing vesting schedules, subject to satisfaction of applicable performance conditions at the end of each performance period Relocation arrangements, up to a maximum amount of 100,000, given his status as an international employee and country of origin and the payment of certain legal fees in relation to the execution of exit arrangements The cancellation of all outstanding stock options.
As a result, during the year Mr Hawkins received the following payments: an amount equal to 312,218 in aggregate in terms of salary during his period of garden leave, an amount equal to 152,881 in respect of taxable benefits and an amount equal to 78,054 in respect of pension.
He also received 76,250 in respect of relocation.
In addition, Mr Hawkins outstanding LTIP awards continue to subsist, subject to being pro-rated to reflect time of employment during the relevant performance periods.
Vesting is assessed against the TSR performance condition in place at the time the awards were granted.
The applicable TSR performance condition provides for the assessment of the Companys TSR performance on a weighted mean average against a comparator group of international gold mining companies.
The comparator group and basis of assessment under the structure of this performance condition is as follows: Comparators Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd. IAMGOLD Corp. AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. Kinross Gold Corporation Buenaventura Mining Company Petropavlovsk PLC Centamin plc Polyus Gold International Limited Centerra Gold Inc. Randgold Resources Ltd. Eldorado Gold Corp. Semafo Inc. Gold Fields Ltd. Yamana Gold Inc. Harmony Gold Mining Co. Ltd. Zijin Gold Mining Group Co. Ltd. For the February 2013 RSU award the comparator group also includes New Gold Inc. and excludes Zijin Gold Mining Group Co. Ltd and Polyus Gold InternationalLimited.
Acacias TSR % outperformance of comparator group weighted mean over three years % of interests transferred 20% 200% 0% 100% -12.5% 50% Below -12.5% 0% Where performance is between the above levels, the percentage of RSUs to be transferred is determined on a proportionate basis.
The RSU award granted to Greg Hawkins in November 2011 vested in respect of 2014.
Over the relevant three-year performance period, the Companys TSR was 54.6%, which was 12.8% above the weighted mean of the applicable comparator group.
As a result, 164% of the original interests awarded were due to vest based on performance, further details of which are provided below: RSUs held as at 1 Jan 2014 Interests vesting RSUs vesting Date vested Market price on vesting Value Greg Hawkins 97,587 164% 151,279 29 Nov 14 2.36 357,019 The RSUs vested take into account dividend re-investment during the year and all necessary pro-rata adjustments made to reflect Mr Hawkins official termination date of 20 August 2014.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 79 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors interests in Acacia Ordinary Shares and shareholding requirements audited Executive Directors are required to acquire a minimum holding in Acacia Ordinary Shares equivalent to two times base salary over a period of five years.
For these purposes, LTIP awards are taken into account but stock options awards made under the SOP are not taken into account when assessing whether or not shareholding requirements have been satisfied.
Independent Non-Executive Directors are required to acquire a minimum holding equivalent to their annual base fee within two years of election to the Board, which may be satisfied via the acquisition of Acacia Ordinary Shares or by electing to waive base fees for DSUs under the Acacia DSU Plan.
The table below shows the shareholding of each Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2014 along with the form of their interests in Acacia Ordinary Shares.
Shares held Options held RSUs held DSUs held Unvested Unvested Vested and subject to and subject to Shareholding Current Owned outright but not performance performance requirement % shareholding Requirement a a b c or vested exercised condition condition Unvested salary fee % salary fee met?
Executive Director d Brad Gordon 210,327 630,981 803,005 200% 200% Yes Non-Executive Directors Kelvin Dushnisky N A N A N A Peter Tomsett 125,203 100% 315% Yes Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu 30,330 100% 96% No Andre Falzon 9,000 11,621 100% 103% Yes Michael Kenyon 36,875 100% 139% Yes Graham Clow 46,699 100% 117% Yes Steve Lucas 8,730 100% 27% No Rachel English 17,383 100% 50% No Stephen Galbraith N A N A N A Notes: a RSUs and stock option awards vest subject to a relative TSR performance condition.
b T he Companys DSU Plan for Non-Executive Directors provides Non-Executive Directors with the option to elect to waive some or all of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment, payable only after a participant ceases to hold office with the Company.
Broadly, cash payments under this plan are calculated by reference to the fair market value of Acacias Ordinary Shares at the time of payment and remain subject to market fluctuations in the context of Acacias share price until the time of payment.
c Based on Acacias share price at the time of acquiring shares and or electing to receive DSUs and or receiving RSU awards.
d Consists of options awarded on recruitment which vest subject to a relative TSR performance condition.
David Hodgson held interests in 13,000 shares prior to his departure in April 2014 and also held interests in DSUs which vested subsequent to his departure.
Rick McCreary did not have any interests in the Companys shares during his tenure as a Director.
Subsequent to year end, Brad Gordons interests in RSUs were increased to reflect the 2014 LTIP award, taking his aggregate unvested RSUs to 1,110,308 RSUs.
Details of this award are provided on page 77 of this report.
There have been no other changes in Directors shareholdings between 31 December 2014 and 9 March 2015.
As regards Ambassador Mwapachus shareholding, dividend reinvestment applicable to DSU interests during H1 2015 will operate so as to ensure the applicable shareholding guideline requirements are satisfied shortly following the publication of this report.
Mr Lucas and Ms English have a further ten months to satisfy applicable shareholding guideline requirements.
80 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Summary of shareholder voting at the 2014 AGM The following table shows the results of the binding vote on the Directors Remuneration Policy and the advisory vote on the 2013 Remuneration Report at the 2014 AGM: Total number of votes % votes cast Directors Remuneration Policy For 351,403,920 98.37 Against 5,809,779 1.63 Votes cast excluding withheld votes 357,213,699 Votes withheld 3,500 Total votes cast including withheld votes 357,217,199 Directors Remuneration Report 2013 For 293,876,634 85.44 Against 50,062,215 14.56 Votes cast excluding withheld votes 343,938,849 Votes withheld 13,278 Total votes cast including withheld votes 343,952,127 In the context of shareholder voting, the key area of concern remained the grant of LTIP and SOP awards to Executive Directors subject to a TSR performance condition that provided for vesting of awards below median performance.
As noted above, this practice was discontinued at the end of 2013 and all Executive Director LTIP awards are now granted subject to the TSR performance condition assessed on a median basis against the constituents of the Euromoney Global Gold Index.
Approval of Directors Remuneration Report The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Michael Kenyon Compensation Committee Chairman ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 81
