STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors report Corporate governance Introduction I am pleased to introduce the 2014 Corporate Governance statement.
The Company is committed to the The Board met eight times during the principles of Corporate Governance year.
These meetings, together with any contained in the UK Corporate Governance Committee meetings, are generally held Code provided by the Financial Reporting at the Groups Head Office in Cambridge Council and for which the Board is or in our London office and are accountable to shareholders.
The Company approximately one day in duration.
has complied with the provisions of the UK Each Board meeting has an over-arching Corporate Governance Code throughout theme.
These include annual technology the year and to the date of this report.
review, business plan strategy day, Further explanation of how the principles succession planning, annual budget, have been applied is set out below and, in presentations from Engineering & Philip Aiken connection with Directors remuneration, in Design Systems and Enterprise Solutions Chairman the Remuneration Committee report on and interim and final results.
The Board aims that once per year a Board meeting will be held outside the UK at one Composition of the Board of the Groups overseas offices.
During During the year the Board comprised the 2013 14, the September Board meeting Chairman, three Non-Executive Directors was held in Houston, Texas, USA.
27 May 2014 including the Senior Independent Director In addition, the Board holds a full-day and two Executive Directors being the Chief strategy meeting every year at which Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
Executive Directors and members of thesenior management team make Board meeting attendance As announced on 30 May 2013, Jennifer presentations covering progress against Allerton was appointed to the Board in July current strategy and objectives and 8 meetings held 2013 and at the same meeting Herv ideas for future investment.
Philip Aiken Couturier stepped down from the Board.
The Board delegates the day-to-day Further details of the process for the responsibility for managing the Group appointment of Jennifer Allerton are tothe Executive Directors.
contained in the Nominations Committee To enable the Board to discharge its Jonathan Brooks report below.
duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information.
Briefing papers Brief biographical details of all Board are distributed by the Company Philip Dayer members are set out on pages 42 and 43.
Secretary to all Directors usually four The membership of all Board Committees working days in advance of Board and isset out on pages 40 and 41.
Herv Couturier 100% up to retirement A monthly reporting pack containing Operation of the Board management accounts with The Chairman, along with the Executive commentary and reports from each Jennifer Allerton 100% after appointment Directors and Company Secretary, ensures Executive is distributed to the Board on that the Board functions effectively and has amonthly basis.
established Board processes designed to Meetings were held between the Richard Longdon maximise its performance and effectiveness.
Chairman and the Non-Executive Key aspects of these processes are: Directors during the year, without the Executives being present, to discuss James Kidd The AVEVA Group Board meets regularly appropriate matters as necessary.
in combination with the Board of AVEVA The Chairman ensures that the Directors Solutions Limited, the main operating take independent professional advice company in the Group which owns the where they judge it necessary to entire Groups trading subsidiaries.
The discharge their responsibilities as AVEVA Solutions Limited Board includes Directors at the Groups expense.
All as members the Chief Technical Officer members of the Board have access to and Head of Engineering & Design the advice of the Company Secretary.
Systems and the Chief Operations Officer Non-Executive Directors and Executive and Head of Enterprise Solutions as well Directors are encouraged annually to undertake training in furtherance of their as all the members of the Group Board.
This ensures that the AVEVA Group Board specific roles and general duties as adirector.
is well informed on technical and market factors driving the Groups performance as well as on financial outcomes.
37 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors report Corporate governance continued Group structure 2014 The Board Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Richard Longdon Philip Aiken Chairman James Kidd Jonathan Brooks Philip Dayer Jennifer Allerton Company Secretary Helen Barrett-Hague Executive management team Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Richard Longdon James Kidd Chief Operations Chief Technology Executive Vice Executive Head of Executive Officer and Head of Officer and President Vice President Regional Operations Vice President Enterprise Solutions Head of Engineering Global Sales Business Strategy Human Resources &Design Systems and Business Services The attendance of individual Directors at Board meetings and Matters reserved for the Board Committee meetings during the year is set out in the table below.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
There is a formal schedule of matters Independence of Non-Executive Directors and segregation of duties specifically reserved for the Boards decision that covers key areas The Board has considered the independence of the Chairman and the of the Groups affairs, which include: Non-Executive Directors and believes that all are currently independent of management and free from any material business or overall responsibility for the strategy of the Group: other relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of corporate governance: their independent judgement.
Their biographies on pages 42 and 43 review of trading performance and forecasts: demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring the risk management: independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, Board membership: resources and standards of conduct which is vital to the Group.
communications with shareholders: approval of major transactions, including mergers and The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are distinct and acquisitions: and thedivision of responsibility between these roles has been clearly approval of the financial statements and annual operating and established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman capital expenditure budgets.
is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board and ensuring that it Board meets its obligations and responsibilities.
The Chief Executive is meetings responsible to the Board for the day-to-day management of the Meetings held 8 business, leadership of the executive team and execution of the Groups strategic and operating plans.
The Chairman and Chief Meetings attended Executive meet regularly to discuss any issues pertaining to the Philip Aiken 8 Companys performance, reputation and organisation.
Jonathan Brooks 8 Philip Dayer 8 Herv Couturier 100% up to retirement 2 Jennifer Allerton 100% after appointment 6 Richard Longdon 8 James Kidd 8 38 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Internal control and risk management Performance evaluation The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous review of its internal control and for monitoring its effectiveness.
However, such performance and that of its Committees and Directors each a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of financial year.
Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP, the independent failure and by its very nature can only provide reasonable and not board performance consultants who have no other connection with absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the Company, conducted the review between November 2013 and March 2014.
This took the form of a series of structured interviews The Board has established a continuous process for identifying, with all the Directors and various members of the senior executive evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The team covering the performance of the Board, each of the Boards Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal Committees and a peer group review of each Director's individual controls, which have been in place from the start of the year to the performance.
Armstrong Bonham Carter collated and analysed the date of approval of this report, and believes that it is in accordance results from each interview and prepared separate reports on the with the Internal Control: Guidance to Directors.
performance of the Board as a whole, one for each Committee and reports on each Director.
The key elements of the system of internal controls currently include: The reports on the performance of the Board and those of the each member of the Executive Board has responsibility for Committees were subsequently presented and discussed at the specific aspects of the Groups operations.
They meet on a March 2014 Board meeting.
The individual Directors performance regular basis and are responsible for the operational strategy, reports were provided to the Chairman, which the Chairman then reviewing operating results, identification and mitigation of risks discussed with each Director as appropriate.
The Chairmans and communication and application of the Groups policies performance was discussed initially with the Senior Independent andprocedures.
Where appropriate, matters are reported Director before he provided feedback to the Chairman.
totheBoard: regular reports to the Board from the Executive Board on key Overall, the review concluded that the Board had demonstrated a developments, financial performance and operational issues in high degree of effectiveness.
There were some recommendations the business: on how to further improve the development of strategy, Board operational and financial controls and procedures which include composition and how operations are monitored.
Subsequently the authorisation limits for expenditure, sales contracts and capital Board has addressed some of these issues and for others these are expenditure, signing authorities, IT application controls, being managed by an action plan which will be regularly monitored.
organisation structure, Group policies, segregation of duties and reviews by management: Indemnities to Directors an annual budget process which is reviewed, monitored and In accordance with the Companys Articles ofAssociation, Directors approved by the Board: are granted an indemnity from the Company to the extent permitted regular meetings between the Executive Board, sales area by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of the performance managers and line of business managers to discuss actual of their duties in their capacity as Directors to the Company.
The performance against forecast, budget and prior years.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent the Director operating results are reported on a monthly basis to the Board and is proven to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company has compared to the budget and the latest forecast as appropriate: maintained Directors and officers liability insurance cover targeted internal audit reviews and extended external audits throughout the year.
which focus on confirming the operation of controls in key process areas: and maintenance of insurance cover to insure all major risk areas of the Group based on the scale of the risk and availability of the cover in the external market.
The Boards monitoring covers all material controls, including financial, non-financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board periodically carries out visits to the Groups subsidiaries and receives presentations on their operations.
The Board has also performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
This involved reviewing a risk matrixfor the Group that was prepared during a risk assessment workshop involving the Executive Board and senior managers.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control necessary for the Company to successfully carry out the key business strategies of the Group together with more generic inherent risks of the Groups operations.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
39 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors report Corporate governance continued Policy on appointment and reappointment Constructive use of the Annual GeneralMeeting In accordance with the Articles of Association, all Directors are The Board seeks to use the Annual General Meeting to communicate required to retire and submit themselves for re-election at least with investors and all shareholders are encouraged to participate.
everythree years by rotation and also following their appointment.
In TheChairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and the Nominations addition, as in the prior year and in accordance with the UK Corporate Committees will be available at the Annual General Meeting to Governance code, all of the remaining Board members are offering answer any questions.
themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Share capital structure On appointment, all Directors are asked to confirm that they Further information on the share capital structure of the Company is havesufficient time to devote to the role, which is confirmed contained on pages 65 and 66. together with details of their duties in the letter of appointment.
AllDirectors undergo an induction as soon as practical following Committees of the Board their appointment.
As part of the induction process, Directors are The Board commenced the year with fourCommittees: Audit, provided with background information on the Group and attend the Remuneration, Nominations and Treasury Risk Management.
During Groups headquarters in Cambridge for meetings and presentations the course of the yearthe activities of the Treasury Risk Management from senior management.
Jennifer Allerton received a briefing on Committee were assumed by the Audit Committee.
In accordance the role, responsibilities and duties of being a Company director with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the duties of the from the Company Secretary and reviewed the financials and Committees are set out in formal terms of reference.
They are business models with the Chief Financial Officer.
She met with the available on request from the Companys registered office during Executive Vice Presidents of Business Strategy: Human Resources normal business hours and areavailable on the Companys website and Business Services: the Chief Operations Officer and the Vice atwww.
In addition, where appropriate, meetings are also arranged with the Groups advisers.
of meetings: 4 Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Committee Chairman: Jonathan Brooks 4 Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered Committee members: Philip Dayer 4 office during normal business hours and will be available for Herv Couturier 1 inspection on the day of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
100% to the date of resignation Dialogue with institutional shareholders Jennifer Allerton 3 Communication with shareholders is given high priority by the 100% from the date Board.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Head of of appointment Investor Relations have meetings with representatives of institutional shareholders and hold analyst briefings at least twice a year, following The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and the announcement of the interim and full year results, but also at monitoring of financial reporting, risk management and internal other times during the year as necessary.
It tests and challenges these areas in conjunction with Product Development, Business Strategy and Finance also attended management and the auditor as appropriate.
The Audit Committee analyst and shareholder meetings during the year.
In September met four times during the year.
Following the decision in May 2013 2013, the Company held a capital markets day in Houston, Texas, to absorb the Treasury Risk Management Committee TRMC, the USA: where analysts and shareholders were updated on the activities Audit Committee commenced oversight of the Groups treasury of the Group including its North American operations.
All of these activities and associated risks.
meetings seek to build a mutual understanding of objectives with major shareholders by discussing long-term strategy and obtaining The Audit Committee report on pages 44 to 46 sets out in more feedback.
The Board also receives formal feedback from analysts and detail the Audit Committees policies, practices and areas of focus.
institutional shareholders through the Companys financial PR adviser and financial advisers.
The Board is appraised of discussions with major shareholders to ensure that Executive and Non-Executive Directors consider any matter raised by shareholders and to enable all Directors to understand shareholder views.
In addition, during 2014, the Group consulted with shareholders in respect of proposals for the remuneration of Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Philip Dayer, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or if such contact would be inappropriate.
The Chairman, Senior Independent and Non-Executive Directors are available for dialogue with shareholders at any time and attend together with theother members of the Board the Annual General Meeting, but are not routinely involved in investor relations or shareholder communications.
Corporate information is also available on the Companys website, www.
40 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Nominations Committee Treasury Risk Management Committee TRMC No.
of meetings: 1 Committee Chairman: Philip Aiken 3 Committee Chairman: Philip Dayer 1 Committee members: Jonathan Brooks 3 Committee members: Jonathan Brooks 1 Philip Dayer 3 James Kidd 1 The activities of the Nominations Committee include nomination, The TRMC was formed to oversee the Groups treasury function.
selection and appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Inaddition to the above members, the Head of Finance and Group Directors, succession planning and the composition of the Board, Treasurer attended the meetings.
The TRMC reviewed the Groups particularly in relation to the diversity of background, skills and overall financial risk management, including: experience.
The Nominations Committee are committed to attracting, recruiting and retaining the best people by creating foreign exchange risk and related hedging policy: andsustaining an inclusive work environment offering equal credit risk, which includes monitoring the Groups counter party opportunities regardless of race, gender, gender identity or exposure to banks: and reassignment, age, disability, religion or sexual orientation.
The liquidity risk, which includes reviewing the cash management Nominations Committee meets periodically when required.
In structure in the Group.
addition to the meetings there are a number of adhoc meetings to address specific matters.
The Chief Executive is invited to attend The policies of the Group in relation to these areas are explained in meetings as appropriate to the business being considered.
note 26 to the financial statements.
During 2013 Herv Couturier communicated his desire to retire In May 2013 it was decided in the interests of efficiency to merge the fromthe Board at the forthcoming AGM.
The Nominations Treasury Risk Management Committee with the Audit Committee.
Committee met under Philip Aikens Chairmanship and with theparticipation of the Chief Executive Officer, to consider an appropriateprocess for choosing a successor.
Spencer Stuart, an external executive search firm with a strong Board practice was appointed to assist with the identification of appropriate candidates, having considered the requisite skills, knowledge and experience forthe position with a particular focus on information technology andglobal operations.
Spencer Stuart has no connection with the Company.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer interviewed the short-listed individuals.
The other members of the Nominations Committee theninterviewed the final candidate.
As a result, the Nominations Committee recommended the appointment of Jennifer Allerton to the Board, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 9July 2013.
Upon her appointment Jennifer Allerton was considered to be independent.
The Chairman of the Committee and the remainder of the Board also considered the independence of Philip Dayer and Jonathan Brooks now that both are in their third term of office.
It was concluded that both remained independent and continued to contribute to the operation of the Board.
of meetings: 4 Committee Chairman: Philip Dayer 4 Committee members: Philip Aiken 4 Jonathan Brooks 4 The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy for Executive and senior management remuneration and determines the individual remuneration packages on behalf of the Board for the Executive Directors of the Group.
The Chief Executive attends meetings by invitation, except when the Chief Executives own remuneration package is being discussed.
The Committee has access to professional advice, both inside and outside the Company, in the furtherance of its duties.
During the year the Committee asked Deloitte LLP to conduct an executive remuneration bench marking survey in accordance with the Remuneration Committees policy to commission such a survey triennially.
The Directors remuneration report sets out in more detail the Remuneration Committees policies and practices on Executive remuneration.
41 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors report Board of Directors Philip Aiken Richard Longdon James Kidd Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Philip Aiken has over 40 years experience in Richard Longdon received engineering James Kidd is a Chartered Accountant industry and commerce having been, from training in the defence industry and andjoined AVEVA in 2004.
Prior to his 1997 to 2006, President of BHP Petroleum thengained experience in the project appointment to the Board, James held and then Group President Energy of BHP management of high-value engineering several senior finance roles within the Billiton.
Prior to that he held senior positions projects.
He moved into sales and held a Group and was Head of Finance from 2006. with BTR plc 1995 to 1997 and BOC Group series of international sales and marketing He joined the Group at the time of the 1970 to 1995.
Other roles have included positions.
He joined AVEVA in 1984 and Tribon acquisition and played a significant Chairman of Robert Walters plc, Senior shortly afterwards was made Marketing part in the completion of this transaction Independent Director of Kazakymys plc, Manager for the process products.
In and the subsequent integration of the Senior Independent Director of Essar Energy January 1992, he relocated to Frankfurt acquired business.
His responsibilities plc, Senior Adviser for Macquarie Capital where he was responsible for setting up haveincluded investor relations, the Europe, Chairman of the 2004 World Energy and running the Groups German office.
development of the Groups overseas Congress and serving on the Boards of the Hereturned to the UK as part of the subsidiaries, standardisation of financial Governor of Guangdong International management buyout team in 1994, taking processes and procedures as well as being Council, World Energy Council and Monash responsibility for the Groups worldwide heavily involved in the Groups recent Mt Eliza Business School.
He is a Nonsales and marketing activities, before being acquisitions.
Prior to joining AVEVA James Executive Director of National Grid plc and appointed Managing Director in May 1999. worked for both Arthur Andersen and Newcrest Mining Limited.
Deloitte, serving technology clients in both He took over as Group Chief Executive in December 1999. transactional and audit engagements.
Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure 2 Years appointed 1 May 2012 20 Years appointed 16 August 1994 3 Years appointed 1 January 2011 42 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Jonathan Brooks Philip Dayer Jennifer Allerton Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Philip Dayer qualified as a Chartered Jonathan Brooks is a Fellow of the Chartered Jennifer Allerton has more than 38 years' Accountant and pursued a corporate Institute of Management Accountants and has information technology experience, gaining finance career in investment banking, some 20 years experience in the technology extensive knowledge of working in large specialising in advising UK-listed sector.
Between 1995 and 2002, he was Chief companies across the globe, particularly in companies.
He was first appointed an Financial Officer and a Director of ARM emerging markets.
Between 2002 and 2012 Advisory Director in 1983 of Barclays Holdings Plc where he was a key member of she was Chief Information Officer at F. Merchant Bank Limited and since then the team that developed ARM to be a leader in Hoffmann-La Roche with responsibility for hasheld the position of Corporate Finance its sector.
Since 2002, he has been a director of ITstrategy and operations for the Pharma Director with a number of banks.
He retired a number of technology companies in both the division and all Group IT operations.
Jennifer from Hoare Govett Limited in 2004.
Philip software and hardware sectors.
Most recently, holds a B. Sc in Mathematics and a B. Sc in was a financial consultant to OJSC Rosneft he was Chairman of Xyratex Limited, a NasdaqGeosciences as well as an M. Sc in Physics.
Oil Company, the Russian state-owned oil listed provider of enterprise class data storage Jennifer is a member of the Advisory Board and gas company, on their flotation in 2006. sub-systems and network technology, which of the University of Bath Management Philip is a Non-Executive Director of was acquired by Seagate at the end of March Kazmunaigas Exploration Production JSC, School.
He is currently a Non-Executive Director The Parkmead Group plc, Navigators Director of Oxford Instruments plc.
and Chair of the Audit Committee of IP Group Underwriting Agency Limited, VTB Capital PLC, which commercialises intellectual plc and Chairman of IP PLUS plc.
Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure 6 Years appointed 12 July 2007 6 Years appointed 7 January 2008 Appointed 9 July 2013 Balance of Executive and and Non-Executive Directors Chairman Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors 43 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors report Audit Committee report Audit Committee terms of reference The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and the Committee members as part of the full Board review all proposed announcements to be made by the Group and consideration is given to any significant financial reporting judgements contained in them.
The Committee considers the effectiveness of financial reportingand internal controls, compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the Listing, Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and also reviews any proposed change in accounting policies and any recommendations The Board places a very high priority from the Groups auditor regarding improvements to internal controls and the adequacy of resources within the Groups on the integrity of the Groups financefunction.
financial statements, the quality and In May 2013, the Audit Committee assumed the responsibilities ofthe Treasury Risk Management Committee which had been transparency of its financial reporting established following the financial crisis of 2008.
A full copy of the Committees terms of reference is available from the Companys and the effectiveness of AVEVAs risk website at www.
management and internal Committee membership The Committee is formed of three independent Non-Executive controlsystems.
As Chairman of the Committee, I am deemed by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
I am a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and I have held a number of senior financial positions in my career, the most relevant of which being the Chief Financial Officer of ARM Holdings Plc between 1995 and 2002.
ARM is a major global technology company as well as having a similar software licensing business Jonathan Brooks model to AVEVA.
Philip Dayer and Jennifer Allerton make up the Audit Committee Chairman other two members of the Audit Committee, Jennifer having joined 27 May 2014 the Committee in place of Herv Couturier who stepped down from the Board at the AGM in July 2013.
Brief biographical details of all the members of the Committee are included on pages 42 and 43.
Information flows to the Audit Committee The Audit Committee meets at least four times per annum.
The The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and Company Chairman and CFO are invited to attend all meetings.
governance of these critical areas.
The external auditor and the Groups Head of Finance are also invited to attend.
Members of senior management are invited In line with the requirement in the UK Corporate Governance Code from time to time to make presentations such as the Committees applicable to financial years commencing on or after 1 October 2012, agenda necessitates.
For example, in March 2014, the Audit based on confirmations from management and external audit review, Committee met during the Groups annual Corporate Finance the Committee and the Board consider that the Annual Report and Conference held in the UK, and so were able to meet the most Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and senior members of the global finance team, representing the provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the EMEA, Asia Pacific, Chinese, Latin American and Enterprise Company's performance, business model and strategy.
Overview of the years activities The Committee meets quarterly with the auditor without any In addition to its prescribed duties, the Audit Committee undertook members of the executive management team being present.
several additional projects during the year.
Firstly, it commissioned Ialso meet with the external auditor two or three times each year an extensive review of the Groups revenue recognition policies, away from the Companys offices.
undertaken in association with a third party professional services firm, so as to enable the Group to be better prepared for the new accounting standard for revenue recognition which is expected to be released in 2014.
Secondly, following the BIS initiative, work was undertaken on assessing the potential cyber risks open to the Group.
Thirdly, following a decision to tender the audit from the 2016 year end, efforts were made to develop relationships with other accounting firms in anticipation of a tender process which willbe held in 2015.
Fourthly, with the general need to upgrade the Groups IT systems, attention was devoted to the major project toupgrade the Business Systems.
Finally, the challenging trading conditions in which the Enterprise Solutions business found itself led to an extensive review of whether its goodwill and intangible assets required impairment.
44 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk and internal controls The key elements of the Groups internal control framework and Audit Committee meeting dates 2013 14 and summary agendas procedures are set out on page 39.
The principal risks the Group faces are set out on pages 26 and 27.
Annually, the Audit Committee September 2013 considers the Group risk register and related management controls.
Scoping of project to review revenue recognition policies Throughout the process, the Board or the Audit Committee: Scoping of project to review cyber security Business systems update: presentation from management gives consideration to whether areas should be looked at more Consideration of FRC recommendations on auditor rotation closely through specific control reviews: Internal audit planning for coming year extended external audit identifies areas where enhancement of internal controls is Consideration of the potential financial reporting risks for the required: and six-month interim report agrees action plans to deliver the necessary or recommended Review and confirmation of Audit Committee terms enhancements.
ofreference There is a formal whistle-blowing policy which has been November 2013 communicated to employees.
This policy provides information Receipt of the report from the auditors on their interim onthe process to follow in the event that any employee feels it is reviewprocedures appropriate to make a disclosure.
The Audit Committee is satisfied Review and approval of the six-month interim report that the policy provides an adequate basis for employees to make Report from Deloitte LLP following their review of Groups representations in confidence to the Group and for appropriate and cyber security proportionate investigations.
Progress report from management on interim review of revenue recognition project Valuation of assets and liabilities The Audit Committee discusses with management and the auditor March 2014 the approach that has been taken in assessing all key estimates.
Presentation of reports on extended external audit procedures These include revenue recognition, provisions for impairment of China and South Korea receivables, the valuation of intangible assets and retirement Full review by the Committee of Group risk register benefit obligations and the uncertainty of taxation items in Discussion of the auditors 2013 14 audit plan certainjurisdictions.
Consideration of potential financial reporting risks and regulatory changes for the full year report Annually, the Committee considers the going concern principle Presentation from management on the Groups tax status and onwhich the financial statements are prepared and also considers current risks and approves the impairment review of goodwill prepared Progress report from management on revenue recognition bymanagement.
project following external input from PwC Review of treasury function and formal adoption of Group Revenue recognition treasury policy Revenue recognition represents a key risk to the integrity of the Ratification of priorities for 2014 15 procedures over system of financial statements and as such the Committee spends a great internal financial and operational controls deal of time in this area.
This includes reviewing any non-standard Assessment of effectiveness of external auditor or very large contracts as and when they arise.
During the year Presentation by senior members of regional finance teams theaudit focused on ten locations which represented 79% of the based in Brazil, China, Dubai, Germany and Malaysia Group's revenue and the auditor consulted with the Committee on the larger or non-standard contracts which arose during the course May 2014 of their work.
Receipt of reports from management considering significant financial reporting risks Impairment review of Enterprise Solutions ES business Formal going concern review and internal audit function review During the year, particular attention was paid to the carrying value of Review of annual goodwill impairment test, particularly with goodwill related to the Enterprise Solutions line of business for which respect to the Enterprise Solutions business there is lower headroom in the impairment test calculations.
The ES Receipt of the report from the auditors on their audit findings business suffered a significant drop in revenues in 2013 14 compared Review and approval of the preliminary announcement and to the prior year, and this precipitated a thorough review, since one of 2014 annual report the key elements in supporting the carrying value of its intangible assets of 12.8 million was its revenue growth rate.
The difficulty for the Committee lay in judging to what extent the drop in revenues in 2013 14 reflected a near-term issue rather than a fundamental change in the ES future outlook.
One factor which reassured the Committee was the ability to reduce cost being carried by ES in an environment where the growth rate was reduced to no more than 10% per annum.
In such a case, there was still no requirement for impairment, though the Committee agreed that any further deterioration in the growth rate in 2015 was likely to require an impairment.
Further details can be found in note 16 to the Accounts Goodwill.
45 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors report Audit Committee report continued Internal audit Audit partners are rotated every five years and a formal statement The Group does not maintain a separate internal audit function.
of independence is received from the auditor each year.
The Board This is principally due to the geographical spread of the Groups and the Audit Committee are satisfied that the independence of operations which means that there is a clear advantage in any theauditor has been maintained.
The current audit partner, Bob internal audit work or review of controls being undertaken by Forsyth, will commence his fifth year with the Group in 2014 15 teamswith specific local regulatory knowledge and without any before rotating off the audit.
The Group uses a combination of extended external audit procedures and outsourced internal audit projects At the March 2014 meeting, the Committee assessed the tomeet its control review needs, as this is considered most effectiveness of the external auditor.
However, the Audit Committee does review the basedupon individual questionnaire feedback from key members need to have its own separate internal audit function each year.
ofthe Groups finance team as well as from the Audit Committee members.
The overall conclusion was that while the audit process The Audit Committee has developed a framework to gain assurance was effective, some areas of potential improvement were identified.
over the system of internal financial and operational controls.
Thiscomprises: The audit was last tendered in 2002 03.
The Audit Committee considers the re-appointment or tendering of the audit each year.
A risk assessment performed by operational management and The Committees intention is currently to tender the audit starting the Board to identify key areas for assurance.
from the 2016 financial year, being the first year following the A series of peer and head office reviews of key risk areas of current audit partners five-year term.
At the time of writing, the financial internal control.
Committee expects that the current auditors, Ernst & Young, will be The use of qualified third parties to undertake specialist reviews in invited to tender along with two other firms of auditors.
During 2013 14 the Committee appointed Deloitte LLP to conduct a review of cyber security and PwC to Audit planning and main audit issues assist in the review of the Groups revenue recognition policies.
At the March 2014 meeting of the Committee the auditors An extension of the external auditors work in certain areas and presented their audit plan for 2013 14.
This included a summary geographies to cover other key financial risks, such as operations ofthe proposed audit scopes for the year for each of the Groups in fast growth areas as well as new taxation risks arising from subsidiaries and a summary of what the auditor considered to be trading in emerging markets.
During 2013 14, following a similar the most significant financial reporting risks facing the Group, exercise in Brazil and Russia in the prior year, additional testing together with the auditors proposed audit approach to these was carried out in South Korea and China.
The main areas of audit focus for the year An annual assessment by the Audit Committee of the whole werethe areas of significant judgements of revenue recognition, system of internal financial and operational controls.
valuation of intangible assets, provisions for impairment of receivables, the uncertainty of taxation items in certain jurisdictions External audit and retirement benefit obligations.
These areas are described in The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of more detail in note 3 to the financial statements.
theexternal auditor and on its remuneration both for audit and non-audit work and discusses the nature, scope and results of Jonathan Brooks Audit Committee Chairman theaudit with the external auditor.
The Committee keeps under reviewthe cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
Controls in place to ensure this, include: monitoring the independence and effectiveness of the audit: implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditor tosupply non-audit services: and a review of the scope of the audit and fee and performance of the external auditor.
An analysis of non-audit fees is provided in note 7 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee monitors fees paid to the auditor for non-audit work and delegates the authority for approval of such work to the Chief Financial Officer where the level of fees involved are insignificant.
During the year the auditor did perform non-audit work which mainly consisted of tax compliance work for subsidiaries of the Group and some other statutory filing work.
Any significant non-audit work such as reporting accountant engagements would require prior approval from the Audit Committee.
The Group engages other independent firms of accountants to perform tax consulting work and other consulting engagements to ensure that the independence of the auditor is not compromised.
For example, during 2013 14, the Audit Committee authorised a review of the Groups revenue recognition policies by PwC, a review of Cyber security by Deloitte and advice related to defined benefit pension scheme matters with KPMG.
46 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors report Remuneration Committee report Introduction In line with previous years, the Committee continues to believe thatearnings per share remains the most appropriate performance measure for the long-term incentives and as such this will continue to be the sole measure for 2014 awards.
However, to reflect the increased opportunity under the plan, the Committee is proposing to increase the maximum performance target for awards to be granted in 2014 from 18% per annum to 20% per annum.
Following these increases, the remuneration opportunity for each of the Executive Directors will be positioned around market median against other companies of a similar size and scale.
I am pleased to present this years The Committee feels that the above increases will ensure that the remuneration arrangements are more reflective of the size and Report on Directors Remuneration.
scale of AVEVA and will further align the Executive Directors with the creation of long-term shareholder value.
The Remuneration Committee The current Group Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP is due to expire believes that remuneration at the end of the year.
The Committee is therefore proposing to replace the current LTIP with a new LTIP the 2014 LTIP which will be arrangements should align Executive subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
The 2014 LTIP reflects the provisions of the current LTIP but the plan has been Directors with the delivery of the updated to reflect current best practice.
Awards for the Executive Directors will now be subject to a two-year holding period following long-term strategy and creation of the end of the three-year performance period.
Further details of the shareholder value while rewarding proposed 2014 LTIP are set out in the Notice of AGM.
Executives fairly if success is achieved.
2013 14 out-turns 2013 14 has been a year of strong progress for AVEVA with demonstrable development against a number of our strategies for growth as well as growth in Adjusted Profit before Tax by 7.7m to 78.3m.
Further details of the Companys progress and successes are described in the Strategic Report.
In this context, the Committee decided to pay bonuses of 63% Philip Dayer ofsalary 50% of the maximum to both the CEO and CFO.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman Committee feels that this outcome is an appropriate reflection of 27 May 2014 the underlying performance of the business over the year.
Over the longer term, AVEVA has delivered EPS growth in excess ofRPI of 12.6% p. a. over the past three years, which the Committee considered to be exceptional performance, particularly in light of an Remuneration review ever-changing external environment.
The Committee therefore During the course of 2013 14 the Remuneration Committee undertook a detailed review of the current remuneration determined that 94% of the LTIP awards granted to Executive Directors in 2011 should vest.
arrangements in operation at AVEVA, which included a review of the market positioning of remuneration.
The last review of the market Remuneration reporting positioning of the remuneration arrangements was undertaken three years ago and since this time there has been a significant increase in The 2013 14 financial year is the first year in which AVEVA is required to report under the new remuneration reporting regulations.
Accordingly terms of the size market capitalisation and earnings have increased materially and the complexity of the Group we now operate in new the Directors' Remuneration Report is now split into two sections: product areas and have increased the spread of the Groups operation overseas.
In light of this, the positioning of the Executive Directors The Directors remuneration policy which, subject to shareholder approval, will apply for three years from the 2014 AGM: and total remuneration arrangements, and in particular base salary, has fallen significantly behind market practice.
The annual report on remuneration, which sets out payments and awards made to the Directors and explains the linkage To ensure that the remuneration arrangements at AVEVA continue between the Groups performance and remuneration in respect of the 2013 14 financial year.
tobe competitive to attract and retain executives of an appropriate calibre to run a business the size and complexity of AVEVA, we have The Committee is appreciative of the significant shareholder made a number of changes to our remuneration arrangements going forward.
The Committee believes that the changes, set out below, support that it received for the 2012 13 Directors' Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM which received 97% of votes in favour.
We are in the best interests of our shareholders and are appropriate for the Executive Directors given their experience and performance.
hope that you find this years report clear and informative and that you will continue to support us by voting in favour of the resolutions The CEOs base salary will be increased from 405,600 to at the 2014 AGM.
485,000 and the CFOs salary will be increased from 260,000 to 300,000.
These increases will be implemented over the course of Agenda for 2014 15 The Committee will continue to keep the structure and details the next two years subject to continued good performance.
The long-term incentive opportunity for the CEO will be increased ofour remuneration arrangements under review and will remain committed to strong communication with shareholders and will to 150% of base salary from 120% of base salary and for the CFO will be increased to 120% of base salary from 100% of salary.
continue to consult with investors as appropriate.
47 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors report Remuneration Committee report continued Introduction continued The Remuneration Committee The Committee has access to external advisers as required.
During The Board sets the remuneration policy for the Group.
The the year the Committee received advice from Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board also provided unrelated advisory services to the Group in respect of within its agreed terms of reference, details of which are available at taxation during the year.
Deloitte is one of the founding members of www.
the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and adheres to this Code in its dealings with the Committee.
The Committee is satisfied The Remuneration Committees principal responsibility is to that the advice provided by Deloitte is independent.
The fees paid determine the remuneration package of both the Companys to Deloitte LLP were calculated based on time spent and expenses Executive Directors and its senior management within broad incurred for the majority of advice provided but on occasion for policies agreed with the Board.
specific projects a fixed fee may be agreed.
When reviewing and setting remuneration policy the Committee Shareholder voting considered a range of factors including the Companys strategy The table below sets out the results of the vote on the 2012 13 andcircumstances, the prevailing economic environment and the Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM: evolving landscape in best practice guidelines to ensure that it Votes % remains appropriate.
In addition, it reviews the remuneration policyfor the Company as a whole and oversees and approves Votes in favour 50,376,404 96.94 theCompanys share incentive plans for all participants.
The Votes against 1,590,216 3.06 remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Total votes 51,966,620 100.00 Executive Directors and the Chairman, rather than the Committee.
The conclusions and recommendations of the Remuneration 1,624,729 votes were withheld.
Committee were finalised in four formal meetings during the year, but these were preceded by several informal discussions, including some with advisers none of whom had any other connection with the Company.
The members of the Committee during 2013 14 were Philip Dayer Chairman, Philip Aiken, Jonathan Brooks and Jennifer Allerton, who was appointed as a member of the Committee on 6 March 2014.
The Chief Executive Richard Longdon is invited to submit recommendations to the Remuneration Committee and to attend meetings when appropriate.
He was not present when his own remuneration was discussed.
48 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors remuneration policy The following sets out our Directors remuneration policy the Policy.
This Policy will be put forward for shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, this Policy will apply to payments made from 15 July 2014.
The annual report on remuneration pages 57 to 64 includes further details on how this Policy will be operated for the 2014 15 financial year.
AVEVAs Executive Remuneration philosophy The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that members of the Executive management team are provided with appropriate incentives to align them with the Companys strategy and the future creation of shareholder value, encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
It also aims for a combination of fixed and variable payments, benefits and share-based awards that will achieve a balance in incentives to deliver short and long-term goals.
The Companys policy is that a substantial proportion of remuneration of Executive Directors should be performance related and should be delivered in shares to create alignment with shareholders interests.
Remuneration for Executive Directors is set in the context of the economic environment in which the Group operates, the outcome of the wider pay review for all Group employees as well as the financial performance of the Group.
When determining remuneration arrangements, the Committee takes into consideration relevant external market data as well as the remuneration for employees of the Group generally.
Remuneration commitments made which were consistent with the approved Remuneration policy in force at that time shall be honoured, even if they would not otherwise be consistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Helps recruit and Base salary is normally reviewed annually In determining salary increases the None retain employees.
with changes effective from 1 April, although Committee generally considers the salaries may be reviewed more frequently or factors outlined in the operation Reflects experience at different times of the year if the Committee column.
While there is no maximum salary The Committee determines base salary level, salary increases will normally be takinginto account factors including, but not in-line with the range of increases in limited to: the broader workforce salary.
The individuals role, experience and The Committee retains the discretion performance in achieving financial and to make increases above this level in non-financial goals within his areas of certain circumstances, for example, responsibility.
but not limited to: Salaries at other companies of a similar an increase in the individuals size and complexity as well as global scope of responsibilities: technology peers.
in the case of new executive Remuneration of different groups of directors who are positioned on a employees within the Company.
lower initial salary while they gain experience in the role: or Total organisational salary budgets.
where the Committee considers Paid in cash.
that salary is behind appropriate market positioning for a company of AVEVAs size and complexity.
Salaries with effect from 1 April 2014 are: CEO Richard Longdon 445,000 CFO James Kidd 280,000 49 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors report Remuneration Committee report continued The Directors remuneration policy continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Pensions Provides a CEO CEO None competitive The CEO, Richard Longdon, participated in the The current CEO is entitled to a retirement benefit CadCentre Pension Scheme, a defined benefit pension on normal retirement, or on in a way that is cost pension scheme, until 2010 when he accrued retirement due to ill heath, equivalent effective to the the maximum benefits that he is entitled to to two-thirds of his pensionable Company.
The plan is a contributory, salary provided he has completed or funded, occupational scheme registered with would have completed in the case of HM Revenue and Customs HMRC and, since ill health 25 years service.
1 October 2004, Career Average Revalued A lower pension is payable on earlier Earning benefits apply.
retirement after the age of 55 by Mr Longdon is now a deferred member of agreement with the Company and thescheme and is no longer accruing any subject to HMRC guidelines.
Pensions are payable to dependants on the Directors death in retirement CFO and a lump sum is payable if death The CFO is a member of the AVEVA Group occurs in service.
Personal Pension Plan a defined contribution scheme.
CFO The Company currently contributes 10% of base salary to the plan.
New appointment The intention is that new appointments to the Board would participate in the AVEVA Group Personal Pension Plan or receive an equivalent cash payment.
However, if appropriate the Committee may determine that alternative arrangements for the provision of retirement benefit may apply.
When determining pension arrangements for new appointments the Board will give regard to the cost of the arrangements, market practice and the pension arrangements received elsewhere inthe Group.
Benefits Help recruit and The benefit policy is to provide an appropriate The cost of benefit provision will None retain employees level of benefit taking into account market depend on the cost to the Company practice at similar sized companies and the of providing individual items and Provide a level of benefits provided for other employees the individuals circumstances and competitive range of in the Group.
therefore there is no maximum value.
valued benefits In line with benefits provided for other senior Assist toward early employees in the Group, Executive directors return to work in currently receive a mobility allowance or the event of illness company car, a fuel allowance and a 500 orinjury annual allowance toward a range of benefits.
In the event that an Executive was required to re-locate to undertake their role, the Committee may provide additional benefits to reflect the relevant circumstances on a one-off or ongoing basis.
Benefits are reviewed by the Committee in the context of market practice from time to time and the Committee may introduce or remove particular benefits if it is considered appropriate to do so.
If the Company were to operate an allemployee share plan in the future, Executive Directors would be entitled to participate in the plan on the same terms as other employees.
50 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual Incentive Scheme & Deferred Share Scheme Incentivises The Committee determines an individuals The maximum bonus Core Award and rewards the maximum incentive opportunity taking into opportunity is 125% of base The core bonus award is based on achievement of account the responsibilities of the role and salary core award of 100% a mix of financial and individual annual financial market practice at comparable companies.
For 2014 15, 90% of and strategic award of 25% of base salary.
the bonus is based on financial Performance targets are set by the business targets and measures with 10% based on Committee on an annual basis.
delivery of personal individual measures agreed by the The Committee determines the level of objectives.
Committee at the start of the year.
bonus paid taking into account performance The Committee reserves the right Deferred element against targets, the underlying performance to vary these proportions for future encourages longof the business and Executive Directors years.
However, in any year, financial term shareholding, performance during the year.
performance will always account for helps retention The annual bonus is generally paid in a mix of at least 70% of the bonus.
and discourages cash and deferred shares.
For the financial performance For the core award, at 100% achievement element, up to 10% of the bonus can of bonus performance targets, 60% of the be earned based on interim financial bonus amount is payable in cash and the performance.
Other than for this balance, 40%, is used to calculate the number element performance is assessed of deferred shares.
If the bonus amount is over a financial year.
less than or equal to 70% of the potential The core award starts being earned maximum bonus, then 75% of the total for entry level performance from bonus is paid in cash and 25% is deferred 0% of salary and accrues linearly up into shares.
If the bonus amount is between to 100% for achievement of stretch 70% and 100% of the potential maximum target.
Around 50% of the core then the proportion paid in deferred shares is award bonus is paid if target levels of determined by linear interpolation between performance are achieved.
The Committee may determine that a different balance of cash and deferred Outperformance award shares should apply.
The outperformance award is The whole outperformance award would based on financial performance normally be delivered in deferred shares.
over the financial year and is only Further details of how the deferred share delivered for the over-achievement element operates are included as a footnote ofstretchtargets.
For further details of metrics for the 2014 15 annual bonus please see page 57.
The AVEVA Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2014 the 2014 LTIP Establishes a Up to 2013, the Companys long term incentive The maximum limit under Awards vest based on earnings per motivational and arrangement was the AVEVA Group Long the plan rules is 250% of share performance.
performanceTerm Incentive Plan adopted with shareholder base salary.
The Committee retains the discretion orientated structure approval in 2004 the 2004 LTIP.
The current intention is that to introduce alternative or additional to incentivise Subject to shareholder approval, from 2014 awards will be limited to: performance measures if it considers Directors to focus onwards the Committee intends to make that these would be better aligned 150% of base salary for on the creation of awards under the 2014 LTIP, which will be put with strategy and incentivise the CEO shareholder value to shareholders for approval at the 2014 AGM.
Executive Directors to deliver long- 120% of base salary for aligned with the term shareholder value.
However, in Awards normally vest based on performance the CFO longer term strategy any, year financial performance will over a period of three years and are subject The intention is the for the Group.
always account for at least 75% of to a subsequent two-year holding period.
maximum award will only anaward.
Awards may be subject to a different be awarded in exceptional vesting period as may be determined by For threshold levels of performance circumstances e. g. theCommittee.
25% of the award vests, increasing recruitment.
to 100% of the award for maximum Awards under the 2014 LTIP may be granted The Committee retains the performance.
There is straightin the form of conditional awards or nominal discretion to grant awards line vesting of awards between cost options or phantom options which will be up to the maximum limit thesepoints.
The The Committee determines targets Committees intention each year to ensure that targets are would be to consult with stretching and represent value creation for shareholders in the event shareholders while remaining motivational that awards were to formanagement.
The Committee shall determine the extent to which the awards will vest based on performance against targets and taking intoconsideration the wider performance ofthe Group.
Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions details set out on page 52.
51 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors report Remuneration Committee report continued The Directors remuneration policy continued Policy table footnotes subject to individual performance.
Around 40 members of senior The deferred share element for both the core and outperformance management also participate in the LTIP based on the same annual incentive will be structured as a nil-cost option.
performance targets as Executive Directors.
All staff participate Deferred awards will normally deliver the shares to participants inasimilar benefit structure to the Executive Directors.
in three equal tranches, one in each of the three years following the year in which an award is granted.
The Committee has Selection of performance measures discretion to determine an alternative vesting profile.
The Committees guiding principle is that remuneration Awards granted from 2012 onwards under the LTIP and the arrangements that operate throughout the Group should support deferred share scheme are subject to malus and clawback the delivery of our long-term business strategy and therefore the provisions.
Those provisions may apply at the discretion of the creation of shareholder value.
Our key long-term strategic priority is Committee if accounts are corrected or published that indicate to deliver strong but sustainable EPS growth to support the delivery the relevant performance was materially worse than in the of this strategic priority.
accounts used to assess vesting.
Other elements of remuneration are not subject to clawback Our annual bonus arrangements incentivise the delivery of financial ormalus.
performance and the achievement of key individual objectives that The Committee may operate the 2014 LTIP and the deferred are aligned with the delivery of our strategy.
EPS growth is the share scheme in accordance with its terms.
This includes primary measure used for long-term incentive arrangements amending the scheme and the terms of awards including although the Committee retains discretion to use different adjustments to take account of any variation of capital, demerger performance measures for future awards.
The payment of bonuses or special dividend.
and the vesting of long-term incentives are subject to stretching targets established by the Committee at the beginning of each Legacy plans performance period.
These targets are set taking account of internal Up to 2013, the Companys long term incentive arrangement forecasts of performance over the performance period, the markets in which the Group operates, our long-term growth ambitions and wasthe AVEVA Group Long Term Incentive Plan adopted with shareholder approval in 2004 2004 LTIP.
Awards under the plan the expectations of the investment community on the Groups future potential performance.
were granted in the form of nominal priced options and vest based on the achievement of EPS performance over a three-year period.
Remuneration policy for new hires No holding period applies.
At the 2007 AGM, shareholders approved the Executive Share Option Scheme 2007 2007 ESOS.
No grants When determining the remuneration package for a newly appointed Executive Director, the Committee would seek to apply the have been made under the scheme.
The Committee may operate the 2004 LTIP and 2007 ESOS in accordance with its terms.
following principles: Thisincludes amending the scheme and the terms of awards or performance conditions including adjustments to take account of The package should be market competitive to facilitate the recruitment of an individual of sufficient calibre to lead the any variation of capital, demerger or special dividend.
At the same time, the Committee would intend to pay no more than it believes is necessary to secure the required talent.
Committee discretion The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration The structure of the on-going remuneration package would normally include the components set out in the policy table for payments and payments for loss of office including the exercise ofany discretions available to it in connection with such payments Executive Directors.
Where an individual forfeits outstanding variable pay notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the opportunities or contractual rights as a result of their appointment, the Committee may offer compensatory policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the payments or awards, in such form as the Committee considers appropriate taking into account relevant factors, which may Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individualbecoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes include the form of awards, expected value and vesting timeframe of forfeited opportunities.
When determining such 'payments' include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and an award over shares is 'agreed' at the time the buy-outs the guiding principle would be that awards would generally be on a like for like basis to those forfeited unless not award is granted.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set outabove for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative awarded excluding any buy-out awards is 375% of salary.
Where an Executive Director is required to relocate to take-up purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
their role the Committee may provide reasonable assistance with relocation either via one-off or on-going payments or Information supporting the policy table benefits taking into account the individuals circumstances and prevailing market practice.
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group Throughout the Group remuneration is determined based on In the event that an internal candidate was promoted to theBoard legacy terms and conditions would normally be thesame principles that remuneration arrangements should be appropriate for the role without paying more than is necessary and honoured, including pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
that pay should be structured to incentivise individuals to deliver theobjectives of their role.
AVEVA employs over 1,500 employees To facilitate awards outlined above, in the event of recruitment, inover 40 locations with roles ranging from administrators to technical specialists and sales staff.
The structure and level of theCommittee may grant awards to a new executive director in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
This provision permits the reward therefore differs from role to role depending on skills, experience, level of seniority and market practice for the role.
granting of long term incentive plan awards, to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director, without AVEVAs sales employees participate in commission plans that are designed to encourage the growth objectives of the Group.
Around seeking prior shareholder approval, or under any other appropriate Company incentive plan.
2 would 200 employees have annual bonus plans with 19 receiving a portion of bonus in shares which is deferred for up to three years: all other normally be limited to buy-out awards.
employees are eligible for a Company Discretionary Award subject primarily to the Groups financial performance and secondarily 52 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-Executive Director would normally be in line with the structure set out in the policy table for Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration outcomes in different performance scenarios The remuneration package at AVEVA is structured so that the majority of the package is related to the delivery of performance over the short and long-term to ensure that reward is aligned with shareholder value creation.
The charts below show hypothetical values of the remuneration package for Executive Directors under three assumed performance scenarios: CEO CFO Annual Bonus 125% 125% Maximum award opportunities % ofsalary LTIP 150% 120% No annual incentive pay-out Minimum No vesting under the LTIP 50% of salary pays out under the Annual Bonus 40% of maximum i. e. half of the core award and none of the Mid performance outperformance award 050% of maximum vesting under the LTIP 100% of maximum annual incentive pay-out Maximum performance 100% of maximum LTIP vesting No share price growth has been assumed.
Potential benefits under all employee share schemes and dividend equivalents have not been included.
Performance related rewards 2014 2015 CEO Richard Longdon KEY Total Maximum 30% 36% 34% 1,696,000 Fixed Pay performance Total Annual Bonus Mid 56% 28% 16% 917,000 performance Long-term incentive Total Minimum 100% 472,000 CFO James Kidd Total Maximum 34% 37% 29% 1,011,000 performance Total Mid 61% 26% 13% 584,000 performance Total Minimum 100% 325,000 Fixed pay is comprised of the following: Pension Salary Based on Salary with Benefits salary with effect from Paid in effect from Total fixed 1April 2014 2013 14 1April 2014 pay CEO Richard Longdon 445,000 27,000 0 472,000 CFO James Kidd 280,000 17,000 28,000 325,000 53 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors report Remuneration Committee report continued The Directors remuneration policy continued Executive Director Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office When determining leaving arrangements for an Executive Director the Committee takes into account any contractual agreements including the provisions of any incentive arrangements, typical market practice and the performance and conduct of the individual.
The service contracts for Executive Directors include the following terms: Name Date of contract Date of appointment Expiry review date of current contract Continuous service date Richard Longdon 28 November 1996 28 November 1996 Rolling 29 May 1984 James Kidd 1 January 2011 1 January 2011 Rolling 5 January 2004 The service agreements are available to shareholders to view on request from the Company Secretary.
Notice period The CEOs service contract can be terminated by the Company or the Executive Director on 12monthsnotice.
The CFOs service contract can be terminated by the Company or the Executive Director on 9monthsnotice.
The service agreements provide for a period of garden leave not exceeding six months.
The Committee will determine the appropriate notice period for any new director taking into account the circumstances of the individual and market practice.
Any notice period will normally be no longer than 12months.
The Committee reserves the right to provide a longer initial notice period of up to 24 months reducing to 12 months over the first 12 months of employment if it considers this to be appropriate.
Payment in lieu of notice In the event of termination of contract without notice, the Executive shall be entitled to a payment inrespect of salary and benefits for the period of notice.
Such payment will normally be made in instalments and subject to mitigation but the Committee shall have discretion to make a single payment if this is considered appropriate.
Annual Bonus The Executive Director may, at the discretion of the Committee, remain eligible to receive an annual bonus for the financial year in which they ceased employment.
Such Annual Bonus award will be determined by the Committee taking into account the circumstances for leaving, time in employment and performance.
Deferred Share Scheme Death In the event of a participants death unvested awards shall vest.
Where awards are in the form of options they may be exercised for a period of up to 12 months from death.
Good leaver At the discretion of the Committee, leaving by reason of injury, or disability, redundancy, the Companyor business for which the participant works leaving the group & any other reasons determinedby the Committee.
Awards shall continue in full and vest on the originally anticipated vesting dates.
Alternatively, the Committee may determine that awards should vest when the participant ceases employment.
Awards in the form of options may be exercised in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
Leavers in other circumstances Awards will normally lapse.
2014 Long Term Incentive Plan Good leavers If a participant leaves as a good leaver, unvested awards shall continue in existence for the remainder ofthe performance period.
At the end of the performance period, the awards may be permitted to vest tothe extent determined in accordance with the applicable performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, then reduced to reflect the period that elapsed from the start of the performance period to the date of cessation as a proportion of the performance period.
Good leavers are those that leave the employment of the company as a result of death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, the Company or business he works for being transferred from the Group or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
Vested but unexercised options held by participants who leave employment other than due to gross misconduct may be exercised for a period following cessation of employment.
54 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
