Strategy Additional Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 69 Directors remuneration Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Luc Vandevelde Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear fellow shareholder I am pleased to present you with Vodafones remuneration report for 2014.
This year will be the first time we will ask shareholders to vote on our remuneration policy in addition to the rest of the remuneration report.
With the new remuneration disclosure regulations in mind we have changed the structure of our report to present first our policy and then detail its implementation.
Apart from some changes which I outline below, our policy and practice remain essentially unchanged.
As always we have tried to ensure that the remuneration policy and practice atVodafone drive behaviours that are in the long-term interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee continues to be mindful of the considerable interest that exists in executive compensation and we are very conscious of the many and varied concerns.
Our remuneration principles Our remuneration principles, which our detailed policy supports, are as follows: a we offer competitive and fair rates of pay and benefits to attract and retain the best people: a our policy and practices aim to drive behaviours that support our Company strategy and business objectives: a our pay for performance approach means that our incentive plans only deliver significant rewards if and when they are justified by performance: and a our approach to share ownership is designed to help maintain commitment over the long-term, and to ensure that the interests of our senior management team are aligned with those of shareholders.
Pay for performance Pay for performance continues to be an important principle for Vodafone when setting remuneration policy.
A high proportion of total reward is awarded through short-term and long-term performance related remuneration.
At target around 70% of the package is delivered in the form of variable pay, which rises to around 85% if maximum payout is achieved.
We ensure our incentive plans only deliver significant rewards if and when they are justified by performance.
For the Remuneration Committee this means two things: a ensuring the targets we set for incentive plans are suitably challenging as can be seen by the historic levels of achievement for both shortand long-term incentive plans shown on page 82 : and a if needed, exercising discretion.
The Committee reviews all incentive plans before any payments are made to executives and has full discretion to adjust payments downwards if it believes circumstances warrant it.
Company performance and the link to incentives During the 2014 year our emerging markets businesses have delivered strong organic revenue growth along with good cash flow and EBITDA performance.
However, this has been offset by significant ongoing competitive, regulatory and macroeconomic pressures in our European operations where revenue has declined.
Taken in the round this led to slightly below target performance which is reflected in our annual bonus payout of 88.5% of target.
More details can be found on page 78.
Over the last three years our adjusted free cash flow performance, although strong in our emerging markets, has been below our target levels in Europe for similar reasons to those described above.
However, we have taken significant strategic steps which have led to strong growth in the share price and Total Shareholder Return TSR which, when combined with adjusted free cash flow, result in a payout for the executive directors long-term incentive awards of 37.2% of maximum.
More details can be found on page 79.
Strategic initiatives include: a the sale of our 45% stake in Verizon Wireless: a the record US$85 billion return to shareholders: a the announcement of Project Spring the acceleration of our capital investment to strengthen further our network and customer experience: a the acquisition of a leading cable operator in Germany as well as fixed line businesses such as CWW and TelstraClear: a launching Vodafone Red which is now available in 20 markets: and a developing our M-Pesa footprint.
