Vodafone Group Plc 76 Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration continued Remuneration policy continued Service contracts of executive directors After an initial termof up to two years executive directors contracts have rolling terms and are terminable on no more than 12months notice.
The key elements of the service contract for executives relate to remuneration, payments on loss of office see below, and restrictions during active employment and for 12 months thereafter.
These restrictions include non-competition, non-solicitation of customers and employees etc.
Additionally, all of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied and pro-rated to reflect the acceleration of vesting.
Payments for departing executives In the table below we summarise the key elements of our policy on payment for loss of office.
We will of course, always comply both with the relevant plan rules and local employment legislation.
Provision Policy Notice period and a 12 months notice from the Company to the executive director.
compensation for a Up to 12 months base salary in line with the notice period.
Notice period payments will either be made as normal loss ofoffice in iftheexecutive continues to work during the notice period or is on gardening leave or they will be made servicecontracts as monthly payments in lieu of notice subject to mitigation if alternative employment is obtained.
Treatment of annual bonus a The annual bonus will be pro-rated for the period of service during the financial year and will reflect the extent GSTIP on termination to which Company performance has been achieved.
under plan rules a The Remuneration Committee has discretion to reduce the entitlement to an annual bonus to reflect the individuals performance and the circumstances of the termination.
Treatment of unvested a An executive directors award will vest in accordance with the terms of the plan and satisfaction of performance long-term incentive awards conditions measured at the normal completion of the performance period, with the award pro-rated for the GLTI and co-investment proportion of the vesting period that had elapsed at the date of cessation of employment.
awards on termination a The Remuneration Committee has discretion to vary the level of vesting as deemed appropriate, and in particular underplanrules to determine that awards should not vest in the case of a bad leaver which may include, at their absolute discretion, departure in case of poor performance, departure without the agreement of the Board, or detrimental competitive activity.
Pension and benefits a Generally pension and benefit provisions will continue to apply until the termination date.
a Where appropriate other benefits may be receivable, such as but not limited to payments in lieu of accrued holiday and legal fees or tax advice costs in relation to the termination.
a Benefits of relative small value may continue after termination where appropriate, such as but not limited to mobile phone provision.
In exceptional circumstances, an arrangement may be established specifically to facilitate the exit of a particular individual albeit that any such arrangement would be made within the context of minimising the cost to the Group.
We will only take such a course of action in exceptional circumstances and where it is considered to be in the best interests of shareholders.
Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration Our policy is for the Chairman to review the remuneration of non-executive directors annually following consultation with the Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Fees for the Chairman are set by the Remuneration Committee.
Element Policy Fees a We aim to pay competitively for the role including consideration of the time commitment required.
We benchmark the fees against an appropriate external comparator group.
We pay fees to our Chairman and Senior Independent Director that include fees for chairmanship of any committees.
We pay a fee to each of our other non-executive directors and they receive an additional fee if they chair a committee.
Non-executive fee levels are set within the maximum level as approved by shareholders as part of our articles of association.
Allowances a An allowance is payable each time a non-Europe-based non-executive director is required to travel to attend Board and committee meetings to reflect the additional time commitment involved.
Incentives a Non-executive directors do not participate in any incentive plans.
Benefits a Non-executive directors do not participate in any benefit plans.
The Company does not provide any contribution to their pension arrangements.
The Chairman is entitled to the use of a car and a driver whenever and wherever he is providing his services to or representing theCompany.
We have been advised that for non-executive directors, certain travel and accommodation expenses in relation to attending Board meetings should be treated as a taxable benefit therefore we also cover the tax liability for these expenses.
Non-executive director service contracts Non-executive directors are engaged on letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities.
Theappointment of non-executive directors may be terminated without compensation.
Non-executive directors are generally not expected toserve for a period exceeding nine years.
For further information refer to the Nomination and Governance Committee section of the annual report page 59.
