66 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 directors remuneration report This DRR covers the remuneration of the individually or at corporate level will not remuneration executive and non-executive directors of be rewarded.
policy report William Hill PLC.
In line with regulations The Committee is also mindful of ensuring governing the disclosure and approval of The Policy Report sets out the approved that there is an appropriate balance between directors remuneration, the report is split into remuneration policy for the Company.
the level of risk and reward for the individual, three sections: an annual statement from the the Company and for our shareholders.
How the Remuneration Committee Chair of the Committee pages 64 and 65, When setting the levels of short-term and operates to set the remuneration policy a Remuneration Policy Report pages 66 to long-term variable remuneration, the degree The Committee is constituted in 73 and an Annual Report on Remuneration of stretch in performance conditions and accordance with the recommendations pages 73 to 82. the split between equity and cash within the of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This part of the DRR, the Remuneration package, consideration is given to obtaining The Committee is a committee of the Policy Report Policy Report, sets out the the appropriate proportion of each so as Board, which determines the Groups remuneration policy for the Company and not to encourage unnecessary risk-taking.
policy on the remuneration of the executive has been prepared in accordance with As well as financial risk, the Committee also directors, the Chairman and other relevant Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized ensures that there is an appropriate focus on senior management.
It works within defined Companies and Groups Accounts and environment, safety and governance issues.
terms of reference which are available Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
upon request to the Company Secretary The remuneration package is reviewed The policy has been developed taking into or from the Companys corporate website: periodically taking into account all elements account the principles of the UK Corporate www.
of remuneration, i. e. not looking at any single Governance Code 2012, the latest guidelines element in isolation, to ensure it remains The Committees key objectives are to: from The Investment Association, the National competitive.
The Committee undertakes Association of Pension Funds, ISS and the set and agree with the Board a competitive the determination of individual remuneration views of our major shareholders.
and transparent remuneration framework packages for executive directors and which is aligned to the Group strategy and The Policy Report was approved by senior management annually.
Whilst pay is in the interests of both the Company and shareholders at the Annual General Meeting benchmarking provides context for setting its shareholders: and on 8 May 2014.
Although not required by pay levels, it is not considered in isolation.
the regulations, the substantive terms of the determine the specific remuneration The total remuneration package is structured Policy Report are reproduced here for ease packages for each of the executive so that a significant proportion is linked to of reference.
Any details, however, that were directors and other senior managers.
performance conditions measured over specific to 2014 or earlier years including, for The remuneration package includes both the short and longer term.
It is also the example, any disclosures relating to particular base salary, incentives, benefits and any Committees policy to ensure that a high directors and the illustrative remuneration compensation payments.
proportion of the potential remuneration scenarios have been updated, where package is paid in shares, which is designed Remuneration policy applicable, to reflect the current position.
to ensure that executives have a strong The remuneration policy for executive For ease of reference, the policy table has also ongoing alignment with shareholders through directors and senior management is designed been updated to reflect two extra features the Companys share price performance.
to support the business needs of the Group, referred to in the Chairs statement, namely to ensure it has the ability to attract and retain a higher share ownership requirement for The table below summarises each element senior leaders of a high calibre, and to align the Group Finance Director and the addition of the remuneration policy for the executive the long-term interests of executive directors of a one-year holding period on vested directors, explaining how each element and senior management with those of PSP shares relating to awards made from operates and how each part links to the our shareholders.
There is no vote on the corporate strategy.
remuneration policy at the 2015 AGM.
The Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the Groups business environment and in remuneration practice.
There must be transparency and alignment to the delivery of strategic objectives at both a Group and an individual level.
There must also be scope to reward for exceptional effort and achievement that delivers value both for the Group and the shareholders.
Likewise, failure to achieve Strategic report 67 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 Element of remuneration package: Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Provides a sound basis on which to recruit and retain key employees of appropriate calibre to deliver the strategic objectives of the Company.
Reflects the market value of the role and the post holders experience, competency and performance within the Company.
Operation Paid monthly in cash via payroll.
Normally reviewed by the Committee annually and fixed for 12 months commencing 1 January.
Any salary increase may be influenced by: the commercial need to do so: role, experience and performance: average change in wider workforce pay: Company profitability and prevailing market conditions: and periodic benchmarking of similar roles at comparable companies, such as the FTSE 70-130.
Opportunity The general policy is to pay around mid-market levels with annual increases typically in line with the wider workforce.
Increases beyond those granted to the workforce may be awarded in certain circumstances such as where there is a change in the individuals responsibility, or where the salary set at initial appointment was below the level expected once the individual gains further experience and a track record of performance in the role.
An above-market positioning may be appropriate in exceptional circumstances to reflect the criticality of the role and the experience and performance of the individual.
Base salary levels for 2015 are: CEO 550,000 Group Finance Director 400,000 Performance metrics Executive directors participate in the Companys annual performance management process.
Individual and Company performance are taken into account when determining appropriate salary increases.
Recovery or withholding No recovery or withholding applies.
Element of remuneration package: Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Operate competitive, cost-effective benefits to help recruit and retain executive directors and senior management.
As with employee benefits for the wider workforce, certain benefits e. g. private medical insurance are provided to minimise disruption e. g. from illness to the day-to-day operation of the business.
Operation Benefits include private medical insurance covering the executive, spouse and dependent children, a fully expensed car or car allowance, subsidised travel card, permanent health insurance and life assurance benefits.
Cash alternatives may be provided for any or all of these benefits, depending on individual circumstances.
The CEO and the Group Finance Director participate in the Companys flexible benefits scheme.
Relocation and related benefits may be offered where a director is required to relocate.
The benefit must be taken up within 12 months of appointment unless exceptional circumstances prevail.
Opportunity The aim is to provide market competitive benefits and their value may vary from year to year depending on the cost to the Company from third-party providers.
Performance metrics No performance metrics apply.
Recovery or withholding Relocation and related benefits may be subject to clawback either in full or part if an executive resigns within two years of joining.
Element of remuneration package: Pension Purpose and link to strategy Market competitive, cost-effective retirement benefits are provided to act as a retention mechanism and to recognise long service.
Operation Company Pension Savings Plan a defined contribution plan or cash allowance in lieu of Company pension contributions once statutory limits Lifetime and Annual Allowance are reached, or a combination of both.
Opportunity The CEO receives a company contribution of 20% of salary paid into the Companys Pension Savings Plan.
Any amount above the Annual Allowance being 40,000 for the tax year 2015 16 is paid as a cash allowance.
The Group Finance Director withdrew from the Pension Savings Plan in March 2014 and receives a cash allowance worth 20% of salary.
A company contribution of 20% of salary will apply to new executive directors going forward.
68 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 directors remuneration report Element of remuneration package: Annual Performance Bonus cash and shares Purpose and link to strategy Incentivise executive directors and senior management to achieve specific, predetermined goals during a oneyear period.
Rewards financial and individual performance linked to the Companys strategy.
Deferred proportion of bonus, awarded in shares, provides a retention element and additional alignment of interest with shareholders.
Operation Bonus payment is determined by the Committee after the year-end, based on performance against challenging targets set at the start of the year.
Half of the bonus is payable in cash with the remaining 50% deferred into shares for three years under the EBMS.
The deferred element may be subject to forfeiture in the event of the executive directors departure prior to vesting.
Since the PSP was introduced in 2010, no matching shares to deferred bonus, under EBMS, are offered to the CEO or the Group Finance Director.
The value of dividend payments will accrue in shares or cash, at the discretion of the Committee on vested deferred bonus shares.
Opportunity The maximum bonus for the CEO is 175% of salary: target bonus is 85% of salary: and threshold bonus is 30% of salary.
The maximum bonus for the Group Finance Director is 150% of salary: target bonus is 70% of salary: and threshold bonus is 30% of salary.
Performance metrics The policy is for at least 75% of the bonus to be based on an appropriate mix of financial metrics, such as Company or business unit profits, and no more than 25% on individual objectives.
The Committee is committed to ensuring that targets are demanding.
No bonus in respect of the individual objectives will be payable unless at least the threshold level of performance is achieved in respect of any profit-related metrics.
The Committee, in its discretion, acting fairly and reasonably, may alter the bonus outcome if it feels that the payout is inconsistent with the Groups overall performance taking account of any factors it considers relevant.
The Committee will consult with leading investors before any exercise of its discretion to increase the bonus outcome.
Recovery or withholding In line with current best practice, bonus may be recovered or deferred shares withheld if within three years of the bonus payment there has been a material misstatement of results, a calculation error, misleading information or conduct justifying summary dismissal is discovered.
Element of remuneration package: Long-term incentives: Performance Share Plan Purpose and link to strategy To drive performance and retention and align interests of executive directors and shareholders through building a shareholding.
Incentivises participants to profitably grow the business and to achieve superior long-term shareholder returns in line with the Companys strategy.
Retains key executives over the performance period.
Operation Awards, normally in the form of nil-cost options, are granted annually with vesting dependent on the achievement of stretching performance conditions and the executive directors continued employment.
PSP awards have a four-year performance and vesting period.
The value of dividend payments will accrue in shares or cash, at the discretion of the Committee on vested PSP award shares.
A holding period applies for executive directors which requires PSP awards from 2015 to be retained for a further year from the date of vesting except for the sale of shares needed to pay income tax and national insurance arising on exercise.
Opportunity The rules of the PSP state that PSP awards cannot normally exceed 225% of base salary.
This limit may be increased to 300% of base salary in circumstances considered by the Committee to be exceptional.
Quantum is reviewed annually subject to the above limits taking into account overall remuneration, the performance of the Company and of the executive director being made the award.
The normal policy maximum is 200% of salary for the CEO and 175% of salary for the Group Finance Director.
Strategic report 69 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 Performance metrics The appropriateness of the performance conditions and the targets to be set are reviewed annually.
At least 50% of the award will be based on relative TSR with the remainder on EPS growth targets and BPMs.
Each performance condition is measured independently.
The relative TSR performance condition measures the Companys TSR performance against a comparator group as constructed at the grant date and measured over the four-year performance period.
For a ranking below median, none of this element of the award will vest.
For a median ranking 25% of this element of the award will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting of this element for a ranking at or above upper quartile.
The Committee has discretion regarding the treatment of delisted companies for the purposes of the TSR comparator group.
The EPS range will be based on basic adjusted EPS over the four-year performance period.
25% of the award will vest for a threshold level of performance and 100% will vest at the maximum level, with straight line vesting in between.
For the BPMs, a sliding scale of four-year targets will be set.
None of the awards relating to these measures will vest if performance is below threshold, 25% will vest at threshold with full vesting for maximum performance.
Maximum performance is set as significantly exceeding the Companys internal expectations.
The Committee has discretion to set different performance targets for future awards provided that the new targets are not materially less challenging, given the prevailing circumstances than those attached to previous awards.
The Committee also retains the flexibility to vary the mix of metrics for each years award in light of the business priorities at the time.
Nevertheless, relative TSR will always apply to at least 50% of any award, and BPM targets cannot exceed 25%.
The Committee, in its discretion, acting fairly and reasonably, may alter the PSP vesting outcome if it feels that the payout is inconsistent with the Groups overall performance taking account of any factors it considers relevant.
The Committee will consult with leading investors before any exercise of its discretion to increase the PSP vesting outcome.
Recovery or withholding Withholding applies where there has been a material misstatement, a calculation error or misleading information.
Recovery applies if within three years of vesting there has been any such event or if there has been conduct justifying summary dismissal during the performance period.
Element of remuneration package: All-employee share schemes Purpose and link to strategy All employees including executive directors are encouraged to become shareholders through the operation of the HMRC-approved Save-As-You-Earn SAYE plan and or such other HMRC-approved all-employee share plans as the Company may adopt in the future.
Operation The SAYE has standard terms under which all UK employees including executive directors, with at least three months service, can participate.
Element of remuneration package: Share ownership policy Purpose and link to strategy To align interests of management and shareholders and promote a long-term approach to performance and risk management.
Operation The CEO is expected to hold William Hill shares to the value of a minimum of 200% of salary, and from 2015 the Group Finance Director a minimum of 150% of salary 100% in 2014.
Only shares owned outright by the executive director are included in the guideline, which is expected to be achieved within five years of appointment to the Board.
The Committee will review progress annually with an expectation that executive directors will make progress towards the achievement of the shareholding policy guideline each year.
Half of vested PSP awards after sale of shares to cover associated personal tax liabilities must be retained until the guideline is met.
Notes to the Policy Table choice of performance measures: The performance measures that are used for annual bonus and PSP are a subset of the Companys key performance indicators.
Annual bonus The main emphasis is on financial metrics, for example operating profit defined as pre-exceptional profit before interest and tax, and the amortisation of specific identified intangible assets recognised on acquisitions.
Operating profit measures the underlying profits generated by the business and whether management is converting growth into profits effectively.
It is also reported in the Annual Report andused internally by William Hill to measure performance.
Individual objectives measure whether management is delivering against stated key business and personal targets which are linked to thecorporate strategy.
PSP Relative TSR provides a measure of the long-term success of the Company relative to appropriate peer comparators.
EPS growth is a measure of the overall profitability of the business for investors over the long-term and therefore helps align the interests of management with shareholders.
BPMs provide a more rounded assessment of long-term performance and focus executive reward more directly on some of the key drivers of future business growth.
The TSR comparator group and the EPS targets will be disclosed for each award in the policy for the current year in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Targets for the BPMs are likely to be too sensitive to disclose in advance for commercial reasons.
The Company will, however, fully disclose the original targets and the extent to which they have been achieved on aretrospective basis at the end of the performance period.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will also provide a broad update on progress after each year of the performance period.
70 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 directors remuneration report Incentive plan discretions The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, EBMS and PSP existing and 2014 plans according to their respective rules, the policy set out above and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant.
Copies of the PSP and EBMS rules are available on request from the Company Secretary.
The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of these plans.
These include but are not limited to the following: who participates in the plans: the timing of grant of award and or payment: the size of an award and or a payment: the choice of and adjustment of performance measures and targets for each incentive plan in accordance with the policy set out above and the rules of each plan including the treatment of delisted companies for the purpose of the TSR Comparator Group : discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction: determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules: and adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, on a change of control and special dividends.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Legacy arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Policy Report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors that have been disclosed previously to shareholders, including awards made under the EBMS and PSP.
Remuneration scenarios for executive directors The Companys remuneration policy results in a significant proportion of the remuneration received by executive directors being dependent on Company performance.
The chart below shows how total pay for the executive directors varies under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Target and Maximum.
Minimum Comprised of the fixed elements of pay being base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary and pension is effective as at 1 January 2015 and the benefits value is the actual value for 2014.
Target Comprised of fixed pay and the target value of bonus CEO 85% of salary, Group Finance Director 70% of salary and normal policy PSP awards at threshold vesting CEO 50% of salary, Group Finance Director 43.75% of salary.
Maximum Comprised of fixed pay and the maximum value of bonus CEO 175% of salary, Group Finance Director 150% of salary and normal policy PSP awards CEO 200% of salary, Group Finance Director 175% of salary.
Remuneration scenarios for executive directors Chief Executive officer Group Finance Director 2.741m 40% 1.798m 39% 1.421m 35% 19% 0.953m 33% 33% 18% 0.679m 0.498m 29% 100% 48% 25% 100% 52% 28% Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Fixed Pay Annual Bonus LTIP Fixed Pay Annual Bonus LTIP For PSP awards the chart assumes the normal policy maximum of 200% of base salary for the CEO and 175% of base salary for the Group Finance Director.
The rules of the PSP state however that PSP awards cannot normally exceed 225% of base salary and, in exceptional circumstances, 300% of base salary see Policy Table above.
No account has been taken of share price growth, or of dividend shares awarded in respect of the deferred element of bonus and PSP awards over the deferral performance periods.
Strategic report 71 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 A breakdown of the elements included in the remuneration scenario charts is shown in the table below.
Fixed 000 Annual Bonus 000 PSP 000 1 Base Salary Benefits Pension Total Fixed Target Maximum Target Maximum CEO 550.0 18.5 110.0 678.5 467.5 962.5 275.0 1,100.0 Group Finance Director 400.0 18.0 80.0 498.0 280.0 600.0 175.0 700.0 These are the value of benefits for 2014 which exclude non-recurring items such as relocation expenses and expenses for attendance at certain sporting events.
Executive directors service contracts time pro-rated based on the proportion of The contracts of the executive directors do the bonus year for which the individual was not provide for any enhanced payments in the It is the Companys policy that the period employed.
If at the time the individual is event of a change of control of the Company of notice for executive directors will not under notice or has left employment, all of or for liquidated damages.
exceed 12 months and, accordingly, the the bonus will be payable in cash.
Copies of the executive directors service employment contracts of the executive directors are terminable on 12 months notice In the event of an executive directors contract are available for inspection at the departure, any outstanding share awards Companys registered office: Greenside by either party.
will be treated in accordance with the House, 50 Station Road, Wood Green, In the event of an executive directors relevant plan rules.
departure, the Companys policy on under the PSP and the EBMS is that any termination payments is as follows.
outstanding awards will lapse on cessation Remuneration policy across the Group The Company may pay base salary, of employment.
The remuneration policy for the executive employer pension contributions and In certain prescribed good leaver directors and senior management is designed the cost of benefits or if the Company circumstances such as death, injury, with regard to the policy for employees across so decides an amount equal to 10% of disability and in any other circumstances the Group as a whole.
The Committee is base salary at the termination date in at the discretion of the Committee, kept updated through the year on general lieu of notice either as a lump sum or in unvested EBMS shares will normally fully employment conditions, basic salary increase monthly instalments.
vest on leaving and will be released to budgets, the level of bonus pools and The Company will seek to ensure that no the participant within one month after the payouts, and participation in share plans.
more is paid than is warranted in each end of the retention period.
In exceptional The Committee is therefore aware of how individual case and will seek to apply the circumstances and at the discretion of the total remuneration at the executive director principles of mitigation to any proposed Committee, the leaving executive director level compares to the total remuneration payment, where it is appropriate to do so.
may receive the deferred shares prior to the of the general population of employees.
end of the retention period.
Common approaches to remuneration policy For James Henderson and under new which apply across the Group include: contracts, monthly payments are reduced Under the 2014 PSP, an individual who in lieu of notice by 100% of one-twelfth leaves by reason of death, injury, disability, a consistent approach to pay for of the base annual salary or fee that the ill-health, statutory redundancy, agreed performance is applied throughout the executive director is entitled to receive retirement, sale of the employing company Group, with annual bonus schemes being from any alternative employment or or business out of the Group and in any offered to all employees: consultancy arrangement, during the other circumstances at the discretion of the offering pension, medical and life assurance period compensation is paid.
Committee will normally receive a pro-rated benefits for the majority of employees: proportion of outstanding PSP awards For Neil Cooper, monthly payments are which can be exercised up to six months ensuring that salary increases for each reduced in lieu of notice by 80% of oneor such longer period as the Committee category of employee are considered twelfth of the base annual salary or fee permits and up to 12 months in the case taking into account the overall rate of that the executive director is entitled to of death after the performance period increase across the Group, as well as receive from any alternative employment ends and subject to performance over that financial and individual performance: and or consultancy arrangement, during the period.
Exceptionally, the Committee may period compensation is paid.
encouraging broad-based share decide to release the PSP shares.
ownership through the use of all-employee There is no entitlement to cash bonus Following cessation of employment share plans.
paid or associated deferred shares subject to the Committees assessment following notice of termination by either of performance, to be exercised in the the employee or Company on cessation six months after the leaving date or such of employment, and bad leavers will not longer period as the Committee permits receive any bonus in such circumstances.
and up to 12 months in the case of death However, where the individual is considered and in exceptional circumstances the a good leaver in the event of death or Committee may decide to allow a greater termination of employment by reason number of shares to vest than if the level of of ill health, disability, injury, statutory vesting was calculated on a pro-rata basis.
redundancy, agreed retirement, sale of The provisions governing the vesting of employing company or business out PSP awards under the previous PSP are of the Group or at the discretion of the broadly similar and these awards will vest Committee, the Companys normal policy on the terms set out in that plan.
is that a performance-related bonus will be paid at the normal time and this will be 72 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 directors remuneration report Recruitment policy The Committees overriding objective is to appoint executive directors with the necessary background, skills and experience to ensure the continuing success of the Company.
We recognise that the increasing pace of change and technology development in our industry, as well as theinternational nature of the William Hill business, will mean that the right individuals may often be highly sought after.
The remuneration package for a new executive director will therefore be set in accordance with the Companys approved remuneration policy as set out on pages 66 to 73 of the DRR, subject to such modifications as are described below.
The maximum level of variable remuneration excluding any buyout arrangements that may be offered on an annual basis to a new executive director will be in accordance with the individual plan limits, being 175% of salary in the annual bonus plan and 225% of salary or 300% of salary in exceptional circumstances in the PSP.
In the majority of cases, where an external appointment is made, the individual, on resignation, will forfeit incentive awards connected with their previous employment.
The Committee may therefore decide to offer further cash or share-based payments to buy out these existing entitlements by making awards of a broadly equivalent value, in the Committees view, under either the Companys existing incentive plans or under other arrangements.
In determining the appropriate form and amount of any such award, the Committee will consider various factors, including the type and quantum of award, the length of the performance period and the performance and vesting conditions attached to each forfeited incentive award.
Where an individual is appointed to the Board, different performance measures may be set for the year of joining the Board for the annual bonus, taking into account the individuals role and responsibilities and the point in the year the executive director joined.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element granted in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as appropriate to take into account the terms of the executive director appointment.
The salary level for a new executive director will be determined with care by the Committee, taking into account the individuals background, skills, experience, the business criticality and nature of the role being offered, the Companys circumstances, and taking into account relevant external and internal benchmarks.
Above all, the Committee must exercise its own judgement in determining the most appropriate salary for the new appointment.
In certain circumstances, the Committee will have set a starting salary which is positioned below the relevant market rate and may therefore wish to adjust the executive directors salary, at a level above the average increase in the Company, as the individual gains experience and establishes a strong performance track record in the role.
Conversely the salary may need to be positioned above the relevant market rate in order to attract the most appropriate candidate for the role.
Benefits will be provided in accordance with the approved policy.
Relocation expenses or allowances, legal fees and other costs relating to the recruitment may be paid as appropriate.
The Committee recognises that our shareholders need to fully understand the remuneration package for a new executive director, and is committed to communicating full details and our reasons for agreeing the remuneration at the time of appointment.
We will clearly identify any remuneration elements, which are specific to the initial appointment.
Fees for a new Non-executive Director or Chair will be set in accordance with the approved policy.
Chairman and Non-executive Directors The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy applicable to the non-executive directors.
Purpose and link to strategy To attract and retain non-executive directors of appropriate calibre and experience.
Operation The Chairmans fee is reviewed annually by the Committee without the Chairman present.
The remuneration policy for the non-executive directors, other than the Chairman, is determined by a sub-committee of the Board comprising the Chairman and the executive directors, within the limits set by the Articles of Association.
Based on independent surveys of fees paid to non-executive directors of similarly sized companies to William Hill, remuneration is set taking account of the commitment and responsibilities of the relevant role.
Opportunity The Chair receives a single fee to cover all his Board duties.
Non-executive directors receive a fee for carrying out their duties, together with additional fees for those non-executive directors who chair the primary Board committees and the Senior Independent Director.
Details of current fee levels are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
They are engaged by letters of appointment, which are terminable by either party with no notice period and no compensation in the event of such termination.
Non-executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Companys incentive schemes and are not eligible to join the Companys pension and benefits schemes.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years and would be expected to serve for an additional three-year term, subject to satisfactory performance and annual re-election at the AGM.
Non-executive Directors may then be requested to serve for a further three-year term subject to rigorous review at the relevant time and agreement with the director.
