64 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 direcTors remuneraTion reporT 2014 remuneration annual statement During 2014, after an extensive and thorough Background and business context review of internal and external applicants, we were delighted to promote James William Hill continues to be one of the worlds Henderson to be our new Chief Executive leading gambling companies, providing Officer CEO.
Having been with William Hill betting and gaming services across for 30 years, Jamess breadth of knowledge multiple channels and countries.
The Group spans the whole Group and his established again performed strongly in 2014 with net 1 2 relationships both with the management revenue and operating profit up 8% and team and within the wider industry will ensure 11% respectively on the prior year reflecting that the momentum the Group has achieved the continued development of our UK and under the leadership of Ralph Topping will dear shareholder, international businesses and the benefit of a be sustained.
Debt refinancing left i am pleased to the balance sheet stronger and debt levels fell In line with good practice, details of Jamess present the directors through the period.
remuneration were announced at the same time as is his appointment as CEO.
Jamess remuneration report William Hill has also made good progress in salary is 15% lower than his predecessors, the delivery of its key strategic goals.
We have drr for the financial and the rest of his remuneration package continued to grow our digital and mobile period Which ended on was set in line with our shareholder-approved revenues and to diversify internationally, in policy.
The CEOs salary will next be reviewed 30 decemBer 2014. line with the Boards strategy.
We saw good at the beginning of 2016. gaming growth and all major sports betting channels saw wagering growth during The Company was required to give the year.
RalphTopping 12 months notice, which started on 3 July 2014.
He ceased to be a Despite the challenges facing the high director on 31 July 2014 and will remain an street and increased regulatory scrutiny, the employee until July 2015.
Ralph was treated performance of our Retail business in the as a good leaver, reflecting his 44 years UK was resilient, with strong cost control distinguished service with the Company.
Online maintained its marketHis outstanding Performance Share Plan leading position in the UK, with Italy and Spain PSP awards will be pro-rated for service also growing strongly.
In the US, William Hill and will vest subject to performance, while out-performed the market and in Australia his deferred shares under the Executive there were a range of initiatives relatingto the Bonus Matching Scheme EBMS will be completion of the tomwaterhouse.
com released over their normal cycle.
Ralphs integration and subsequent actions annual bonus for 2014 will be pro-rated to around management structure and 31 July and paid in cash at the normal time.
These arrangements are all in accordance William Hill keeps abreast of regulatory with the approved remuneration policy developments affecting the industry, both and were fully disclosed at the time Ralph in the UK and overseas.
During 2014, the Toppings leaving was announced.
Group played a key leadership role in the The Groups strong basic adjusted earnings promotion of responsible gambling through per share EPS growth of 33.5% and total the launch of the ABB Code and the shareholder return TSR of 99.6% over the formation of an independent oversight body, last three years have resulted in vesting just the Senet Group.
below the maximum performance level for While POCT, increased MGD and indirect both elements of the 2012 PSP at 95.3%.
taxes in certain EU states are expected to The Remuneration Committee considers that impact earnings progression in 2015 and this payout is representative of performance 2016, we are confident that our approach to over the period.
mitigating the tax impact over the longer term, For 2013, no annual bonus was paid our leading market positions and sustained becausethe Group did not achieve the investment in digital gaming and selected stretching financial targets set by the overseas markets will provide us with a solid Committee.
Reflecting our strong results for platform for future growth.
We have a very 2014, our primary annual bonus measure successful and highly regarded management based on pre-exceptional profit before team.
The Remuneration Committee the interest and tax exceeded the target set Committee believes that setting incentive by the Committee, resulting in 104.1% of target ranges which recognise the substantial target being achieved.
This is slightly below challenges facing William Hill, but also provide maximum performance.
the potential of significant reward for industry leading performance, strikes the right balance.
1 Net revenue is a term equivalent to the Revenue defined by the statutory accounts on page 95.
2 Operating profit loss is defined as pre-exceptional profit loss before interest and tax, and the amortisation of specific identified intangible assets recognised on acquisitions.
