Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 59 Directors remuneration report HOW WE ARE REWARDED ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDER On behalf of the Remuneration Committee and the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for the financial year 2013 14 for which we will be seeking approval at the AGM on 5 June 2014.
During the year, we completed our strategic review of the Companys remuneration policies in light of changes in our financial strategy and in line with the new remuneration reporting guidelines that came into effect in October 2013.
We have engaged extensively with our major institutional shareholders and investor representative bodies on these proposed changes.
Shareholders will be asked to give their binding vote for the remuneration policy which, subject to approval, will become effective from the AGM.
This is the first report we have prepared under the new executive remuneration reporting legislation.
We have sought to provide an appropriate level of detail on our remuneration policy and decisions We are keen to made during the year in order to provide shareholders with greater transparency and clarity on executive pay.
I would welcome feedback on maintain a positive the report in due course.
As a Committee, we will continue to monitor practice and guidance as it develops.
and ongoing ACHIEVEMENTS AND REWARDS IN 2013 14 dialogue with our The Chairmans statement and the operating review provide a clear picture of a tough year, but also one of further progress against our shareholders strategic objectives.. Johanna Waterous Decisions made by the Committee in previous years have demonstrated Chairman of the our ongoing commitment to pay for performance.
The remuneration Remuneration Committee package is heavily weighted towards performance-related pay in line with the Committees focus on encouraging a strong performance culture, positioning pay competitively and driving long term shareholder value creation.
Annual incentives In a tough trading environment, underlying profit before tax fell below the threshold performance target resulting in no payout for this element of the annual bonus.
The new channel priorities of online and convenience were the main components of the strategic scorecard for 2013 14.
The Committee agreed that a payout of 12% out of a maximum of 20% for this element and 10% out of a maximum of 20% on the Executive Directors personal objectives was warranted to reflect the considerable progress made in these areas during the year which will continue through 2014 15 and beyond.
However, Dalton Philips declined to be considered for a bonus.
Trevor Strain will invest the net cash element of his bonus in company shares with the remaining 50% deferred for three years under the Deferred share bonus plan in line with policy.
Long term incentives Growth in earnings per share EPS over the performance period for the 2011 14 Long term incentive plan LTIP fell below the threshold target.
As a result, LTIP awards will not vest for the second consecutive year.
In a year when good progress has been made on the long term strategic objectives of the business, the Committee has taken considerable care to ensure that shareholders view pay outcomes for the year as appropriate and reflective of performance.
More detail on the decisions made for 2013 14 is provided in the Annual report on remuneration.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Governance 60 Directors remuneration report HOW WE ARE REWARDED CONTINUED ALIGNMENT OF LONG TERM INCENTIVES WITH The award level for the CEO has been reduced from 275% of salary to FINANCIAL STRATEGY 240% of salary.
As more fully described on pages 9 to 10 of the Annual report, in The Board remains committed to strong capital disciplines: the return on September 2013, the Company announced that future financial strategy capital employed ROCE underpin introduced last year will be retained.
will focus on three objectives: The Committee will set the targets to be very challenging in light of cash generation through the disciplined control of capital expenditure, our strategic priorities and plans, and to provide credible incentives.
efficient working capital management and unlocking value from our property portfolio whilst remaining overwhelmingly freehold: Maximum payout will only be possible for truly exceptional performance.
We specifically want executives to consider the trade-offs and balance profitable growth through topline sales growth, an improved trading of growing profitable sales in both traditional and new channels, whilst performance in our core supermarket estate and the development of ensuring greater cash and capital disciplines.
LTIP awards made to the new channel opportunities, particularly online and convenience: and Management Board will be subject to the same performance measures delivery of returns to shareholders.
and targets to ensure that they are aligned with the strategic priorities The Committee has reviewed remuneration policy and determined that of the business and underlying drivers of shareholder value.
Detail of changes should be made to the LTIP performance measures in light of the free cash flow target is set out on page 72 of the Annual report on changing industry dynamics and, more specifically, the future financial remuneration.
The Committee will set targets for underlying EPS and strategy.
The changes are designed to ensure that there is clear alignment total sales to reflect the development of our financial and operational between the Groups strategic objectives and key drivers of performance strategy over the medium term.
Full details of the targets will be and pay, and that the remuneration policy is fit for purpose for the future.
provided to shareholders ahead of the AGM so that shareholders will be able to vote with full knowledge of how we intend to implement our REMUNERATION IN 2014 15 remuneration strategy in 2014 15.
The Directors remuneration policy is set out on pages 61 to 66 of this report.
Details of how the policy will be applied in 2014 15 are provided on pages 67 SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT to 70 of the Annual report on remuneration.
The changes to remuneration policy and specific targets have been the subject of an extensive consultation with major institutional shareholders Dalton Philips base salary has been reviewed and will not be increased in and the institutional investor representative bodies.
There has been no increase in his base salary since July 2011. stakeholders and wider views on best practice in remuneration reporting Trevor Strain was promoted to the role of CFO in April 2013 on a base salary were taken into account in formulating the policy as a whole.
The Committee has agreed that his salary will increase Committee, we are keen to maintain a positive and ongoing dialogue with by 2% from 480,000 to 489,600 with effect from 3 February 2014. our shareholders and I would like to thank those who have taken part in the consultation for their time and input.
There are no structural changes to the annual bonus arrangements, which will continue to be based on 60% underlying profit before tax, 20% strategic Johanna Waterous corporate scorecard and 20% personal objectives.
The annual bonus is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee designed to be self funding.
In line with the financial strategy, for LTIP awards made from 2014 onwards, the performance measures and weightings will be: 50% linked to cumulative free cash flow: 30% linked to underlying EPS: and 20% linked to total sales excluding VAT and fuel.
The Group is required to prepare a Directors remuneration report for the 52 weeks ended 2 February 2014.
The report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and therefore contains the Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Directors remuneration policy and the Annual report on remuneration.
A resolution to approve the Directors remuneration policy pages 61 to 66 will be proposed at the AGM of the Company to be held on 5 June 2014.
The policy will come into effect from the date of the AGM subject to shareholder approval.
The Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee pages 59 to 60 and the Annual report on remuneration pages 67 to 72 will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 61 Directors remuneration report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the total The Committee reviews the strategic priorities of the Group and the remuneration of the Executive Directors and other senior managers who environment in which it operates on an ongoing basis to ensure that make up the Management Board.
there is clear alignment between executive remuneration policy and the performance of the business.
The table below sets out the remuneration policy for Executive Directors which, subject to shareholder approval, will apply from 5 June 2014 the The table below reflects changes which have been made during the date of the 2014 AGM.
In setting this policy, the Committee aims to year primarily to the performance measures which will attach to LTIP demonstrate alignment with the Groups financial strategy balancing the awards made from 2014 onwards.
The changes have been the subject of objectives of cash generation, profitable growth and delivery of returns an extensive consultation with major shareholders and the institutional to shareholders.
Management pay and incentives are designed to reward investor representative bodies.
The views of those stakeholders and wider achievement of those objectives underpinned by the Committees key views on best practice in remuneration reporting were taken into account principles: encourage a strong performance culture: emphasise long term in formulating the policy as a whole.
shareholder value creation: and position pay competitively in relation to our major peers.
REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Element and how Performance measures Recovery it supports strategy Operation Opportunity and period withholding BASE SALARY Base salaries are set by the Committee Salary increases will Not applicable Not applicable on appointment and then normally ordinarily be in line The Committees policy reviewed annually.
with salary increases is to set base salaries across the Group.
In setting and reviewing salary levels, competitively to attract The Committee may the Committee considers the and retain the best talent award increases above responsibilities of the role, progression in which is critical to the this level where this the role, individual performance including Groups success and is warranted due to a any change in responsibilities, skills, delivery of the strategy.
change in the scope experience and pay levels and structure or responsibilities of Base salary is part of throughout the Group.
the role, to reflect a total remuneration The Committee also has regard to progression in the package which rewards rates for similar roles in comparator role e. g. staged stretching performance companies, both in FTSE 100 retailers increases for a recent aligned to the and UK-based companies of a similar size appointment or to Groups strategy.
and complexity, but seeks to avoid the remain competitive in automatic ratcheting effects of following the market.
Current benchmark levels of salary.
base salary levels are disclosed on page 67.
BENEFITS Executive Directors are entitled to a car The maximum car Not applicable Not applicable allowance or other car benefit, transport allowance is currently The Company provides costs, private health provision, life 24,000.
The cost a market competitive assurance, an allowance towards the cost to the Company of benefits package for of independent financial advice, normal providing other benefits Executive Directors to staff discount entitlement and, in certain depends on the nature support in the ability to cases, a telephone allowance.
Executive of the benefit and can recruit and retain the Directors are also entitled to participate in vary from year to year.
the all employee sharesave scheme and Benefit provision will any other all employee share plan which be maintained at a level the Company may operate on the same which is competitive.
terms as all other UK-based employees.
The Committee reviews benefit provision from time-to-time and retains flexibility to add or remove benefits if necessary to ensure that benefit provision remains market competitive or to meet the operational needs of the business for example through the payment of relocation expenses.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Governance 62 Directors remuneration report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Element and how Performance measures Recovery it supports strategy Operation Opportunity and period withholding PENSION Executive Directors are entitled to The Morrisons Not applicable Not applicable membership of the Groups cash Retirement Saver Plan BENEFITS balance pension arrangement known guarantees a value The Company provides as the Morrisons Retirement Saver of the cash balance a market competitive Plan.
Individuals contribute 5% of in the plan of 24% retirement provision capped base salary and all new eligible of pensionable pay for Executive Directors employees are automatically enrolled assuming retirement at which is aligned with into this arrangement.
A 10% cash salary age 65 years adjusted retirement benefits supplement in lieu of Company pension for inflation capped at available throughout contributions applies on base salary above 2% p. a. the Group.
A maximum 10% cash A cash alternative to pension provision salary supplement is provided where the Groups standard applies above capped pension provision is not appropriate, for base salary.
example, where an Executive Director has Where an Executive reached the Lifetime Allowance.
Executive Director receives a Directors may elect to receive this cash cash salary supplement salary supplement in lieu of pension of only, the maximum broadly the same value as would accrue supplement payable is on an annual basis in the pension plan.
ANNUAL BONUS Bonus awards are made annually subject The maximum bonus Annual bonus awards are subject to Not applicable to to a mix of financial and non-financial potential for Executive the following performance measures: the cash element of Annual bonus awards are performance measures.
Achievement of Directors is 200% of annual bonus.
60% is based on underlying profit designed to incentivise each performance element is assessed base salary.
before tax performance: Malus provisions apply and reward achievement independently and the level of payout is The number of shares to outstanding deferred of the Groups short term 20% is linked to achievement of determined by the Committee after the subject to the deferred share awards allowing financial and strategic a number of strategic corporate end of the relevant financial year.
award is determined by the Committee to objectives and personal scorecard measures: and 50% of any bonus payable is paid in cash reference to the bonus reduce the level of performance objectives.
with the other 50% deferred in shares and the share price on vesting in the event of 20% is linked to achievement of Compulsory deferral is under the deferred share bonus plan, the date of award.
designed to encourage normally for a period of three years.
The or similar acts by the retention and further The measures and weightings are set by Committee has discretion to allow a Executive Directors that align the interests of the Committee on an annual basis and higher level of deferral.
could bring the business the Executive Directors each element is assessed independently into disrepute.
Dividend equivalents accrue over the with shareholders.
Achievement of vesting period and are paid at the time of threshold performance will result in a vesting on the number of shares that vest.
payout of 20% of the underlying profit element i. e. 12% of the maximum bonus potential.
Achievement of one of the strategic corporate scorecard measures or one of the personal objectives is regarded as threshold performance for that element.
Deferred share awards are not subject to any further performance conditions.
Awards will normally vest three years after the date of award but may be forfeit if the individual leaves employment before the vesting date.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 63 REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Element and how Performance measures Recovery it supports strategy Operation Opportunity and period withholding LTIP Awards are made annually subject The maximum annual LTIP awards are subject to the following Malus provisions apply to performance measures set by the individual award level performance measures: to outstanding LTIP Awards under the LTIP are Committee which are aligned with under the plan is 300% awards allowing the 50% is based on cumulative free designed to incentivise business strategy and the Groups of salary.
Committee to reduce cash flow: and reward achievement stated KPIs.
the level of vesting in The current annual of the Groups long term 30% is based on underlying earnings per the event of financial Achievement of each element is award level for strategic objectives and share EPS : and misstatement or similar assessed independently.
Executive Directors is creation of value for acts by the Executive 240% of salary.
Awards will normally vest three years shareholders through Directors that could after the award is made.
The Committee execution of the strategy.
bring the business Achievement of threshold performance retains discretion to introduce a holding into disrepute.
will ordinarily result in vesting of 25% period which would apply after the award of each element with 100% vesting for has vested.
However, the Dividend equivalents accrue over the Committee has discretion to reduce the performance period and are paid at the level of vesting at threshold.
time of vesting on the number of shares A return on capital employed ROCE that vest.
underpin applies to the vesting of the total LTIP award.
LTIP awards granted prior to 2014 are subject to the following performance measures: 75% is based on growth in underlying EPS relative to RPI: and 25% is based on like-for-like non-fuel sales relative to the Institute of Grocery Distribution IGD index.
Achievement of threshold performance will result in vesting of 25% of each element with 100% vesting for maximum performance.
No award can vest under the like-for-like sales element unless the threshold EPS target has been met.
For all awards, the Committee has the discretion to adjust the vesting calculations as set out in the notes to the policy table below.
NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE: Personal objectives for the CEO are set by the Chairman.
The CEO sets DETAIL ON PERFORMANCE MEASURES personal objectives for the other Executive Director s. The Committee ANDCOMMITTEE DISCRETION assesses performance and the outcome against each objective independently at the end of the year.
Annual bonus Deferred share bonus plan DSBP The Committee sets financial performance targets for threshold, on The weighting of the three elements of the annual bonus is reviewed each target and stretch performance against budgeted underlying profit before year by the Committee.
Whilst the Committee expects the weightings tax.
Underlying profit is widely recognised in the market as a measure of contained in the table above to be broadly unchanged from year to financial performance and is audited.
The Committee has the discretion year, the Committee has the flexibility to adjust the weightings either to adjust the calculation for material exceptional events or actions which from year to year or between individuals as it believes is appropriate.
were not in the contemplation of the Committee at the time the targets Weightings for the various elements will be disclosed each year in the were set and which might otherwise materially distort the outcome, statement of implementation of policy.
in order to ensure that vesting of this element is an accurate and fair reflection of performance.
Deferred awards under the DSBP are not subject to further performance conditions as they are awarded based on performance against annual Strategic corporate scorecard measures are set annually by the Committee bonus plan targets.
to align with key strategic objectives for the financial year.
The Committee typically sets three to six measures and uses its judgement to assess the outcome of each independently at the end of the year.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Governance 64 Directors remuneration report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED LTIP Whilst the Committee expects the weighting between measures to The Committee believes that the combination of performance measures remain broadly unchanged from year to year, the Committee has the for the LTIP set out in more detail below represents the appropriate mix flexibility to adjust the weighting from grant to grant in order to reflect to incentivise management to achieve the Groups long term objectives the balance of priorities for the Company over time.
which are set out in our strategy section whilst delivering long term Details of outstanding share awards held by current Executive Directors value for shareholders.
These awards were granted under a Cumulative free cash flow is operating cash flow plus net previous remuneration policy and so are subject to prior performance proceeds from the sale of properties less capital expenditure measures and terms.
These awards remain capable of vesting in due over the performance period.
course subject to the terms and performance targets set at grant.
Underlying EPS will be as referred to in note 1.5 to the Group REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE WIDER GROUP financial statements.
Certain managers in the Group participate in the annual bonus plan Total sales is reported sales from all activities and channels excluding subject to broadly the same underlying profit before tax and strategic fuel and VAT.
corporate scorecard measures as the Executive Directors with Target ranges for cumulative free cash flow, underlying EPS and total sales personal objectives set on an individual basis.
The weighting attached are determined by the Committee at the time of grant.
When setting to each element may differ from the Executive Directors for this targets, the Committee will take into account internal plans for the management population.
business, external expectations and the need to ensure that the LTIP The management tier immediately below Executive Director level the rewards the delivery of long term value creation for shareholders.
Management Board currently participates in the LTIP on the same basis The Committee has discretion to adjust these calculations for material as the Executive Directors.
exceptional events or actions which may include strategic changes to Certain managers also receive awards under the LTIP but they are not capital expenditure approved by the Board and material acquisitions or subject to financial performance measures.
Their awards vest subject to a disposals which were not in the contemplation of the Committee at the requirement to remain in employment throughout the three year vesting time the targets were set and which might otherwise materially distort period.
Approximately 1,100 managers are currently eligible for these the outcome, in order to ensure that vesting of the LTIP is an accurate and awards at an approximate cost to the Company of 11m.
Remuneration for employees below manager level is more heavily For the free cash flow measure, the Committee will set maximum and weighted towards fixed pay.
minimum guardrails for maintenance expenditure and cumulative net proceeds from property sales over the performance period.
CONSIDERATION OF PAY AND CONDITIONS IN When considering vesting against the free cash flow measure, the THEWIDER GROUP Committee will review and adjust as appropriate in the event of operation In applying its policy and setting remuneration for the Executive outside the agreed parameters.
The Committee will disclose these Directors, the Committee takes into account pay structure and the parameters and any decision taken to adjust outcomes retrospectively general level of pay increases throughout the Group.
in the relevant Annual report on remuneration.
It should be noted that decisions in relation to material property sales and expenditure on Employee views on pay generally form part of the Groups annual and maintenance and infrastructure are taken by the Board as a whole.
The results of the surveys are communicated to the Board.
Employee views on Executive Director If the Committee exercises its discretion to amend the calculation, a full remuneration are not sought directly.
disclosure of the reason for the amendment and an explanation of the impact will be given in the relevant Annual report on remuneration.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee has an ongoing dialogue with key institutional The Committee uses a target ROCE in excess of the Groups weighted shareholders and the institutional investor representative bodies.
average cost of capital over the performance period, as an underpin An extensive consultation was undertaken in late 2013 early 2014 on for the payout of the LTIP.
For these purposes, ROCE is calculated as the changes to the LTIP performance measures to apply from 2014 described on page 46.
If the Committee is not satisfied with ROCE onwards with the views expressed by shareholders taken into account in performance over the period it will retain discretion to adjust vesting developing the remuneration policy.
In the event of any major changes outcomes downwards.
Any application of discretion by the Committee to Executive remuneration in the future, the Committee will seek the will be explained in the relevant Annual report on remuneration.
views of key institutional shareholders and the representative bodies as appropriate at the relevant time.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 65 POLICY ON REMUNERATION FOR ILLUSTRATIONS of remuneration policy  The remuneration arrangements for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Salary, benefits and pensions Directors are set out in the table below.
Bonus LTIP CEO Element Approach to determination Maximum 4,828,500 23 35 42 Fees Fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined On Target 2,448,500 by the Chairman and the Executive Directors and 44 35 21 are reviewed from time-to-time with regard to the Minimum 1,088,500 100 time commitment required and the level of fees paid in comparable companies.
The remuneration of CFO the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Maximum 2,787,844 Committee and the Board and is reviewed on the 23 35 42 same basis.
On Target 1,416,964 45 35 21 Fees for the Non-Executive Directors comprise a base Minimum 633,604 100 fee plus additional fees for Committee chairmanship, Committee membership and for the appointed Senior 0 1,000,000 2,000,000 3,000,000 4,000,000 5,000,000 Independent Director.
The Chairman receives one fee.
Fee levels are disclosed on page 67. in the Directors remuneration report.
The standard elements that would be considered by the Company for inclusion are: Additional Not applicable.
fees for other salary including arrangements to provide staged increases duties to the where appropriate : Company benefits, including pension arrangements, relocation expenses and legal or other professional fees where appropriate: Benefits and The Chairman has use of a car and driver for Company other items in business and receives private health provision.
The participation in annual bonus plan with 50% payable in cash and 50% the nature of Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are entitled deferred in shares pro-rata for the year of recruitment to reflect the remuneration to normal staff discount.
Neither the Chairman nor proportion of the year for which the new recruit was in post: and any of the Non-Executive Directors participate in any participation in LTIP.
For internal promotions any existing incentive awards will continue under their existing terms.
ILLUSTRATIONS OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR2014 15 The maximum level of variable remuneration that may be granted to a A substantial proportion of the Executive Directors pay is performancenewly appointed Executive Director would be in line with that for existing related.
The charts above right, illustrate the remuneration that would be Executive Directors as set out in the policy table above.
This excludes any paid to each of the Executive Directors under the remuneration policy set remuneration that constitutes compensation for forfeited awards.
out in the table above, in three different performance scenarios: The Committee would take into account both market practice and any minimum performance below threshold fixed pay only with no relevant commercial factors in considering whether any award was vesting under annual or long term incentives: necessary on recruitment, to compensate the new Executive Director for on target fixed pay plus 50% of maximum annual bonus potential incentives which would be forfeited on leaving a previous employment.
including the value of any bonus deferred in shares under the DSBP and 25% vesting under the LTIP: and If the Committee considers it appropriate to make awards by way of compensation for incentives which are forfeited, such awards would be maximum fixed pay plus maximum annual bonus and maximum vesting under the LTIP.
made on a comparable basis, taking account of performance conditions, the proportion of the performance period remaining and the form of the Fixed pay comprises salary as at 3 February 2014, benefits received award cash or shares.
Compensation in the form of share awards will, during the 2013 14 financial year and pension cash salary supplement where possible, be under the Companys existing share plans in order based on salary as at 3 February 2014.
The scenarios do not take into to immediately align a new recruit with the Companys performance.
Where necessary and in exceptional circumstances, such awards may also be made under the provisions of Listing Rule 9.4.
Where awards APPROACH TO REMUNERATION ON RECRUITMENT foregone were subject to ongoing performance conditions, the The Committee will determine the remuneration of any new Executive Committee would generally expect a replacement award to be subject to Director whether an internal appointment or external hire following the appropriate performance conditions.
same principles as for the current Executive Directors set out elsewhere A new Chairman or Non-Executive Director will receive fees determined in line with the policy set out above.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Governance 66 Directors remuneration report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS, NOTICE The Company may at its discretion pay in lieu of that notice.
Payment in PERIODS, TERMINATION PAYMENTS AND CHANGE lieu of notice could potentially include up to 12 months base salary, OFCONTROL benefits and pension which will be payable in instalments and subject Service contracts and notice periods to mitigation.
The Committees policy is for all Executive Directors to have rolling Termination payments service contracts with a notice period of 12 months, unless, on an The table below sets out the treatment of outstanding elements of exceptional basis, to complete an external recruitment successfully, remuneration that would normally apply for Executive Directors whose a longer initial period reducing to 12 months is used.
service with the Company terminates.
Circumstances of termination Salary and contractual benefits Annual bonus plan awards Unvested DSBP awards Unvested LTIP awards Resignation or gross Paid to date of termination.
No bonus paid for year Award lapses on cessation Award lapses on cessation misconduct of termination.
Injury, disability or death Paid to date of termination.
Eligible to be considered Award vests on the date of Awards may vest on a time retirement, redundancy or for a bonus payment which cessation of employment.
pro-rata basis subject to ill health with agreement would be calculated on a time satisfaction of performance of the Company pro-rata basis subject to conditions on the normal satisfaction of performance vesting date.
Malus will targets for period of service continue to apply to completed in the relevant unvested awards.
Negotiated termination Paid to date of termination.
Eligible to be considered Award vests on the date of Awards may vest on a time at the discretion of for a bonus payment which cessation of employment.
pro-rata basis subject to the Committee would be calculated on a time satisfaction of performance pro-rata basis subject to conditions on the normal satisfaction of performance vesting date.
Under the Annual bonus plan and LTIP rules, the Committee has certain It may include in such payments reasonable reimbursement of legal fees discretions in relation to termination of employment as to: in connection with such agreements.
whether a bonus payment is made: The reimbursement of repatriation costs or fees for professional or outplacement advice may also be included in the termination package, whether a participant retains or forfeits an unvested LTIP or as deemed reasonable by the Committee, as may the continuation of DSBP award: benefits for a limited period.
the level of payment or vesting: and the timing of any such payment or vesting.
Change of control In the event of a change of control, awards under the DSBP will In exercising its discretion, the Committee will take into account factors such as personal performance and conduct, overall Company immediately vest in full.
Annual bonus and LTIP awards will vest to the extent that any performance targets attached to the award are satisfied performance and the specific circumstances of departure including, but not limited to, whether termination is by mutual agreement.
and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, with a pro-rata reduction to reflect the proportion of the financial year or performance In the event of a compromise or settlement, the Committee may make period which has not been completed.
payments it considers reasonable in settlement of potential legal claims.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 67 Directors remuneration report ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION AUDITED INFORMATION SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Director for 2013 14 and the comparative figure for 2012 13.
2 T Strain was appointed to the Board on 10 April 2013.
The figures disclosed for salary, taxable benefits, annual bonus and pension benefits are for the period following appointment to the Board.
3 50% of the Annual bonus is deferred in shares for a period of three years.
There are no performance conditions attached.
4 R Pennycook stood down from the Board on 10 April 2013.
The figures disclosed for salary, taxable benefits and pension benefits are for the period to 10 April 2013 when R Pennycook ceased to be a Director.
5 Comprises 13,000 cash supplement and 8,000 increase in value of accrued pension.
6 Restricted share award over 456,037 shares.
7 Comprises 65,000 cash supplement and 82,000 increase in value of accrued pension.
8 R Gillingwater was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2013.
9 N Robertson stood down from the Board on 13 March 2013.
SUPPORTING INFORMATION FOR SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION TABLE Base salary Taxable benets Dalton Philips base salary for the year was 850,000 as set in July 2011.
Taxable benefits for the Executive Directors include a car allowance or The Committee agreed a base salary of 480,000 on appointment of other car benefit, transport costs, private health provision, life assurance Trevor Strain as CFO.
and, in certain cases, a telephone allowance.
The Executive Directors are eligible for an allowance towards the cost of independent financial Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees advice.
The Chairman has use of a car and driver for Company business The fee levels for Non-Executive Directors were reviewed in May 2013 and receives private health provision.
All Directors receive the Companys by the Chairman and the Executive Directors taking into account market normal staff discount entitlement which is not taxable.
practice and the time commitment and responsibility attached to each role.
Base fees which were last increased in May 2008 are unchanged.
A Committee membership fee of 4,000 per Committee has been introduced and the Committee Chairmanship fee for the Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee has been aligned with the other Committee Chairmanship and Senior Independent Director fees at 20,000 in recognition of the increased responsibilities of this role.
The Chairman does not receive any Committee membership fees.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Governance 68 Directors remuneration report ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Annual bonus The table below summarises the performance conditions attached to the 2013 14 awards and the bonus value achieved: Weighting Actual bonus value achieved % of maximum opportunity % of maximum for element 1 D Philips T Strain Underlying profit before tax 60% Strategic scorecard 20% 0% 60% Personal objectives 20% 0% 50% Total bonus payable as % maximum 0% 22% Bonus opportunity as % salary 200% 200% Bonus amount achieved as % salary 0% 44% Bonus amount achieved 182,600 1 T Strain was appointed to the Board on 10 April 2013.
No bonus was paid to Richard Pennycook in respect of 2013 14.
However, as noted in the Chairmans statement, Dalton Philips declined to be considered for a bonus.
The table above The underlying profit before tax targets are set according to internal therefore reflects the fact that he received no payout.
Whilst underlying profit before tax of 785m was below the threshold required for this element of the bonus, the Committee The Directors do not consider it appropriate to disclose the full detail of considered that strong progress had been made against the strategic the Annual bonus performance targets retrospectively as they consider scorecard measures particularly in the online and convenience sectors.
that this information, which is linked to the Companys strategic priorities This warranted a payout of 12% out of a maximum of 20% for this and internal budgets, is commercially sensitive and would be of interest element of the award.
and value to competitors beyond the end of the financial year.
For 2013 14 personal objectives for the Executive Directors were set to 50% of any bonus payable is deferred in shares under the DSBP which underpin the strategic priorities.
The Committee has assessed individual vest three years after the date of award.
Dividend equivalents will accrue performance against these objectives and agreed a payout of 10% and be paid on the shares that vest.
These deferred shares are normally out of 20% of this element of the award for Dalton Philips and Trevor forfeited if the individual leaves the Company before they vest.
LTIP awards Awards granted under the LTIP in April 2011 are scheduled to vest in April 2014.
The performance period relating to these awards ends on 2 February 2014.
Details of the performance conditions and the extent to which they have been satisfied are set out below: Threshold performance Maximum performance Actual LTIP vesting 1 Performance condition Weighting required required Actual outcome % of maximum Underlying earnings per share 75% EPS growth of RPI EPS growth of RPI EPS growth below 0% EPS growth 4% p. a.
10% p. a. threshold of RPI 4% p. a. Like-for-like non-fuel sales relative 25% Matching IGD index Outperformance of Below IGD index over 0% to the Institute of Grocery over the three year IGD index by at least three year period 2 Distribution IGD index period 2% over the three year period LTIP vesting % of maximum 0% LTIP vesting 000 D Philips T Strain 1 Vesting is on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum.
2 No award can vest under the like-for-like sales element unless the threshold EPS target has been met.
All outstanding LTIP awards held by Richard Pennycook lapsed in full on termination of his employment in June 2013.
The restricted share award granted to him in March 2011 had vested in full during the year.
Vesting of this award was subject to the Groups underlying EPS growth meeting or exceeding the growth in RPI over the period to the end of the 2012 13 financial year as adjusted to reflect the impact of the equity retirement programme.
It is therefore disclosed in the single figure table for 2012 13.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 69 Pension entitlements and cash allowances limit which is currently 141,000 and is increased annually from 1 April in Dalton Philips received a salary supplement equal to 25% of base salary line with RPI.
Trevor Strain received a salary supplement of 24% of base At the date his employment ended, Richard Pennycooks accrued pension salary during the year.
This pension is payable at his normal retirement age of Until his employment with the Company ended on 4 June 2013, 62 and will be revalued in line with RPI subject to a maximum of 5% p. a. Richard Pennycook accrued benefits under the Morrisons defined until retirement.
There are no enhanced early retirement rights.
His pension entitlement accrued at the rate of Post-retirement, pensions increase in line with the annual increase in RPI a maximum of 3% for each year under career average revalued earnings or by 5% p. a. compound for pensions accrued prior to 6 April 2006 and CARE.
Accrued benefits, including those preserved from the former 2.5% for pensions accrued from 6 April 2006, whichever is the lower.
final salary arrangement, increase in line with the RPI to the date of leaving the Group.
Richard Pennycook also received a cash supplement of 15% of his basic salary in excess of the Company maximum earnings limit in 2013 14 Pensionable pay is annual salary as at 6 April each year.
pro-rata to the date of termination of his employment.
Richard Pennycook was subject to the Companys maximum earnings Share awards granted in 2013 14 The table below sets out the share awards made to the Executive Directors during 2013 14 under the Companys LTIP.
No further awards were made during the year.
Face value Percentage of award Performance Basis on which of award vesting at threshold period Performance 1 Grant date Award type award made performance end date conditions D Philips 22 April 2013 Conditional award 275% of salary 2,337,500 25% 31 January 2016 See table below T Strain 22 April 2013 Conditional award 240% of salary 1,152,000 25% 31 January 2016 See table below 1 The face value in the table above has been calculated by multiplying the maximum number of shares that could vest by the average share price used to determine the number of shares awarded.
The average share price used was 2.801 and this was calculated over a period of five business days prior to the date of grant.
No share awards were made to Richard Pennycook during the year.
The table below sets out the performance conditions attached to the awards made during the year.
1 Performance condition Weighting Performance Targets Underlying earnings per share EPS growth 75% 25% of EPS element vests at growth of RPI 1% p. a.
100% of EPS element vests at growth of RPI 10% p. a. Like-for-like non-fuel sales relative to the 25% 25% of sales element vests for matching the IGD index 2 Institute of Grocery Distribution IGD index 80% of sales element vests for outperforming the IGD index by 0.8% 100% of the sales element vests for outperforming the IGD index by 1% Total 100% 1 Vesting is on a straight-line basis between points.
The Committee will take account of the Groups ROCE over the performance period.
If the Committee is not satisfied with ROCE performance over the period it will retain discretion to adjust outcomes downward.
Payments to past Directors No payments have been made during 2013 14 to any individual who was previously a Director of the Company.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Governance 70 Directors remuneration report ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE Richard Pennycooks employment with the Company ended on 4 June 2013.
He continued to receive his base salary until that date and this is disclosed in the single total figure of remuneration table above.
It was noted in last years report that Richard Pennycook would be eligible for a bonus payment in respect of 2013 14 and would be treated as a good leaver for the purposes of his outstanding LTIP awards and DSBP awards and his restricted share award.
Following his decision to join a competitor, the Committee reconsidered the treatment of his bonus and outstanding incentive awards.
It was agreed that his good leaver status should be revoked and as a result Mr Pennycook ceased to be eligible for a bonus payment for 2013 14 and all of his outstanding LTIP and DSBP awards lapsed in full on cessation of his employment.
Richard Pennycook retained his restricted share award as the performance conditions attached had been satisfied before announcement of his new appointment.
Statement of Directors shareholding The Company has share ownership guidelines for Executive Directors of 200% of salary.
Under the guidelines, Executive Directors are expected to retain 50% of vested share awards net of tax, including shares from the deferred element of the annual bonus, until the guideline is reached.
Shares held under the DSBP calculated on a post-tax basis which are subject only to a continuing service requirement will be included in assessing the level of shareholding.
The shareholding guideline should be reached within five years of appointment to the Board or five years after the date of adoption of the policy for incumbent Directors.
In December 2013, the Board agreed to introduce a share ownership guideline for Non-Executive Directors of 50% of base fees.
This guideline should be reached within three years of appointment to the Board or three years after the date of adoption of the policy for incumbent Directors.
Dalton Philips has fully complied with the shareholding requirement in respect of the share awards that have vested since he was appointed in March 2010.
No share awards have vested for Trevor Strain since his appointment to the Board.
The Executive Directors do not yet meet the 200% shareholding guideline but they are both still within the five year period allowed to build up their shareholding.
Directors shareholdings Executive Directors Shareholding Share save Shareholding as at Shares Deferred shares options not LTIP shares Total 1 requirement 2 February 2014 owned not subject to subject to subject to interests in 2 3 % salary % salary outright performance performance performance shares Executive Directors D Philips 200% 131% 246,119 411,109 3,958 1,637,401 2,298,587 T Strain 200% 8% 15,838 482,724 498,562 R Pennycook n a n a 541,615 541,615 1 Includes shares held under the DSBP on an after tax basis.
2 The share price of 2.399 as at 31 January 2014 the last trading day of the financial year ended 2 February 2014 has been used for the purpose of calculating the current shareholding as a percentage of salary.
3 802,878 shares and 71,443 shares represent LTIP awards granted to D Philips and T Strain respectively in April 2012 which are due to vest in April 2015.
75% of the awards are linked to underlying earnings per share EPS growth targets 25% of this element vests at growth of RPI 4% p. a. : 35% vests at growth of RPI 5% p. a. : 90% vests at growth of RPI 9% p. a. and 100% vests at growth of RPI 12% p. a.
25% of the awards are linked to like-for-like non-fuel sales relative to the Institute of Grocery Distribution IGD index 25% of this element vests for matching the index and 100% vests for outperforming the index by at least 2% over the three year period.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis between each of the points.
834,523 shares and 411,281 shares represent LTIP awards granted to D Philips and T Strain respectively in April 2013 which are due to vest in April 2016.
Performance targets for those awards are disclosed in the section headed Share awards granted in 2013 14.
Directors shareholdings Non-Executive Directors The interests of the Non-Executive Directors in the shares of the Company are as follows: 2 February 2014 Total owned outright P Cox I Gibson 108,055 R Gillingwater P Hughes N Robertson J Waterous 6,716 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 71 UNAUDITED INFORMATION RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below sets out the total spend on remuneration in the 2013 14 financial year and the 2012 13 financial year compared with distributions PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE The graph below shows the Companys total shareholder return TSR to shareholders.
compared with the TSR of the FTSE 100 and FTSE food and drug retailers indices over the five year period to 2 February 2014.
These indices have m 2013 14 2012 13 Difference been selected as being appropriate in giving a broad equity view and the Total spend on 1,972m 1,947m 25m Company is a constituent of both indices.
remuneration for all Group employees VALUE of a 100 holding Profit distributed by way 336m 849m 513 m of dividends and share FTSE 100 Morrisons buyback FTSE all share food and drug retailers 250 STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2014 15 200 Base salary 150 Following a review in February 2014, the Committee decided that there will be no base salary increase for Dalton Philips for 2014 15.
His salary 100 therefore remains at 850,000 as set in July 2011.
The Committee has 50 agreed a base salary increase of 2% for Trevor Strain taking his salary from 480,000 on appointment in April 2013 to 489,600.
0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Base salaries for the Executive Directors are set out below: At The table below sets out the total remuneration figure for the CEO over 2014 15 2 February 2014 the same five year period, valued using the methodology applied to the D Philips 850,000 850,000 single total figure of remuneration.
T Strain 489,600 480,000 Chief Executive 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 Annual bonus Total Dalton The performance measures and weightings for the 2014 15 annual bonus 1 remuneration Philips 3,328 2,502 1,089 1,089 are unchanged from 2013 14.
The structure of the bonus, including 000s Marc maximum potential and the requirement to defer 50% of any bonus in Bolland 1,159 304 shares under the DSBP, is in line with Directors remuneration policy set Annual bonus Dalton out on page 63. payment Philips 70% 90% 0% 0% The performance measures and weightings are as follows: % of maximum Marc opportunity Bolland 0% Weightings % of maximum bonus opportunity LTIP vesting level Dalton achieved Philips 0% 0% CEO CFO % of maximum Marc Underlying profit before tax 60% 60% opportunity Bolland Strategic scorecard 20% 20% 1 Total remuneration includes value of unrestricted share award over 319,401 shares and restricted share award over 120,965 shares granted on recruitment.
Personal objectives 20% 20% CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF CEO COMPARED Underlying profit before tax targets are set according to internal budgets.
TOGROUP EMPLOYEES The table below sets out the change in total remuneration paid to the Scorecard measures for 2014 15 will focus on strategic objectives in CEO from 2012 13 to 2013 14 and the average percentage change from the growth areas of online and convenience and driving efficiencies in 2012 13 to 2013 14 for employees of the Group as a whole.
% increase in element between 2012 13 and 2013 14 Personal objectives will underpin the strategic objectives.
Salary and fees Taxable benefits Annual bonus Detail on the performance targets has not and will not be disclosed as this D Philips 0% 0% 0% information is regarded by the Directors as commercially sensitive and of 1 2 All Group employees 2% 2% 26% value to competitors beyond the end of the performance period.
1 Reflects the change in average pay for all Group employees employed in both the financial year 2012 13 and the financial year 2013 14.
2 Represents the average Annual bonus payout for eligible employees for the financial year 2013 14.
No Annual bonuses were paid in 2012 13.
There has been no increase in the CEOs base salary since July 2011.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Governance 72 Directors remuneration report ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED LTIP THE COMMITTEE AND ITS ADVISERS As described elsewhere in this report, changes have been made to the During the year, the following individuals were members of the performance measures and weightings attached to LTIP awards made Remuneration Committee: from 2014 onwards to align with strategic objectives.
Membership Award levels for LTIP awards made in 2014 are 240% of salary for both Name of Director From To the CEO and CFO.
As part of the LTIP review the Committee agreed to J Waterous Chairman 1 Feb 2010 To date reduce the size of the maximum CEO award from the previous level of 275% of salary.
P Cox 1 Apr 2009 To date The performance measures, weightings and targets attached to LTIP I Gibson 1 Sept 2007 To date awards made in April 2014 are as follows: R Gillingwater 1 Mar 2013 To date Weighting P Hughes 1 Jan 2010 To date % of maximum 1 Measure award Targets N Robertson 1 Jul 2005 13 Mar 2013 Cumulative 50% 25% of the free cash flow element vests The CEO, the Group Human Resources Director and other HR operating for achieving cumulative free cash flow cash flow of 1bn over the three year representatives also attend meetings other than where their own performance period remuneration is being discussed by invitation.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
100% vests for achieving cumulative free cash flow of 2bn over the three  LLP PwC are appointed by the Committee year performance period to provide independent external advice on market practice and Underlying 30% To be confirmed ahead of AGM Executive and Non-Executive remuneration.
They were appointed by earnings per the Committee in October 2011 following a competitive tender.
Fees are share agreed by the Committee according to services provided.
Total fees paid during 2013 14 to PwC for advice and assistance in relation to Total sales 20% To be confirmed ahead of AGM remuneration matters are 136,425.
1 Vesting is on a straight-line basis between points.
PwC are also engaged from time-to-time to provide a range of unrelated The Committee will set targets for underlying EPS and total sales to human resource consulting services and advice on tax and accounting.
reflect the development of our financial and operational strategy over the The Chairman of the Committee monitors such engagements on an medium term.
These targets will be confirmed to shareholders ahead of ongoing basis to ensure that there is no impact on PwCs independence the 2014 AGM.
The Committee will take account of the Groups return on as adviser to the Committee.
PwC is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of capital employed ROCE over the performance period.
If the Committee Conduct of the Remuneration Consultants Group.
is not satisfied with ROCE performance over the period it will retain Ashurst LLP provided legal advice to the Committee on Senior Executive discretion to adjust vesting outcomes downwards.
For this purpose the contracts.
Fees paid for this advice during 2013 14 totalled 6,748.
Committee uses a target ROCE in excess of the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
Any application of discretion by the Committee will be Ashurst LLP also provide other legal advice and services to the Group.
explained in the relevant Annual report on remuneration.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT 2013 AGM For the free cash flow measure, the Committee will set maximum and The table below shows the voting outcome at the June 2013 AGM for minimum guardrails for maintenance expenditure and cumulative approval of the 2012 13 Remuneration report.
net proceeds from property sales over the performance period.
When considering vesting against the free cash flow measure, the For as a % of Against as a % Committee will review and adjust as appropriate in the event of operation Votes for votes cast Votes against of votes cast Abstentions outside the agreed parameters.
The Committee will disclose these 1,343,113,948 87.17 197,732,242 12.83 38,285,349 parameters and any decision taken to adjust outcomes retrospectively in the relevant Annual report on remuneration.
It should be noted that Johanna Waterous decisions in relation to material property sales and expenditure on Chairman of the Remuneration Committee maintenance and infrastructure are taken by the Board as a whole.
