Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Remuneration Report introduction For the year ended 31 July 2014 strategy supported by a remuneration policy which provides an Alan Murray appropriate balance between xed and variable pay.
The Committee Chairman of the has therefore decided that the Companys remuneration policy will Remuneration Committee remain largely unchanged for 2014 15.
However, the Committee also concluded that, as the Groups business, its markets and the executive remuneration landscape continues to evolve, a further more detailed review of remuneration should be undertaken.
The aims of the review include the simplication of remuneration structures and ensuring that, over Set out below is the Directors Remuneration Report forthe financial the long term, they remain appropriate to retain and attract talented year ended 31 July 2014. executives in a highly competitive labour market.
We recognise theneed to continue to attract management with skills and Dear Shareholder experience which reect current and future developments in the I am pleased to make this report in the context of another year in markets in which the Groups businesses operate.
We expect to which the Company has delivered a strong financial performance, conclude the review by the end of 2014, consult with shareholders both in terms of like-for-like revenue and trading profit growth, regarding the outcome of the review in early 2015 and make any and excellent cash generation.
Once again our experienced changes during 2015 16. management team have driven significant performance In addition, the Committee made the following key decisions in improvements during the year.
the year: In the financial year ended 31 July 2014 trading profit grew despite t Executive Directors base salaries have been increased by significant adverse foreign exchange movements, contributing to an 2per cent, which is broadly in line with the average annual increase in headline EPS from 141.0 pence in 2010 11 as adjusted base salary increases for all Wolseley employees.
The fee paid to 196.2 pence this year.
As a result, ESOP awards granted in 2011 to the Chairman of the Board was not increased for the fourth have vested in full.
We explain the adjustment to headline EPS in consecutive year and the Board determined that there would be 2010 11 under the heading ESOP on page 100. no increase in Non Executive Directors fees.
In addition to profitable growth, the Company also places a strong t The weighting of performance criteria for the annual bonus plan emphasis on generating cash and during the year the Company would continue to be set at 80 per cent for financial measures rebased the dividend by 15 per cent, reecting the Groups and 20 per cent for personal objectives.
From 2014 15, we have strong and sustainable cash ows.
The interim dividend paid to introduced an additional financial target based on gross profit shareholders on 1 May 2014 was 25 per cent higher than last growth, which is aimed at enhancing the link between the bonus year and the 2014 proposed final dividend of 55 pence per share incentive and the Companys strategy of delivering long-term is 25 per cent higher than last year.
The strong cash and profit sustainable and profitable growth.
performance underpinned the bonus payments to the Executive Directors for the year which averaged 91.1 per cent of their maximum t In line with best practice, we have adjusted our policy so that levels.
In the three years to 31 July 2014, Total Shareholder Return the annual bonus plan for Executive Directors will from 2014 15 TSR growth enjoyed by shareholders was 21.02 per cent.
As a include the ability to reduce or reclaim all or part of bonus awards result, the Company achieved a TSR ranking of sixteenth against in certain situations, commonly referred to as malus and our FTSE 100 comparator group and so 88.2per cent of the clawback provisions.
performance shares awarded under the LTIP in 2011 have vested.
New Remuneration Reporting Regulations Key decisions The Committee decided last year, as a matter of good governance, During the year the Committee continued to review its approach to meet the requirements of the new Remuneration Reporting to Executive Director remuneration.
The Companys strategy Regulations, although the Company is not required to do so as a to deliver long-term sustainable and profitable growth remains Jersey registered company.
In addition to this annual statement, unchanged.
The remuneration policy is designed to support the the Remuneration Report contains the Policy on remuneration delivery of this strategy through providing a pay for performance and the annual report on remuneration.
As explained above, remuneration package to Executive Directors which reects their theremuneration policy is largely unchanged.
This year we have contribution to the business, the performance of the Group, the size alsoincluded the policy for the recruitment of Directors and and complexity of the Groups operations and the need to attract payments for loss of ofce.
Separate resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting The Companys continued strong financial performance, and to approve the Policy and the rest of the Remuneration Report.
consistent year-on-year incremental improvement in key financial The new Remuneration Reporting Regulations contain provisions measures such as like-for-like revenue, gross margins, trading which make shareholder approval of the Policy of UK-incorporated margin and cash generation, demonstrate the importance of companies binding.
As the Company is not UK-incorporated those managements continuing focus on delivering against a clear provisions have no legal effect.
However, the Company has taken Wolseley plc 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Remuneration Report introduction continued steps to limit the power of the Remuneration Committee so that, with Glossary of terms inDirectors effect from the date on which the Policy on remuneration is approved by shareholders, the Committee can only authorise remuneration Remuneration Report 2014 payments or payments for loss of ofce in respect of the Chairman AGM Annual General Meeting and the Executive Directors that it honestly and reasonably believes BIS Department for Business, Innovation & Skills are consistent with the Policy as approved by shareholders.
In that way the Company considers the vote of shareholders on Code UK Corporate Governance Code the Policy to be binding in its application to the Chairman and EPS Headline Earnings Per Share Executive Directors.
ESOP Executive Share Option Plan Looking ahead ESPP Employee Share Purchase Plan ISP International Sharesave Plan I am delighted that the Board have appointed three new Non Executive Directors during the year.
Details of their remuneration are LTIP Long Term Incentive Scheme or Plan set out on page 95.
LTI plans ESOP and LTIP I handed over the responsibilities of my role as Chairman of the OSP Ordinary Share Plan Committee to Jacky Simmonds at the end of July 2014.
Jacky has Policy Directors Remuneration Policy extensive specialist knowledge and experience in the area of Remuneration The Large and Medium-sized Companies executive remuneration and is leading the review of remuneration Reporting and Groups Accounts and Reports structure.
Given the continued prominence of executive Regulations Regulations 2008 as amended remuneration in corporate governance, it is clear that Jackys orRegulations experience in this area will be a significant benefit to the Company.
Report Directors Remuneration Report We hope to receive your support at the Annual General Meeting and I, together with Jacky, will be available to respond to any TSR Total Shareholder Return questions shareholders may have on this report or any of the Committees activities.
Key elements of this report Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Remuneration policy 1.
Introduction This section of the Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
It sets out the Policy which will be put forward for shareholder approval at the AGM on 25 November 2014 and will apply, subject to such shareholder approval, to any remuneration and loss of ofce payments made on or after 25 November 2014.
All remuneration and loss of ofce payments will only be made if they are consistent with the approved Policy.
Details of how the Company will implement the Policy set out below from 1 August 2014 are provided in the Annual report on remuneration section starting on page 94.
This section of the Report contains details of the Companys remuneration policy to govern future payments that the Company will make to Directors.
Within this section are: t Future remuneration policy tables for Executive and Non Executive Directors t Recruitment policy Alan Murray t Policy on loss of ofce t Details of discretion, exibility and judgement of the Committee t Legacy arrangements t Matters considered when determining the Policy Chairman of the Remuneration Committee t Illustrations of the Policy The Policy is broadly unchanged from last year.
The Companys policy as it applies to Executive Directors is to provide a package that is sufficient to attract, retain and treat fairly Executive Directors currently in position or any new Executive Director, whether hired externally or promoted from within the Wolseley Group.
The Committee will consider the need to attract the right talent whilst aiming to pay no more than is appropriate.
In determining each element of pay and the package as a whole, the Committee will take into account all relevant factors for the year ended 31 July 2014 including, but not limited to, the skills and experience of the individual, the market rate for an individual of that experience, as well as the importance of securing the best person for the role.
Remuneration policy tables Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity Future policy table: Executive Directors Base salary t To pay Executive Directors at a level t Base salary is normally set at or around the mid-market level of other companies comparable commensurate with their contribution on the basis of size, internationality and complexity with the opportunity to exceed this level to to the Company and appropriately reward sustained individual high performance.
based on skill, experience and t Base salary is paid monthly in cash in the currency specified in the employment contract.
t Base salary may be increased each year typically in line with the general level of increase t The level of salary paid should be set awarded to other employees in the Group.
There is an annual review by the Committee taking at a level that is considered appropriate into account individual and corporate performance, percentage increases awarded to the to aid the recruitment, retention and general workforce, prevailing market and economic conditions and governance practices.
motivation of high calibre Executive t The Committee retains the exibility to award larger increases than those awarded to the Directors required to ensure the general workforce where it considers it appropriate and necessary such as in exceptional successful formation and delivery of the Groups strategy and management of its circumstances or if an individual assumes signicantly more responsibility.
If it is considered appropriate larger increases may be phased over more than one year.
business in the international environment t The Committee retains the exibility to review and decide on a case-by-case basis whether it in which it operates.
is appropriate to award increases to allow a newly appointed Executive Director whose base salary has been set below the mid-market level to progress quickly to or around that midmarket level once expertise and performance has been proven.
t The base salaries for the Executive Directors for the current year are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: the Committee considers the individual salaries of the Executive Directors at a Committee meeting each year taking into account the factors listed in the Operation and opportunity section above.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to base salary: there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to base salary.
Wolseley plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Summary of the Groups financial performance during the year ended 31 July 2014 Remuneration policy See pages 3 to 5 on pages 85 to 93 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Annual report on remuneration Implementation of Policy for the year ending Annual bonus 31 July 2015 The threshold, target and maximum bonus opportunities for the Executive Directors are set out in the table below.
Information Threshold Target Maximum For the purposes of this Annual report on remuneration: As % of salary 1 any payments made in US dollars have been converted to I Meakins 80% 100% 120% sterling.
The calculations are made based on the annual average exchange rate for the year ended 31 July 2014 of $1.6422:1 J Martin 70% 90% 110% F Roach 80% 110% 140% forthe year ended 31 July 2013 $1.5641:1 : and 2 any estimated share values are determined using a share price Performance targets are set as 80 per cent on financial performance of 3279 pence, being the average closing mid-market quotation 20 per cent is based on cash-to-cash days, 30 per cent on trading for Wolseley plc shares for the three month period ended profit and 30 per cent on gross profit and 20 per cent on personal 31 July 2014. strategic objectives.
Specic individual objectives were set at the beginning of the 2014 15 financial year.
Executive Directors For the 2014 15 financial year, the threshold for bonus payments Base salary in relation to ongoing trading profit will be set at or above the The Remuneration Committee agreed to an increase to the base outturn trading profit for the 2013 14 financial year on a constant currency basis.
salary levels of the Executive Directors with effect from 1 August 2014, as set out below.
Current base salary levels, and those which The Board considers that the performance targets for 2014 15 are applied during the year ended 31 July 2014, are as follows: commercially sensitive and they are not included for this reason.
The Committee will consider disclosing the targets and performance Annualised base salary 2014 15 2013 14 % increase against them in the Annual report on remuneration next year, depending on considerations of commercial sensitivity at that time.
I Meakins 847,129 830,519 2% Long term incentives J Martin 524,674 514,386 2% F Roach 650,1631 637,4152 2% Long term incentive awards will be made during the 2014 15 financial 1 The total to be received by Frank Roach in 2014 15 will be paid in US dollars as $1,067,698.
year at the levels set out in the table below: 2 The total received by Frank Roach in 2013 14 was paid in US dollars as $1,046,763.
LTIP ESOP award value as award value as Pension and benets % of salary % of salary UK-based Executive Directors receive a salary supplement in lieu I Meakins 200% 250% of membership of the Group pension scheme, being 32 per cent of J Martin 150% 225% base salary for Ian Meakins and 25 per cent of base salary for John F Roach 130% 175% Martin.
USA-based Executive Director, Frank Roach, participates in the Ferguson dened contribution pension arrangements and Consistent with past awards, the extent to which the LTIP and ESOP receives a Company contribution of 23 per cent of base salary.
awards to be granted in November 2014 will vest will be dependent on the comparative TSR target in respect of the LTIP, and EPS Bonus payments are not included in the calculation of the Company pension contributions.
Benets provided to Executive Directors are growth targets in respect of the ESOP.
detailed in the Remuneration table on page 98.
The LTIP awards will vest as set out in the table below: Percentage of award Wolseleys TSR position in comparator group1 which will vest Top decile 100% 2 Between median and top decile 25100% At median 25% Below median 0% 1 F or u e ll const xclusions itue.
nt members of the FTSE 100 index at the respective date of grant, with no additions 2 Awards vest on a straight-line basis between 25 per cent and 100 per cent.
Wolseley plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Annual report on remuneration on pages 94 to 104 This Report, approved by the Board, has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and the Remuneration Reporting Regulations.
Furthermore, the Board has also applied the principles of good governance relating to Directors remuneration contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code updated in September 2012.
Wolseley plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
