Governance 81 Remuneration Report Letter from the Remuneration Committee chairman In the past year the Group has delivered another set of good Dear Shareholder results.
The Group also made significant progress on the I am pleased to present the annual report on directors delivery of its strategy.
The Groups profit after tax for the remuneration.
This report is divided into two sections in year of 96.3m 2013 restated: 84.3m exceeded the stretch accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies target for bonus purposes.
Group cash performance was and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations also strong, with the cash conversion target for the year being 2013 the Regulations : a policy report which sets out our met in full.
Accordingly, the Committee has paid the maximum approach to remuneration, and a remuneration report which level of bonus to the executive directors for achieving the details what has been paid to directors during the year ended stretching financial targets that were set.
Each report will be subject to a separate vote considered the performance of each of the executive directors at our forthcoming annual general meeting AGM.
against their key strategic objectives for the year, full details of which are contained in the Annual Remuneration Report Responding to change on page 98.
Since I last reported to shareholders on the work of the Committee, there has been a significant amount of change to The three-year performance condition attached to the 2011 the regulations concerning directors remuneration disclosure.
LTIP awards ended on 31 March 2014.
The Company EPS Many of you will be aware of the debate and stakeholder target was met in part and the relative TSR target was met consultation which took place ahead of these changes being in full.
As a result 68.7% of the awards made will vest.
Members of the Committee followed this debate closely and we have sought to respond to the new Ongoing dialogue requirements comprehensively, building on the extensive Last year, 85% of our shareholders voted in favour of the remuneration disclosures we have made for the past two remuneration report including all 10 of the Companys largest years.
We are conscious that best practice will continue to shareholders.
The majority of those who voted against evolve and the Committee will continue to monitor this, followed a voting recommendation from the proxy voting responding to change as appropriate.
agency Institutional Shareholder Services ISS whose primary concern related to the LGU.
With this in mind, it is worth Overview of our remuneration framework recapping on why the Committee first introduced this The primary aim of the Committee is to align our remuneration long-term incentive plan.
framework with business strategy, calibrated to pay for performance.
While our LTIP focuses executives on achieving strong earnings per share EPS growth over a three-year period, the LGU Strategic alignment provides a direct link between remuneration and sustainable Our remuneration framework seeks to: long-term increases in share price.
Awards vest over a longer reinforce business strategy time frame than the LTIP and most conventional long-term provide the right balance between shortand long-term incentives.
In addition, the Committee is resolute that share incentives price performance must be suitably underpinned by appropriate financial performance.
As a consequence, the align senior management remuneration with that of Committee will explicitly consider prior to the vesting of the executive directors each tranche the Groups progress against key quantifiable recognise that we operate a people business, where strategic measures.
reward and incentive structures are critical to our success.
Following last years AGM we met again with ISS to explore It is within this framework that we seek to pay for performance.
its concerns regarding the LGU.
In response we have increased our disclosure surrounding the LGU and address more Paying for performance explicitly the strategic measures which will be considered We believe that our remuneration framework has created by the Committee prior to vesting pages 87 and 100. a clear link between the performance of the Group, the creation of shareholder value and the remuneration of our Dr Raj Rajagopal executive directors.
This is achieved through the appropriate Chairman of the Remuneration Committee selection of performance measures and careful calibration 11 June 2014 of performance targets.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 82 Governance Remuneration Report continued Committee activities The Committee uses a schedule of standing items to help structure the agendas for its meetings as well as responding to matters which arise during the course of the year, such as regulatory changes.
The Committees standing agenda items are aligned to the Groups reward communication programme.
Each April employees receive confirmation of their remuneration for the year ahead.
Notification of bonus payments follows the announcement of the Groups financial results in June.
The Committee keeps remuneration policy and market practice under review throughout the year.
The key matters discussed during the year are set out in figure 1.
Figure 1: Key matters discussed during the year Theme Agenda items Best practice Consideration of latest remuneration best practice guidance Review of the remuneration advisors fees Consideration of revised terms of reference Institutional shareholder and proxy advisor engagement in relation to the directors remuneration report for 2012 13 Review of the Committees remuneration advisor and the subsequent appointment of Towers Watson Remuneration policy Formal articulation and development of areas of the remuneration policy in response to the Regulations Directors and company Consideration and approval of bonus scheme payments to the executive directors for 2012 13 secretarys remuneration Consideration of executive directors salaries Consideration of James Cullens remuneration Interim review of executive directors performance against personal performance targets for 2013 14 Consideration and approval of the personal key performance targets for the executive directors in connection with their bonuses for 2014 15 Consideration and approval of remuneration, bonus principles and quantum for the executive directors and company secretary for 2014 15 Consideration and approval of the chairmans fee for 2014 15 Employee remuneration Remuneration for Group employees including senior Review of bonus scheme payments to the senior leadership team in light of wider remuneration management of Group staff for 2012 13 Consideration of 2013 14 cash conversion targets for senior management under the annual bonus scheme Review of proposed remuneration and bonus opportunity for the senior leadership team for 2014 15 Share plans Consideration and approval of performance condition outturn in respect of LTIP awards made during 2010 Consideration and approval of LTIP and LGU awards Review of share plan hedging arrangements and dilution Consideration and approval of share plan awards Performance monitoring of LTIP awards Consideration of EBS structure and financial targets for 2014 15 Approval of non-material share plan rule changes Reporting Annual review of executive directors shareholdings and expenses for 2012 13 Annual review of the chairmans expenses for 2012 13 Consideration and approval of the remuneration report for 2012 13 Further details on the Committee can be found in the Annual Remuneration Report pages 104 and 105.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 83 Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Policy This section of the report summarises the Companys policy on directors remuneration and includes the following parts: A. an overview of our remuneration policy and its alignment with our business strategy B. a future policy table detailing key remuneration elements for our executive directors C. an illustration of the remuneration packages for each executive director under minimum, target and stretch performance scenarios D. other relevant policies relating to executive directors remuneration, including on recruitment and termination E. details of the remuneration policy for the chairman and non-executive directors F. other matters considered when determining remuneration policy for directors.
This policy will be put to shareholders for a binding vote at the Companys AGM to be held on 30 July 2014.
This policy is intended to last for three years and will take effect from the AGM, subject to shareholder approval.
A. Alignment with our strategy Our strategy is to deliver long-term shareholder value through a focus on core growth sectors in engineering and design.
As set out in the Strategy section pages 16 to 17, this strategy has three principal priorities over the medium term: operational excellence portfolio optimisation sector and regional focus.
The overall objective of our strategy remains to create shareholder value through: driving margins above 8% reducing dependence on the UK with our long-term aspiration being to have more than 75% of our business outside the UK growing organically and through acquisition.
Our remuneration policy is directly aligned with the delivery of our strategy.
The following key themes provide the basis for the framework: as a people business, the remuneration policy must enable us to attract, retain and incentivise the best global talent the policy must be based on simple principles, aligned with our key performance indicators page 20, and provide clear line of sight for participants and alignment with shareholders interests a significant portion of executive directors remuneration should be performance-related on both a shortand long-term basis and delivered in the form of Atkins shares growth in EPS is a key metric for measuring the performance of our business and should be balanced with a focus on long-term share price growth and delivery of our strategy.
Related section Our strategy Find out more about our strategy on page 16 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 84 Governance Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Figure 2 provides a timeline for the receipt of remuneration.
Figure 2: Timeline for receipt of remuneration Element of Current year Y 1 Y 2 Y 3 Y 4 Y 5 Y 6 remuneration Y year years years years years years Salary 100% cash Pension 100% cash Benefits 100% cash Performance 2 3 paid Deferred Bonus 1 3 deferred for three years assessed in cash shares vest LTIP Award made Performance period Award vests Tranche 1 LGU Award made Performance period 1 3 vests Tranche 2 Performance period 1 3 vests Tranche 3 Performance period 1 3 vests WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 85 Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy B.
Future policy for executive directors Table 1: Future policy for executive directors Fixed pay Base salary Pension Benefits Purpose and link to our To provide a market-competitive To provide a market-competitive To provide a market-competitive strategy salary to recruit and retain remuneration package that remuneration package in a cost individuals with the skills and enables executive directors to effective way.
experience necessary to deliver provide for their retirement in the Companys strategic a tax-efficient way.
Operation Paid monthly in arrears in cash.
Monthly payments into a defined Benefits, which are subject contribution plan or cash to regular review to ensure Reviewed annually with any allowance in lieu of a pension competiveness, include: increase effective from 1 April.
an annual cash car allowance May be reviewed on an No recovery provisions apply or car exceptional basis during the to pension.
life assurance ranging between financial year with any changes four and seven times salary effective from 1 October.
A private medical insurance or review does not automatically an allowance for executive give rise to an increase in salary.
directors and their families Benchmarked periodically against medical assessments published salary data for income protection in the event companies of similar size and that an executive is unable complexity and against bespoke to work due to long-term ill comparator groups.
health Considered in light of economic personal accident cover climate, market conditions, travel allowances and expense Company performance, pay reimbursement and conditions across the wider professional advice workforce, geographic footprint professional subscriptions of operations, the individuals reimbursement of unused role, skills, and remit, and the annual leave entitlements level of salary increases made reimbursement of taxable in the rest of the business.
expenses incurred on Company No recovery provisions apply matters to salary.
No recovery provisions apply to benefits.
Maximum opportunity Salary increases will normally The maximum Company The Committee reserves the not exceed average salary contribution is up to 25% of power to deliver benefits which, increases across the Group.
in aggregate, have a cost of 25% Increases above this level may be of salary.
In certain circumstances The Committee may change the made in specific situations, such it may be necessary to exceed directors pension arrangements as progression and development this limit, including but not in response to new legislation or in the role, material changes to limited to where there are regulations provided that any the business, remit or changes in the underlying changes are cost-neutral.
responsibilities and internal benefits provided, changes to promotion.
In any event, any benefit providers and changes increase in salary to a current in individual circumstances such executive director will not exceed as health status.
In the event of the promotion of an existing executive director, for example the finance director becoming chief executive, the salary increase of the relevant executive director will not exceed the salary of the outgoing director holding that office.
Performance framework When determining salary Not applicable Not applicable increases the Committee considers Company and individual performance.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 86 Governance Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Variable pay Executive Bonus Scheme EBS Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Purpose and link To incentivise and reward the delivery of stretching annual To incentivise and reward the creation of long-term to our strategy financial performance targets and key strategic objectives.
shareholder value based on the delivery of growth in earnings per share EPS.
Operation A bonus scheme which operates annually.
Two thirds of the An award is made on an annual basis with vesting bonus is paid in cash and one third is deferred into shares conditional upon performance and continued employment over three years subject to continued employment.
Awards are typically structured deferral into shares is usually structured as a nil-cost share as nil-cost options.
Following vesting, the options can be option.
Following vesting, the option can be exercised at exercised at the discretion of the participant up to the the discretion of the participant up to the tenth anniversary tenth anniversary of grant.
Dividend equivalents accrue on the deferred shares and Dividend equivalents accrue on the deferred shares and are are payable in cash following the vesting and exercise payable in cash following the vesting and exercise of the of the nil-cost share option.
The shares are subject to malus provisions which allow the Annual bonuses do not form part of pensionable earnings Committee to reduce the award in certain circumstances and are non-contractual.
set out in the notes to the policy table.
Measures and performance targets are set by the Committee at the beginning of each financial year with payout determined after year end following the Committees assessment of performance relative to targets and objectives.
The Committee may reduce the amounts paid if there has been a material quality, safety or environmental failure.
The shares are subject to malus provisions which allow the Committee to reduce the award in certain circumstances set out in the notes to the policy table.
Maximum The current maximum annual bonus opportunity is 125% The maximum annual award limit is 150% of salary.
opportunity of base salary for the chief executive officer and 100% It is not normally expected that awards will exceed 100% of salary for other executive directors.
Base salary is the of salary.
average salary paid to the executive director for the In any year that an LGU award is made, awards will be bonus year.
The Committee has the discretion to increase the overall maximum bonus level to 150% of salary for the chief executive and 125% for other executive directors, subject to this not being above the competitive market range.
The Committee would consult with the Companys major shareholders in advance of any increase in maximum bonus.
Performance Annual bonus will normally be subject to Group financial Vesting is subject to a stretching growth target in absolute framework targets 75% of total bonus and individual or non-financial EPS.
This is considered the primary metric for measuring strategic objectives 25% of total bonus.
the delivery of our growth objective over the medium and long-term.
Individual objectives will be directly linked to strategic priorities which may be functional or operational.
In determining the level of vesting, the Committee will give Assessment, where not quantifiable, is based on judgement consideration to: 1 cash conversion over the performance and is subject to a rigorous review by the Committee, both period to ensure that the achieved EPS growth has been at the time objectives are set, during the financial year and suitably underpinned by cash generation: 2 the impact of at the year end when final performance is assessed.
Any any significant acquisitions in the performance period: 3 amounts due on this component are also subject to the impact of inflation during the performance period if it is achieving a threshold Group financial target.
deemed that this has had a significant impact on the level of challenge presented by the targets.
In considering these In assessing the formulaic outcomes of targets, the factors the Committee may reduce the level of vesting.
Committee can make adjustments to ensure that any resulting payment is fair to both the executive director and investors, including the ability to make no payment if deemed appropriate.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 87 Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Variable pay continued Long-term Growth Unit plan LGU All-employee share plans Purpose and link To provide direct alignment with shareholders interests To encourage share ownership across the organisation.
to our strategy through sustained share price growth over the long-term four to six years and delivery against strategy.
Operation An award of units is made on an annual basis.
Executive directors can participate in the Share Incentive Plan SIP and a Save As You Earn Plan SAYE or equivalent The award vests in three equal tranches on the fourth, fifth global plans to the extent that such plans are operated.
and sixth anniversaries of grant.
Following vesting, the units can be exercised at the discretion of the participant up to the tenth anniversary of grant.
On exercise, the value of each unit is equal to the difference between the six-month average share price at exercise and the six-month average share price at grant.
The value is normally delivered in the form of Atkins shares.
No more than 50% of any award can be exercised in any rolling 12-month period.
There is no entitlement to dividends or dividend equivalents.
Maximum The maximum annual award limit is 50% of salary.
Executive directors will be subject to the same maximums opportunity in place for all employees participating in the relevant plan or plans.
Performance Value will only be delivered if the Companys share price Not applicable framework increases.
The vesting of each tranche is subject to the Committees assessment of the Groups progress against its strategy.
Types of areas that would be assessed include margin progression, the geographical split of revenues and growth.
The Committee will also determine that share price performance has been suitably underpinned by the underlying financial performance of the Group over the period.
Additional notes to the future policy table Malus provisions under incentive arrangements Deferred shares awarded in connection with the EBS and LTIP and LGU awards are subject to malus provisions which allow the Committee to reduce awards in certain circumstances, including but not limited to : a material misstatement of the Companys audited results a material downturn in the financial performance of the Company a material failure of risk management by the Company serious reputational damage suffered by the Company the executive directors misconduct.
Legacy arrangements under incentive plans Any awards made under legacy incentive plans prior to the approval of the Companys remuneration policy may be paid out subject to the terms of those plans as originally applied at grant or subsequently amended and the relevant performance conditions being achieved.
LTIP and LGU awards made in the financial years ended 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2013 were consistent with the policy outlined in the future policy table.
Administrative powers under incentive plans The policy table provides a summary of the incentive plans in the form required by the Regulations.
In addition to the operational features described, the Committee retains standard administrative powers such as inviting individuals to participate and determining the structure of an award and deciding whether or not to apply malus provision.
These powers, as set out in the rules of the plans, will continue to apply.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 88 Governance Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Selection of performance measures and target setting The Committee has the flexibility to select performance measures and weightings and set targets annually to ensure continuing alignment with the strategic priorities of the Group.
Any significant departure from the current operation of the policy as set out in the Annual Remuneration Report would be discussed in advance with our major shareholders.
In selecting performance measures the Committee takes into account the Groups strategic objectives and shortand long-term business priorities.
The performance measures selected incentivise and reward the delivery of stretching financial performance and the creation of shareholder value.
The performance targets chosen are set in accordance with the Groups operating plan and are reviewed annually to ensure they are sufficiently stretching.
In selecting the targets the Committee also takes into account analysts forecasts, economic conditions and the Committees expectation of performance over the relevant period.
Targets and actual performance in relation to them will be disclosed in the annual remuneration report provided that the Committee determines that the information is not considered commercially sensitive.
In practice it is anticipated that EBS targets will remain commercially sensitive and so a full description of actual performance and the committees performance assessment will be disclosed only at such time as the Committee considers they are no longer commercially sensitive.
LTIP targets will be disclosed in the remuneration report prior to grant if determined at that time or, if not, in the first report following grant.
For LGU awards, a full explanation will be provided on vesting of the performance assessment in the context of the Groups strategic priorities over the period.
Remuneration policy for the broader employee population The executive remuneration framework set out in this report follows similar principles to those applied to the Groups senior leadership team SLT to ensure the senior management team is rewarded on a consistent basis.
Any differences that exist arise either because of local market practice and or the Committees assessment of business need and commercial necessity.
The principles that underpin our executive remuneration philosophy also cascade throughout the organisation, although quantum will vary and the provision of certain components of remuneration such as benefits, allowances and long-term incentives will vary by seniority and geography.
Viewpoint, the Groups annual employee staff engagement survey, seeks employee feedback on remuneration.
C. Illustration of the sensitivity of the remuneration package to performance The following charts illustrate the packages for the chief executive officer, Group finance director and Group HR director, distinguishing the elements of the package that are performance-related.
Three indicative levels of performance are shown: minimum, target and stretch taking into account an assumed level of vesting, as outlined in table 2.
Table 2: Minimum, target and stretch Performance level Definition Minimum Fixed pay comprising salary, benefits and pension.
No annual bonus or vesting of long-term incentives.
Target Fixed pay comprising salary, benefits and pension.
Annual bonus payable at 50% of maximum award i. e. 62.5% of salary for the chief executive officer and 50% of salary for other executive directors.
50% of LTIP award vests i. e. 37.5% of salary at grant and 50% of LGU vests, assuming it is worth 33% of the face value on vesting i. e. 8.3% of salary at grant.
Stretch Fixed pay comprising base salary, benefits and pension.
Annual bonus payable at maximum level.
LTIP and LGU payable in full, assuming the LGU is worth 33% of face value on vesting i. e. 16.7% of salary at grant.
Salary and pension are based on levels to be implemented in the financial year ending 31 March 2015: benefits are based on the actual value level delivered in the year ended 31 March 2014.
Given the value of the LGU is dependent on share price growth, it has been valued in a manner consistent with the guidance issued by the GC100 and the Financial Reporting Lab, namely assuming shares are worth 33% of their initial face value.
Dividend equivalents have been excluded.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 89 Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Uwe Krueger James Cullens 000 000 Minimum 100% 775 Minimum 100% 352 Target 55% 19% 1,410 Target 58% 22% 20% 611 26% Stretch 38% 36% 26% 2,044 Stretch 41% 31% 28% 869 Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term incentives Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term incentives Heath Drewett 000 Minimum 100% 449 Target 58% 22% 20% 781 Stretch 40% 31% 29% 1,113 Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term incentives D. Other remuneration policies relating to executive directors Share ownership guidelines The Companys shareholding guidelines seek to strengthen further the alignment of the executive directors with shareholders.
Executive directors are expected to build up a significant interest in the Companys shares equivalent to one times their individual salaries, based on the value of such shares at the time of their acquisition or their current market value, whichever is the higher.
Shares that count towards this guideline include those held by the executive directors spouse and or dependent children plus any vested shares awarded under a Company share plan.
Our share ownership guidelines were adopted on 1 April 2012.
Executive directors are expected to meet the guideline within a five-year period from 1 April 2012 or, if later, the date of their appointment to the Board.
The Committee may vary the length of the periods within which the shareholding may be acquired.
Recruitment and appointment of executive directors The Committee determines the remuneration package for all new executive directors appointed to the Board.
Such appointees may be individuals who are already employed by the Group or from elsewhere.
In determining the appropriate remuneration package for a new executive director the Committee will consider the calibre of the candidate, the level of their existing remuneration, the jurisdiction the candidate is recruited from and their skills and experience, data for companies of a similar size and complexity and contextual information regarding remuneration paid to employees elsewhere in the Group.
The remuneration of a new executive director will include all elements set out in the policy table table 1, namely salary, benefits, pension, participation in the EBS and long-term incentive awards under the LTIP and LGU.
Depending on the level of salary set on appointment, the Committee may make larger initial increases to move salary to the desired level during the first three years following appointment.
The maximum opportunity levels in relation to other elements of remuneration outlined in the policy table table 1 will apply.
Depending on the timing and circumstances of the appointment, the Committee may vary the weighting of objectives under the EBS in the first year that the individual serves on the Board.
For an external appointment the offer may include compensation for the forfeiture of awards from a previous employer.
In assessing the level of such a buyout award, the Committee will take into account the type of incentive scheme, performance targets and whether they are likely to be achieved and the performance period of the forfeited award.
In so doing the Committee will seek to ensure up to equivalence in value.
To the extent that the Committee determines that it is appropriate, such awards will be share-based with vesting subject to appropriate performance targets.
The Committee reserves the right to rely on exemption 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules to enable a buyout award to be made.
In such circumstances any arrangement put in place will only compensate for remuneration lost and will take the form of performance-related variable remuneration.
For internal promotions, the Committee reserves the right to satisfy pre-existing executive incentive awards and other obligations which may be in place at the time of appointment.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 90 Governance Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Relocation of executive directors and expatriate assistance In circumstances where an executive is employed on an international assignment, their arrangements will be managed in a way that is consistent with other internationally mobile employees across the Group.
International assignment remuneration may incorporate tax equalisation so that, whilst on assignment, the executive director will not have to pay any more tax than they would have paid had they remained in their home location.
It is also likely to include additional allowances to reflect any cost of living and lifestyle differences between the assignees home and assignment locations and support to fund accommodation and schooling if the executive has dependants of school age.
Executive directors contracts The service agreements of executive directors who served during the year are summarised in table 3.
Table 3: Executive directors service agreements Notice period Effective date Unexpired term months Contract date of contract of contract 1 James Cullens 12 26 February 2014 1 July 2014 Rolling contract Heath Drewett 12 17 April 2009 15 June 2009 Rolling contract 2 Alun Griffiths 12 18 April 2007 13 March 2007 Contract ends on 30 July 2014 Uwe Krueger 12 1 June 2011 14 June 2011 Rolling contract 1.
James Cullens will join the Company on 1 July 2014.
Alun Griffiths will retire from the Company on 30 July 2014.
Copies of each directors service agreement will be available for inspection prior to and during the AGM and are also available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
In setting its policy on notice periods, the Company takes into account market practice and the need to attract and retain the best talent.
In line with current market practice, the executive directors have rolling service contracts which are terminable on giving 12 months notice.
On the recruitment of an executive director who previously had a longer notice period commonly seen outside the UK, the Committee reserves the right to mirror the notice period with it reducing on a rolling basis to 12 months within two years of appointment.
No service agreement provides for predetermined amounts of compensation in the event of early termination of service contracts or a change in control.
The Committee retains its discretion to make a payment in lieu of notice which will be limited to one years base salary, benefits and pension.
The Committee also retains its discretion to make phased payments.
The service agreements include a duty for the executive director to mitigate loss and any payment in lieu of notice may be reduced to take account of such mitigation for example if alternative employment is taken up.
There is no contractual obligation to pay annual bonus.
Depending on the circumstances, the Committee has the discretion to make a pro rata bonus payment, linked to the original performance conditions and delivered entirely in cash.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 91 Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy The executive directors entitlements to any bonus and unvested share awards granted in connection with the EBS or under the terms of the LTIP and LGU will be treated in accordance with the terms of the relevant plan rules, summarised in table 4.
Table 4: Executive directors entitlements to bonus and unvested share awards Executive Bonus Executive Bonus Scheme cash Scheme deferred award share award LTIP award LGU award Agreed termination Award pro-rated subject Vested and unvested Unvested award Unvested award e. g. retirement or to performance award exercisable pro-rated and pro-rated and subject ill health.
transferable within exercisable transferable to the normal vesting six months of leaving.
within six months from schedule and satisfaction the vesting date subject of underpin.
The entire EBS to satisfaction of entitlement will be paid Vested award exercisable performance condition.
in cash with no deferred transferable within share award.
Vested award exercisable six months of leaving.
transferable within six months of leaving.
Vested award exercisable Vested award exercisable Vested units exercisable gross misconduct transferable within transferable within within six months of or other grounds six months of leaving: six months of leaving: leaving.
Termination due No entitlement if Vested award exercisable Vested award exercisable Vested units exercisable to resignation for employment ceases prior transferable within transferable within within six months of another role.
to the completion of six months of leaving: six months of leaving: leaving.
If employment ceases If employment ceases after the completion of after the completion of the performance period the performance period the maximum two-thirds the one-third EBS EBS cash may be paid deferred share award will subject to performance be forfeited.
Corporate event Award pro-rated subject Vested and unvested Unvested award Unvested award e. g. change in control, to performance awards exercisable pro-rated and pro-rated and exercisable reconstruction, conditions being satisfied.
transferable on corporate exercisable transferable on corporate event winding-up.
on corporate event if if underpin has been performance condition satisfied.
Vested award exercisable Vested award exercisable transferable within transferable within six months of the six months of the corporate event.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional compensatory payments where such payments are made in good faith and following the receipt of: i the discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : and ii settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a directors office or employment.
Payment of the leavers reasonable legal fees will also be permissible.
External directorships The Board and the Committee recognise the benefit we can obtain if our executive directors serve as non-executive directors of other companies.
Subject to review in each case, the Boards general policy is that each executive director may accept one non-executive directorship with another FTSE 350 company from which any fees received may be retained.
The Board also encourages executive directors to undertake pro bono appointments with charitable or professional organisations to aid their personal development and further enhance the profile of the Company.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 92 Governance Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy E. Remuneration policy for the chairman and non-executive directors Remuneration policy Table 5 summarises the remuneration policy for the Companys chairman and non-executive directors.
Table 5: Remuneration policy for the Companys chairman and non-executive directors Component of Fixed fees remuneration Purpose and link To attract and retain high-calibre individuals by offering market-competitive fixed fees commensurate to strategy with time commitment and responsibilities.
Operation Fees All fees are paid in cash in arrears.
The chairman is paid a basic fee.
The non-executive directors are paid a basic fee and, if applicable, additional fees for chairmanship and membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
An additional fee is also paid to the director who serves as the senior independent director.
Reviewed annually by the executive directors with any changes effective from 1 April.
A review does not automatically give rise to an increase in fees.
Benchmarked periodically against published fee data for companies of similar size and complexity and bespoke comparator groups as appropriate to ensure that fees remain market-competitive.
Considered in light of economic climate, market conditions, Company performance, pay and conditions across the wider workforce, the non-executive director role, remit and the level of salary increases made in the rest of the business.
No recovery provisions apply to fees.
Expenses Fees for the chairman are currently inclusive of normal travel expenses for travelling to and from the Groups London office.
However, the Committee may pay such expenses in the future.
Expenses are payable on all travel and subsistence payments to the non-executive directors and are grossed up where such expenses are deemed to be a taxable benefit by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC.
The Company may also meet the cost of compliance with HMRCs individual reporting requirements where the director is not resident in the UK.
The chairman and non-executive directors are not eligible for a pension, share incentives, annual bonus or any similar payments other than out-ofpocket expenses in connection with the performance of their duties.
Opportunity Fee increases for non-executive directors will normally not exceed the average salary increases across the Group.
Increases above this level may be made in specific situations, such as significant additional time commitment from non-executive directors in exceptional or unforeseen circumstances.
The details and reasoning behind such an exceptional increase will be disclosed in the Annual Remuneration Report.
In aggregate, total fees basic fees plus additional fees paid to the chairman and non-executive directors shall not exceed 600,000 per annum as set out in the Companys articles of association as amended with shareholder approval from time to time.
Performance When determining fee increases the performance and time commitment of the non-executive directors is considered.
Letters of appointment The chairman and non-executive directors have letters of appointment stating their annual fee.
Their appointment is for an initial term of three years subject to satisfactory performance and their re-election at forthcoming AGMs.
Their appointment may be terminated with six months written notice at any time.
There are no entitlements in respect of loss of office.
All directors are subject to re-election at the Companys AGM.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 93 Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Table 6 summarises the dates of appointment and most recent re-election dates for the chairman and each of the non-executive directors.
Table 6: Dates of appointment and most recent re-election dates for the chairman and each of the non-executive directors Date of appointment Date of last election Expiry of current Name of director as a non-executive director re-election at AGM three-year term Fiona Clutterbuck 13 March 2007 31 July 2013 13 March 2016 Allan Cook 10 September 2009 31 July 2013 10 September 2015 Allister Langlands 4 September 2013 n a 4 September 2016 Thomas Leppert 1 October 2013 n a 1 October 2016 Raj Rajagopal 24 June 2008 31 July 2013 24 June 2014 Rodney Slater 9 September 2011 31 July 2013 9 September 2014 Copies of letters of appointment of the chairman and non-executive directors will be available for inspection prior to and during the AGM and are also available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Recruitment of chairman and non-executive directors When recruiting a chairman, fees will be set taking into account the calibre of the candidate, the level of existing remuneration, the jurisdiction the candidate is recruited from and the individuals skill and experience.
Any new non-executive directors will be paid in accordance with fee levels in place at the time of their appointment.
F. Matters considered when determining remuneration policy for directors Remuneration in the context of the wider Group The Committee does not consult formally with employees regarding executive remuneration but regularly reviews the remuneration of employees throughout the Group to ensure that it is attuned to general pay and conditions when considering the remuneration of executive directors.
For example, in determining salary increases for the executive directors, the Committee looks at salary increases across the Group.
As a people business our reward and incentive structures are critical to the success of our business.
Participation in the success of the Group, both through bonus arrangements and, for the SLT, through long-term share-based awards, is a cornerstone of our remuneration framework.
The Committee also recognises the importance of having reward structures that create a sense of ownership and participation in the long-term growth of our shares.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the SIP and, at the 2013 AGM, we obtained approval for new all-employee share plans in the UK, the US and other major jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
As many of the Companys UK-based employees are shareholders through the SIP they, like other shareholders, are able to express their views on directors remuneration at each general meeting via voting on the remuneration resolutions.
Consideration of shareholder views in developing policy The Committee regularly consults with shareholders on matters relating to executive remuneration.
When significant changes are planned to remuneration, the Committee seeks feedback from investors and develops and considers its proposals in light of this feedback.
For example, in determining the new remuneration framework established in 2012 13 the Committee consulted extensively with shareholders.
This highlighted the importance of incorporating a cash flow measure in the annual bonus scheme, as this is a key indicator by which the Company and its shareholders measure the performance of the business.
In response, a cash conversion target was incorporated in the annual bonus for the executive directors and other senior management from 2013.
During 2013 we have engaged with Institutional Shareholder Services ISS to understand better its concerns with respect to the LGU as expressed in its proxy voting report.
These concerns related largely to transparent disclosure of the performance metrics that are taken into account when determining vesting.
In response, the Annual Remuneration Report provides more explicit detail of the criteria by which the Committee will assess progress against strategy for the awards made in 2013 and, in future years, will give a full explanation of the Committees decision on whether or not the awards have vested during the year being reported on.
More generally, in developing the policy disclosed in this report we have considered the views of our majority shareholders based on published guidance and direct feedback from prior conversations.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 94 Governance Remuneration Report Annual Remuneration Report This section of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the Companys remuneration of its executive and non-executive directors including the chairman during the financial year ended 31 March 2014 and will, together with the annual statement by the Committee chairman, be proposed for an advisory vote by shareholders at the AGM on 30 July 2014.
It has been prepared on the basis prescribed in the Regulations and also includes the items required to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
Where required, data has been audited by  LLP and this is indicated where appropriate.
Relative importance of spend on pay Table 7 sets out total employee costs and distributions to shareholders for the years ended 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2014.
Table 7: Relative importance of spend on pay 2012 13 2013 14 m m % change 1 Total employee costs including directors 891.7 924.3 3.66 2 Distributions to shareholders 30.0 31.7 5.67 1.
Total employee costs represent amounts included in note 6 to the Financial Statements.
Distributions to shareholders include the total dividends paid in respect of each financial year.
Percentage change from 2013 to 2014 in remuneration of director undertaking the role of chief executive officer Table 8 shows the change in remuneration, from 2013 to 2014, of the chief executive officer and a comparator group consisting of all UK employees.
Table 8: Change in chief executive officer and employee pay from 2013 to 2014 % change % change % change in taxable in annual in salary benefits bonus Chief executive officer 3.44% -8.44% 7.06% 1 Comparator group 4.74% 4.89% 2.97% 1.
The comparator group consists of all UK-based employees within the Atkins Group excluding the chief executive officer.
This comparator group has been chosen for the purpose of this comparison as the chief executive officer is employed in the UK.
Chief executive officer pay for performance comparison over the last five years Figure 3 provides a comparison of the Companys total shareholder return TSR with that of the FTSE 250 Index, based on an initial investment of 100 over the five-year period ended 31 March 2014.
This index is considered the most appropriate index against which to measure performance as the Company has been a member of the FTSE 250 for the whole of the five-year period.
Figure 3: Total shareholder return 400 Atkins 320 FTSE 250 240 160 80 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Source: Datastream Related section Human Resources Review Find out more about our reward for our people on page 51 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Notional value of investment Governance 95 Remuneration Report continued Annual Remuneration Report Table 9 summarises the total remuneration for the chief executive officer over the last five years, and the outcomes of shortand long-term incentive plans as a percentage of maximum.
Table 9: Remuneration for the chief executive officer over the last five years Financial year 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 1 1 Chief executive officer Keith Clarke Keith Clarke Keith Clarke Uwe Krueger Uwe Krueger Uwe Krueger 2 Total remuneration single figure 000 1,072.0 932.4 289.4 986.8 1,387.8 2,174.5 Annual bonus % of maximum 100.0 97.5 70.0 71.8 93.0 96.7 Long-term variable pay % of maximum LTIP 45.7 68.7 Long-term variable pay % of maximum LGU n a n a n a 1.
Keith Clarke retired as a director on 31 July 2011 and Uwe Krueger was appointed as a director on 14 June 2011.
Total remuneration single figure includes 732.8k in respect of the 2011 LTIP award.
Single total figures of remuneration for 2013 14 executive directors audited Table 10 sets out in the required form the total remuneration paid to each of our executive directors for the financial year ended 31 March 2014.
Taxable benefits principally comprise medical insurance healthcare allowance, company car or car allowance and, in respect of Uwe Krueger, an expense allowance of 15,000 per year.
Cash value of defined contribution or cash equivalent.
Value of total bonus two thirds cash and one third shares.
Further detail on bonus payments is provided in table 16.
LTIP awards are in the form of nil-cost options.
The figures above relate to awards made in 2011.
The TSR performance condition attached to these awards has been met in full.
The EPS condition has been met in part.
The awards vest and are capable of being exercised from 20 June 2014.
The disclosed value is based on the average mid-market quotation of the Companys shares for the three months ended 31 March 2014 and includes the value of dividend equivalents which will be payable following exercise.
The final value of the LTIP will be on the basis of the Companys share price on vesting.
D ividend equivalent payment made following the exercise during the year of an award made in connection with an EBS deferral under the terms of the Atkins Deferred Share Plan.
Uwe Krueger receives an aggregate allowance for travel expenses incurred between his home and the UK during the first five years following his appointment of 39,000 a direct replacement for the rental allowance disclosed in 2011.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 96 Governance Remuneration Report continued Annual Remuneration Report Single total figures of remuneration for 2013 14 chairman and non-executive directors audited Table 11 sets out in the required form the total remuneration earned by our chairman and non-executive directors for the financial year ended 31 March 2014.
Lord Boyce retired from the Board on 31 July 2013.
This remuneration relates to the proportion of the year for which he held office.
Joanne Curin retired from the Board on 31 January 2014.
This remuneration relates to the proportion of the year for which she held office.
Includes business expenses chargeable to income tax.
The total amount of fees paid to the chairman and non-executive directors was 457.3k 2013: 436.0k which is within the limit set in the Companys articles of association, which have been previously approved by shareholders.
Implementation of remuneration policy: executive directors Salary The salary of each of the executive directors increased with effect from 1 April 2013 as set out in table 12 below in accordance with the disclosed policy page 85.
Uwe Kruegers and Alun Griffiths salaries increased by 3% and 3.5% respectively, in line with the average salary increase across the Group of just above 3%.
As disclosed in the 2013 remuneration report, Heath Drewett received a salary increase of 7.4%.
This increase, which was above the average salary increase across the Group, reflected the expanded remit of his role, which encompassed several areas traditionally carried out by a chief operating officer, delivery of operational improvement programmes and increased involvement in the development of strategy.
The Committee has increased the salaries of the executive directors with effect from 1 April 2014 as set out in table 12 in accordance with the disclosed policy page 85.
The average salary increase for Group employees was 3.96%.
Table 12: Executive director salaries Increase in salary Increase Salary from from prior Salary from in salary Name 1 April 2014 year 1 April 2013 from 2012 Heath Drewett 347,000 3.6% 335,000 7.4% Alun Griffiths 243,000 3.4% 235,000 3.5% Uwe Krueger 586,000 3.4% 566,500 3.0% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 97 Remuneration Report continued Annual Remuneration Report Pension audited Defined contribution pension contributions or a cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution for the executive directors are shown in table 13.
Table 13: Defined contribution pension contribution or cash allowance Name Pension contribution as a % of salary Heath Drewett 25 Alun Griffiths 12 Uwe Krueger 25 The maximum Company contribution to the defined contribution pension of other UK-based staff is 10% of salary, except for those affected by the removal of the link to final salary, as discussed further below.
Heath Drewett and Uwe Krueger receive higher contributions reflecting their roles as executive directors.
Alun Griffiths retains an entitlement to a defined benefit pension on the same basis as other long-serving UK employees.
During 2011 a consultation was held with staff with a defined benefit pension entitlement to remove the link to final salary via an amendment to their contracts of employment.
From 1 February 2012 this final salary link was removed and transitional relief is being paid to all employees including Alun Griffiths affected by the contractual change.
The transitional relief is 2% of salary until 2015 and a further 3% from 2015 to 2018.
This is in addition to the maximum Company contribution of 10% of salary.
Table 14 gives details of pensions or, where applicable, taxable allowance in lieu of pension provided to executive directors for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Table 14: Pension payments Accrued defined benefit Employer Cash in lieu pension as Employer Cash in lieu Normal contribution of pension at 31 March contributions of pension retirement 1 Name 2013 14 2013 14 2014 2012 13 2012 13 age Heath Drewett 37,487 46,264 49,920 28,080 n a Alun Griffiths 28,200 82,394 27,240 60 Uwe Krueger 141,625 137,500 n a 1.
Normal retirement age is the earliest age at which a director can elect to draw their pension under the rules of the scheme.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 98 Governance Remuneration Report continued Annual Remuneration Report Annual bonus: 2013 14 performance against targets audited The Committees assessment of performance in the financial year ended 31 March 2014 is shown in table 15.
Table 15: Assessment of performance and bonus payout Component Overview of performance Group profit after tax The Group has delivered another set of good results in an international market that continues 50% to experience a range of operating challenges.
The reported profit after tax was 96.3m 2013 restated: 84.3m.
The Committee adjusted actual performance downwards to remove the impact of significant one-off items to ensure that payment reflected underlying performance.
The adjusted profit after tax result was 86.2m 2013 restated: 81.0m, exceeding the stretch target of 83.4m for the year 2013 restated: 80.9m.
This resulted in full payment of this component of bonus.
The Committee considered quality, safety and environmental performance when making the bonus awards and determined that no adjustment was necessary.
Cash conversion The cash conversion target measured operating cash flow as a percentage of budgeted profit.
25% The Groups cash performance was good, with operating cash flow increasing to 95.5m 2013: 82.9m.
The half year and full year stretch cash conversion targets were 40% and 85% respectively.
The half year cash conversion result was 43% and the full year result was 85% leading to full payment for this component of the bonus.
Personal objectives Heath Drewett 25% Payment of 95% achieved for: the successful conclusion of repayment plan negotiations with the trustee of the Atkins Pension Plan following the conclusion of the 2013 triennial valuation successfully driving improvements to operational and financial performance with specific reference to project performance implementing changes to improve the budget structure and associated processes.
Alun Griffiths Payment of 100% achieved for: successfully strengthening regional management teams and developing a more robust talent pipeline progress in embedding the Groups leadership capability model in development, assessment, promotion and succession processes internationalisation of the Groups recruitment process to provide access to a broader talent pool.
Uwe Krueger Payment of 86.7% achieved for: successfully executing the Groups strategy and improving operational performance continuing focus and initiatives to increase the Companys influence and standing in its chosen markets successfully implementing robust internal succession initiatives.
Annual bonuses payable to the executive directors for the financial year ended 31 March 2014 are shown in table 16.
Two thirds will be payable in cash and one third will be deferred into shares for three years subject to continued employment.
Alun Griffiths retires from the Company on 30 July 2014.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 99 Remuneration Report continued Annual Remuneration Report Annual bonus: 2014 15 performance targets The Committee has determined that the bonus for the year ending 31 March 2015 will be operated on similar terms to 2013 14.
50% of the bonus will be based on Group profit after tax performance.
50% of the maximum will be paid for meeting the budgeted profit after tax target and 100% for meeting a stretch target.
25% of the bonus will be based on a cash conversion measure.
The profit after tax and cash conversion targets are considered commercially sensitive so will not be disclosed, although the Committees assessment of performance against these targets will be confirmed in next years report.
The remaining 25% will be based on individual objectives aligned to key strategic areas for each executive director.
Table 17 provides the headline strategic areas under which performance targets have been set.
The performance targets which apply to these areas are measurable, challenging and subject to rigorous review by the Committee, both at the time they are set, during the year and at the year end when performance is assessed.
Subject to commercial sensitivity, we intend to provide an overview of the Committees assessment of performance against the underlying targets in next years report.
Table 17: Strategic areas included in 2014 15 annual bonus 1 Name Strategic area Heath Drewett Pension deficit Financial and major project reporting Opportunities to accelerate EPS growth Alun Griffiths Transition to new HR leadership Senior management development Succession planning Uwe Krueger Leadership development Succession planning Opportunities to accelerate EPS growth 1.
Strategic areas for James Cullens, who has been appointed with effect from 1 July 2014, will be determined once he joins the Company.
LTIP outcomes in 2013 14 audited The long-term incentive values shown in the single total remuneration figure table table 10 relate to LTIP awards granted in 2011 and for which the performance period ended on 31 March 2014.
The performance targets and vesting levels are set out in table 18.
50% of the award was subject to a TSR condition.
This performance measure has been met in full.
The remaining 50% was subject to an EPS condition.
In order to ensure that the performance of this element was determined on a consistent basis with the calculation of EPS at award, the Committee adjusted for the impact of the material IAS 19 accounting change introduced during the final year of the performance period.
This adjustment resulted in an increase from the reported EPS of 88.1p to an adjusted EPS of 95.3p.
Accordingly, 37.4% of the shares subject to this element of the award will vest.
Table 18: 2011 LTIP awards TSR condition Target for vesting Actual vesting Threshold Maximum Upper quartile FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Upper ranked 45 Median quartile out of 194 Vesting level 30% 100% 100% EPS condition Target for vesting Actual vesting Threshold Maximum 1 EPS growth above RPI 4% 10% EPS growth over the performance period 12.48% 33.10% 14.7% Vesting level 30% 100% 37.4% 1.
EPS adjusted to remove the impact of changes to IAS 19 to enable a like-for-like comparison with 2011 EPS.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 100 Governance Remuneration Report continued Annual Remuneration Report LTIP and LGU awards in 2013 14 The long-term incentive framework is built around two performance measures, both of which are simple in design and fundamentally aligned to the creation of shareholder value, as illustrated in figure 4: Growth in EPS.
The primary metric for measuring the delivery of our growth objective over the medium to long-term.
It is incorporated into the long-term incentive framework via the LTIP, which is our primary long-term incentive vehicle, reflecting the importance of EPS growth to our strategy Sustained growth in the share price.
This ensures alignment between executive reward and sustained share price growth over the long-term, representing the ultimate measure of performance for our shareholders, and is incorporated into the long-term incentive framework via the LGU.
Figure 4: Long-term incentive framework Performance measure EPS Share price growth Delivery mechanism LTIP LGU Vesting period 3 years 4, 5 and 6 years Executive directors received a LTIP award of 75% of salary.
The vesting of these awards is subject to the EPS targets described in table 19.
Table 19: LTIP performance measure for awards made in 2013 Atkins EPS growth % of award that vests 12% or greater per annum 100 Between 5% and 12% per annum Pro rata between 25 and 100 on a straight-line basis 5% per annum 25 Below 5% per annum 0 The Committee believes that these EPS targets are appropriate and stretching in the current environment.
Performance against these targets will be measured from 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2016.
Executive directors also received a LGU award of 50% of salary.
The vesting of each tranche of this award is subject to the Committees assessment of the Groups progress against its strategy.
This will include: driving margins over the longer term above 8% reducing dependence on the UK with our long-term aspiration being to have more than 75% of our business outside the UK growing organically and through acquisition.
LTIP and LGU awards made during the year are set out in table 20.
Face value for the LTIP awards has been calculated using the middle market quotation for an Atkins ordinary share on the date of grant, which was 9.73.
Face value for the LGU awards has been calculated using the middle market quotation for an Atkins ordinary share during the six months immediately preceding the date of grant, which was 8.8249.
The stated values exclude any amount attributable to dividend equivalents over the relevant performance periods.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 101 Remuneration Report continued Annual Remuneration Report LTIP and LGU awards to be made in 2014 15 The Committee intends to make LTIP and LGU awards to Uwe Krueger and Heath Drewett on the same basis as the awards made in the financial year ended 31 March 2014.
All-employee share plans Uwe Krueger, Heath Drewett and Alun Griffiths participate in the SIP.
Executive director changes in 2014 15 James Cullens was appointed to succeed Alun Griffiths as Group HR director.
As previously announced, James will join the Board as an executive director on 1 July 2014 and Alun will retire at the AGM on 30 July 2014.
James has been appointed with a salary of 270,000 per annum, a pension allowance of 25% of salary and a maximum bonus opportunity of 100% of salary, of which one-third will be deferred into shares for a period of three years.
He will also be eligible to receive LTIP and LGU awards and other benefits at the levels contained within the future policy table table 1.
Jamess appointment followed an extensive search process and his salary and package is within the competitive market range.
The following arrangement will apply to Alun as a consequence of his retirement following 28 years of service to the Group: his bonus for the financial year ended 31 March 2014, due in July 2014 as detailed in table 16, will be paid entirely in cash any bonus due for the financial year ending 31 March 2015 will be paid in July 2015 in cash to the extent to which the relevant performance conditions have been met deferred share awards made under the terms of the DSP will vest on 30 July 2014 and be exercisable within six months of his retirement outstanding awards made under the Companys LTIP and LGU plans contained in tables 23 and 24 vest in accordance with the rules of the relevant plans subject to meeting the requirements of the applicable performance conditions: awards will be time pro-rated as specified in the relevant plan rules.
Alun will continue to work with the Group on a consultancy basis for the next 12 months.
This will cover a number of areas including advice and support in relation to management development and client relationships.
It is anticipated that he will be engaged for around 30 days during this period.
Implementation of remuneration policy: non-executive directors Fees The Board, on the recommendation of the executive directors, approved changes to the fees paid to non-executive directors as set out in table 21.
Table 21: Chairman and non-executive directors fees Increase Increase Fee as at in fee from Fee as at in fee Fee description 1 April 2014 prior year 1 April 2013 from 2012 1 Chairman fee 202,500 3.4% 195,750 3.0% Non-executive director fee Basic annual fee 44,000 3.5% 42,500 3.2% 1 Committee chair annual fee 7,500 7,500 1 Committee annual fee 4,000 4,000 Senior independent director fee 5,000 5,000 1.
No fee is paid in respect of chairmanship or membership of the Nomination Committee.
The increase to the fees of both the chairman and the non-executive directors were in line with the average increase across the Group of 3.96% with effect from 1 April 2014 2013: just above 3%.
Payments to past directors not subject to audit Lord Boyce retired from the Board on 31 July 2013.
He has continued to provide consultancy services to the Group, chairing the Groups international advisory Board.
Keith Clarke, who retired from the Board on 31 July 2011, retained a pro-rated entitlement to 16,309 shares granted under the terms of the Atkins Long-Term Incentive Plan.
In accordance with the rules of this plan, 68.7% of his retained award will vest on 20 June 2014 and be exercisable within six months.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 102 Governance Remuneration Report continued Annual Remuneration Report Payments for loss of office audited There were no payments for loss of office made during the year.
Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests audited Share ownership guidelines Executive directors are ordinarily expected to build up an interest in the Companys shares equivalent to one times their salary, based on the value of such shares at the time of the acquisition or their current market value, whichever is the higher.
The interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary shares of 0.5p each in the Company as at 31 March 2014 are shown in tables 22 and 23 below.
As the shareholding guideline only came into effect on 1 April 2012 and allows five years to build up an interest, it is not yet possible to determine whether or not it has been met, although it can be seen that all executive directors have increased their shareholdings during the year.
There are no shareholding requirements for the chairman or the non-executive directors.
Directors interests in shares of the Company Table 22: Executive directors interests in shares of the Company As a As a As a At 11 June percentage At 31 March percentage At 31 March percentage 3 3 3 2014 of salary 2014 of salary 2013 of salary 1 Heath Drewett 10,045 38.4% 10,027 41.6% 534 1.6% 2 Alun Griffiths 37,365 204.0% 37,347 221.1% 36,328 146.2% 1 4 Uwe Krueger 21,196 48.0% 21,177 52.0% 20,516 34.0% 1.
Changes in interests of Heath Drewett and Uwe Krueger between 31 March 2014 and 11 June 2014 relate to shares acquired via the SIP.
Changes in interests of Alun Griffiths between 31 March 2014 and 11 June 2014 relate to shares acquired via the SIP and automatic dividend reinvestment within an ISA.
Based on the value of such shares at the time of their acquisition or market value at the stated date, whichever is the higher.
The Company was notified on 2 July 2013 of the reinvestment of dividends to purchase a further 309 shares on 7 September 2012, hence the number stated in the prior years report as at 12 June 2013 and 31 March 2013 was 309 shares lower.
Table 23: Chairman and non-executive directors interests in shares of the Company At 11 June At 31 March At 31 March 2014 2014 2013 1 Lord Boyce n a n a 3,500 Fiona Clutterbuck 4,146 4,146 4,146 Allan Cook 17,142 17,142 17,142 2 Joanne Curin n a n a 1,000 3 Allister Langlands 5,000 5,000 n a 4 Thomas Leppert n a Raj Rajagopal 5,000 5,000 15,000 Rodney Slater Total 31,288 31,288 40,788 1.
Lord Boyce held 3,500 shares as at the date of his resignation.
Joanne Curin held 1,000 shares as at the date of her resignation.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 103 Remuneration Report continued Annual Remuneration Report Share awards audited Tables 24 and 25 set out details of the executive directors interests in relation to share awards made under each of the Companys share plans.
The awards granted under the terms of the LTIP and the DSP are structured as options, for which the exercise price is nil.
Subject to performance criteria described in note 35 to the Financial Statements.
I n 2010 the Remuneration Committee considered the impact of the expiry of a letter of credit in respect of the Metronet enterprise and the related provision giving rise to a one-off, non-cash pre-tax credit of 25m in the Groups income statement for the year.
It concluded that the non-trading nature of this benefit was not a fair reflection of underlying earnings.
It was therefore excluded and the lower normalised basic EPS for the year ended 31 March 2010 of 79.4p was used to calculate the vesting of LTIP awards made in 2007 and was also used as the EPS for the financial year immediately before the commencement of the performance period for the 2010 awards.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 104 Governance Remuneration Report continued Annual Remuneration Report Table 25: Directors long-term incentives LGU Plan units Number Number Midof units of units market First date under under Market price at of exercise Date of option at option at price on date of Gain on end of lapse Plan Award 1 April 31 March exercise grant exercise performance expiry of 1 3 name date 2013 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2014 pence pence condition option 2 13 08 12 21,705 21,705 672.0 13 08 16 13 08 22 Heath Drewett LGU 24 06 13 18,980 18,980 973.0 24 06 17 24 06 23 Total 21,705 18,980 40,685 2 Alun Griffiths LGU 13 08 12 15,792 15,792 672.0 13 08 16 13 08 22 24 06 13 13,314 13,314 973.0 24 06 17 24 06 23 Total 15,792 13,314 29,106 2 Uwe Krueger LGU 13 08 12 38,263 38,263 672.0 13 08 16 13 08 22 24 06 13 32,096 32,096 973.0 24 06 17 24 06 23 Total 38,263 32,096 70,359 Aggregate gains on units 2014 Aggregate gains on units 2013 1.
Plan names: LGU WS Atkins plc Long-term Growth Unit Plan.
The awards granted under the terms of the LGU are structured as units.
Subject to a strategic underpin as described in note 35 to the Financial Statements.
Other Information The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is a committee of the Board.
Its terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
com or on request from the company secretary.
The Committee has responsibility for setting remuneration policy and structure for the Companys chairman and executive directors.
The Committee also has oversight of remuneration practices across the Group.
A summary of the Committees activities during the year is shown in figure 1 page 82.
Committee membership The independent non-executive directors who served on the Committee during the year are shown in table 26.
Table 26: Members of the Committee during the year Member From To Admiral the Lord Boyce 5 May 2004 31 July 2013 Fiona Clutterbuck 15 June 2009 To date Raj Rajagopal 1 March 2009 To date Rodney Slater 9 September 2011 To date The Committee met eight times during the year 2013: six.
Details of the attendance of members at meetings can be found in the Corporate Governance Report page 69.
Committee meetings are attended by the Group HR director, Alun Griffiths.
The chairman of the Board and the chief executive officer also attend meetings at the discretion of the Committee chairman.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
No director or other attendee, including the company secretary, participates in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
Advisors to the Committee During the year the Committee undertook a comprehensive tender process for the provision of advisory services.
As a result of this process, the Committee appointed Towers Watson Limited Towers as the provider of advice on remuneration policy and structure, replacing Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
Towers is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group RCG and adheres to its code of conduct.
Table 26 provides a summary of advice received from each advisor to the Committee, fees paid and any other services provided by the advisor to the Group.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it has received has been objective and independent.
The Committee also consulted the chairman of the Board, the chief executive officer, the Group HR director and the company secretary regarding remuneration policy.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 105 Remuneration Report continued Annual Remuneration Report Table 27: Advisors to the Committee Advisor Services provided Fees Other services provided to the Group Towers Advises the Committee on 10,000 Supporting management, with the approval remuneration policy and structure of the Committee, on matters relating to senior management remuneration.
Accounting disclosures for pension costs and risk broking.
Deloitte Advised the Committee on 7,500 Supporting management, with the approval of the remuneration policy and structure, Committee, on matters relating to senior management advised on TSR outcomes remuneration.
Ashurst Legal services, principally the drafting 6,600 Ashurst is one of a number of legal firms that provide of share plan rules in accordance with legal advice and services to the Company on a range policy determined by the Committee of matters.
Tapestry Legal services, principally interpretation 832 Supporting management with international share of share plan rules plan compliance.
Dilution DSP share awards can only be satisfied using market purchase shares held in the employee benefit trust EBT.
LTIP and LGU share awards can be satisfied using new issue shares, shares held in treasury or market purchase shares held in the EBT.
The Committee reviews the hedging and dilution position of the Company at least bi-annually prior to making grants of share awards.
Both the LTIP and LGU operate 5% in 10 years executive schemes and 10% in 10 years aggregate dilution limits, in line with best practice.
At 31 March 2014 the EBT held 2,524,663 shares to hedge outstanding awards over 3,925,406 shares and 361,169 units.
Using an approximation of one unit to one share, at this date the EBT held shares to satisfy 64% of all outstanding awards.
No new issue shares have been used to satisfy share awards since 2005 and, to date, no treasury shares have been used.
Outside appointments for executive directors Uwe Krueger and Alun Griffiths are currently non-executive directors of the companies listed in table 28 and retain the fees payable, as outlined in respect of these appointments.
Table 28: Non-executive remuneration for executive directors Executive director Organisation name Remuneration basis Uwe Krueger ONTEX S. A. Zele, Belgium 60,000 per annum STR Holdings, Inc. Connecticut, Annual grant of ordinary shares in STR Holdings, Inc. to the USA to 14 May 2013 value of US$52,500 Fee of US$2,000 for each scheduled quarterly board and committee meeting attended Annual grant of restricted stock to the value of US$45,000, which will vest on the day immediately preceding the day of the next annual meeting of stockholders SUSI Partners AG Zurich, 1% of the companys value relating to three years service Switzerland on the board Alun Griffiths The McLean Partnership Ltd 10,000 per annum Severfield plc from 1 May 2014 40,000 per annum basic fee 5,000 per annum for serving as chairman of the Remuneration Committee Shareholder voting and engagement The voting results for last years Remuneration Report are set out in table 29.
Table 29: Remuneration Report shareholder voting results Votes for Votes against Total votes Votes Resolution m % For m % Against cast m withheld m Approval of the Remuneration Report 57.3 85 10.1 15 67.4 1.4 Refer to the letter from the Remuneration Committee chairman for a detailed commentary on the voting results page 81.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Dr Raj Rajagopal Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 11 June 2014 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
