Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 88 Remuneration report Annual Remuneration Committee Chairman Statement Dear Shareholders, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration report for 2013 14 for which we will be seeking your approval at the Annual General Meeting on Monday, 21 July 2014.
The Committee has had a full agenda during the year, and continues to ensure the Directors remuneration policy is in line with evolving corporate governance requirements, is aligned with Company strategy, and rewards the right behaviours, helping to ensure we do what is right for our customers, and drive sustainable value for our shareholders.
The changes made to our remuneration structure over the past few years mean that we are in a position to propose a policy for the next three years that is in line with that operated in 2013 14.
Our remuneration structure remains weighted toward rewarding success over a multi-year period and signi cant equity related components, which the Committee strongly believes is appropriate for our business and our future success, as well as aligning the interests of shareholders and management.
Over recent years the shareholdings and equity-related interests of our senior management as a group have increased signi cantly as has the number of employees with equity interests in the Company.
During the year the Committee considered the shareholding guidelines applicable to senior management as it considers this an important element of the remuneration arrangements but given the level of shareholdings and interests generally, felt it unnecessary to modify these at this time other than for the Chief Executive.
Remuneration in 2013 14 Following consultation with shareholders on a number of matters, as disclosed in last years report, and as part of the annual granting process, the PSP and DBMP targets for the 2013 awards were reviewed and the Committee reduced the top-end EPS target for the 2013 PSP and DBMP awards and increased the three-year average ROCE targets for the 2013 DBMP to ensure they remained appropriate and challenging at the time of grant.
Awards were made at the same level as 2012 awards, and the performance period ends on 31 March 2016.
The Company continues to perform at a high level, delivering once again record results for the financial year.
These results reinforce the Boards belief in the Companys strategy, and give the Committee the reassurance that the executive incentives are driving the right behaviours, and are rewarding the executive team appropriately.
This performance over the year resulted in annual bonus payments of between 92% and 94% of maximum, and sustained performance over the last 3 years has resulted in 93.0% vesting of the PSP 94.7% for the CEOs awards, with relative TSR performance ahead of the stretching targets and EPS performance in the performance range set by the Committee in 2011.
Glossary of terms As used in this Remuneration report CSOP means the 2009 Babcock Company Share Option Plan DBP means the 2009 Babcock Deferred Bonus Plan DBMP means the 2012 Babcock Deferred Bonus Matching Plan LTIP means the 2003 Babcock Long Term Incentive Plan a plan replaced by the PSP in 2009 PSP means the 2009 Babcock Performance Share Plan PBT means underlying Pro t Before Tax PBIT means underlying Pro t Before Interest and Tax OCF means Operating Cash Flow as determined for management purposes ROCE means Return on Capital Employed EPS means basic underlying Earnings per Share Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 89 Remuneration for 2014 15 The remuneration policy for 2014 15 remains unchanged from 2013 14.
Following a number of necessary changes to remuneration arrangements in recent years, the Remuneration Committee has not proposed any changes to the remuneration structures, and incentive opportunities remain at the same levels as in 2013 14.
Whilst the Committee intends to measure performance for the annual bonus, PSP and DBMP against similar measures to prior years, in light of the acquisition of Avincis Group, the annual bonus targets and DBMP ROCE targets may require review in the coming year to ensure they remain appropriate, motivating and suf ciently stretching.
The incentive targets for the PSP for both EPS and TSR performance remain appropriate and are unchanged from 2013 14.
The Committee reviewed Executive Director base salaries during the year, and following the required adjustment to salaries in 2013, determined that salaries for Executive Directors should be increased in line with those for the wider Group for 2014 15.
The Remuneration Committee was informed by the Executive Directors that exceptionally they would not be drawing the increase granted for 2014 15 in order to demonstrate their understanding of the financial austerity still affecting the government as their principal customer.
Whilst that one-year restraint was welcomed, the Committee is aware of the need to ensure that remuneration continues to be appropriately competitive going forward to ensure that we can meet our stated remuneration policy, and therefore agreed that the increase made for 2014 15 2.5% would be included in the baseline for their next review in 2015.
The Remuneration Report In line with the new reporting regulations that came into effect on 1 October 2013, this Directors Remuneration Report is split into three parts: this Annual Statement, a Policy Report and an Annual Report on Remuneration.
These sections work together to give you full and transparent disclosure of the Companys intention and operation of Directors remuneration, and build upon some of the disclosures adopted early in last years Remuneration Report.
At the AGM, a binding shareholder vote will be sought for the future Policy section and an advisory shareholder vote for the Annual Report on Remuneration section.
Justin Crookenden Committee Chairman 19 May 2014 and has considered guidelines issued by its leading shareholders Introduction and bodies such as the Association of British Insurers and the Remuneration Committee National Association of Pension Funds.
In accordance with Terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee Section 439 and 439A of the Act, a binding resolution to Committee have been approved by the Board.
Duties of the approve the Policy Report and an advisory resolution to approve Committee include the determination of the policy for the the Annual Report on Remuneration will be proposed at the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman, as Annual General Meeting on 21 July 2014, from which date well as their speci c remuneration packages, including pension the Policy will, if approved, take effect.
This report contains rights and, where applicable, any compensation payments.
In both auditable and non-auditable information.
The information determining the remuneration policy, the Committee takes into subject to audit is so marked.
The Regulations require the account all factors which it deems necessary to ensure that Companys auditors to report that the Audited information members of the senior executive management of the Group in this report has been properly prepared in accordance with are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage strong the Regulations.
performance and that they are rewarded for their individual Key principles of the remuneration policy contributions to the success of the Company, in a fair and Objective responsible manner.
To provide fair remuneration arrangements that allow for The composition of the Committee and its terms of reference enhanced rewards for delivery of superior performance by comply with the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code.
allowing for the possibility of upper quartile rewards for upper The terms of reference are available for inspection on the quartile performance, that align Directors and shareholders Companys website.
interests and take account of risk.
Compliance statement Our policy for executives re ects a preference that we believe is This report covers the reporting period from 1 April 2013 shared by the majority of our shareholders to rely more heavily to 31 March 2014 and provides details of the Committee on the value of variable performance-related rewards, rather membership, details of their deliberation on executive than on the xed elements of pay.
The rationale is to incentivise remuneration during the year under review and remuneration and reward success.
This report has been prepared by the Weighting towards long-term, performance-related pay Committee according to the requirements of the Companies Act The focus of our executive remuneration is, therefore, 2006 the Act, Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and weighted towards performance-related pay with a signi cant MediumSized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports element weighted towards long-term rather than short-term Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations and other performance.
We believe that, properly structured and with relevant requirements of the FCA Listing Rules.
In addition, suitable safeguards, variable, performance-related rewards are the Committee has applied the principles of good corporate the best way of linking pay to strategy, risk management and governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, shareholders interests.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 90 Remuneration report continued i Directors Remuneration Policy Summary of Babcocks remuneration policy for Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Fixed pay Base salary Base salaries are reviewed annually, with reference to the individuals role, experience and performance: salary levels at relevant Should be at a level that is i fair and comparators are considered but do not in themselves drive decision-making.
ii capable, when taken with the gearing effect of performance-related pay, of delivering upper quartile actual remuneration for upper quartile performance.
Pension Cash supplement in lieu wholly or partly of pension bene ts for ongoing service and or membership of the groups fide ned To provide market competitive Bene t or fide ned Contribution pension scheme.
Bene ts A range of bene ts are provided which may include life insurance: medical insurance: car and fuel bene ts and allowances: Designed to be competitive in the home to work travel and related costs if agreed on an individual basis or if incurred at the request of the Company: market in which the individual is accommodation bene ts and related costs if based away from home at the request of the Company: Board function related employed or to meet costs effectively costs: and, in certain circumstances, cash allowances in respect of the tax charge on accommodation or travel to work bene t incurred at the Companys request.
if incurred at the request of the Company or with its prior approval.
Other bene ts e. g. relocation may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
Variable pay Annual bonus Performance targets are set at the start of the year and re ect the responsibilities of the executive in relation to the delivery of To underpin delivery of year-on-year our strategy.
financial performance and progress At the end of the year, the Committee determines the extent to which these targets have been achieved.
The Committee has towards strategic nonfinancial the discretion to adjust the outcome up or down within the limits of the plan for corporate transactions, unforeseen events, objectives, being structured to factors outside reasonable management control, changes to business priorities or operational arrangements, to ensure targets motivate delivery against targets represent and remain a fair measure of performance.
In addition, the Committee considers health and safety performance and and achievement of stretching it may reduce or cancel any annual bonus otherwise payable if it considers it appropriate to do so in light of that performance.
outperformance, whilst mindful of At least 40% of annual bonus payments for Executive Directors must be deferred into awards over Company shares for three achievement of long-term strategy years under the DBMP.
Mandatory deferred bonus awards Deferred annual bonus are subject to potential forfeiture if the and longer term risks to the Company.
holder leaves before the awards vest.
Clawback applies to unvested deferred annual bonuses if the accounts used to determine The requirement to defer a substantial the bonus level have to be materially corrected or the Committee subsequently comes to a view that bonus year performance part of bonus into Babcock shares was materially worse than originally believed or will have material adverse impacts in future years.
strengthens the link to long-term sustainable growth.
Deferred bonus matching plan DBMP The Committee may grant performance-related matching awards to Executive Directors who are granted deferred To ensure that a substantial part of the bonus awards.
Directors short-term incentive rewards Participants can make an investment including by voluntary extra deferral of bonus regardless of any annual bonus earned of is exposed to the longer-term impact of up to 100% of salary including mandatory and voluntary investment.
Participants may make an additional voluntary investment decision-making and to further align of up to 40% of salary.
An additional bene t is provided in cash or shares equal to dividends that would have been paid over the vesting period on shares that vest.
The Committee has the ability to exercise discretion to override the DBMP matching outcome in circumstances where application of the formula would produce a result inconsistent with the Companys remuneration principles.
Performance Share Plan PSP and The Remuneration Committee has the ability to grant nil-cost options or conditional share awards under the PSP, and may grant Company Share Option Plan CSOP a portion of an award in CSOP options.
To date, the Remuneration Committee has only awarded nil-cost options and CSOP To incentivise delivery of top quartile options to executives.
shareholder returns and earnings growth The award levels and performance conditions on which vesting depends are reviewed from time to time to ensure they remain over the longer term.
Long-term measures guard against An additional bene t is provided in cash or shares equal to dividends that would have been paid over the vesting period on short-term steps being taken to shares that vest.
maximise annual rewards at the expense Options may also be granted under the CSOP, an HMRC approved option scheme, which have an exercise price based on market of future performance.
price at the award date and can be linked to PSP awards as explained further on page 115, but are otherwise the same as for PSP awards.
The Committee has the ability to exercise discretion to override the PSP outcome in circumstances where strict application of the performance conditions would produce a result inconsistent with the Companys remuneration principles.
All-employee plans Babcock Employee Open to all UK tax resident employees of participating Group companies.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate.
Share Plan The plan is an HMRC approved share incentive plan that allows an employee to purchase shares through the plan trustees out To encourage employee ownership of of pre tax salary which, if held for periods of time approved by HMRC currently 3 to 5 years, are taxed on a favourable basis.
The Company can match purchased shares with an award of free shares.
Matching shares are forfeited if employees leave within three years of their award other than for good leaver reasons.
Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91 Opportunity Performance metrics In respect of existing Executive Directors, it is anticipated that decisions on any salary Business and individual performance are considerations in setting base salary.
increases will be guided by the increases for the wider employee population over the term of this policy.
In certain circumstances including, but not limited to, a material increase in job size or complexity, market forces, promotion or recruitment the Committee has discretion to make appropriate adjustments to salary levels to ensure they remain fair and competitive.
Latest salaries are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 100.
Executive Directors, other than John Davies, currently receive a cash supplement of Not performance related.
25% of base pay in lieu of pension bene ts.
John Davies is a member of the Babcock International Group Pension Scheme which offers 1 60th accrual and receives a cash supplement, currently 20% of base pay above the scheme earnings cap.
The cash supplement payable, whether in lieu of all pension bene ts or on pay in excess of any applicable scheme earnings cap, and the level of any employer contribution into a fide ned contribution pension scheme for Executive Directors is set having regard to market practice, and in the context of the other elements of the remuneration package, notably base salary.
Other than in exceptional cases such as to replace existing arrangements for new recruits the Committee does not anticipate employer contributions into a fide ned contribution pension scheme or cash in lieu of bene t as being at a cost to the Company that would exceed 30% of base salary or, in the case of internal promotions to the Board or for Executive Directors subsequently leaving existing Group pension schemes, in excess of the cost to the Company as a percentage of base salary of their current pension provision.
Bene t values vary by role and are periodically reviewed and set at a level which the Not performance related.
Committee considers appropriate in light of relevant market practice for the role and individual circumstances.
The cost of the bene ts provided changes in accordance with market conditions and will, therefore, determine the maximum amount that would be paid in the form of bene ts during the period of this policy.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in certain circumstances e. g. relocation or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially.
Maximum bonus opportunity is 150% of salary.
Performance is determined by the Committee on an annual basis by reference to Group and or Divisional financial measures, e. g. EPS growth, PBIT, PBT, OCF, For achievement of threshold, up to 15% of maximum bonus is earned: for achievement as well as the achievement of nonfinancial objectives.
of target up to 55% of maximum bonus is earned.
The financial and personal strategic objectives are typically weighted 80% and 20% of maximum, respectively.
The Committee retains discretion to vary the weightings - 20% for individual measures within the financial element at the start of each year, to ensure alignment with the business priorities for the year.
Measures used for the 2013 14 annual bonus and proposed for 2014 15 are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The maximum match would be 2 for 1 on any shares held under the DBMP up to a Vesting of DBMP awards is subject to continued employment and Company maximum of 200% of salary based on maximum voluntary investment.
performance over a 3 year performance period.
For each performance condition applying to matching awards, 12.5% of the maximum Awards in recent cycles have been based on the achievement of stretching EPS, award will vest for threshold performance.
The Committee will review the performance measures, their weightings, and performance targets annually to ensure continued alignment with Company strategy.
Should the Committee make changes to the measures, the weighting on EPS, TSR and ROCE combined will be not less than 66% of the total award.
Details of measures and targets used for speci c DBMP grants are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Maximum annual PSP awards of up to 200% of base pay though currently only the Vesting of PSP awards is subject to continued employment and Company Chief Executive receives awards at this level.
For each performance condition applying to an award, 16.7% of the maximum award Awards in recent cycles have been based on the achievement of stretching EPS will vest for threshold performance.
Should the Committee make changes to the measures, the weighting on EPS and or TSR combined will be not less than 66% of the total award.
Details of measures and targets used for speci c PSP and CSOP grants are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Participants can purchase shares up to the prevailing HMRC limit at the time employees Not performance related.
The Company currently offers to match purchases made through the plan at the rate of 1 free matching share for every 10 shares purchased.
The matching rate is reviewed periodically, and any future offer will be bound by the prevailing HMRC limit.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 92 Remuneration report continued The use of an EPS growth performance measure, in the opinion Notes to the policy table of the Committee, focuses management on continued strong Payments from existing awards and commitments financial performance and is heavily dependent on the Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any Companys success in achieving its strategic goals.
award or other commitment made prior to the approval The Committee believes that ROCE reinforces the focus on and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed in returns for shareholders and encourages capital discipline.
It also provides good line of sight for management.
Performance measure selection and approach to The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to make target setting adjustments to the calculation of short and long-term The measures used under annual bonus schemes are selected performance outcomes in circumstances where application annually to re ect the Groups main strategic objectives for of the formula would produce a result inconsistent with the the year and re ect both financial and nonfinancial priorities.
Such circumstances may Performance targets are set to be stretching but achievable, include: changes in accounting standards, certain major taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the corporate events such as rights issues, share buybacks, special economic environment in which the Company operates.
dividends, corporate restructurings, acquisitions and disposals.
Financial targets are set taking into account a range of reference The Committee reviews the performance conditions for share points including the Groups strategic and operating plan.
awards prior to the start of each cycle to ensure they remain The Committee considers at length the appropriate financial appropriate.
No material reduction in long-term incentive conditions and nonfinancial objectives to attach to annual targets for future awards would be made without prior bonus awards and the financial targets to attach to share awards consultation with our major shareholders.
to ensure they continue to be: i relevant to our strategic objectives and aligned with shareholders interests mindful Differences between Executive Director and general of risk management: and ii fair by being suitably stretching employee remuneration whilst realistic.
The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of The Committee believes that Total Shareholder Return TSR, senior executives below the Board is consistent with that for the Underlying Earnings per Share EPS and Return on Capital Executive Directors.
Senior executives generally participate in Employed ROCE continue to be effective measures of the same long-term incentives as the Executive Directors with long-term performance for the Company, providing a good similar performance measures applied.
The remuneration policy balance between shareholder value creation and line of sight for our Executive Directors is considered with the remuneration for executives.
philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the wider Group in mind.
The remuneration arrangements for other The TSR performance measure is tested by reference to the employees re ect local market practice and seniority of each Companys relative long-term share price performance against role.
As a result, the levels and structure of remuneration for suitable peers.
The Committee believes that the use of relative different groups of employees will differ from the policy for TSR provides strong alignment with shareholders interests by executives as set out above but with the common intention that incentivising management for the delivery of above market remuneration arrangements for all groups might reasonably be returns.
The TSR calculation would normally use a 12-month considered to be fair having regard to such factors.
average for opening and closing share prices adjusted for dividends paid during the period.
The Company feels that this is the most appropriate period because a 12-month average ensures both that short-term market volatility is excluded and that for each company a 12-month period will capture the impact of the announcement of results and payment of dividends.
A shorter period would not capture all these events and would not necessarily put all companies on an equal footing.
Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 93 Approach to recruitment remuneration Recruitment policy In the cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing components of remuneration, as follows: Pay element Policy on recruitment Maximum Salary Based on size and nature of responsibilities of the proposed role: the candidates n a experience: implications for total remuneration positioning vs. market pay levels for comparable roles: internal relativities: and the candidates current salary Pension Membership of pension scheme or salary supplement on a similar basis to other n a executives, as described in the policy table Bene ts Provision of bene ts on a similar basis to other executives, as described in the n a policy table Annual bonus As described in the policy table, and may be pro-rated for proportion of year served 150% of salary Deferred Bonus New appointees may participate in the DBMP on similar terms to other executives 200% of salary Matching Plan Performance Share New appointees may be granted awards under the PSP on similar terms to 200% of salary Plan and Company other executives Share Option Plan CSOP Other In determining appropriate remuneration for new Executive Directors, the Committee n a will take into consideration all relevant factors including quantum, the nature of remuneration and where the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Committee may also make an award in respect of a new appointment to replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, time to vesting and the likelihood of those conditions being met.
The fair value of the compensatory award would not be greater than the awards being replaced.
In order to facilitate like-for-like compensatory awards on recruitment, the Committee may avail itself of Listing Rule 9.4.
2R if required Other recruitment events Internal promotion When appointing a new Executive Director by way of promotion from an internal role, n a the Committee will be consistent with the policy for external hires detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments, outstanding incentive awards and or pension arrangements prior to their promotion to Executive Director, the Company may honour those arrangements: however, where appropriate, these would be expected to transition over time to the arrangements as stated above Non-Executive When recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee or Board will structure n a Director pay in line with the existing policy, namely a base fee in line with the current fee schedule, with additional fees for ful lling the role of Senior Independent Director and Chairmanship of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 94 Remuneration report continued Potential reward opportunities are based on Babcocks Balance of remuneration for Executive Directors remuneration policy, applied to base salaries as at 1 April 2014.
The charts below provide an estimate of the potential future Note that the projected values exclude the impact of any share reward opportunities for the Executive Directors, and the price movements.
For this reason, were the DBMP or PSP shares potential split between the different elements of remuneration to vest in full, actual total remuneration may exceed the value under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, shown in the chart below.
Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chief Executive, Support Services Peter Rogers 000 Bill Tame 000 Kevin Thomas 000 3,000 2,500 5,000 4,166 2,438 59% 1,955 55% 2,000 4,000 57% 2,000 3,000 1,500 2,000 1,000 1,571 958 784 24% 22% 1,000 17% 21% 18% 20% 30% 28% 29% 503 422 800 1,000 500 21% 100% 22% 53% 54% 100% 19% 51% 100% 0 Maximum On-Target Minimum 0 Maximum On-Target Minimum 0 Maximum On-Target Minimum Fixed Remuneration Fixed Remuneration Fixed Remuneration Annual Variable Remuneration Annual Variable Remuneration Annual Variable Remuneration Long-term incentives Long-term incentives Long-term incentives Chief Executive, Marine and Chief Executive, Defence and Technology Archie Bethel 000 Security John Davies 000 2,500 2,500 1,978 1,876 2,000 2,000 56% 57% 1,500 1,500 1,000 807 1,000 757 21% 17% 21% 18% 28% 445 28% 411 500 500 23% 55% 100% 22% 54% 100% 0 Maximum On-Target Minimum 0 Maximum On-Target Minimum Fixed Remuneration Fixed Remuneration Annual Variable Remuneration Annual Variable Remuneration Long-term incentives Long-term incentives Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 95 The Minimum scenario shows base salary, pension and or Shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors pay in lieu of pension and bene ts i. e. xed remuneration.
The Committee sets shareholding guidelines for Executive These are the only elements of the Executive Directors Directors.
The current guideline is to build and maintain, over remuneration packages which are not at risk.
time, a personal and or spousal holding of shares in the Company equivalent in value to at least twice the Executive The On-Target scenario re ects xed remuneration as above, Directors annual base salary three times for the CEO.
The plus a payout of 50% of the annual bonus for the CEO and CFO guidelines also state that an Executive Director is expected to 52.7% for the other Executive Directors and threshold vesting retain at least half of any shares acquired on the exercise of a of 12.5% and 16.7% of the maximum award under the DBMP share award that remain after the sale of suf cient shares to and PSP, respectively.
All scenarios assume full voluntary cover tax and national insurance triggered by the exercise and investment under the DBMP.
associated dealing costs until the guideline level is achieved The Maximum scenario re ects xed remuneration, plus full and thereafter maintained.
The Executive Directors compliance payout of all incentives.
with these guidelines is shown in the table on page 110.
Details of Directors service contracts and exit payments and treatment of awards on a change-of-control The following summarises the key terms excluding remuneration of the Directors service contracts or terms of appointment: Executive Directors Name Date of service contract Notice period Peter Rogers Chief Executive 31 July 2003 amended by letters dated 12 months from Company, 5 May 2004 and 3 April 2006 6 months from Director Bill Tame Group Finance Director 1 October 2001 amended by letters dated 12 months from Company, 5 May 2004 and 3 April 2006 6 months from Director Archie Bethel Chief Executive, 21 April 2010 12 months from Company, Marine and Technology 6 months from Director Kevin Thomas Chief Executive, 20 April 2010 12 months from Company, Support Services 6 months from Director John Davies Chief Executive, 20 December 2012 12 months from Company, Defence and Security 12 months from Director The latest service contracts are available for inspection at the The contracts for Peter Rogers and Bill Tame but not for Archie Companys registered of ce and will also be available at the Bethel, Kevin Thomas and John Davies contain provisions which Companys Annual General Meeting.
provide that within 90 days of the occurrence of a change of control of the Company, each may terminate his employment The Companys policy is that Executive Directors service forthwith.
If he exercises this right, he is entitled, for a 12-month contracts should be capable of being terminated by the period, to be paid on a monthly basis his base salary plus 40% Company on not more than 12 months notice.
The Executive compared to a maximum entitlement under the annual bonus Directors service contracts entitle the Company to terminate scheme of 150% in lieu of bonus and all other contractual their employment without notice by making a payment of salary entitlements.
From this payment there is to be deducted any and bene ts in lieu of notice.
In these circumstances, for new amount that the Executive Director receives by way of income, contracts including for John Davies the Company can choose if it exceeds 10% of his Babcock salary, from other sources that to make the payment in lieu by monthly instalments and he would not have been able to earn had he continued in mitigation applies such that the Committee may decide to employment with the Company.
reduce or discontinue further instalments.
For existing contracts for Executive Directors other than for John Davies such a The contracts for Peter Rogers and Bill Tame but not for Kevin payment would be by way of a lump sum payment on Thomas, Archie Bethel and John Davies also provide that if the termination.
If the Company terminates an Executive Directors Company terminates their appointment within 12 months of service contract it will have regard to all the circumstances a change of control, they would be entitled to a termination including the scope for mitigation and the Companys interests payment equal to 100% of annual salary plus 40% in lieu in determining the amount of compensation, if any, payable to of bonus and all other bene ts, subject to any additional him in connection with that termination.
In addition to the contractual provisions regarding payment on termination set out above, the Companys incentive plans contain provisions for termination of employment, where the Committee has the discretion to determine the level of award vesting.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 96 Remuneration report continued 1 Component Treatment on a change of control Treatment for a good leaver Treatment for other leavers Annual Bonus Will be paid a time pro-rated Will be paid a time pro-rated No annual bonus entitlement, proportion, subject to proportion, subject to unless the Committee exercises performance during the year, performance during the year, discretion to treat otherwise generally paid immediately, generally paid immediately, with Committee discretion to with Committee discretion to 2 treat otherwise treat otherwise PSP, CSOP, DBP and DBMP Awards generally vest Entitled to retain a time proOutstanding awards are forfeited, mandatorily deferred immediately, and, for rated proportion, which unless the Committee exercises bonus awards and performance-related awards, remains subject to performance discretion to treat otherwise matching awards will be pro-rated for time and conditions.
Committee has remain subject to performance discretion to allow immediate conditions, with Committee vesting and or more than time discretion to treat otherwise pro-rated vesting 1.
An individual would generally be considered a good leaver if they leave the Groups employment by reason of injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy or retirement in each case evidenced to the Committees satisfaction.
The treatment of share awards held by Directors who leave on other grounds is entirely at the discretion of the Committee and in deciding whether and the extent to which it would be appropriate to exercise that discretion the Committee will have regard to all the circumstances.
Treatment of bonus on a change of control for Peter Rogers and Bill Tame is also the subject of the provisions outlined on page 95 and above.
The Committee has discretion to allow awards held by leavers that contribution is expected to still have an impact during to vest immediately and or in full or for a good leaver or on the remainder of the applicable performance period.
The a change of control at a higher proportion than strict timeCommittee may also make any favourable exercise of its apportionment if it considers this to be appropriate.
In deciding discretion subject to conditions.
how to exercise its discretion the Committee will take account External appointments of Executive Directors of all the circumstances arising including, in the case of a The Executive Directors may accept external appointments leaver, the reasons for and circumstances of the termination of with the prior approval of the Chairman, provided that such employment, the leavers length of service, level of responsibility appointments do not prejudice the individuals ability to ful l and business impact, individual performance during their tenure, their duties at the Group.
Any fees for outside appointments exceptional contribution to the business and the extent to which are retained by the Director.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Anticipated expiry of present term of Date of appointment Date of current appointment subject to Name as a Director appointment letters annual re-election Mike Turner Chairman 1 June 2008 20 March 2014 AGM for 2017 Justin Crookenden 1 December 2005 20 March 2014 30 November 2014 David Omand 1 April 2009 31 May 2012 AGM for 2015 Ian Duncan 10 November 2010 5 March 2013 AGM for 2016 Kate Swann 1 June 2011 20 March 2014 AGM for 2017 Anna Stewart 1 November 2012 19 June 2012 AGM for 2015 Jeff Randall 1 April 2014 6 December 2013 AGM for 2017 The latest written terms of appointment are available for Details of the Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment inspection at the Companys registered of ce and at the are shown in the table.
The appointment and re-appointment Companys Annual General Meeting.
The expected time and the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors are matters commitment of Non-Executive Directors is set out in their reserved for the Nominations Committee and Executive current written terms of appointment.
The Groups Non-Executive Directors serve under letters of The Non-Executive Directors fees have been set at a level to appointment as detailed in the table above, normally for no re ect the amount of time and level of involvement required in more than three year terms at a time: however, in all cases order to carry out their duties as members of the Board and its appointments are terminable at will at any time by the Company Committees.
The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to or the Director.
All Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual participate in the Companys performance-related incentive re-election by the Company in general meeting in line with the plans and do not receive any pension contributions.
Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 97 Details of the policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Function Operation Opportunity Performance measures To attract and retain high Fee levels are reviewed against Non-Executive Director fee None calibre Non-Executive market practice from time to increases are applied in line Directors with commercial time by the Chairman and the with the outcome of the and other experience Executive Directors in the case of periodic fee review relevant to the Company Non-Executive Director fees and Any increases to the Nonby the Remuneration Committee Executive Director fee will in respect of fees payable to the typically be in line with general Chairman, with any adjustments movements in market levels of normally being made on 1 April Non-Executive Director fees in the review year In the event that there is a Additional fees are payable for material misalignment with acting as Chairman of the Audit the market or a change in the and Risk, and Remuneration complexity, responsibility or time Committees commitment required to ful l a Fee levels are reviewed by Non-Executive Director role, the reference to FTSE listed Board has discretion to make an companies of similar size and appropriate adjustment to the complexity.
Time commitment, fee level level of involvement required and responsibility are taken into account when reviewing fee levels Fees for the year ending 31 March 2014 and those for the year ending 31 March 2015 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 109.
Consideration of employee views Consideration of shareholder views When reviewing Executive Director pay the Committee is aware When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into of the proposals for review of remuneration of all employees.
account views of leading shareholders and best practice The Committee receives regular updates on salary increases, guidelines issued by institutional shareholder bodies.
The bonus and share awards made to employees throughout the Committee is always open to feedback from shareholders Group.
These matters are considered when conducting the on remuneration policy and arrangements, and commits annual review of executive remuneration.
The Company seeks to undergoing consultation with leading shareholders in to promote and maintain good relationships with employee advance of any signi cant changes to remuneration policy.
representative bodies as part of its employee engagement The Committee will continue to monitor trends and strategy and consults on matters affecting employees and developments in corporate governance and market practice business performance as required in each case by law and to ensure the structure of the executive remuneration regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates.
The Company now formally presents a summary of its policy Further detail on the votes received on the 2013 Directors for remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors to the Remuneration Report and the Committees response are Babcock Employee Forum, which is attended by representatives provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 98. from across the UK business operations, and will consider any feedback from that Forum.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 98 Remuneration report continued How often it meets ii Annual report on remuneration In total there were 7 meetings in the year to 31 March 2014.
Remuneration Committee membership in 2013 14 The Committee plans to meet at least 6 times in the current The members of the Committee are appointed by the Board financial year.
on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee Other matters and, in accordance with provision D 2.1 of the UK Corporate The Committee considered a number of matters during the Governance Code, the Committee is made up of the year, including: Independent Non-Executive Directors listed below.
The membership of the Committee during the year to 31 March The Committees terms of reference: 2014 with each member serving throughout the year as Executive remuneration policy and philosophy and any well as attendance at Committee meetings, is shown below.
changes that might be needed: The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
The making of share awards under the Companys share plans: Committee attendance The level of vesting of PSP and CSOP awards granted in 2010: Number of Meetings attended Number of The vesting of DBP awards made in 2011: Member meetings possible 1 Justin Crookenden Chairman 6 of 7 The level of annual bonuses for the year to 31 March 2013: Sir David Omand 7 of 7 Shareholder feedback on the remuneration proposals Ian Duncan 7 of 7 subsequently implemented in the year to 31 March 2014: Kate Swann 7 of 7 Setting of annual bonus targets for the year to Anna Stewart 7 of 7 31 March 2014: 1.
Justin Crookenden was unable to attend 1 meeting due to unavoidable Review of share ownership guidelines for senior executives: personal commitments.
Policy on the effect of share disposals and the granting of On 1 April 2014 Jeff Randall joined the Committee as an matching awards under the DBMP: independent Non-Executive Director and will assume the role of Chairman of the Committee when Mr Crookenden steps Finalising annual pay reviews for Executive Directors and other down from that position at the AGM in July 2014. senior executives for the year to 31 March 2014: The Group Chairman and the Chief Executive normally attend Annual pay reviews for Executive Directors and other senior meetings by invitation, but are not present when their own executives for the year to 31 March 2015: remuneration is being decided.
The Company Secretary attends Trends in executive remuneration, remuneration governance meetings as Secretary to the Committee.
The Group Director of and investor views: Organisation and Development also attends meetings.
The Committees approach to the consequences of Advisers termination of employment for share awards and Kepler Associates Kepler was appointed by the Committee in annual bonus: late 2008, following a selection process including interviewing a number of candidate rms, to provide it with independent Review of the new Directors Remuneration Report regulations, analysis, information and advice on all aspects of executive and review of the Babcock Directors Remuneration Report: remuneration and market practice, within the context of the Approval of procedure for the authorisation of Chairman and objectives and policy set by the Committee.
Kepler reports CEO expenses: and directly to the Committee Chairman.
A representative from Kepler typically attends Committee meetings.
Kepler provides Resolved to continue the appointment of the Committees no other services to the Company.
Kepler is a member of the independent advisers.
Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory to the Summary of shareholder voting at the 2013 AGM Code of Conduct for consultants to Remuneration Committees The following table shows the results of the advisory shareholder of UK listed companies, details of which can be found at vote on the 2013 Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM: www.
Kepler adheres to Votes cast Total number of votes % of votes cast this Code of Conduct.
The fees paid to Kepler in respect of work For including carried out in the year under review totalled 125,988 on the discretionary 208,159,126 84.3% basis of time and materials, excluding expenses and VAT.
Against 38,893,012 15.7% The Committee periodically considers whether Kepler remains Total votes cast independent of the Company and that the advice provided is excluding impartial and objective.
The Committee is satis ed that the withheld votes 247,052,138 100% advice provided by Kepler is independent.
Votes withheld 1,822,169 Total votes cast including withheld votes 248,874,307 Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 99 The Committee engaged with leading shareholders before the interests of shareholders and management, and that the AGM in 2013 on a number of matters and proposed changes to addition of matching awards under the DBMP has been the remuneration arrangements.
Feedback from a minority of crucial in rewarding and motivating our management team.
shareholders consulted stated a preference for simplicity with The Committee will continue to engage with its major regard to incentive structures.
Internally, we work to ensure that shareholders to facilitate a better understanding of the incentive plans are well communicated to, and well understood Company, the environment in which it operates and how this by, participants.
We believe the plans are structured to align the translates into the Groups executive remuneration policy.
Single total gure of remuneration audited The table below sets out a single gure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the years ending 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013.
Salary: basic salary amount earned for the year.
Bene ts in kind and cash: the value of bene ts and salary supplements other than those in lieu of pensions including medical insurance, home to work travel expenses incurred at the request of the Company, accommodation bene ts, car and fuel bene ts and costs in connection with accommodation.
Pension: for Peter Rogers, Bill Tame, Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas, value of the cash supplement: for John Davies i 20 times the increase in his accrued bene t over the year, less Directors contributions plus ii the value of the cash supplement.
Annual bonus cash or voluntarily deferred bonus : this is the part of total annual bonus earned for performance during the year see page 102 that is not required to be mandatorily deferred into a basic award of shares under the DBMP see page 103 and that is to be satis ed in cash and or, if the Director has so elected, by the making of a voluntary deferral award of shares under the DBMP.
DBMP deferred annual bonus: this is the mandatorily deferred element of the annual bonus earned for performance during the year, which will vest after three years.
DBMP matching awards : no DBMP awards vested on performance to i 31 March 2014 or ii 31 March 2013.
PSP: the market value of awards that vest on performance to i 31 March 2014: based on vesting as to 94.7% of the total award to Peter Rogers and 93.0% of the awards to other Executive Directors and an average share price in the 3 months to 31 March 2014 of 1,233p and ii 31 March 2013: based on vesting as to 58.8% of the total award to Peter Rogers and 78.4% of the awards to other Executive Directors and a vest date share price on 13 July 2013 of 1,173p.
Note: the difference for 2012 13 PSP gures versus that disclosed in last years Annual Report on Remuneration re ects truing up for the actual share price on vesting.
Dividends: the total value of dividends accruing on long-term incentive awards other than on mandatory deferral of bonus awards under the DBP vesting on performance to i 31 March 2014 and ii 31 March 2013, payable in cash on exercise of the award.
Re ects period from appointment as a Director on 1 January 2013 to 31 March 2013.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 100 Remuneration report continued Single total gure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited The table below sets out a single gure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 March 2014 and the prior year: Base fee 000 Additional fees 000 Total 000 13 14 12 13 13 14 12 13 13 14 12 13 Mike Turner 295 255 0 0 295 255 Justin Crookenden 55 50 13 8 68 58 David Omand 65 60 0 0 65 60 Ian Duncan 55 50 13 13 68 63 Kate Swann 55 50 0 0 55 50 1 Anna Stewart 55 21 0 0 55 21 1.
Fees re ect period from appointment on 1 November 2012 to 31 March 2013.
Summary of the structure of Executive Directors remuneration Based on the Committees policy, the principal elements of the remuneration arrangements other than pension bene ts or supplements in lieu of pension bene ts for Executive Directors in the year to 31 March 2014 and for the year to 31 March 2015 are summarised in the table below.
Further details on the annual bonus schemes, share awards, and pension schemes and pension bene ts are to be found in the following pages of this Remuneration report.
Assumes maximum bonus and maximum self-investment and 2 for 1 share match.
Salary re ects that he receives car and fuel bene ts.
Base salary Executive Directors base salaries and bene ts are reviewed each year with any changes usually taking effect from 1 April.
The Committee determined that base salaries and bene ts for 2014 15 for Executive Directors should be increased in line with those for the wider Group.
The Committee was informed by the Executive Directors that exceptionally they would not be drawing the increase granted for 2014 15 in order to demonstrate their understanding of the financial austerity still affecting the UK Government as the Companys principal customer.
The Committee welcomed that one-year restraint, and agreed that the increase it had made for 2014 15 2.5% would be included in the baseline for their next review in 2015.
Salary Salary 2013 14 2014 15 % Director increase Peter Rogers 611,871 611,871 0% Bill Tame 387,331 387,331 0% Archie Bethel 336,810 336,810 0% Kevin Thomas 336,810 336,810 0% John Davies 321,810 321,810 0% Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 101 Internal relativity Pension entitlements under the Scheme fide ned bene t for the As noted above, when reviewing Executive Directors year to 31 March 2014 are set out in the following table: remuneration, the Committee takes note of proposals for pay in Accrued the wider Group.
Each business within the Group determines its pension at 31 March Normal own pay structures and remuneration in light of its own position 2014 retirement and the employment market in which it operates.
The overall 1 Director p. a. date average salary increases for employees generally for the year 2 Bill Tame 45,532 60 to 31 March 2015 is expected to be in the order of 2.5% with 2 Archie Bethel 37,657 65 individual increases signi cantly above this amount in some 2 cases dependent on business and personal performance and Kevin Thomas 60,484 65 local market conditions.
Date from which payment can be drawn with no actuarial reduction.
The Executive Directors, other than John Davies, did not 2.
Bill Tame, Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas were not active members of the participate in a Group pension scheme or otherwise receive scheme during the year.
pension bene ts from the Group for service during the year to Note: The gures in the above table make no allowance for the cost of death 31 March 2014.
These Executive Directors received a cash in service bene ts under the Scheme, or for any bene ts in respect of earnings supplement equal to 25% of their base salary in lieu of pension in excess of the earnings cap.
In calculating the above gures no account bene ts.
There are no additional early retirement bene ts.
has been taken of any retained bene ts that the Director may have from previous employments.
John Davies is a member of the Babcock International Group Directors also bene t from life assurance cover of four times Pension Scheme.
During the year to 31 March 2014, he base salary.
The cost of providing that life assurance cover was: received a cash supplement equal to 36k in lieu of pension 2014 2013 bene ts on that part of his base salary as exceeded the Director 000 000 applicable scheme earnings cap.
Bill Tame 3 3 Supplements paid in lieu of pension do not count for pension, Archie Bethel 3 2 share award or bonus purposes.
Kevin Thomas 3 2 Babcock International Group Pension Scheme the John Davies appointed 1 January 2013 2 0.5 Scheme audited Bill Tame was a member of the senior executive tier of the Scheme until 30 September 2011.
Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas were members of the executive tier of the Scheme until 31 March 2012.
All three Directors are no longer active members of the Scheme.
Whilst still members of the Scheme, Bill Tame accrued bene ts at the rate of one-thirtieth, and for Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas at the rate of one-fortyfifth, of pensionable salary for each year of service.
John Davies is a member of the VT Upper Section Ex-Short Brothers section of the Scheme.
He accrues bene ts on earnings up to the scheme earnings cap currently 141,000 at the rate of one-sixtieth of pensionable salary for each year of service.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 102 Remuneration report continued Annual Bonus Scheme 2013 14 Annual bonus audited For our Executive Directors annual bonus schemes in 2013 14, as in previous years, a mix of financial and nonfinancial measures was used.
The nonfinancial measures were principally based on the key themes that are of central importance to the continued success of the Company, including: reputation protection: growth: security: employee engagement and talent development: and IT systems improvement.
Maintaining a satisfactory health and safety and environmental performance is always an overriding bonus objective.
The financial measures were focused on delivery of budget pro tability, cash management and growth in earnings.
Objectives for the 2013 14 bonus were set by the Committee at the beginning of the year.
The table below sets out the annual bonus schemes in place for the Executive Directors and the outturn under them in 2013 14.
Threshold Maximum Peter Bill Archie Kevin John Bonus element target target Actual outturn Rogers Tame Bethel Thomas Davies 1 EPS performance Stretching Maximum potential targets, with a sliding scale % of salary 90% 90% 70% 70% 70% between threshold and maximum 63.8p 70.9p 70.3p Outturn % of salary 81% 81% 63% 63% 63% Maximum potential % of salary 15% 15% Achieving budgeted Group 96% of Budget cash ow budget 218m 268m Outturn % of salary 15% 15% Maximum potential % of salary 15% 15% Achieving budgeted Group 96% of Budget 2 PBT budget 293m 316m Outturn % of salary 15% 15% Maximum potential % of salary 15% 15% 15% Achieving budgeted 96% of 3 Divisional cash ow budget Budget Exceeded budget Outturn % of salary 15% 15% 15% Maximum potential % of salary 15% 15% 15% Achieving budgeted 96% of 2 3 Divisional PBIT budget Budget Exceeded budget Outturn % of salary 15% 15% 15% Maximum potential % of salary 30% 30% 25% 25% 25% 4 Nonfinancial objectives Outturn % of salary 28% 28% 22% 25% 22% Maximum potential % of salary 150% 150% 125% 125% 125% Total Outturn % of salary 139% 139% 115% 118% 115% 1.
Threshold vesting is 20% of maximum for each bonus element except for EPS performance, where 18% of maximum vests at threshold.
Before amortisation of acquired intangibles.
The treatment of exceptional items is at the discretion of the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the divisional budgets remain commercially sensitive given the strategic nature of some of our customers or their activities and they would also be of assistance to competitors, and will not be published.
Nonfinancial objectives were set around the following priority strategic and risk management themes: Reputation with customers and investors, including speci ed improved strategic and customer engagement objectives, anti-bribery and corruption training and review of policies and procedures : Growth relating to strategy planning and development, progress against existing strategic plans particularly for territories outside the UK, speci c bidding targets and objectives, win rates, development and leveraging of identi ed strategic partnerships, organisational and management changes to support growth and strategic objectives : Employees developing or progressing employee engagement, communications and cultural initiatives, for example in connection with diversity: talent identi cation, development and succession planning initiatives and programmes, developing graduate and apprentice strategies and relationships with universities : Process improvements for example in IT, IT strategy, management information systems, cyber-security and information assurance objectives.
The actual objectives set are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive relating as they do to customer relationships, speci c bids, speci c strategic steps or objectives, security measures and personnel issues or they are effectively discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report.
2014 15 Annual bonus For our annual bonus schemes for 2014 15 we are continuing to disclose financial performance targets and personal to use the structure adopted in 2013 14 as set out in the table objectives retrospectively in next years Annual Report on above.
Bonuses will be based on the same measures and Remuneration, subject to these no longer being considered weightings as those used in 2013 14.
The Committee intends by the Board to be commercially sensitive.
Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 103 The weighting of the elements of bonus is kept under review additional investment including by way of accepting deferral and, in particular, the weighting for nonfinancial objectives for of extra amounts of bonus of an amount equal to up to 40% the annual bonus scheme for 2015 16 and future years is a of salary.
Both mandatorily deferred and voluntary investments matter the Committee will be considering during the current are eligible for matching share awards of up to a 2 for 1 match.
The Committee granted performance-related matching awards under the DBMP to Directors on the amount of bonus for Annual bonus deferral into shares audited 2012 13 mandatorily or voluntarily deferred into share awards To ensure that a substantial part of the Directors annual bonus under that scheme and will be doing the same in respect of is exposed to the longer term impact of decision-making and to bonus mandatorily or voluntarily deferred into share awards for further align their interests with shareholders, 40% of any annual 2013 14.
The performance conditions relating to matching bonus earned by Executive Directors and other senior awards made in 2013 and those proposed for matching awards executives must be deferred into Babcock shares by means of to be made in 2014 are discussed on pages 104 and 105. an award of nil-cost options.
Under the Deferred Bonus Plan Bonuses mandatorily deferred into shares in 2010 and 2011 applicable to deferred bonus awards made to Directors before did not have any associated matching share awards.
Deferred 2012 the deferral period was two years.
From 2012 deferred annual bonus awards are subject to potential forfeiture if the awards have been made to Directors under the Deferred Bonus holder leaves before the awards vest other than by reason of Matching Plan DBMP under which the deferral period is three death, disability, redundancy, retirement or the company or years.
In addition to mandatory deferral of 40% of bonus the business in which they are employed ceasing to be part of DBMP allows for Directors to be invited to make a voluntary the Group.
Long-term incentive schemes PSP and DBMP PSP awards made in 2013 14 audited % receivable Face value Face value for threshold 1 Director Basis % of salary performance End of performance period Peter Rogers 1,223,744 200% 16.7% 31 March 2016 As per the Policy.
Based on 3 day average share price of 1,176p at time of grant.
In the form of nil-cost options.
In 2013, PSP awards were made to each of the Executive Note: real EPS growth is that in excess of the change in the Directors.
Awards were made over shares having a total value on UK retail prices index.
TSR comparators are the companies grant equal to 200% of basic salary for Peter Rogers and 150% comprised in the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and of salary for the other Executive Directors.
The performance financial services companies.
targets attached to those awards split equally between TSR performance relative to the peer group and real EPS growth are illustrated in the charts below: EPS element 50% of award TSR element 50% of award 100% 100% 75% 75% 50% 50% 25% 25% 16.7% 16.7% 0% 0% 4% 11% Median Median 9% Babcocks three-year annualised Babcocks three-year TSR outperformance real EPS growth % p. a. of FTSE 350 Median % p. a.
% of EPS element % of TSR element Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 104 Remuneration report continued Threshold vesting 16.7% of this element for the EPS element element would be for performance in line with the median of was set at real growth of 4% per annum and maximum vesting the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services at real growth of 11% per annum.
We believe that real growth companies and maximum vesting would be for 9% p. a. of 11% would represent exceptional performance.
For the outperformance of the median, representing upper quartile comparative TSR element, threshold vesting 16.7% of this performance.
Deferred Bonus Matching Plan awards made in 2013 14 audited % receivable Face value Face value for threshold 1 Director Basis % of salary performance End of performance period Peter Rogers 1,115,964 182% 12.5% 31 March 2016 As per the Policy.
The DBMP allows the Committee to make matching share performance period.
For the 2013 cycle, the performance awards of up to two times the deferred bonus shares 40% period runs from 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2016, the same as of bonus and any additional shares or extra bonus deferral for PSP awards made in 2013.
The performance targets attached self-invested under the scheme by the Director of an amount to those awards split equally between TSR performance equal to up to 40% of salary.
The matching share award is relative to the peer group, real EPS growth, and average return performance-related and only vests to the extent that the on capital employed ROCE over the period are illustrated in performance criteria are met in respect of the three-year the charts below: EPS element 33% of award TSR element 33% of award ROCE element 33% of award 2x 2x 2x 1.5x 1.5x 1.5x 1x 1x 1x 0.5x 0.5x 0.5x 0.25x 0.25x 0.25x 0x 0x 0x 4% 11% Median Median 9% 21.5% 23.5% Babcocks three-year annualised Babcocks three-year TSR out-performance Babcocks three-year average ROCE % real EPS growth % p. a. of FTSE 350 Median % p. a.
Match on EPS element Match on TSR element Match on ROCE element Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 105 The target for maximum vesting is ROCE of 23.5% and for threshold vesting it is 21.5%.
The maximum match is 2 for 1 on any shares held under the plan: 0.25 matching shares would be released for each such share at threshold vesting.
Therefore for each measure, threshold vesting would be a 0.25 3 for 1 match 4.2% of maximum and maximum vesting would be a 2 3 for 1 match 33% of maximum.
For 2013 14 Executive Directors received awards in lieu of mandatorily and voluntarily deferred bonus and matching awards in respect of the 2012 13 bonus as follows: Deferred annual bonus Potential mandatorily Voluntarily Total shares Maximum deferred bonus Deferral Awards invested in number of Director no of shares no of shares the DBMP matching shares Peter Rogers 28,353 19,093 47,446 94,894 Bill Tame 17,948 6,802 24,750 49,502 Archie Bethel 13,006 10,510 23,516 47,032 Kevin Thomas 13,006 10,510 23,516 47,032 John Davies 12,753 10,306 23,059 46,119 2011 PSP awards vesting audited awards will vest from RPI 4% p. a. to RPI 11% p. a. over three Awards granted in 2011 under the PSP were subject to 3-year years: TSR targets for the 2014 PSP and DBMP awards will vest TSR and EPS targets outlined on page 106.
3-year TSR to between median and median 9% relative to the peer group: 31 March 2014 was 15% p. a. above median TSR for the ROCE targets for the DBMP, however, will be set later in the year.
FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services.
As mentioned in the circular issued by the Company on Babcocks 3-year adjusted basic underlying EPS growth to 27 March 2014 relating to the acquisition of the Avincis Group, 31 March 2014 was 11.1% p. a. in excess of RPI historical the acquisition is only expected to achieve a return on invested EPS numbers were restated to ensure they were on the same capital in excess of the Companys current cost of capital from accounting basis.
Accordingly, 2011 PSP awards are expected the second full financial year following the acquisition.
However, to vest in June 2014 as to 94.7% for Peter Rogers and 93.0% this level of return, while value-creating for the business as a for other Executive Directors.
whole, is below Babcocks current ROCE.
The Committee Number believes it is important to ensure that the performance of Director Award expected to vest Babcock and the acquired business is taken into account for Peter Rogers PSP 2011 149,598 2014 DBMP awards, and as such, the relevant ROCE targets PSP 2011 66,757 will be reviewed during the year and set to ensure they are 1 1 commensurate with those set in previous years.
The Committee PSP 2011 Funding TBC will communicate the targets in next years report.
Bill Tame CSOP 2011 3,217 Archie Bethel PSP 2011 60,651 Sourcing of shares Shares needed to satisfy share awards for Directors are either Kevin Thomas PSP 2011 60,651 fresh issue shares issued to the Groups employee share trusts John Davies PSP 2011 45,489 to meet share awards or shares purchased in the market by 1.
The actual number of PSP 2011 funding shares capable of being exercised can the trusts using funds advanced by the Company.
The source only be determined on the CSOP exercise date, but cannot exceed 3,217. selection is nalised on or before vesting, the choice being based on what the Board considers to be in the best interests PSP and DBMP awards for 2014 15 of the Company at the time, and what is permissible within The Committee intends to grant awards under the PSP and available headroom and dilution limits.
DBMP with the same maximum opportunities and performance measures as in 2013.
EPS targets for the 2014 PSP and DBMP Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 106 Remuneration report continued Outstanding share awards summaries: grants made up to and during 2013 The following tables summarise the performance targets if applicable and other information about the schemes relevant to currently outstanding share awards held by Executive Directors i. e. those awards yet to vest and those that vested during the year to 31 March 2014 the awards made in 2010 under the PSP and the CSOP and the DBP awards made in 2011.
Scheme Performance Share Plan nil price options and Company Share Option Plan market price options 20102013 awards Performance period For the 2010 awards: 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2013.
Vested in July 2013 as to 58.8% for Peter Rogers and 78.4% for other Executive Directors For the 2011 awards: 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2014.
Expected to vest in June 2014 as to 94.7% for Peter Rogers and 93.0% for other Executive Directors For the 2012 awards: 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2015.
Proportion of total award General performance target EPS growth test Comparative TSR test that can vest Maximum Real compound annual growth Outperformance of the median 50% of 12.5% 2010-2012 TSR performance for the peer 11% 2013 or more group taken as a whole by 9% or more Threshold Real compound annual growth TSR performance equivalent to 8.3% of 4% the median for the peer group as a whole Intermediate growth between the Intermediate ranking between Straightline basis between 8.3% above points the above points and 50% Real compound annual growth of Performance less than equivalent 0% less than 4% to median for the whole peer group Chief Executives If comparative TSR performance exceeded median TSR performance for the peer group taken as a whole additional award in by more than 9% per annum further shares vest, with full vesting of this additional award for more than 2010 and 2011 12.5% per annum.
This will affect the relative proportion of the award vesting in his case.
For 2010, none over shares equal to a of the additional award vested.
The 2011 additional award is expected to vest in full.
further 50% of salary TSR comparator group For the TSR element the peer group is the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services.
This group was chosen after careful review due to the fact that Babcocks closest peers straddle multiple sectors, not just support services, and the broader group makes the calibration more robust.
Other information The awards are not subject to re-testing.
The TSR element will vest only to the extent the Committee is satis ed that the recorded TSR is a genuine re ection of the underlying performance of the Company over the performance period.
EPS is adjusted to exclude acquired intangible amortisation, but, unless the Committee decides otherwise in respect of any item, is after exceptional items.
Real EPS growth is that in excess of the change in the retail prices index.
The awards carry the right to receive on vesting a payment equal to the value of any dividends paid in the period between grant and vesting but this right applies only to the shares that actually vest under the award.
Exercise periods commence not less than three years from actual or nominal award grant date.
CSOP and PSP awards are linked so that in aggregate the holder cannot receive more gross value from them than a standalone PSP award of shares equal to the relevant award multiple of the Directors base salary.
Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 107 Deferred Bonus Plan awards nil price options 2011: Scheme Deferred Bonus Matching Plan deferred annual bonus and voluntary deferral awards nil price options 2012 and 2013: Performance period Not applicable: these awards represent amounts of annual bonus mandatorily DBP and or mandatorily and voluntarily DBMP deferred into awards.
Awards under the DBP vest and become exercisable two years, those under the DBMP three years, after the date of grant.
The DBP awards made in 2011 vested in July 2013.
Other information Deferred annual bonus awards are subject to potential forfeiture if the holder leaves before the awards vest other than by reason of death, disability, redundancy, retirement or the company or business in which they are employed ceasing to be part of the Group.
The number of shares into which bonus has been mandatorily deferred may be reduced by the Committee if the accounts by reference to which the bonus was calculated have to be materially corrected or if, in the opinion of the Committee, there is evidence that performance against performance conditions in the bonus year or the impact of that performance on the Group in respect of future financial years was or will be materially worse than was believed to be the case at the time of the original assessment.
The shares carry the right to dividends in the period of deferral, but payable only when the shares are released.
Scheme Deferred Bonus Matching Plan nil price options 2012 and 2013 matching awards Performance period For the 2012 awards: 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2015.
Match that can vest General Performance target EPS growth test Comparative TSR test ROCE test under each measure Maximum Real compound annual Outperformance ROCE of 20.5% 2012 0.33x maximum growth of 12.5% of the median TSR 23.5% 2013 or more 2012 11% 2013 performance for the peer or more group taken as a whole by 9% or more Threshold Real compound annual TSR performance ROCE of 17.5% 2012 0.042x maximum growth of 4% equivalent to the median 21.5% 2013 for the peer group as a whole Intermediate growth Intermediate ranking Intermediate ROCE Straightline basis between the between the between the between 0.042x and above points above points above points 0.33x maximum Real compound annual Performance less ROCE of less than 17.5% 0x growth of less than 4% than equivalent to 2012 21.5% 2013 median for the whole peer group TSR comparator group For the TSR element the peer group is the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services.
Other information Matching awards are not subject to re-testing.
ROCE is underlying Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT after amortisation of acquired intangibles but before exceptional items and including IFRIC 12 investment income and the Groups share of the EBIT of JVs, as a percentage of Average Capital Employed where Capital Employed is calculated as Total Shareholders Equity plus Net Debt or minus Net Funds, as stated in the Companys consolidated audited accounts for the relevant Financial Year: and Average Capital Employed will be calculated as the average of the opening and closing value of Capital Employed for each year of the Performance Period.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 108 Remuneration report continued Linkage of remuneration to strategic objectives, risk management and its alignment with shareholder interests The Committee links the remuneration of executives to the long-term interests of shareholders and key strategic and risk management objectives by the performance criteria it uses in the annual bonus and long-term incentive schemes.
Examples include the following: Strategic Objective SO Risk R Annual bonus scheme metric Long-term incentive metric SO R: Delivering superior and sustainable Financial measures focused on annual Incentivising delivery of top quartile value for our shareholders, whilst balancing delivery of sustainable earnings and or shareholder returns and earnings growth risk and reward.
pro ts with stretch targets, whilst over the longer term.
maintaining strict control of cash.
Long-term measures and deferral of signi cant part of annual bonus to guard against short-term steps being taken to maximise annual rewards at the expense of future performance.
Setting challenging budgets and stretch targets, as well as nonfinancial measures speci cally aimed at: laying the foundations for sustainable growth in speci c geographical and existing and new business markets: winning key bids and re-bids: fostering strategically important partnering arrangements.
SO: Developing and maintaining leading Speci c nonfinancial objectives for: market positions in the UK and selected progressing plans for entry into or overseas markets.
expansion in targeted domestic and overseas markets: securing key business development milestones.
SO: Building and maintaining customerObjectives linked to: focused, long-term relationships with customer satisfaction: strategically important customers.
continuing improvement of R: Loss of business reputation, poor management processes: contract performance.
meeting and planning for existing and future customer expectations on capability and compliance, for example, in the eld of security and information assurance.
SO R: Ensuring the Group will continue Nonfinancial objectives linked to talent Retentive nature of the long-term schemes.
to retain and attract the suitably quali ed development and succession planning, and experienced people it needs to and fostering employee engagement.
deliver its growth and strategic plans, Retentive nature of the requirement for maintain and develop its technical and deferral into shares of 40% of annual management expertise.
bonuses earned by senior executives.
SO R: Maintenance of an excellent health, Overriding health, safety and safety and environmental record.
environmental performance criterion in annual bonus schemes.
Exit payments made in year audited No exit payments were made to Executive Directors during the year under review.
Payments to past Directors audited No payments were made to past Directors in the year.
Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 109 Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman Percentage change in CEO remuneration The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors receive xed fees.
The table below shows the percentage change in CEO These fees are reviewed against market practice from time to remuneration from the prior year compared to the average time by the Chairman and the Executive Directors in the case percentage change in remuneration for other employees.
of the Non-Executive Director fees and by the Remuneration The analysis is based on UK employees as they are operating in Committee in respect of the fees payable to the Chairman.
the same geography and economic background as the CEO.
The fees were last reviewed as of 1 April 2013.
% change 2012 13 to 2013 14 Year to Year to 31 March 31 March Other 2015 2014 CEO employees Annual rate of fees Base salary 9% 2.4% Chairman 295,000 295,000 1 Taxable bene ts 75% 4.5% Senior Independent Director Single-year variable 2.3% 4.2% inclusive of basic fee 65,000 65,000 1.
Represents an increase from 20k for 2012 13 to 35k for 2013 14.
Basic Non-Executive Directors fee 55,000 55,000 Chairmanship of Audit and Relative importance of spend on pay 1 Risk Committee 12,500 12,500 2012 13 2013-14 % change Chairmanship of Remuneration Distribution to shareholders 94m 107m 13% 1 Committee 12,500 12,500 Employee remuneration 1,065m 1,151m 8% 1.
Committee chairmanship fees are paid in addition to the basic applicable Non-Executive Directors fee.
No additional fees are paid for membership of Committees.
Performance graphs The following graph shows the TSR Total Shareholder Return for the Company compared to the FTSE100 Index and FTSE350 Support Services Index, assuming 100 was invested on 31 March 2009 investment in the Company was worth 346 on 31 March 2014.
The Board considers that these indices currently represent the most appropriate of the published indices for these purposes as it provides a view of performance against the broad equity market and sector index of which the Company is a constituent.
The table below details the CEOs single gure remuneration and actual variable pay outcomes over the same period.
Babcock International vs: FTSE350 Support Services Index and FTSE100 Index 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 Babcock FTSE 100 Index FTSE350 Support Services Index Babcock CEO single gure of remuneration and % of variable awards vesting 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 Single gure k 1,706 1,792 2,185 2,731 3,603 Bonus vesting % max 97% 98% 99% 99% 93% DBMP matching shares vesting % max n a n a n a n a n a PSP CSOP vesting % max 100% 82.9% 57.8% 58.8% 94.7% Value of 100 invested on 1 April 2008 Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 110 Remuneration report continued Directors share ownership Directors interests in shares audited The interests of the Directors and or their spouses in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 March 2014, and Directors interests in shares and options under Babcocks long-term incentives are set out in the sections below: At 31 March 2013 At 31 March 2014 Shares held Shares held Options held Unvested Unvested Owned Owned Vested but and and outright by outright by subject to Vested subject to subject to S holding Current director or director or holding but not performance continued req.
shareholding 1 1 2 2 Director spouse spouse period exercised conditions employment % salary % of salary Req.
Current shareholdings for comparison with the shareholding requirements for Executive Directors is calculated based on shares owned outright by Director or spouse, options vested but subject to holding periods, options vested but not exercised and options unvested and subject to continued employment, valued assuming exercise of options on 31 March 2014 and calculated post-tax.
Disclosure of these shareholdings in next years annual report will re ect the rights issue which completed during May 2014.
There have been changes to directors or their spouses shareholdings between 31 March 2014 and 19 May 2014 as a result of taking up of rights in the Rights Issue made by the Company as announced on 27 March 2014.
Shares owned outright by director or spouse At 31 March At 19 May Director 2014 2014 Peter Rogers 889,639 1,231,807 Bill Tame 451,645 526,929 Archie Bethel 194,197 262,063 Kevin Thomas 168,150 230,081 John Davies 18,962 26,255 Mike Turner 40,000 55,384 Justin Crookenden 11,647 16,126 David Omand 00 Ian Duncan 00 Kate Swann 5,000 6,923 Anna Stewart 00 Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 111 Directors share-based rewards and options audited The table below shows the various share awards held by Directors under the Companys various share schemes.
The Companys mid-market share price at close of business on 31 March 2014 was 1,347p.
The highest and lowest mid-market share prices in the year ended 31 March 2014 were 1,471p and 1,027p, respectively.
Market value of each share at date of exercise 9 August 2013 1,197p.
Market value of each share at date of exercise 14 August 2013 1,177p.
L-TIP 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan: PSP 2009 Performance Share Plan: CSOP 2009 Company Share Option Plan: DBP 2009 Deferred Bonus Plan.
DBMP 2012 Deferred Bonus Matching Plan.
Further details about these plans and, where applicable, performance conditions attaching to the awards listed are to be found on pages 103 to 107.
The PSP, DBP, DBMP and L-TIP awards are structured as nil priced options.
DBP awards and DBMP basic awards represent the amount of the annual bonus mandatorily deferred and DBMP voluntary deferral awards represent the amount voluntarily deferred by the Director, in each case converted into shares at their value at the award date.
Subject to the rules of the scheme concerned, including as to meeting performance targets for PSP, LTIP, CSOP and DBMP Matching Awards.
Where this date is less than ten years from the date of award, the Committee may extend the expiry date on one or more occasions, but not beyond the tenth anniversary of the award.
The vesting of the CSOP award is subject to performance measures that are identical to those for the PSP award granted on the same date.
When a CSOP award is granted at the same time as a PSP award, the PSP award has two parts.
The CSOP and PSP awards are linked so that the maximum aggregate number of shares that can be acquired on exercise of the two awards is limited to that number of shares that had a market value on the date of the awards and after deducting any exercise price payable on exercise of the CSOP award equal to the relevant grant multiple of the Directors base salary at the date of the awards the Limit.
This is achieved making the level of vesting of Part B of the PSP Award accord to the level of vesting of the linked CSOP award but the actual number of vested Part B award shares that can be exercised is then limited according to the exercise price on the day of exercise such that the total value of Part B PSP award shares so exercisable does not then exceed the exercise price payable on exercise of the vested CSOP award.
If there is less than full vesting, it is possible for the Director to choose to exercise the CSOP to its fullest extent within the Limit and then to exercise the PSP award to the extent of any balance left within the Limit.
The actual number of shares capable of being exercised under Part B of the PSP award can only be determined on the exercise date as explained in note 5 above.
Awards shown in the table for John Davies for 2010, 2011, and 2012 were made prior to his appointment as a Director, which took effect on 1 January 2013.
Outstanding awards will be adjusted to re ect the rights issue which completed during May 2014 using a standard adjustment factor of 1.13417.
Any reference price, including the exercise prices shown will also be adjusted.
The actual number of PSP 2010 Funding shares capable of being exercised can only be determined on the CSOP exercise date, but cannot exceed 4,840.
Market value on vesting cannot exceed market value on award of relating CSOP 2010 awards.
General Notes: 1. Dividend equivalent cash an amount representing dividends earned of 68.4p per vested share had accrued on the PSP 2010 awards and of 43.2p per vested share on the DBP 2011 awards, in each case for the period between grant and vesting.
It is payable by the Company to the award holder on exercise of the award concerned.
DBP awards represented, on award, the gross amount of annual bonus compulsorily deferred into shares out of the annual bonus awards in respect of the financial year 2010 11.
Closing Share Price on the last dealing date before vesting was for PSP 2010 and CSOP 2010 awards 1,173p 13 July 2013, and for the DBP 2011 awards 1,112p 14 June 2013.
This Remuneration report was approved by the Board on Other interests 19 May 2014 and signed on its behalf by: None of the Directors had an interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking of the Company or in any signi cant Justin Crookenden contracts of the Group.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee External appointments of Executive Directors in 2014 19 May 2014 The table below details the fees received by Peter Rogers and Bill Tame during the year, in respect of their other directorships, which are retained by the Executive Director.
Fees received Name of director Company 000 Peter Rogers Galliford Try 42 Bill Tame Carclo 36
