Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY It is intended in practice to operate the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy from the 2014 AGM.
For the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, the Policy will only take legal effect on 1 January 2015 subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
The Committee considers remuneration policy annually to ensure that it remains aligned with business needs and is appropriately positioned relative to the market.
However, in the absence of exceptional or unexpected circumstances which may necessitate a change to the Policy, there is currently no intention to revise the Policy more frequently than every three years.
We use target performance to estimate the total potential reward and benchmark it against reward packages paid by BAE Systems competitors.
Our Policy is to set base salary with reference to the relevant market-competitive level.
Actual total direct reward re ects the performance of the individual and the Company as a whole.
The aim is to deliver an overall remuneration package for executive directors which provides an appropriate balance between short-term and long-term reward and between xed and variable reward as described in the table below.
Whilst our long-term incentive plans provide the Committee with discretion in respect of vesting outcomes that affect the actual level of reward payable to individuals, such discretion would only be used in exceptional circumstances and, if exercised, disclosed at the latest in the report on implementation of the remuneration policy i. e. the Annual Remuneration Report for the year in question.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS POLICY TABLE BASE SALARY Purpose and link to strategy Recognise market value ofrole and individuals skills, experience and performance to ensurethe business can attract and retaintalent.
Operation Salaries are reviewed annually.
Business and individual performance, skills, the scope of the role and the individuals time in the role are taken into account when assessing salaries, as is market data for similar roles in the relevant market comparator group.
The comparator group for UK executive directors is comprised of selected companies from the top 70 of the FTSE 100 and is constructed to position BAESystems around the median in terms of market capitalisation.
For the President and Chief Executive Of cer of BAESystems, Inc. the comparator group is drawn from companies in the US aerospace and defence sectors, together with similar organisations in the general industry sector where BAESystems, Inc. is positioned at the median of the comparator group by reference to revenue size.
Maximum opportunity When considering salary increases for the executive directors in their current roles, the Committee considers the general level ofsalary increase across the Group and in the relevant external market.
Actual increases for the executive directors in their current roles will generally not exceed the average percentage increase for employees as a whole, taking account of the level of movement within the relevant UK US comparator group.
As a maximum, in exceptional circumstances such as a material increase in job size or complexity, or arecently appointed executive director where the salary is positioned low against the market, the increase will not exceed 10% in any single year.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable None.
ANNUAL INCENTIVE Purpose and link to strategy Drive and reward annualperformance ofindividuals and teams on both financial and nonfinancial metrics, including leadership behaviours in order to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value.
Compulsory deferral into shares increases alignment with shareholder interests.
Operation 7580% of the annual incentive is driven off in-year financial performance, and 2025% is based on driving performance and improvement in the area of corporate responsibility and other nonfinancial objectives supporting the Groups strategy.
One-third of the total annual incentive amount is subject to compulsory deferral for three years in BAESystems shares without any matching.
A clawback mechanism exists under which part or all of the deferred bonus can be recovered if performance for which the bonus was awarded is subsequently restated orshown to be materially inaccurate or misleading or where the executives employment can be terminated forcause.
Cash dividends are payable to the participants on the shares during this three-year deferral period.
Maximum opportunity Chief Executive and the President and Chief Executive Of cer of BAESystems, Inc. : 225% of salary Group Finance Director: 160% of salary The pay-out for maximum performance is 200% of on-target.
The pay-out for achieving a threshold performance is 40% of the target, with no pay-out for achieving less than this.
Pay-out for performance between targets is calculated on a straight-line basis.
BAE Systems 84 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS POLICY TABLE continued ANNUAL INCENTIVE continued Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable Metrics and weightings applicable in2014: Group earnings per share EPS 40% Group cash 25% Order intake 15% Safety 5% Personal objectives 15% Performance is assessed on an annual basis, using a combination ofthe Groups main performance indicators for the year.
Themeasures include financial and nonfinancial metrics as well as theachievement of personal objectives.
Measures will beweighted each year according to business priorities.
See notes 4 and 5 on page 88 regarding the selection and weighting of performance metrics.
Notwithstanding performance against the above metrics, all bonus payments are at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, which will be based on an assessment of the individuals personal contribution to business performance over therelevant year and leadership behaviours demonstrated in making that contribution, relative to others.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVES LTI Operation All awards are granted based on a percentage of salary and share price at the date of grant.
Dividend equivalents in respect of vested shares are paid at the time of vesting and are not taken into account when determining individual limits.
Pre-vesting clawback provisions apply to all awards and are intended to cover situations, for example, where results are restated or otherwise turn out to be materially inaccurate or where the executives employment can be terminated for cause.
The Committee will establish the targets for each measure at the start of each performance period based on Group projections and market expectations for the business.
The performance conditions for previous awards are described in the Annual Remuneration Report.
Awards and performance conditions can be adjusted totake account of variations of share capital and other transactions or events.
On a change of control or similar transaction, awards generally will vest to the extent performance conditions are then satis ed ifapplicable and then be pro-rated to re ect the acceleration of vesting unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Alternatively, awards may be exchanged forequivalent awards over shares in the acquiring company.
The share plan rules may be amended from time-to-time by the Committee in certain circumstances including minor changes for administrative, tax or otherregulatory purposes.
Subject to this Policy, performance conditions may be amended in other circumstances if the Committee considers it appropriate.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable See notes 4 and 5 on page 88 regarding the selection and weighting of performance metrics.
Operation It is proposed to consolidate the three long-term incentive plans described below into a single umbrella plan with effect from 1 1January 2015, subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
Maximum opportunity 1 Subject to shareholder approval of the proposed umbrella plan at the 2014 AGM, over the lifetime of this remuneration policy, theCommittee will have discretion to vary the weighting and mix of different types of awards within the following limits: a Performance Shares: UK executive directors: Between 50% and 75% of overall LTI Expected Value EV US executive directors: Between 25% and 50% of overall LTI EV b Share Options: Between 25% and 50% of overall LTI EV c Restricted Shares: Applicable to US executive directors only.
No more than one-third of overall LTI EV The maximum opportunity in respect of each element is as set out below.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable See below in relation to Performance Shares and Share Options.
Approved at the AGM on 7 May 2014.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 85 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS POLICY TABLE continued LONG-TERM INCENTIVES PERFORMANCE SHARES Purpose and link to strategy Drive and reward delivery of sustained long-term EPS and Total Shareholder Return TSR performance aligned to the interests ofshareholders.
Operation Awards, typically in the form of nil-cost options, vest and become exercisable in three tranches on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of grant, subject to performance conditions.
For US participants, awards are delivered as conditional share awards RSUs which vest automatically on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of grant, subject to performance conditions.
Maximum opportunity Chief Executive: 250% of salary Group Finance Director: 215% of salary President and Chief Executive Of cer of BAESystems, Inc. : 242% of salary Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable Metrics and weightings applicable to 2014 awards: 50% of award based on TSR growth relative to a comparator group of at least 12 companies over the three-year performanceperiod.
Nil vesting if TSR ranked below median in the peer group: 25% exercisable if TSR ranked at the median: 100% exercisable ifTSR ranked in the upper quintile: pro-rata vesting for performance between median and upper quintile.
Award subject to asecondary financial measure as set out on page 77.
50% of award based on average annual EPS growth over the three years with nil vesting at average annual EPS growth of5%and 100% vesting at 11% growth.
Pro-rata vesting for intermediate performance.
50% of awards made in 2012 and 2013 for US participants were based on long-term operating cash performance measured atthe level of the US businesses in place of TSR growth.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVES SHARE OPTIONS Purpose and link to strategy Drive and reward delivery of TSR performance and sustained improvement in the Companys share price.
Operation Subject to a TSR performance condition.
Market value options are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of their grant.
Maximum opportunity Chief Executive: 300% of salary Group Finance Director: 300% of salary President and Chief Executive Of cer of BAESystems, Inc. : 390% of salary Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable For share option awards made to theexecutive directors only, exercise is subject to a TSR performance condition as set out above.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVES RESTRICTED SHARES Purpose and link to strategy Provide long-term reward through time-vesting awards principally in the Companys US market.
Operation The shares are subject only to the condition that the participant remains employed by the Group on the vesting date three years after the award date.
These awards are not subject to a performance condition as it is designed to address retention issues principally in the US.
Maximum opportunity Chief Executive and Group Finance Director: Not eligible President and Chief Executive Of cer of BAESystems, Inc. : 100% of salary Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable None.
BAE Systems 86 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS POLICY TABLE continued BENEFITS Purpose and link to strategy Provide employment bene ts which ensure that the overall package is market competitive when these elements are taken intoaccount.
Operation Bene ts include provision of a company car or cash equivalent, life assurance and ill-health bene t cover which are provided directly or through membership of the Companys pension schemes.
Opportunity for UK executive directors to participate in the Share Incentive Plan, a tax approved all-employee plan.
Additional bene ts such as relocation assistance may also be provided in certain circumstances if considered reasonable and appropriate by the Committee.
Maximum opportunity Bene ts are set at a level which the Remuneration Committee considers to be appropriate against comparable roles in companies of similar size in the relevant market.
Relocation assistance comprises reimbursement for direct items of expenditure, such as legal, estate agency, removals and temporary accommodation, based on actual costs incurred which are linked to the size and value of the property, plus a maximum relocation allowance of 2,500.
Bene ts are as reported and itemised within the single total gure shown as part of the Annual Remuneration Report on page 70.
The main bene ts in the UK include a car allowance 16,000 per annum and private use of a chauffeur-driven car, plus life assurance and ill-health bene t cover provided through membership of the Companys pension schemes.
In the US, the bene ts include a cash allowance for car and parking $20,900 per annum and private use of a chauffeur-driven car, medical and dental bene ts, and insured life and disability bene ts.
The maximum cost of such bene ts will re ect the associated market-competitive cost of provision.
Participation limits for the Share Incentive Plan are those set by the UK tax authorities from time-to-time.
PENSION Purpose and link to strategy Provide competitive post-retirement bene ts or cash allowance equivalent.
Operation For any new externally appointed executive directors in the UK, membership of the Companys executive fide ned contribution planis offered with Company contributions set as a percentage of base salary.
Individuals may elect to receive some or all of their pension contribution as a cash allowance.
Current UK executive directors are members of the BAESystems Executive Pension Scheme and members of the underlying employee pension plan, which provide a target bene t for executive directors payable at normal retirement age 62 of 1 30th of final pensionable earnings FPE for each year of service up to a maximum of two-thirds of FPE.
Further detail is provided on page 75 as part of the Annual Remuneration Report.
Any new externally appointed US executive directors would be offered membership of the US fide ned contribution plan.
Maximum opportunity Company contribution of 19% in addition to employee contribution of 6% of base salary only.
Under the existing fide ned bene t scheme, a maximum of two-thirds of FPE accrued at 1 30th for each year of service.
The US fide ned contribution plan provides 100%company matching contributions upto amaximum of 6% of base salary, subjectto US statutory limits.
Operation Where executive directors pension entitlement or accrual is restricted to the Lifetime Allowance and or the Annual Allowance under the relevant pension scheme the Company may offer an unfunded pension promise to offset the impact of these restrictions.
Maximum opportunity The difference between the value of the registered pension scheme bene ts as restricted to the Lifetime Allowance and Annual Allowance and the full value of those registered pension scheme bene ts that would be payable if there were no Annual Allowance or Lifetime Allowance restrictions.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 87 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Notes to the executive directors policy table Remuneration policy for other employees 1 The Companys approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the scope of the role, level of experience, performance and market data for similar roles in other companies.
2 All leaders may participate in an annual bonus scheme with similar metrics to those used for the executive directors.
Other employees may participate in performance-based incentive plans which vary by organisational level and with relevant metrics for the particular area of the business.
3 Long-Term Incentive grants may be made to the most senior managers in the business approximately 250 individuals globally.
The nature of the awards depends onthe individuals location, roles and responsibilities, in particular: performance measures and targets for performance share grants are made in line with those applying to executive directors: there are no performance conditions attached to share option grants below executive director level: and Restricted Share grants are currently made to the most senior managers in the US re ecting competitive market practice.
Performance measures and targets 4 The Committee selected the performance conditions because these are central to the Companys overall strategy and are the key metrics used by the executive directors to oversee the operation of the business.
The nonfinancial performance targets are determined by the Committee in consultation with the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
5 The performance measures and targets are determined annually by the Committee, taking account of the Groups strategic objectives, the internal business planand budgets, aswell as external market expectations and general economic conditions.
The Committee is of the view that the performance targets for the annual bonus are commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose them before the start of the financial year.
The targets will be disclosed retrospectively after the end of the relevant financial year.
Minimum Shareholding Requirement MSR 6 The Committee has agreed a policy whereby the executive directors are required to establish and maintain a minimum personal shareholding equal toa set percentage of base salary.
An Initial Value must be achieved as quickly as possible using shares vesting or options exercised through the executive share option schemes and other Long-Term Incentive schemes by retaining 50% of the net value i. e. the value after deduction of exercise costs and tax of shares acquired under these schemes.
Once the Initial Value is achieved, a Subsequent Value must be achieved in the same way, except that a minimum of 25% of the net value must be retained on each exercise or acquisition.
Shares owned bene cially by the director and his her spouse count towards the MSR.
The MSR does not apply after the individual has ceased to be a director.
Any case of non-compliance would be dealt with by the Committee.
The following table sets out MSR Initial Value and Subsequent Value: Initial Value Subsequent Value Chief Executive 150% 300% Group Finance Director 100% 200% President and Chief Executive Of cer of BAE Systems, Inc. 175% 350% Illustration of application of remuneration policy CHIEF EXECUTIVE 000 The charts opposite show the value of the package each of the executive directors would receive based on 2014 base salaries, MAXIMUM 20% 33% 47% 6,643 remuneration and 2014 LTI awards assuming the following ON-TARGET 38% 31% 31% 3,513 scenarios: minimum xed pay including salary, bene ts and pension as provided in the single gure table on page 70 : pay MINIMUM 100% 1,346 receivable assuming on-target performance is met: and maximum 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 Value of package 000 pay assuming variable elements pay out in full.
The scenarios opposite exclude any share price appreciation and dividends.
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR 000 UK legislation requires that these charts are given in relation tothe first year in which the remuneration policy takes legal MAXIMUM 35% 23% 42% 3,746 effect.
Rather than providing further charts for assumed 2015 ON-TARGET 57% 19% 24% 2,268 remuneration and awards, we invite shareholders to assume MINIMUM 100% 1,289 similar levels for 2015 and we will report on actual levels in 2015.
0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 Value of package 000 PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF BAE SYSTEMS, INC. $000 MAXIMUM 27% 29% 44% 7,321 ON-TARGET 47% 26% 27% 4,121 MINIMUM 100% 1,959 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 Value of package $000 Fixed elements of remuneration Annual bonus PSP and Share options BAE Systems 88 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NEDs POLICY TABLE FEES Purpose and link to strategy To attract NEDs who have a broad range of experience and skills to provide independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
Operation NEDs fees are set by the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee.
NEDs receive a basic fee with an additional fee for those who are chairmen of committees and or undertake the role of Senior Independent Director.
NEDs also receive a travel allowance per meeting on each occasion that a scheduled Board meeting necessitates air travel of more than five hours one way to the meeting location, subject to a maximum of six travel allowances per year.
Fees are typically reviewed annually, taking into account time commitment requirements and responsibility of the individual roles, and after reviewing practice in other comparable companies.
The Chairmans fees are set by the Remuneration Committee on a three-year basis and not normally subject to review during thatperiod.
Maximum opportunity Actual fee levels are disclosed inthe Annual Remuneration Report for the relevant financial year.
The current Chairmans fee has been set at 650,000 and xed at this level for three years from the date of appointment 1February 2014.
The aggregate cost of fees and bene ts paid to NEDs including the Chairman will not exceed an annual limit of 2.5m.
BENEFITS Purpose and link to strategy Reimbursement for reasonable and documented expenses incurred in the performance of duties.
Operation NEDs are not eligible to participate in any pension bene ts provided bythe Company, nor do they participate in any performance-related incentives.
The Chairman is provided with a chauffeur-driven car.
This may be used for non-Company business, but the cost of the bene t of such usage shall be paid by the Chairman.
Reimbursement of travel and subsistence costs including payment of the associated tax cost incurred by the director or his her spouse whilst undertaking duties on behalf of the Company that may be assessed as a bene t for tax purposes.
Maximum opportunity See the aggregate limit under Fees above.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 89 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Prior commitments The Company will honour any commitments made in respect of executive director and non-executive director remuneration before the date on which either: i the Directors Remuneration Policy becomes effective or ii an individual becomes a director, even where such commitments are not consistent with the policy prevailing at the time any such commitment isful lled.
This includes 2012 without limitation all existing share awards as detailed on pages 80 and 81 under the PSP, SMP, RSP, ExSOP and ExSOP, LindaHudsons leaving arrangements as detailed on page 71 and Peter Lynas second residence allowance as detailed on page 70.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The recruitment policy provides an appropriate framework within which to attract individuals of the required calibre to lead a company of BAESystems size, scale and complexity.
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration package for anyappointment to an executive director position, either from within or outside BAE Systems.
Operation The Remuneration Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors, including overall total remuneration, the type ofremuneration being offered and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited, and will operate in order to ensure thatarrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary to secure the individual of the required calibre.
The fees and bene ts applicable to the appointment of any new non-executive directors will be in accordance with the policy tableon page 89.
Opportunity The Committee seeks to align the remuneration package offered with the policy set out in the executive directors policy table above recognising that participation under the policy above varies by geography.
For UK and other non-US executive director appointments, participation in annual incentive plans will not exceed 225% of annual salary and long-term awards under this policy will not exceed 550% of annual salary.
For US executive director appointments, participation in annual incentive plans will not exceed 225% of annual salary and long-term awards under this policy will not exceed 750% of annual salary.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy-out existing equity or, in exceptional circumstances, otherelements of remuneration forfeited on leaving the previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash orshares and the time over which they would have vested.
Buy-out awards would be capped to be no higher, on recruitment, thanthe fair value of those forfeited.
Full details will be disclosed in the next Annual Remuneration Report following recruitment which will include details of the need to grant a buy-out award.
Fixed elements base salary, retirement and other bene ts The salary level will be set in accordance with the policy described in the executive directors policy table above.
The executive director shall be eligible to participate in applicable BAE Systems employee bene t plans, including coverage underapplicable executive and employee pension and bene t programmes in accordance with the terms and conditions of suchplans, as may be amended by the Company in its sole discretion from time to time.
In the case of promotion of an existing Group employee to an executive directorship on the Board, commitments made before such promotion will continue to be honoured whether or not they are consistent with the remainder of this policy.
Annual Incentive Plan The appointed executive director will be eligible to earn a discretionary annual bonus in accordance with the Annual Incentive framework as described in the executive directors policy table above.
The level of opportunity will be consistent with the policy disclosed in the executive directors policy table in this report and subject to the maximums referred to therein.
Long-Term Incentive Plans The executive director will be eligible for equity awards in such amounts as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion, subject to this policy and the rules of the Long-Term Incentive Plans.
The level of opportunity will be consistent with the policy set out in the executive directors policy table above and subject to the maximums referred to therein.
Other For internal and external appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses in accordance with the provisions described under the Bene ts section of the policy table on page 87.
BAE Systems 90 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance Service contracts Executive directors Operation In accordance with long-established policy, all executive directors have rolling service agreements which may be terminated in accordance with the terms of these agreements.
Dates of appointment for executive directors Name Date of appointment Notice period Ian King 27 June 2008 12 months either party Peter Lynas 1 April 2011 12 months either party 1 Jerry DeMuro 1 February 2014 90 days either party 1 Jerry DeMuros contract of employment automatically renews for one-year periods from 31 December each year, unless one party gives at least 90 days notice of non-renewal.
Notice period The Committees policy is that the service contracts of executive directors will not exceed 12 months.
In exceptional circumstances, in relation to newly recruiting an executive director operating in a US environment, the notice period may be extended to a maximum of24 months and structured such that it automatically reduces to 12 months at the end of the first complete year of service.
Change of control No executive director has provisions in his service contract that relate to a change of control of the Company.
Chairman The Chairmans appointment is documented in a letter of appointment and he is required to devote no fewer than two days a week to his duties as Chairman.
His appointment as Chairman will automatically terminate if he ceases to be a director of the Company.
His appointment is for a term of three years from 1 February 2014 unless terminated earlier in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association or by the Company or the Chairman giving not less than six months notice.
The Chairmans appointment is to be reviewed by the Nominations Committee prior to the end of the three-year term and the Chairman may be invited to serve for an additional period.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but do have letters of appointment detailing the basis of their appointment.
Retired from the Board on 31 December 2014.
Note: The above table has been amended to re ect the position as of 18 February 2015.
The non-executive directors are normally appointed for an initial three-year term that, subject to review, may be extended subsequently for further such terms.
Any third term of three years is subject to rigorous review, taking into account the need progressively to refresh the Board.
They do not have periods of notice and the Company has no obligation to pay compensation when their appointment terminates.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors are subject to annual election or re-election at the CompanysAGM.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 91 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Policy on payment for loss of of ce Operation The policy on payment for loss of of ce provides a clear set of principles that govern the payments that will be made for loss ofof ce, and take account of the need to ensure a smooth transition for leadership roles during times of change.
The policy that will apply for a speci c executive directors payment for loss of of ce will be the policy that was in place at the point when the payment for loss of of ce was agreed for the executive director in question.
Notice and pay in lieu of notice Executive directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from either party or termination by way of payment inlieu of notice, at the Companys discretion.
Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
In the event of the termination of an executive directors contract, it is the Committees policy to seek to limit any payment made in lieu of notice to a payment of not more than one years base salary.
Any compensation payment made in connection with the departure of an executive director will be subject to approval by the Remuneration Committee, having regard to the terms of the service contract and the speci c circumstances surrounding the termination, including whether the scenario aligns to an example under the approved leaver criteria, performance, service and health or other circumstances that may be relevant.
Jerry DeMuros contract of employment automatically renews for one-year periods from 31 December each year, unless one partygives at least 90 days notice ofnon-renewal.
If the employment is a terminated by the Company other than for cause asde ned in the contract or b he resigned for a Good Reason asde ned in his contract, he is entitled to a termination payment equal to i one years base salary and ii a pro-rated bonus for the relevant financial year.
Hewill also be entitled to acontinuation of medical bene ts for 18 months or a cash payment in lieu.
Retirement bene ts As governed by the rules of the relevant pension plan.
No enhancement for leavers will be made.
Annual Incentive Plan The Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to make an annual incentive payment as part of the termination package.
Where an executive directors employment is terminated after the end of a performance year but before the payment is made, the executive director will remain eligible for an annual incentive award for that performance year subjectto an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
No award will be made in the event ofgross misconduct.
Where an executive director leaves by reason of death, ill-heath, retirement, a transfer of business or redundancy, the Remuneration Committee may use its discretion to determine that an executive director is entitled to receive a bonus subject toan assessment based on performance over the period and pro-rated for time in respect of the financial year in which the individual ceased employment.
If the Remuneration Committee regards it necessary to use their discretion, it must be shown how this is in the interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Committees policy is not to award an annual incentive for any portion of the notice period not served.
Long-Term Incentive Plans The treatment of outstanding share awards in the event that an executive director leaves is governed by the relevant share planrules.
Under the Long-Term Incentive Plans, awards and options generally vest and or become exercisable where an executive director leaves by reason of ill-health, injury, disability, retirement with the agreement of the Company, redundancy or leaving in such circumstances as the Committee determines each an approved leaver.
Awards and options generally continue and vest on thenormal vesting date or, in the case of Performance Shares, the first normal vesting date, unless the Committee determines that the awards should vest on cessation.
Any performance conditions will be applied at the time of vesting.
In the event of death, awards generally vest at the time of death subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at thattime.
Awards are then pro-rated as set out below.
On the vesting and or exercise of awards and or options as set out above, the number of shares received will, unless the Committee decides otherwise, be reduced pro-rata to re ect the period in which the executive director was in employment as aproportion of the relevant vesting or performance period as applicable.
Where an executive directors employment is terminated for any other reason, his awards and options will lapse.
If the Remuneration Committee regards it necessary to exercise its discretion as permissible under the share plan rules, thendisclosure will include an explanation of how the application of discretion was in the best interests of the Company and itsshareholders.
Where an executive directors employment is terminated or an executive director is under notice of termination for any reason atthe date of award of any Long-Term Incentive awards, no Long-Term Incentive awards will be made.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The Remuneration Committee does not consult directly with employees as part of the process for reviewing executive pay.
Whenconsidering salary increases for the executive directors, the Remuneration Committee considers the general level of salaryincrease across the Group and inthe external market.
Stakeholder considerations The Remuneration Committee conducts an annual programme of consultation with major shareholders in order to seek their inputto the development of remuneration policy or plans.
