STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholders, On behalf of the Board, I am delighted to present the Remuneration Committees Report for 2014.
We were pleased by the level of shareholder support received for our 2013 Remuneration Committee Report in our first year of reporting under the new reporting regulations.
In implementing the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy, we stated that it would apply for three years with 2015 being the CARL SYMON first year of operation.
I am pleased to CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE con rm that, for 2015, no revisions are Members proposed to our executive remuneration framework which would constitute a change Carl Symon Chairman to the Policy.
However, we remain committed Chris Grigg to continued transparency and engagement with our shareholders and have consulted Nick Rose with our major shareholders on proposed changes to our executive remuneration Governance arrangements for 2015 which may be made The Remuneration Committee was in place throughout 2014 and held six at the discretion of the Remuneration meetings.
All its members are independent in accordance with the provisions Committee as follows: ofthe Code.
Earnings per Share EPS performance The Chief Executive and the Companys Chairman attend Committee meetings condition applicable toLong-Term Incentive by invitation only.
They do not attend where their individual remuneration is LTI grants discussed and no director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
The current LTI performance metrics of Summary of responsibilities 5%to11% average annual EPS growth with nil vesting at threshold were developed Agreeing a policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors, during a period of high-growth expectations members of the Executive Committee EC, the Company Secretary and other from our shareholders commensurate with senior executives the then market opportunities.
The metrics Within the agreed policy, determining individual remuneration packages for are no longer deemed appropriate given the theChairman, executive directors and EC members recent changes in the market for defence companies.
It is proposed to set a Agreeing the policy on terms and conditions to be included in service performance range of 3% to 7% average agreements for the Chairman, executive directors, EC members, the Company annual EPS growth for 2015 awards of Secretary and other senior executives, including termination payments and Performance Shares under the Long-Term compensation commitments, where applicable Incentive Plan LTIP as this will provide Approving any employee share-based incentive schemes and any performance executives with an appropriately challenging conditions to be used for such schemes and meaningful incentive to drive performance which, at the same time, delivers a level of Determining any share scheme performance targets financial performance which supports capital market expectations.
Achievement of The Committees full Terms of Reference, which are reviewed each year by performance at the threshold level represents theBoard, are available on the Companys website.
signi cant challenge due to the dependency on winning several pivotal orders.
For this reason, it is proposed that there should be a level of reward equal to 25% ofmaximum for achievement of threshold.
Average annual EPS growth of 5% will achieve 50% vesting with full vesting requiring 7% growth.
Whilst not straight-line vesting as currently, this vesting pro le will provide a potential reward for the executives which re ects the unique set of market challenges which are expected in the next several years.
It is intended that the revised EPS performance condition is also subject to the same quality of earnings performance hurdle as applies to the Total Shareholder Return TSR condition, such that awards willnot vest unless the Board is satis ed that there hasbeen a sustained BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 67 Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED improvement in theunderlying financial an 11% reduction was achieved in the design objective is an appropriate balance of performance oftheCompany taking account Recordable Accident Rate and a reduction short-term and long-term incentives, focused of items such as cash, order book, risk and of over 30% in the number ofmajor most on Group performance, business segment projectperformance.
performance and leadership behaviours that underpin a Total Performance culture.
In relation to performance over the The Committee intends to review the three-year period 2012 to 2014: performance condition again for 2016.
The focus of changes to our reward framework in recent years has been to improve threshold TSR was achieved: Malus and clawback provisions alignment with shareholder value creation EPS performance was impacted by the Re ecting the changes to the malus and and address the perceived complexity of challenges in US markets and performance clawback provisions in the 2014 UK ourlong-term incentive arrangements by issues identi ed previously.
In addition, Corporate Governance Code, the Committee simplifying our arrangements.
We believe the base year, 2011, included a one-off has determined the following: theapproval ofthe single LTI plan at the bene t of 5.9p from an agreement with A two-year clawback period will be added 2014 AGM achieves simpli cation of our theUK tax authorities: and to the end of the three-year vesting period arrangements and have, therefore, focused operating cash performance in the US applicable to Share Options and Restricted this year on ensuring that our long-term business was impacted by the market Shares awarded under the LTIP.
This will incentives are appropriately rewarding our challenges and performance issues mean that shares delivered on vesting executive team only when their performance referred to above.
andexercise will, except in exceptional delivers tangible business results in line circumstances, be held on the participants withthe Groups strategy.
Decisions for 2014 behalf until the fifth anniversary of vesting.
2014 annual bonus pay-outs for the Key changes for 2015 This policy amendment will apply to all executive directors ranged from 56.5% The Chief Executive Of cer has elected awards made from and including 2015 to to74.5% of maximum.
tonot take any base salary increase for the executive directors and to all members Performance Share Plan PSP awards athird successive year.
granted in March 2012 to UK executive For the first time since 2012, the The Committee has also extended the directors will partially vest in 2015 as salaryofthe Group Finance Director is fide nition of circumstances and trigger performance exceeded the TSR threshold: tobe increased, by 2%, with effect from events to cover the emergence of financial EPS portion will lapse.
black holes which emerge regardless of to the US executive director will lapse as To recognise his performance in role, whether they affect the results for the year the operating cash and EPS measures thesalary of the President and Chief on which the incentive is based.
Executive Of cer of BAE Systems, Inc. same time, the Committees ability to Share Matching Plan SMP matching istobe increased, by 2%, with effect trigger malus or clawback on the grounds award granted in March 2012 will lapse from1January 2015. of misconduct has been extended to in2015 as EPS condition not met.
First awards to be made under the coversituations which give rise to Share options granted in March 2012 tothe approved single LTI plan in Spring 2015. disciplinary action short of termination.
executive directors will partially vest as Proposed performance range of 3% to This policy amendment will apply to all performance exceeded the TSR threshold.
7%average annual EPS growth with 25% awards made from and including 2015 vesting at threshold to apply to 2015 Approval at the 2014 Annual General toallparticipants.
Meeting AGM by shareholders ofa single We will also maintain our requirement for umbrella LTI plan with exibility to award Strengthening of malus and clawback executive directors to build up a signi cant Performance Shares, Share Options and provisions to re ect the changes in the personal shareholding, which stands at Restricted Shares to the US executive 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code 300% of salary for the Chief Executive, 350% director only within set award limits.
applicable to the executive directors and for the President and Chief Executive Of cer all members of the Executive Committee.
In relation to the retirement of Linda of BAE Systems, Inc. and at 200% forthe Hudson as President and Chief Executive For the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, Group Finance Director.
Of cer of BAE Systems, Inc. the the legally binding restrictions under the Business performance in 2014 Committee con rmed all elements of Policy took legal effect from 1 January 2015.
In 2014, BAE Systems delivered a solid remuneration to be actioned in line with As stated in last years Annual Report, the overall performance.
Pages 18 to 21 set policy and as disclosed in last years Policy has been operated in practice from outthe performance against our 2014 Annual Report.
annual objectives, which focus on In relation to the appointment of Jerry On behalf of the Board deliverables in support of both short-term DeMuro as President and Chief Executive results and the overall long-term strategy.
Carl Symon Of cer of BAE Systems, Inc. the Committee For the purpose of incentives applicable Chairman of the Remuneration Committee con rmed all elements of remuneration to tothe executive directors: be actioned in line with policy and as order intake of 15.1bn was between disclosed in last years Annual Report.
target and stretch performance: Context to the Committees decisions for 2015 P70 Executive directors remuneration excluding the prior year retrospective Our remuneration strategy is to motivate our bene t from the Salam price escalation, key talent to realise the Companys strategic underlying earnings per share increased objectives, deliver on customer commitments, P72 Annual bonus to38.0p, which was between target and lead and inspire employees, and drive value stretch performance: for our shareholders.
It recognises the need net debt of 1,032m achieved stretch to be competitive in those markets in which performance: and P73 Long-Term Incentive Plans we operate and compete for talent.
A core BAE Systems 68 Annual Report 2014
