Directors Report continued Remuneration Report Annual Statement from the Chairman During the 2013 14 financial year the Company made significant progress against these objectives and continues to perform of the Remuneration Committee well, as is illustrated in Table 5 below.
Table 5 Company performance 2013 14 2012 13 2011 12 1 restated Profit before tax m 390.6 104.5 100.0 2 Earnings per share p 31.2 14.5 8.1 ROCE % 19.5 11.5 8.3 Land bank years 4.7 4.4 4.1 Net cash debt m 73.1 25.9 167.7 1 The Consolidated Income Statement has been restated for the comparative year following the adoption of IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits in the year.
See note 3 to the Financial Statements.
2 Adjusted earnings per share before exceptional items.
Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration 2013 14 Remuneration Outcomes Report for the financial year ended 30 June 2014 on behalf Based on the Groups performance, the Committee approved of the Remuneration Committee.
As we did last year and the following remuneration for the Executive Directors in respect in accordance with the requirements of the Large and of the 2013 14 financial year: Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendments Regulations 2013, which became Annual bonus mandatory for us this financial year, we have divided this In July 2013 when the Committee was setting the objectives Remuneration Report into the following parts: for the annual bonus, budgeted profit before tax was around The Directors Remuneration Policy on pages 64 to 74 sets out 297m.
Accordingly, the Committee established a target level the Companys proposed policy on Directors remuneration.
of 300m, with a minimum profit before tax threshold for the This policy will be presented to shareholders for a binding vote bonus at 285m and a maximum threshold of 345m.
If approved, the Policy will be effective from financial year ended 30 June 2014, the Group achieved profit 12 November 2014 for a period of three years provided no before tax of 390.6m 2013: 192.0m before exceptional changes are required during this period: and items, an increase of 103.4% from the previous year.
In addition, The Annual Report on Remuneration is set out on pages the Group moved from a net debt of 25.9m to a cash surplus 75 to 86 and details the Directors remuneration outcomes: of 73.1m, return on capital employed for the Group was at how such remuneration is linked to the performance of 19.5% and the Group achieved 4.7 years supply of owned and the Group and how the Policy will apply in respect of the controlled land.
Taking these factors into consideration, together 2014 15 financial year.
It also sets out Governance matters with the individual contributions of all senior managers within the such as the Committee membership and the business the Group in achieving strong results across all operating metrics, Committee undertook.
The Annual Report on Remuneration the Committee concluded that maximum bonus awards for will be presented to shareholders for an advisory vote at the Executive Directors after taking into account adjustments for 2014 AGM.
the value of land as set out on page 76 was justified.
Bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary will be deferred into Our strategy and performance shares for a period of three years and will be subject to a The Committee aims to ensure that Executive Directors continued employment condition.
Remuneration is clearly linked to the Groups strategy of delivering sustainable shareholder value and Executive Long Term Performance Plan Directors are appropriately rewarded for performance The performance period for the award made on 20 October against the Groups key financial objectives.
Both of the total shareholder return and earnings per share performance conditions applicable to this award were tested after the 2013 14 financial year end.
The total shareholder return of the Group was in the top quartile compared to the performance of the comparator group comprising the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts and the Group achieved adjusted basic earnings per share of 31.2 pence per share.
Accordingly, 100% of the total shareholder return element and 91.62% of the earnings per share element vests on 20 October 2014.
The participants of the 2011 12 LTPP will therefore receive 95.81% of the award granted to them in October 2011.
The relevant number of shares net of any tax and national insurance liabilities will be issued to each of the participants in October 2014.
62 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information 2014 15 Remuneration Shareholding requirements Taking into account the improved business environment, With effect from 1 July 2014, the Committee amended the the Companys evolving strategy and feedback received shareholding requirements applicable to Executive Directors from shareholders on the Companys remuneration policy, and senior managers.
Under the revised requirements the the Committee undertook a detailed review of the remuneration Group Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Directors for Executive Directors and senior managers.
As a result of this must hold shares in the Company equivalent to 200% and review, the Committee has approved a number of changes to 150% of base salary respectively.
In addition, the Committee Executive Remuneration for the financial year ending 30 June has introduced a shareholding requirement of 100% of base 2015, which increase the emphasis on sustaining and improving salary for senior managers.
The requisite level of shareholding performance of the business with particular focus on return on must be attained within five years of appointment or, in the capital employed.
The changes are summarised below: case of current employees, within five years of the revised requirements coming into effect.
Base salary fees Increases in base salary for the 2014 15 financial year have been Changes to the Board limited to 3% for Executive Directors and senior management in Rod MacEachrane stepped down as a Non-Executive Director, line with the increase awarded to all employees across the Group.
and consequently as a Committee member, at the last AGM There is no change to the fees of the current Chairman or the and currently there is no intention to replace him see page 52 of Non-Executive Directors.
See pages 84 and 86 for further details.
As announced on 11 March 2014, Bob Lawson will be stepping down from his position as 2014 15 Annual bonus Chairman of the Board at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
He The maximum bonus potential has been maintained at 150% will be replaced by John Allan, who joined the Board as a of base salary for any bonus earned in respect of the 2014 15 Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate on 1 August financial year.
Any bonus in excess of 100% will be deferred 2014.
John will receive a fee of 48,000 per annum pro-rata for into shares in the Company for a period of three years and the period 1 August 2014 to 12 November 2014, which is in line subject to a continued employment condition.
The Committee with the fee paid to the other Non-Executive Directors.
On his has however revised the performance measures and their appointment as Chairman of the Board, Johns fee will increase weightings by reducing the weighting against profit before tax, to 300,000 per annum.
The Board approved this fee following increasing the weighting against employee engagement and a benchmarking exercise undertaken by New Bridge Street introducing Health and Safety and Customer Service as new against other companies with a similar market capitalisation to performance measures, as opposed to penalties for nonthe Company.
Full details of the performance measures to be used and their respective weightings are set out on page 84.
Conclusion Throughout the year the Committee complied with those 2014 15 LTPP Award aspects of the UK Corporate Governance Code relevant to Consistent with the approach taken last year, the Committee its business and took into account the remuneration guidelines intends to make awards to Executive Directors and senior and guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, management under the LTPP during the 2014 15 financial year the National Association of Pension Funds and Pensions the 2014 15 LTPP.
The level of the award to be granted will Investment Research Consultants when setting the Executive continue to be no more than 200% for the Executive Directors.
The Committee continues to Following consultation with major shareholders in May 2014, demonstrate its accountability on executive remuneration to the Committee has introduced return on capital employed as shareholders through this report and through regular dialogue.
an additional performance condition to this award, such that As in previous years, the Committee engaged with key the award will be subject to three performance targets: total institutional investors and shareholder representative bodies shareholder return, absolute earnings per share and return on in respect of the policy for Executive Directors and senior capital employed, with each representing one-third of the award.
managers for the forthcoming year and took into account the feedback received from this process when setting this policy.
To further enhance the alignment of the interests of Executive Directors and senior management with those of shareholders, I would like to thank all shareholders for their support of our the Committee has also, in respect of the 2014 15 LTPP and remuneration policy to date and hope that you will continue future awards, introduced a two year holding period before to support the Remuneration Report at this years AGM by shares which vest under the 2014 15 LTPP and future long term voting in favour of both the Directors Remuneration Policy performance plan awards can be sold, other than to settle any and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
tax and national insurance due.
Further details on the 2014 15 LTPP can be found on page 85.
Richard Akers Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 9 September 2014 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 Directors Report continued Remuneration Report: Directors Remuneration Policy The Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy, as set on pages 64 to 74 will, subject to shareholder approval, apply for a period of three years from 12 November 2014 and is available to view at www.
The Committee will continue to review the Policy on an annual basis in the context of the business environment, regulation, best practice and market trends for the current and subsequent financial years.
It will also ensure that the fixed and variable remuneration elements are simple, transparent and continue to be aligned with the interests of shareholders and designed to reflect the views of our investor shareholder bodies and other stakeholders.
Should any changes be required to the Policy within the three years, the Policy will be re-presented to shareholders for approval.
Future Policy Table The following table sets out a summary of the Companys remuneration for the Directors.
A description of how the Company intends to implement the Policy set out in this table for the 2014 15 financial year can be found on pages 84 to 86.
Purpose and link to Changes to 2014 15 remuneration 1 2 Element of pay Companys strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Description of performance metrics policy from the previous year Base salary To help promote the long term Normally reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months with effect from 1 July.
There is no prescribed maximum annual increase.
N A No change success of the Company and The Committee considers: The Committee is guided by the general increase to attract and retain highi.
individual responsibilities, skills, experience and performance: for the broader UK employee population but on calibre Executive Directors ii.
salary levels for similar positions in other major housebuilders and other companies considered occasions may need to recognise changes in and individuals directly comparable by reference to market capitalisation: the role and or duties of a Director: movement below Board level Senior iii.
the level of pay increases awarded across the Group with the exception of promotions : in comparator salaries: and salary progression Management to implement iv.
economic and market conditions: and for newly appointed directors.
v. the performance of the Group.
For the 2014 15 financial year base salary for To provide a competitive The Committee does have the discretion to vary salaries in the event there are changes to any Executive Directors increased by 3% in line with salary relative to comparable of the above within the 12 month period for which salaries have been fixed.
the increase awarded to employees across companies in terms of size the Group.
The Committee retains the right to approve a higher increase in exceptional cases, such as major and complexity.
changes to the Executive Directors role duties or internal promotions to the position of Executive Director.
In these circumstances a full explanation of the increases awarded will be provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Salaries are paid monthly in arrears.
Benefits To help promote the long term Benefits include: There is no formal maximum.
Benefits are N A No change taxable success of the Company and company car: provided based on market rates.
to attract and retain high-calibre annual medical screening: Executive Directors and Senior private medical insurance: Management and to remain some telephone costs: and competitive in the market place.
contributions towards obtaining independent tax advice.
The Committee does have the discretion to offer other benefits, it deems appropriate, to secure the appointment of a new Executive Director and to ensure that the benefits package for existing Executive Directors remains competitive in the market.
Pension To help promote the long term In accordance with legislation, Executive Directors are enrolled into a workplace pension.
Defined contribution scheme and salary N A No change success of the Company and If Executive Directors choose to opt-out of the workplace pension they can elect to either: supplement: to attract and retain high-calibre participate in the Companys money purchase pension plan: or 30% of base salary Executive Directors and Senior receive a salary supplement.
Defined benefit scheme: Management and to remain Executive Directors are also eligible to an insured lump sum of up to five times pensionable salary 1 60 accrual rate and a retirement age of 65. competitive in the market place.
The defined benefit section of the Groups pension scheme closed to new entrants in 2001 and future accrual of defined benefits for current members ceased to be offered on 30 June 2009.
Steven Boyes remains a member of this part of the scheme.
64 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information The 2014 Directors Remuneration Report uses colour coding throughout the Directors Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration to denote different elements of remuneration, as follows: Base salary Benefits taxable Pension Annual bonus Deferred Bonus Plan LTPP Purpose and link to Changes to 2014 15 remuneration 1 2 Element of pay Companys strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Description of performance metrics policy from the previous year Base salary To help promote the long term Normally reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months with effect from 1 July.
1 The Committee reviews performance targets on an annual basis taking into account performance of the Group throughout the previous financial year, internal and external forecasts and consensus figures for the performance period.
The performance targets are designed to be sufficiently stretching in order to ensure that maximum payout is only achieved for delivering exceptional performance.
2 This column does not form part of the binding policy report but is intended to provide the reader with additional information to help them put the Policy into context.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 Directors Report continued Remuneration Report: Directors Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and link to Changes to 2014 15 remuneration 1 2 Element of pay Companys strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Description of performance metrics policy from the previous year Annual bonus To motivate and reward The Committee sets the performance targets on an annual basis at the start of the relevant 150% of base salary.
Performance measures have been divided Weighting against the financial items Executive Directors and financial year.
Group and individual performance against these targets is measured at the end into three categories: has been reduced: 50% of the potential maximum bonus Senior Management for the of the financial year and the level of bonus payable is calculated at that point.
Financial items e. g. profit before tax : Replacing health & safety and 75% of salary is payable for achievement achievement of demanding Balance sheet items e. g. net debt land creditors: or land customer service penalties with Bonuses up to 100% of base salary are paid in cash.
Any bonus earned in excess of this up to of on-target performance.
financial objectives and key commitment : health & safety and customer service a maximum of 50% of base salary is compulsorily deferred into shares for a period of three years, strategic measures over the Non-financial items e. g. health & safety, customer performance targets: and subject to a continued employment condition.
Deferred shares may be forfeitable if an individual financial year.
service, employee engagement and personal objectives.
Removal of the Committees leaves prior to the release date.
Deferred shares do not accrue dividends.
discretion against the personal The performance targets set Clawback may apply to both the cash and deferred element of the bonus, in the event of material The Committee has the discretion to vary the elements objectives measure so that are stretching whilst having misconduct and or material misstatement or error of financial results.
For full details see page 73. of each of these items and weightings of each component performance is measured regard to the nature and risk When setting bonus targets, the Committee considers the effect of corporate performance on an annual basis to ensure that they remain aligned to entirely against the achievement profile of the Company and on environmental, social and governance risks and sustainability issues generally to ensure the strategy of the business and market conditions.
the interests of its shareholders.
that remuneration structures do not inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviour.
The focus of the performance Financial items will however have majority weighting.
Annual bonus is not pensionable.
targets is to deliver profit growth No Executive Director has any contractual right to receive and to ensure we have an a bonus.
The Committee has an absolute discretion whether adequate land bank acquired or not to award a bonus and as to the level of bonus to be within the constraints of our awarded up to a maximum of 150% of base salary.
The level balance sheet commitments.
of bonus to be awarded will be determined with reference Variable remuneration allows to the performance of the Company against the relevant the Group to manage its cost performance conditions and the underlying financial and base by giving it the flexibility to operational performance of the business relative to the react to changes in the market sector as noted above.
Where the Committee believes that and any unforeseen events.
performance does not warrant the level of bonus determined, it may use its discretion to reduce the award possibly to nil as it deems appropriate.
Long Term To motivate and reward The rules of the LTPP were approved by shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
In accordance with the rules of the LTPP the Subject to three performance conditions, TSR, absolute Introduction of a two-year holding Performance Executive Directors and Senior LTPP awards: Committee has the discretion to grant an award EPS and return on capital employed ROCE.
The TSR period: and Plan LTPP Management for the delivery of i. are structured as nil-cost options and granted annually so that no undue emphasis is placed equal to 200% of base salary to each of the performance condition is monitored on the Committees ROCE included as an additional the long term performance of on performance in any one particular financial year: Executive Directors.
behalf by New Bridge Street NBS whilst EPS and ROCE performance measure.
are at the discretion of the Committee, taking into account individual performance and the performance is verified by the Committee.
The TSR, EPS overall performance of the Group: and ROCE performance conditions were selected by the To facilitate share ownership iii.
vest on the third anniversary subject to achievement of stretching performance conditions Committee on the basis that they reward outperformance by Executive Directors and measured over three financial years and to continued employment: against returns generated by our listed company peers Senior Management.
are satisfied by either newly issued shares or shares purchased in the market.
Newly issued and to ensure efficient and effective management of our The Committee ensures that shares are subject to the dilution limits set out in the scheme rules and in accordance with business whilst aligning interests with those of shareholders.
targets, whilst stretching, are: guidelines from the Association of British Insurers ABI : and The Committee has the discretion to determine the weighting realistic and attainable: for the v. do not accrue dividends.
of each element on the grant of an LTPP award.
long term benefit of the Group: The Committee has the discretion to impose such post-vesting holding periods as it deems fit.
For 25% of an award will vest at threshold performance and do not encourage the 2014 15 LTPP and all future LTPP awards, the Committee has introduced a two-year holding 0% vests below this level increasing pro-rata to 100% inappropriate business risks.
period for shares commencing from the end of the relevant performance period net of any shares vesting for maximum performance.
required to satisfy tax and national insurance liabilities, resulting in an aggregate five-year lifespan for Overall, the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying each award.
financial performance of the Group over the performance LTPP awards made prior to the Policy coming into effect were granted on the same terms as stated period warrants the level of vesting as determined by in the Policy and were subject to total shareholder returns TSR and earnings per share EPS applying the above targets.
If the Committee is not of this performance conditions.
Details of these performance conditions can be found on pages 62 and 81. view, then it is empowered to reduce the level of vesting.
Clawback may apply in the event of material misconduct and or material misstatement or error of financial results.
For full details see page 73.
Deferred Any annual bonus which is The Committee utilises the rules of the Groups Co-Investment Plan the CIP for the purposes Any bonus paid in excess of 100% of salary Any shares awarded remain subject to a continued No change Bonus Plan deferred into shares is held of the DBP.
Under these rules the Committee has a discretion which allows it to award matching is deferred into shares and held in the CIP.
employment condition over a three-year period and DBP in this plan.
shares the Matching Award should it deem appropriate to do so.
good and bad leaver provisions.
Participants also have the opportunity to voluntarily The aim is to encourage DBP awards made prior to the Policy coming into effect were granted on the same terms as stated defer additional amounts of annual bonus up to a Any Matching Awards, if granted, will be subject to long term focus and to further in the Policy and were subject to a continued employment condition.
Further details of these awards maximum of 25% of base salary into the CIP.
performance conditions and levels of vesting similar to align interests with those of can be found on pages 76 and 78. those attached to any LTPP award to be made during Should the Committee decide to make Matching shareholders and discourage the year and will be measured over a period of three years.
Clawback may apply in the event of material misconduct and or material misstatement or error Awards, these may be made at a rate of one for excessive risk taking.
For full details see page 73. one for compulsory deferral and at a maximum of four for one for voluntary deferral.
66 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Purpose and link to Changes to 2014 15 remuneration 1 2 Element of pay Companys strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Description of performance metrics policy from the previous year Annual bonus To motivate and reward The Committee sets the performance targets on an annual basis at the start of the relevant 150% of base salary.
L ong Term To motivate and reward The rules of the LTPP were approved by shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 Directors Report continued Remuneration Report: Directors Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and link to Changes to 2014 15 remuneration 1 2 Element of pay Companys strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Description of performance metrics policy from the previous year Executive Share To encourage or facilitate No awards can be granted under the ESOS in the same financial year as an award is granted under 200% Subject to performance conditions similar to those attached No change Option Scheme the holding of shares in the the LTPP.
to any LTPP award, over a three-year performance period.
ESOS Company by or for the benefit The Committee retains the discretion to make future awards under the ESOS should market The Committee has the discretion to determine the weighting of bona fide employees and conditions dictate that it is more appropriate to grant under the ESOS than the LTPP.
against each performance condition attached to the award.
former employees of the Subject to the relevant performance targets being met, options are normally exercisable up to the Company and its subsidiaries.
10th anniversary of grant or during such shorter period as may be specified at the time of grant.
The last award, made under the ESOS in December 2009, vested in December 2012.
Executive Directors have until 19 December 2019 to exercise their vested option, after which time it will lapse.
Savings Related To promote long term share Under the standard terms of the Sharesave, all employees with a minimum of six months service Save up to the maximum monthly amount Continued employment for the duration of the scheme Increase in the maximum monthly Share Option ownership amongst all as at the invitation date are eligible to participate in the Sharesave.
as specified by legislation or HMRC and as and good and bad leaver provisions.
savings limit from 250 to 500, Scheme employees of the Group approved by the Committee and the Board.
following the change in legislation Employees can elect to save between a minimum of 5 and the maximum monthly savings limit Sharesave in a tax-efficient way, linking by HMRC in October 2013. as approved by the Committee and the Board, for a period of three or five years.
At the end of the The maximum savings level is set by legislation or employee benefits to the savings period the employee has six months in which to exercise their option.
Government from time to time and the Committee performance of the Group reserves the right to amend contribution levels to and to aid retention of staff.
Shareholding To further align the interests Executive Directors and Senior Management are required to build up and retain a shareholding 200% of base salary for the Chief N A Increase of holding from 100% to 3 requirement of Executive Directors and in the Companys shares within five years of being appointed to the Group.
Executive Officer: 200% of base salary for the Chief Senior Management to 150% of base salary for other Executive Executive Officer and to 150% for The share price used for the purposes of determining the value of the shares is that prevailing those of shareholders.
Directors: and all other Executive Directors: and on 30 June in each year.
100% of base salary for Senior Management.
Introduction of a 100% of There is no mandatory requirement for the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, base salary holding for to hold shares however there is an expectation that they will acquire some shares following Senior Management.
Details of the extent to which the Executive Directors complied with this policy as at 30 June 2014 are set out on page 79.
Non-Executive To attract and retain high The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set by the Board on the recommendation Non-Executive Director fees must remain within N A No change Directors fees quality and experienced of a Committee of Executive Directors having regard to the time commitment and responsibilities the aggregate limit approved by shareholders including the Non-Executive Directors associated with the role.
The remuneration of the Chairman is set by the Board on the and incorporated in the Companys Articles Chairman including the Chairman.
recommendation of the Committee, again having regard to the time commitment and of Association.
The current aggregate limit is 600,000.
The remuneration of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors is reviewed annually taking A resolution to increase the aggregate limit into account the fees paid by other companies in the housebuilding sector.
to 800,000 will be put to shareholders for approval at the 2014 AGM.
If approved the Non-Executive Director fees are paid in cash.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in revised aggregate limit will be applicable for the any performance related schemes e. g. annual bonus or incentive schemes nor do they receive three years for which the Policy remains in force.
any pension or private medical insurance or taxable benefits other than the potential to receive gifts at the end of a long-standing term of appointment and travel hospitality benefits related to their role as Directors.
No additional fees are payable for membership of Board Committees however, additional fees are paid to the Chairmen of the Audit, the Remuneration and the Safety, Health and Environmental Committees and the Senior Independent Director.
3 The shareholding requirement relating to Senior Management does not form part of the binding policy but is provided for information purposes only.
68 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Purpose and link to Changes to 2014 15 remuneration 1 2 Element of pay Companys strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Description of performance metrics policy from the previous year Executive Share To encourage or facilitate No awards can be granted under the ESOS in the same financial year as an award is granted under 200% Subject to performance conditions similar to those attached No change Option Scheme the holding of shares in the the LTPP.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69 Directors Report continued Remuneration Report: Directors Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration strategy Performance scenario charts fixed and variable pay The Groups current Remuneration Policy aims to: The Groups policy seeks to ensure that a substantial promote the long term success of the Company and proportion of Executive Directors remuneration is performance attract, retain, motivate and competitively reward Executive related and that enhanced rewards are only paid for exceptional Directors and Senior Management with the experience, performance.
The chart below shows how the composition of skills and ability to support the achievement of the Groups each of the Executive Directors remuneration packages varies key strategic objectives in any financial year: at different levels of performance achievement for the 2014 15 be fully aligned with the performance and strategic financial year.
objectives of the Group applicable for any financial year: reflect the interests and expectations of shareholders Chart 1: Executive Directors potential remuneration and other stakeholders: take account of pay and employment conditions Value of remuneration packages at different levels of performance of employees across the Group: 000 reward the sustained growth and profitability of the business, the maintenance of an appropriate capital 3,500 LTPP award 3,408 structure and improve the return on capital employed 3,250 Bonus by the business: 3,000 Basic salary, benets ensure that exceptional performance against challenging 2,750 and pension 41% targets is adequately rewarded: 2,500 ensure Executive Directors and Senior Management 2,250 2,207 2,181 2,194 maintain a long term focus by deferring any bonus earned 2,000 in excess of 100% of base salary into shares for a 1,750 32% 41% 41% minimum of three years and also by requiring Executive 1,500 1,400 1,412 31% Directors and Senior Management to maintain a 1,250 24% 32% 32% significant shareholding in the Company: 1,000 954 31% 31% conform to market-leading best practice and regulations: 750 24% 24% 618 605 encourage management to adopt a level of risk which is in 500 100% 44% 28% line with the risk profile of the business and as approved 250 100% 44% 28% 100% 44% 28% by the Board: and 0 ensure that there is no reward for failure: that termination Min OnMax MinM OnMax Min Onax Target Target Target payments are limited to those if any that the Executive Director is contractually entitled to: and in exercising its Mark Clare, David Thomas, Steven Boyes, Group Chief Group Finance Group Chief discretion, the Committee robustly applies the good and Executive Director Operating officer bad leaver provisions as defined in the rules of each of the share schemes operated by the Group.
Benefits the value receivable in the 2014 15 financial year is taken to be the value received in the 2013 14 financial year as disclosed in the Single figure of remuneration table on page 75: 2.
Bonus the on-target level of bonus is taken to be 50% of the maximum bonus opportunity.
No share price appreciation has been assumed for the deferred share amount payable at maximum bonus: and 3.
LTPP Award the on-target vesting level is taken to be 50% and the maximum value is taken to be 100% of the face value of the award at grant.
No share price appreciation has been assumed.
70 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Recruitment of Executive Directors Executive Directors service contracts The Committee will determine the remuneration for any new Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are Executive Directors in accordance with the Policy as set out included in Table 6 and their emoluments are shown in Table 8 in the Future Policy Table on pages 64 to 69 and will take into on page 75.
The Companys policy is for all Executive Directors consideration each of the following elements: including new appointments service contracts to be for a rolling 12 month period which can be terminated by 12 months notice Salary and benefits the Committee will take into account given by either the Company or by the Executive Director at any market data for the scope of the job and remuneration for the time.
The service contracts entitle Executive Directors to the relevant role, the salaries of and benefits provided to existing provision of a company car, annual medical screening, private Executive Directors, the new Executive Directors experience, medical insurance, some telephone costs and contributions to location and current base salary and benefits package.
In the the cost of obtaining independent tax advice.
The Committee event an Executive Director is recruited at below market levels, regularly reviews contractual terms for Executive Directors to their base salary may be re-aligned over a period of time e. g. ensure that they continue to reflect best practice.
two to three years subject to their performance in the role.
The Committee may also agree to cover relocation costs if it deems All Executive Directors appointments and subsequent it appropriate.
re-appointments are subject to election and annual re-election by shareholders at the Companys annual general meeting.
Pension Executive Directors will be auto-enrolled from the date of recruitment unless they opt-out.
If an Executive Director Table 6 Executive Directors service contracts chooses to optout they may elect to receive a pension Executive Service Date of supplement in cash.
The Committee has discretion to Director contract date appointment Notice period determine the level of pension supplement to be awarded to Mark Clare 12 November 2012 2 October 2006 12 months the Executive Director, up to a maximum of 30% of base salary, David Thomas 16 January 2013 21 July 2009 12 months having regard to the pension supplement given to existing Steven Boyes 21 February 2013 1 July 2001 12 months Executive Directors.
Alternatively, the Executive Director may choose to join the defined contribution money purchase pension plan provided they meet all of the eligibility criteria.
Executive Directors service contracts are available for The Executive Director also has the option to receive some inspection by any person at the Companys registered of their pension entitlement in cash and have the remainder office during normal office hours.
contributed to the defined contribution money purchase pension plan, provided this does not, in aggregate, exceed Executive Directors policy on payment on loss of office 30% of base salary.
There are no specific provisions for compensation on early termination except for payment in lieu of holidays accrued but LTPP new Executive Directors may be able to participate untaken or loss of office due to a change of ownership of the in the LTPP on terms to be considered by the Committee on Company.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional a case by case basis.
Any award made to the new Executive payments where such payments are made in good faith: a in Director will usually be on the same terms as set out in the discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages Future Policy Table on page 66.
The level of the award will be for breach of such an obligation : or b by way of settlement no greater than that made to existing Executive Directors and or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the will be pro-rated based on the number of weeks remaining termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
outstanding of the relevant performance period.
The Committee will apply mitigation against any contractual obligations as it deems fair and reasonable and will seek legal The Committee may also consider buying out incentive awards advice on the Companys liability to pay compensation.
The which an individual would forfeit upon leaving their current Committee also seeks to reduce the level of any compensation employer, again this would be reviewed on a case by case payable and takes into account, amongst other factors, basis.
The Committee would however in all cases seek the individuals and the Groups performance: the Directors validation of the value of any potential incentive that is being obligation to mitigate their own loss: and the Directors length of forfeited and take into account the proportion of the service when calculating termination payments.
The Committee performance period remaining of the award, the type of award reserves the right to phase any such payments if it deems that i. e. cash shares and the performance achieved or likely to be it is appropriate to do so.
Any amount that the Committee achieved.
Replacement share awards, if any, will be capped at decides to pay an Executive Director will be based on the the amount forfeited and will be subject to the performance main elements of Executive Remuneration namely, base salary, conditions applicable under the terms of the Companys annual bonus subject to the Committees discretion, benefits Executive Director share scheme in operation at the time.
The Committee also takes into account the rules of the annual bonus and LTPP Schemes when determining any Where an individual is recruited internally to the position of payments for loss of office as follows: Executive Director, the Company will honour any pre-existing contractual commitments.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71 Directors Report continued Remuneration Report: Directors Remuneration Policy continued Annual bonus in terms of the annual bonus, in accordance Non-Executive directorships with the provisions contained within the service contracts, Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted Executive Directors are not usually entitled to any bonus to accept one non-executive directorship outside the Company payment other than in circumstances where they are deemed and retain any fees received from such a position.
Executive by the Committee as a good leaver, which includes but is not Directors are not allowed to take on the Chairmanship of any limited to redundancy, retirement, ill-health or disability or any FTSE 100 company.
Board approval will not be given for any other circumstance which the Committee may decide, unless non-executive position where such appointment would lead they remain employed and are not under notice as at the to a material conflict of interest or would have an effect on the payment date.
Any bonus payment for a good leaver will be Directors ability to perform their duties to the Company.
based on the individual performance of the Executive Director concerned as well as the Companys performance during the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors letters relevant period.
Such payment will be pro-rated depending of appointment on the proportion of the bonus period worked by the The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors are relevant individual.
appointed under terms set out in a letter of appointment.
They do not have service contracts and their appointments can be Deferred bonus for any bonus deferred into shares, if the terminated by the Board without compensation for loss of Executive Director is deemed to be a good leaver as defined office and by giving the appropriate length of notice as above, he will be entitled to retain the shares subject to settling prescribed in their respective letters of appointment.
any tax and national insurance liability that may become due on release of the shares.
In all other cases, the shares will The notice period applicable, from either party, for the Chairman lapse immediately on the date that the Executive Directors is three months and for each of the other Non-Executive Directors employment with the Company ends and there is no is one month.
Under governance policies approved by the entitlement to any compensation for the loss of the shares.
Board, Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year term and usually serve a second three-year term subject to In the event any Matching Awards have been granted to the performance review and re-election by shareholders.
Beyond Executive Director, these will lapse immediately unless the this a further term of up to three years may be served subject individual is leaving for a permitted reason this includes, but to rigorous review by the Chairman and the Nomination is not limited to, redundancy, retirement, ill-health or disability.
Committee and re-election by shareholders.
Details of If the Executive Director is leaving for a permitted reason, the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment can be unvested award will become vested and the number of shares found in Table 7. subject to the award will be pro-rated based on the number of weeks of the performance period that have been completed Table 7 Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment and the level of the performance conditions that have been Date elected Date first Date last met up to that date.
Non-Executive re-elected appointed re-appointed Director at AGM to the Board by the Board LTPP under the rules of the LTPP, unless the Executive 1 Bob Lawson 13 November 2013 1 June 2008 1 June 2014 Director is deemed by the Committee to be a good leaver 2 John Allan N A 1 August 2014 N A as defined above any LTPP awards held by him will lapse on Tessa Bamford 13 November 2013 1 July 2009 1 July 2012 cessation of his employment.
If he is a good leaver, the number Mark Rolfe 13 November 2013 1 May 2008 1 May 2014 of shares subject to the award will be pro-rated based on the Richard Akers 13 November 2013 2 April 2012 N A number of weeks of the relevant performance period completed Nina Bibby 13 November 2013 3 December 2012 N A by him.
No shares will however, be released to the Executive 1 As announced on 11 March 2014 Bob Lawson will be stepping down from his position as Director, until the normal vesting date, being three years from Chairman of the Board at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
His letter of appointment has therefore been renewed for the period up to and including 12 November 2014. the date of grant.
During this time the shares will continue to be 2 John Allan joined the Board on 1 August 2014 as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman subject to the relevant performance conditions until the end of Designate.
He will succeed Bob Lawson as Chairman of the Board with effect from the the performance period, at which point the Committee will test conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
the performance conditions and determine how much, if any, of the remaining shares will vest.
The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Companys Change of control the rules of each share scheme operated registered office during normal office hours.
by the Company contain provisions relating to a change of control.
In the event that a change of control does occur any unvested options awards will become vested on the date of the relevant event.
However, the number of options awards that vest will be pro-rated depending on the number of weeks completed within the relevant performance period and the level of performance conditions achieved during that period.
Options awards which have already vested as at the date of the relevant event may still be exercised within the prescribed timescales set out in the rules.
72 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Gifts to Directors on leaving employment Statement of consideration of pay and employment The Committee reserves the discretion to approve gifts to long conditions elsewhere across the Group serving Directors who are retiring or who are good leavers The level for all employees salaries is determined with reference e. g. those leaving office for any reason other than dismissal to the rate of inflation, salaries for similar positions throughout or misconduct.
The value of the gift for any one Director shall the industry and general themes and trends in respect of be limited to a maximum of 5,000 and where a tax liability remunerating employees.
is incurred on such a gift the Committee has the discretion to approve the payment of such liability on behalf of the Director When reviewing the pay and employment conditions of in addition to this maximum limit.
Executive Directors and Senior Management, including increase in base salary, the Committee takes into consideration the pay Legacy arrangements and employment conditions of all employees across the Group.
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Policy, authority The Company does not directly consult with employees when is given to the Company to honour any previously disclosed setting Executive Directors remuneration, however the commitments entered into with current or former Directors Company does have forums through which employees including, but not limited to, payment of pensions or the vesting can ask questions on such matters should they so wish.
exercise of past share awards.
Differences between Executive Directors and Clawback Employees remuneration Both the annual bonus including any deferred bonus and any The following differences exist between the Companys policy matching element and the LTPP are subject to the Companys for the remuneration of Executive Directors as set out in the power of clawback the Clawback for a period of two years Future Policy Table on pages 64 to 69 and its approach to the following vesting.
The Clawback is applicable in respect of any payment of employees generally: annual bonus paid deferred and to any share awards granted a lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity may under the LTPP or the ESOS in respect of the financial year apply to employees other than the Executive Directors and ended 30 June 2010 and later years, subject in the case of certain senior executives.
All employees, including Executive HMRC approved options, to such approval.
In addition, the Directors and Senior Management, are subject to the same Clawback will also apply to any awards granted under any performance targets, however the weightings against the senior manager share schemes.
various targets may vary: Executive Directors and Senior Management are required The Clawback can be invoked if: to defer any bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary a it is necessary to restate the Groups accounts used to into shares for a period of three years: calculate a participants entitlement to bonus or share awards Executive Directors may opt to receive a cash supplement in circumstances where the original over-statement has led to in lieu of being auto-enrolled or contributing to the defined a bonus being paid deferred or share awards being granted contribution section of the Barratt Group Pension and Life which would not otherwise have been paid or granted: or Assurance Scheme.
In addition, the maximum rate of employers contribution varies between 5% 30% for other b the participant is found guilty of any criminal activity in employees across the Group and 30% for Executive connection with his or her employment and this related Directors: and to an act which led to a bonus being paid deferred or only Executive Directors and Senior Management are able share awards being granted to him or her.
to participate in the LTPP.
A number of select employees operating below Senior Management may be invited to In such circumstances, the Committee may determine that the participate in the Senior Managers Incentive Scheme, bonus and or share award will be retrospectively recalculated.
which is subject to long term performance conditions.
If bonus monies have been paid, the participant will be required to reimburse the Company for an amount up to the total amount In general, these differences arise from the development of the net bonus paid, less any bonus that the Committee of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive determines would have been paid regardless of the event for the various categories of individuals.
They also reflect in question.
If share awards have been granted, the number the fact that, in the case of Executive Directors and Senior of awards or options granted will be reduced accordingly.
Management, a greater emphasis tends to be placed on If the award has vested and shares have been issued to the performance-related pay.
participant, the participant will be required to repay the value of the relevant number of shares based on the Companys closing share price as at the date the shares were issued.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 Directors Report continued Remuneration Report: Directors Remuneration Policy continued Statement of consideration of shareholder views Each year we update our major shareholders upon the Committees application of the Policy and our performance, following the release of the July trading update and in advance of the publication of our Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee takes into account shareholder feedback received from this exercise and any additional feedback received during any meetings from time to time, as part of the Companys annual review of the Policy.
In addition, the Committee will seek to engage directly with major shareholders and their representative bodies should any material changes be proposed to the Policy.
Details of the votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last years remuneration report and any matters discussed with shareholders during the year are detailed throughout this Remuneration Report.
74 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration Report: Annual Report on Remuneration In this section, we describe how the Policy has been implemented throughout the 2013 14 financial year and the resulting payments to Directors and how the Policy will be applied throughout the 2014 15 financial year.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2014 AGM.
2 Includes amount deferred see Table 11 on page 76.
3 Takes into account the decrease in accrued pension net of inflation over the year under the defined benefit section of the Groups pension scheme in accordance with the BIS Regulations.
4 Performance conditions tested after 30 June 2014 and 95.81% of the award is due to vest in October 2014.
Market price of shares has been calculated based on an average market value over the three months to 30 June 2014 3.6916 per share.
5 Re-calculated using share price of 3.3856 per share being the market value of the shares on the vesting date 24 October 2013 as opposed to the market price of 3.0812 per share calculated based on an average market value over the three months to 30 June 2013 as disclosed in last years remuneration report.
6 The Sharesave option granted in March 2010 was subject to a continued employment condition and matured on 1 June 2013.
The value is calculated using a share price of 3.198 per share being the market value of the share on the date of maturity.
Table 9 Non-Executive Directors single figure of remuneration Fees Benefits taxable 2014 2013 000 000 Total Total 2013 14 2012 13 2013 14 2012 13 000 000 Bob Lawson 270 270 270 270 Richard Akers 58 54 58 54 Tessa Bamford 48 48 48 48 Nina Bibby 48 28 48 28 1 Rod MacEachrane 18 48 4 22 48 Mark Rolfe 63 61 63 61 Total 505 509 4 509 509 1 Rod MacEachrane stepped down from his position of Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM on 13 November 2013.
Benefits taxable relates to the gift vouchers presented to Rod as a leaving gift by the Board, including the tax payable on the gift see page 80.
Annual bonus For the year under review, Executive Directors had the potential to earn an annual bonus of up to 150% of base salary, 140% is based on the attainment of Group performance targets and 10% on personal objectives, both of which are linked directly to the Groups strategy.
Any bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary will be deferred into shares for a period of three years.
All targets, Group and personal, were agreed at the beginning of the financial year.
The Group performance targets which applied to the bonus for the 2013 14 financial year and the resulting outturn were as follows: BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 Directors Report continued Remuneration Report: Annual Report on Remuneration continued Table 10 Annual bonus Audited Proportion of total Cash bonus available Actual performance Resulting bonus outturn deferred Payable in Payable in Bonus cash % of shares % target Strategic objective Targets % of salary Achievement % of salary salary of salary Profit Increase profitability Threshold: 285m 20% before tax Target: 300m 50% Maximum: 345m 100% 390.6m 100% 50% 50% Net cash Reduce net debt Threshold: 950m 3% debt and and land creditors Target: 900m 7.5% land creditors Maximum: 825m 15% 706.3m 15% 15% 0% Land bank To ensure appropriate Threshold: 18,000 plots 4% future land supply Target: 19,250 plots 10% Maximum: 21,000 plots 20% 21,478 plots 20% 20% 0% Employee To attract and retain the Minimum: 65% 1% engagement highest calibre of Target: 70% 2.5% individuals Maximum: 75% 5% 78% 5% 5% 0% Personal To focus individuals to Maximum: 5% objectives achieving the Groups personal objectives Mark Clare 10% strategic objectives Maximum: 5% at the David Thomas 10% Committees discretion 10% Steven Boyes 10% 10% 10% 0% Health and To create a safe safety environment for employees and other stakeholders Minimum: 93% No penalty 96% 0% 0% 0% Customer To increase focus on service providing a high quality service to our customers and maintain 5 Star status Minimum: 5 Star status No penalty 5 Star status 0% 0% 0% Table 11 Executive Directors deferred bonus 2013 14 Deferred Bonus 2012 13 Deferred Bonus % of total Amount % of total Amount bonus deferred Number of bonus deferred Number of 3 2 3 2 deferred 000 Shares deferred 000 Shares 1 Mark Clare 50 340 TBC 50 332 101,560 1 David Thomas 50 220 TBC 50 215 65,769 1 Steven Boyes 50 220 TBC 50 215 65,769 1 T he number of shares will be determined based on the share price calculated by averaging the closing middle-market quotations, as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange, for the first five dealing days following the date on which the Group announces its annual results for the 2013 14 financial year.
The actual number of shares awarded in respect of the 2013 14 deferred bonus was not therefore available as at the date of this report and will be disclosed in next years report.
2 Shares are held in the CIP for a period of three years commencing from the date of the award and subject to a continued employment condition.
3 The Executive Directors earned a total bonus of 150% of base salary for both of the 2013 14 and 2012 13 financial years.
Accordingly, any bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary is deferred into shares.
Long Term Performance Plans Vesting of 2011 12 LTPP included in 2013 14 Single Figure Audited The 2011 12 LTPP award granted on 20 October 2011 was based on performance to the year ended 30 June 2014 and will vest on 20 October 2014.
The performance condition for this award and the resulting vesting level is as follows: Threshold Stretch Metric Performance condition target target Actual % Vesting 1 1 2 EPS Absolute EPS growth for the financial year ended 30 June 2014.
14.5p 32p Basic 91.62 2 EPS 31.2p TSR TSR against the constituents of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment Median Upper Rank of 4 100.00 trusts.
25% of this element vests for median performance and 100% of this ranking of quartile of TSR of element vests for upper quartile performance or above.
TSR measured over 97.5 TSR 49 TSR of 239.3% three financial years with a three month average at the start and end of the of 53.8% 97.0% performance period.
Total vesting 95.81 1 Following the Companys refinancing during the last financial year, the Committee informed each participant of the 2011 12 and 2012 13 LTPPs that it would be adjusting the vesting levels, at the end of each of the respective plan periods 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2015 respectively to ensure that participants do not benefit from the expected positive impact upon EPS arising from the refinancing for the relevant parts of those plan periods.
Accordingly, the EPS threshold and stretch targets were increased by 2p each from 12.5p and 30p respectively.
2 The actual earnings per share of 31.2p has been rebased using the corporation tax rate applicable at the date on which the 2011 12 LTPP targets were set, as the subsequent reduction to the rate of corporation tax was not performance related.
The actual earnings per share has also been rebased using the same number of shares in issue as used in the 2011 12 LTPP targets.
The rebased earnings per share used for the purpose of determining vesting, which is directly comparable to the 2011 12 LTPP targets, was 30.0p.
76 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information The Committee considered the underlying financial performance of the Group and was satisfied that the above level of vesting of the 2011 12 LTPP was justified given the continued improvement in the Groups financial results as illustrated on pages 12 to 17 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, the award details for each of the Executive Directors are as follows: Number of Number of Number of Dividends on Estimated 1 2 Executive Director shares at grant shares to vest shares to lapse shares to vest Total value 000 Mark Clare 1,154,786 1,106,401 48,385 N A 1,106,401 4,084 David Thomas 733,198 702,477 30,721 N A 702,477 2,593 Steven Boyes 700,851 671,485 29,366 N A 671,485 2,479 1 The relevant number of shares will be released to each participant as soon as is practicable in October 2014, following the vesting date.
2 The estimated value of the vested shares is based on the average share price during the three months to 30 June 2014 3.6916 per share.
LTPP granted during the year the 2013 14 LTPP Audited On 23 October 2013, the following 2013 14 LTPP awards were granted to Executive Directors: Number of % of face value Vesting Share price at shares over that would vest determined by Basis of award date of grant which award Face value of at threshold performance Executive Director Type of award granted pence was granted award 000 performance over Mark Clare Nil cost option 200% of 325.00 418,830 1,361 25 salary 680,600 Three David Thomas Nil cost option 200% of 325.00 271,230 881 25 financial salary years to 440,750 30 June 2016 Steven Boyes Nil cost option 200% of 325.00 271,230 881 25 salary 440,750 The 2013 14 LTPP is subject to two performance conditions, TSR 50% and EPS 50%.
The levels of vesting against TSR, measured over a three-year period commencing 1 July 2013, and against EPS for the financial year ending 30 June 2016, are as follows: the TSR element will vest in full if the TSR ranks in the top quartile relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
25% will vest at median performance and there will be no vesting for performance below median: and the EPS element will vest in full if EPS for the 2015 16 financial year is 40 pence per share or higher.
This element will reduce to 25% for EPS of 30 pence per share.
There will be no vesting if EPS is less than 30 pence per share.
Vesting will be on a straight-line basis for EPS between 30 pence and 40 pence per share.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests Audited For the financial year ended 30 June 2014 Executive Directors were required to hold shares in the Company equivalent in value to 100% of base salary and must retain all of the net of tax value of any vested LTPP shares until this guideline is met.
As at 30 June 2014, all of the Executive Directors had met the shareholding requirement see Table 13 on page 79.
The interests of the Directors serving during the financial year and their connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the year are shown in Table 13 on page 79.
No notification has been received of any change in the interests below during the period 30 June 2014 to 9 September 2014 inclusive, with the exception of the shares to be deferred in respect of the bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary by Executive Directors for the financial year ended 30 June 2014 as described on page 76.
2 The ESOS is divided into two sub-schemes, one of which is approved under the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 and the other of which is not.
The exercise price is calculated differently for each sub-scheme in accordance with the rules of the ESOS.
Executive Directors have until 9 December 2019 to exercise their options under the ESOS.
3 73.9% of this award vested on 14 October 2013.
The relevant number of shares was released to each participant thereafter following the settlement of any tax and national insurance liabilities due on the shares.
4 This award was tested after 30 June 2014 and 95.81% of the award will vest in October 2014 see page 76 of this Annual Report on Remuneration for further details.
5 Award based on an allocation of ordinary shares equivalent in value to a maximum of 200% of base salary.
Half of the award is subject to a three-year TSR performance condition 100% vesting for upper quartile, 25% for median and no vesting below median and the other half is based on the achievement of an EPS target for the financial year ending 30 June 2015 100% vesting at 26p or higher: 50% at 22p: 25% at 18p and no vesting for below 18p.
There is no re-testing of performance conditions.
6 All unexercised options granted under the ESOP lapsed on 9 October 2013, being the end of the ten year lifespan of the option.
78 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information All conditional awards and share options are subject to an overriding Committee discretion, in that the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period warrants the level of vesting as determined by applying the relevant targets.
If the Committee is not of this view, it has the authority to reduce the level of vesting as it deems appropriate.
Table 13 Directors interests in shares Audited Shareholding including Outstanding share Shareholding excluding deferred shares as a Beneficially Beneficially awards under all deferred shares as a % of salary as at owned as at owned as at employee share plans % of salary as at 30 June 2014 1 July 2013 30 June 2014 as at 30 June 2014 30 June 2014 for information only Mark Clare 1,241,601 1,618,292 3,032,312 888 1,045 David Thomas 312,781 559,761 1,946,694 474 629 Steven Boyes 394,246 622,863 1,883,009 528 678 Bob Lawson 517,023 517,023 N A N A Richard Akers 10,000 40,000 N A N A 1 John Allan 3,102 N A N A Tessa Bamford 31,500 31,784 N A N A Nina Bibby 8,500 N A N A 2 Rod MacEachrane 27,600 27,600 N A N A Mark Rolfe 69,000 70,149 N A N A 1 Figure as at 1 August 2014, being the date John Allan was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate of the Company.
2 Figures as at 13 November 2013 being the date on which Rod MacEachrane stepped down from his position as Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Dilution On maturity or vesting of any of its share incentive schemes the Company satisfies the awards through: a new issue of shares: market purchases: or the Employee Benefit Trust the EBT.
As at 30 June 2014, the Company proposes to satisfy all outstanding Executive options and awards under the LTPP, 2009 10 ESOS, the DBP and the Sharesave through a new issue of shares, subject to the dilution limits described below.
Only awards made to individuals below Senior Management level will be satisfied through shares currently held, or to be purchased in the market, by the EBT.
The Company regularly monitors the number of shares issued under its schemes and the impact on dilution limits.
The Company is satisfied that as at 30 June 2014 its usage of shares is compliant with the relevant dilution limits set by the ABI in respect of all share plans 10% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling ten-year period and discretionary share plans 5% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling ten-year period.
In the event that the outstanding options under each of the schemes to be satisfied through a new issue of shares were to vest and had been exercised on 30 June 2014, the resulting issue of new shares would represent 3.25% of the Companys issued share capital as at that date.
Executive Directors pension arrangements The Companys pension policy for Executive Directors is that on joining the Group they will be auto-enrolled unless they choose to opt-out.
Upon opting-out, the Executive Director may choose to receive a cash supplement which does not count for incentive purposes and or participate in the Companys defined contribution money purchase pension plan.
Each of the Executive Directors has opted to receive a cash supplement of 30% of base salary in lieu of pension.
Only the base salary element of a Directors remuneration is pensionable.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 79 Directors Report continued Remuneration Report: Annual Report on Remuneration continued Defined benefit section Steven Boyes was a deferred member of the defined benefit section of the Barratt Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme the Scheme during the year ended 30 June 2014.
The Scheme was closed to new entrants in 2001 and on 30 June 2009, the Company exercised its consent under the rules of the Scheme and agreed to cease offering future accrual of defined benefits for current members.
Members of the Scheme became eligible to join the defined contribution money purchase section of the Scheme with effect from 1 July 2009.
Up until 30 June 2009, Steven Boyes was an active member of the defined benefit section of the Scheme.
This entitlement was based on a 1 60 accrual rate and a normal retirement age of 65.
Since 1 July 2009 Steven Boyes has been entitled to receive a cash supplement equal to 30% of his base salary per annum.
The last full actuarial valuation of the Scheme as at 30 November 2013 showed a deficit of 34.8m calculated on the basis of the Schemes technical provisions.
The Company and the Trustees of the Scheme have agreed a plan to address the shortfall which requires the Company to continue to make deficit reduction payments of 13.3m per annum until 30 November 2015, followed by payments of 9.5m per annum from 1 December 2015 until 31 December 2016.
The Company will discuss the funding requirements of the Scheme with the Trustees if any material change in the Groups financial circumstances is anticipated.
The valuation for the Financial Statements was updated to 30 June 2014 by a qualified independent actuary and a surplus of 3.1m 2013: deficit of 13.4m is included in the Group Balance Sheet as shown in note 28 of the Financial Statements.
Members of the Scheme are also eligible for an insured lump sum of up to five times pensionable salary on death in service.
Current employees who were members of the defined benefit section of the Scheme at closure also retain their dependants pension entitlements.
No excess retirement benefits have been paid to or are receivable by current and or past directors in respect of their qualifying services during the financial year and there are no arrangements in place that guarantee pensions with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
Payments to Directors leaving the Group Audited The Board presented Rod MacEachrane with 2,000 worth of gift vouchers as a retirement gift to reflect the significant contribution he made to the Board during his eight years of service.
As these vouchers are deemed to be a benefit, they are subject to tax, which the Company settled on Rods behalf.
Payments for loss of office Audited No payments were made in respect of loss of office during the year ended 30 June 2014 30 June 2013: nil.
Five year Group Chief Executives pay Table 14 sets out: i the total pay, calculated in line with the single figure methodology: ii the annual bonus pay out as a percentage of maximum: and iii the long term incentive LTI vesting level for Mark Clare, Group Chief Executive over a five year period: Table 14 Five year Group Chief Executives Pay Audited Five years to 30 June 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Group Chief Executives total pay 000 1,417 1,220 2,099 4,310 6,033 Bonus outturn as percentage of maximum opportunity 90.2 36.6 99.2 100.0 100.0 LTI vesting percentage 0.0 0.0 32.8 73.9 95.81 80 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Total Shareholder Return performance graph Chart 2, prepared in accordance with the BIS Regulations, shows the TSR performance over the last five years against the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts and against an index of listed housebuilders.
The Board has chosen these comparative indices as the Group and its major competitors are constituents of one or both of these indices.
The TSR has been calculated using a fair method in accordance with the BIS Regulations.
Chart 2: Total Shareholder Return Value 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Barratt Developments PLC FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts Index of listed housebuilders This graph shows the value by 30 June 2014 of 100 invested in Barratt Developments PLC on 30 June 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
As a supplementary source of infomation, we also show performance against an index of currently listed housebuilders excluding Barratt Developments PLC and Crest Nicholson, who re-listed in February 2013.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Source: Datastream Percentage change in remuneration of Group Chief Executive compared to employees The table below shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned by the Group Chief Executive between the financial years ended 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2014, compared to that of the total wage bill for all employees of the Group.
Table 15 Percentage change in remuneration Annual Salary Benefits Bonus % change % change % change Group Chief Executive 2.5 10.3 2.5 1 All employees excluding Group Chief Executive 2.9 8.2 18.1 1 All employees and Executive Directors, excluding the Group Chief Executive, who were continuously employed by the Group between 1 July 2012 and 30 June 2014, excluding promotions.
Relative importance of spend on pay The following table shows the Companys actual spend on pay for all employees relative to dividends and profit from operations: Table 16 Relative importance of spend on pay 2014 2013 % change Staff costs including Executive Directors m 308.6 262.0 18 2 Profit from operations m 409.8 249.9 64 3 Dividends m 101.1 24.4 314 2 Profit from operations has been chosen as a metric to compare against as it shows how spend on pay is linked to the Groups operating performance.
3 Includes interim dividend of 3.2 pence per share paid on 20 May 2014 to those shareholders on the register as at the close of business on 22 April 2014 and a final dividend of 7.1 pence per share, value of which has been calculated on the number of shares in issue excluding those held by the EBT as at 30 June 2014.
The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, will be paid on 20 November 2014 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 31 October 2014.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81 Directors Report continued Remuneration Report: Annual Report on Remuneration continued Governance Table 17 Membership and attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings The Committee The main role of the Committee is to design and implement a Number of Member Role Meetings Attended remuneration framework which is aligned to the interests of the Richard Akers Chairman 5 5 shareholders and allows the Group to recruit and retain Executive Tessa Bamford Member 5 5 Directors and Senior Management who are fully focused and 1 Nina Bibby Member 4 5 motivated to achieve and deliver the Groups key business Bob Lawson Member 5 5 strategies.
The Committee operates within terms of reference the 2 Rod MacEachrane Member 1 1 Terms of Reference and governance policies approved annually Mark Rolfe Member 5 5 by the Board and in accordance with the Code.
The full Terms 1 Nina Bibby was unable to attend the April meeting due to an unavoidable clash of diaries on of Reference, which are reviewed annually, are available from taking on a new role with O2.
Nina provided her views on the items of business to the Chairman.
the Companys website at www.
2 Rod MacEachrane stepped down from the Board and from the Committee on 14 November 2013.
Note: 5 Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
Principal responsibilities 5 Number of meetings held whilst a Director.
The principal responsibilities of the Committee undertaken in each annual cycle where appropriate are: The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, determining and reviewing the overall remuneration policy of Tom Keevil, acts as Secretary to the Committee.
the Group with regard to attracting, retaining and motivating Directors and Senior Managers of the experience and calibre In accordance with Code provision D. 2.1, each of the Nonrequired by the Group having regard to remuneration paid to Executive Directors on the Committee including John Allan employees across the Group and an external comparable is considered to be independent with no financial interest in the group of companies: Committees decisions, other than as shareholders and the determining, reviewing and making recommendations to the fees paid to them.
Details of their shareholdings and fees can Board on the remuneration package and terms of appointment be found on pages 79 and 86 respectively.
of the Chairman: agreeing measures and targets in respect of performance Advice Advisers related pay schemes, including long term performance The Committee has authority to obtain the advice of external plans, for all participating employees which are, sufficiently independent remuneration consultants and is solely responsible challenging and motivating, commensurate with sector for their appointment, retention and termination.
During the year practice, and consistent with maximising shareholder value the Committee has taken advice from independent advisers, and the interests and expectations of shareholders: NBS, a part of Aon plc.
NBS was appointed by the Committee agreeing severance arrangements or other compensation as its remuneration consultant in 2008 and is a founder signatory for loss of office or early retirement for the Chairman, to the Remuneration Consultants Groups Code of Conduct.
Executive Directors and Senior Management: In addition to advising the Committee, NBS also provided the determining the total remuneration package of the Group Company with advice on implementing decisions made by the Chief Executive and, after consultation with him, the total Committee and remuneration benchmarking.
NBSs fees for individual remuneration package of each Executive Director providing such advice amounted to 26,716 2013: 16,358 and for each member of the Senior Management team for the year ended 30 June 2014.
In line with best practice, including bonuses, incentive payments, share options the Committee assesses, from time to time, whether the awards and pension arrangements: appointment remains appropriate or if it should be put out to understanding and keeping up to date, with the assistance tender as part of its effectiveness review.
NBSs appointment of its external advisers, on market best practice on was reconfirmed by the Committee in June 2014 after an annual remuneration: and review of the quality of the advice received and fees charged.
undertaking consultations with institutional shareholders on The Committee is comfortable that the NBS engagement remuneration policy and or other aspects of senior remuneration, partner and team, which provide remuneration advice to the as appropriate and ensuring that the Policy is aligned with Committee, do not have connections with the Company that regulatory requirements.
may impair their independence or objectivity.
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that The Committee is also responsible for appointing consultants there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
to advise on Executive Remuneration.
Details of the consultants utilised during the financial year ended 30 June 2014 are set out Aon plc also provided broking services to the Company in in the section titled Advice Advisers.
respect of private medical insurance, Death in Service benefits and Group Income Protection.
Membership Membership of the Committee and attendance at each Mercer Limited has been appointed actuary to the Barratt Group of its meetings during the year is set out in Table 17.
John Pension and Life Assurance Scheme since 2004 and act Allan became a member of the Committee on 1 August 2014, as advisers to the Trustees of the pension scheme.
Hyman when he joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director and Robertson have provided advice to the Company on various Chairman Designate.
82 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information pension issues and Squires Sanders have provided legal advice Non-Executive Directorships on such matters.
Slaughter and May, the Companys corporate During the year, Mark Clare was appointed as a Non-Executive legal advisers, have also provided advice as and when necessary.
Director of United Utilities Group PLC on an annual fee of 59,850.
Subsequently, in July 2014, he became the Senior Independent In addition to advice from external consultants, the Committee Director of United Utilities Group PLC for which he receives an received input into its decision-making from the Group Chief additional fee of 10,000 per annum increased to 12,500 per Executive, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary annum from 1 September 2014.
He will retain both of these fees and the Group Human Resources Director, none of whom in full.
Mark Clare is also a trustee of the BRE Trust and UK GBC were present at any time when their own remuneration was Limited, a member of the Governments Construction Leadership being considered.
Council and he also sits on the CBI Construction Council.
Mark Clare does not receive any fees for these positions.
The time Effectiveness commitment excluding travelling and pre-reading time expected, Following an external performance evaluation by Independent in aggregate, for these positions is approximately 100 hours per Board Evaluation last year, it was agreed that the performance annum.
Neither David Thomas nor Steven Boyes held any of the Committee would be evaluated internally, led by the non-executive directorships with other companies during the year.
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
In line with the revisions proposed to the existing Meetings remuneration policy, a key focus would continue to be ensuring The Committee met on five occasions during the financial year that the remuneration structure and the aggregate value of the and attendance at each of these meetings is described in fixed and variable elements remains appropriate within the Table 17 on page 82 of this report.
market and in the context of the Companys evolving strategy.
The Committee also reviewed its Terms of Reference as part of the annual effectiveness process and concluded that they follow best practice and are fit for purpose.
The matters addressed by the Committee during the 2013 14 financial year were as follows: General remuneration matters Governance Annual bonus Long term incentives Month: July 2013 CEO and Executive Directors Review of the effectiveness of Finalisation of 2013 14 targets Review of impact of financial annual performance review the Committee projects such as the sale of Shareholder consultation letter shared-equity portfolio on the levels of vesting Finalisation of targets for the 2013 14 award August 2013 Annual consultation with shareholders September 2013 Review of Senior Management Approval and sign off of 2012 13 Formal confirmation of bonus fixed and variable remuneration Remuneration Report outcomes in respect of the 2012 13 Review of feedback from shareholders financial year Review of 2013 14 net debt target Approval of personal objectives for Review of the Executive Directors Finalisation of net debt land Review of performance December 2013 Executive Directors and Senior Remuneration Policy creditors land bank targets measures for the 2014 15 Management LTPP Review of process for assessing employee engagement Confirmation of CEO personal Review of the policy on Executive Review of performance targets Review of the criteria for the April 2014 objectives performance targets Directors fixed and variable and weightings introduction of a ROCE following half-year review remuneration performance target for the Review of the Committees work Review and amendment of the Executive 2014 15 LTPP programme and annual agenda Directors and Senior Management shareholding requirements Review and approval of terms of reference May 2014 Consultation with shareholders in respect of the revised remuneration policy June 2014 Approve salary increases for Feedback from shareholders on the Review of performance against Review of EPS, TSR and 2014 15 revised remuneration policy targets for 2013 14 annual bonus ROCE targets for 2014 15 Committee effectiveness Approve performance targets LTPP Review of initial draft of 2014 and weightings for 2014 15 Remuneration Report annual bonus BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83 Directors Report continued Remuneration Report: Annual Report on Remuneration continued Statement of implementation of the Policy for the 2014 15 financial year Executive remuneration package for the 2014 15 financial year In line with its remuneration strategy described on page 70, the Committee has based the Executive Directors remuneration package for the forthcoming year on the following principles: performance-related remuneration should be linked to the achievement of demanding performance targets: performance-related remuneration should reflect the responsibilities of the Executive Directors: currently approximately 72% of the Group Chief Executives and the other Executive Directors remuneration potential is performance based see Chart 1 on page 70 : performance-related remuneration should align the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders by setting performance targets based on measures of shareholder return.
Accordingly, the Committees policy is to use a combination of TSR, EPS and ROCE performance conditions to achieve this alignment: total remuneration for outstanding performance should be competitive with that available elsewhere in the sector: and total remuneration should take into account levels of pay and employment conditions throughout the Group.
Executive Directors Remuneration for the 2014 15 financial year Base Salary With the assistance of NBS, the Committee undertook a benchmarking exercise of Executive Director salaries and concluded that it would award all of them a salary increase of 3% for the 2014 15 financial year in line with the increase awarded to all employees across the Group.
Following this increase, Executive Directors salaries remain appropriately within the range for the housebuilding sector and the wider population of the comparators from the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
Executive Director salaries, with effect from 1 July 2014, are therefore as follows: Table 18 Executive Directors salary increases Salary with effect from Salary with effect from 1 July 2013 1 July 2014 Executive Director 000 000 % increase Mark Clare 681 701 3 David Thomas 441 454 3 Steven Boyes 441 454 3 Pension Executive Directors will receive a cash salary supplement of 30% of base salary.
Annual bonus Executive Directors and Senior Management will participate in the Groups annual bonus scheme in accordance with the Policy.
The performance measures, the reasons for selecting these measures and the maximum bonus payment against each of them expressed as a percentage of salary for the 2014 15 financial year will be: Weighting Performance Measure Reason for selecting % of salary maximum Financial: Profit before tax Rewards outperformance against stretching targets and is a key measure of our performance.
75 Balance Sheet Items: Land commitment Ensures efficient and effective management of our balance sheet and alignment of objectives with our banking covenants.
25 Non-financial: Health and safety Promotes working towards an ever safer working environment.
15 Customer service Critical to our ability to compete and our resilience in all market conditions.
15 Employee engagement Our ability to attract, motivate and retain the best people is another key criteria for our long term success.
10 Personal objectives Focus individuals on specific factors required to meet the long and short term strategy of the business whilst aligning their interests with those of shareholders.
10 Total 150 Any bonus earned in aggregate in excess of 100% will continue to be deferred into shares and held in the CIP.
The Committee has agreed that no matching shares will be awarded against any deferred shares in respect of the 2014 15 financial year.
84 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information The individual targets for each performance measure are commercially sensitive and therefore not disclosed in this years report.
We will however provide full disclosure on the targets and performance against them in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
The annual bonus performance measures have been reviewed against last years and the following changes have been made to align them with the Companys strategy: the weighting against profit before tax has been reduced to give it a more appropriate focus relative to other measures: the health & safety and customer service penalties have been revised into pro-active bonus components in order to increase Executive Directors and Senior Managements focus in these areas and to ensure that they continue to improve in line with the growth of the business: and the Committees discretion over 50% of the Executive Directors personal objectives element has been removed so that the full 10% will be based on the achievement of objectives.
This provides clarity to Executive Directors and Senior Management in terms of what needs to be delivered in order to earn this element.
The Committee will continue to have an overriding discretion in respect of any bonus payment as set out in the Future Policy Table on page 66.
In addition, any bonus awarded for the 2014 15 financial year will be subject to Clawback see page 73.
LTPP The level of the LTPP award to be granted to Executive Directors and Senior Management during the 2014 15 financial year will be in line with that described on page 66.
The Committee is cognisant that such an award should be subject to performance targets which are stretching and challenging whilst aligned with the short and long term performance of the Group and total shareholder return.
Accordingly, the Committee has agreed that the extent to which the LTPP award to be granted in 2014 15 the 2014 15 LTPP will vest, will be dependent on three independent performance conditions as follows: Weighting Below Threshold Threshold Maximum Performance condition Reason selected of total award 0% vesting 25% vesting 100% vesting TSR against comparator Rewards outperformance compared One-third Below median Median Upper quartile group comprising the against returns generated by our listed FTSE 250 excluding company peers.
investment trusts Absolute EPS for the To ensure efficient and effective One-third see below financial year ending management of our business and align 30 June 2017 interests with those of shareholders.
To ensure efficient and effective One-third see below ROCE management of our business and align interests with those of shareholders.
EPS and ROCE performance targets Having assessed the improved financial performance of the Group since 2007, and balanced the reduced weighting that EPS performance will have under the 2014 15 LTPP with the increased commercial sensitivity of the EPS target to the Groups future strategy, the Committee has concluded that it is no longer appropriate to publish the EPS target prospectively.
Additionally, given the link between the EPS and ROCE calculations, the Committee has also agreed not to publish the specific ROCE targets for the 2014 15 LTPP.
The Company will however, provide an update on EPS and ROCE performance against targets on an annual basis.
The specific target range for the 2014 15 LTPP will remain designed to incentivise significant performance improvement across the business, deliver a strong return to shareholders and represent a stretching target for Executive Directors and Senior Management.
When setting the target range for the 2014 15 LTPP, the Committee has also taken into account the Boards assessment of optimal scale of business, the Groups target of a ROCE of at least 25% for FY17 and current market consensus relating to PBT.
Each of the above performance conditions will remain subject to an overriding Committee discretion as set out in the Future Policy Table on page 67.
Clawback will also apply to the 2014 15 LTPP.
In addition to the inclusion of ROCE as a performance condition, the Committee has introduced a two-year holding period for any shares net of any shares sold to satisfy tax and national insurance liabilities which vest under the 2014 15 LTPP and future awards.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85 Directors Report continued Remuneration Report: Annual Report on Remuneration continued Non-Executive Directors fees The Board reviewed the fees for the Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman and concluded that no fee increase would be awarded for the 2014 15 financial year.
Accordingly, the annual fees payable to the Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 July 2014 are as summarised in Table 19 below: Table 19 Non-Executive Directors fees Role Fee as at 1 July 2013 Fee as at 1 July 2014 % increase 1 Chairman 270,000 270,000 0 Non-Executive Director base fee 48,000 48,000 0 Chairman of Audit Committee 10,000 10,000 0 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 10,000 10,000 0 Chairman of Safety, Health and 2 Environmental Committee N A 5,000 N A Senior Independent Director 5,000 5,000 0 1 The Chairmans fee will increase to 300,000 from 12 November 2014, when John Allan succeeds Bob Lawson as the Chairman of the Board see page 63 for further details.
2 Newly formed Board Committee as of 1 July 2014.
Statement of shareholding vote at AGM At the 2013 AGM, a resolution was proposed to shareholders to approve the Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 June 2013 for which the following votes were received: Number of votes Percentage Votes cast in favour 540,549,202 99.15 Votes cast against 4,659,006 0.85 Total votes cast 545,208,208 100.00 Abstentions 20,842,825 This Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 9 September 2014 and signed on its behalf by: Richard Akers Non-Executive Director 86 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
