62 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance ATTENDANCE TABLE Remuneration Member Meetings Meetings eligible Committee member since attended to attend Committee Baroness Margaret Ford January 2010 4 4 Committee chairman Robin Broadhurst February 2013 4 4 report Simon Davies February 2013 4 4 Dear Shareholder year, in light of developments in best The Remuneration The Remuneration Committee met four practice, the Committee intends to review Committee currently times during the year and has operated the appropriateness of including these the remuneration policy exactly in line with provisions in a manner that is appropriately comprises three the policy approved by shareholders at tailored to Graingers business.
independent the AGM in February 2014.
Consequently, there are no changes to report to our policy non-executive directors.
Bonus and the Board is satisfied that all of our While the maximum bonus potential is Baroness Margaret Ford arrangements are operating in a way that Committee chairman capped at 150% of salary for the chief reflects the performance of the Company executive and 125% of salary for the and are designed to reflect the long term other executive directors the Committee success of the Company.
would like to stress that it would only be in exceptional circumstances that the LTIS bonus payments would be geared to this In November 2013, 100% of the LTIS maximum level.
In 2014, as was the case awards that had been granted in 2010 in the previous three years, the bonus vested, which reflected the strong performance assessments were linked to performance of the Company since 120% of salary for the chief executive and the awards were granted with Total 100% for the other executive directors.
Shareholder Return showing an annual The final bonus payable for 2014 included compound increase of 21% and NNNAV 67.7% 2013:66.2% of the OPBVM increasing by 39% against the 4% increase element and 100% 2013:100% of in the Halifax and Nationwide Home Price the ROSE element.
Prior to the vesting of these awards, arrangements do not currently include the LTIS awards had only vested twice in the ability to recover sums paid or the facility to last nine years as follows: withhold the payment of any sums due to Date of Date of Percentage be paid e. g. as a result of a misstatement vesting grant vesting of the Companys audited financial results.
December December As noted above in relation to the LTIS, 2011 2008 16% during the course of the current financial January January year the Committee intends to review 2006 2003 66% the appropriateness of including these provisions in a manner that is appropriately The LTIS does not currently include the tailored to Graingers business.
ability to recover sums paid following a vesting event or the facility to withhold the payment of any sums due to be paid e. g. as a result of a misstatement of the Companys audited financial results.
During the course of the current financial Strategic report Governance Financials 63 Salary mitigated in line with the remuneration Remuneration policy in summary The base salaries of the executive directors policy.
No bonus was paid to him in Graingers remuneration policy is designed were increased by 2.5% with effect from respect of the 2014 financial year.
He also to attract, motivate and retain high calibre 1 January 2014 in line with the standard received a severance payment calculated in individuals to enable the Group to operate increase that applied to all staff.
Prior to this accordance with the Companys standard in the interests of the long term success increase, Andrew Cunninghams base salary policy that is applicable to all staff.
In the of the Company and to reward significant had remained unchanged since October event that any of the Long Term Incentive outperformance of expectations.
It aligns 2009 and the salaries for Nick Jopling and Scheme LTIS share awards that were the directors interests with those of Mark Greenwood had not changed since outstanding as at 30 September 2013 vest shareholders through the use of share they joined the Board in 2010. the number of shares that he would receive based incentives and by encouraging will be pro rated to the date of cessation of directors to maintain a reasonable Payments for Loss of Office employment in accordance with the rules shareholding in the group.
Peter Couch left the company on of the LTIS, which have been approved The annual bonus plan and the 31 January 2014.
On the cessation of his by shareholders.
All of the conditional Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS link employment, as a good leaver, he was share awards granted to him under the remuneration to the short-term and entitled to receive the value of his salary LTIS on 9 December 2013 lapsed in full long-term Key Performance Indicators and contractual benefits, including pension on the cessation of his employment with and Operational Measures in the payments, which would have accrued the Company.
following manner: to him during his twelve months notice Baroness Margaret Ford period.
These payments are being made Chairman of Remuneration Committee to him on a monthly basis and may be Strategy Remuneration Key Performance Indicator or Weighting Weighting Objective Operational Measure Measure Annual Bonus LTIS Grainger OPBVM Profit OPBVM v Budget 37.5% RETURNS ROSE ROSE 37.5% Locate and manage our assets ROCE 3 yr Growth in Total Shareholder 50% to deliver the best risk adjusted returns NNNAV UK HPI Return TSR NNNAV growth relative to HPI, 50% as measured by Nationwide and Halifax Grainger Breadth of skills LEADERSHIP Peer recognition Maintain our leading position in the as experts residential property market Ability to create new business opportunities Specific measures reflected in executive directors annual performance agreements that Grainger Balance targets would typically embrace the BALANCE Rents and fees following measures: Balance our sources of income Gross management fees 25% Group LTV through exploiting changing market opportunities and continue to focus Efficiency targets on the sales rents fees proposition Average cost of debt Balance of income Grainger LTV targets Corporate responsibility targets OPTIMISATION Cash flow targets Maintain an appropriate Capital Efficient cost structure Structure and optimise financial and operational gearing to match market conditions
