Governance Strategic report Financials Additional information Governance Corporate governance statement Remuneration Our Directors are entitled to such remuneration as Remuneration the Board may determine, subject to any limitation as the Company may set by ordinary resolution.
In This section sets out the remuneration addition, our Directors are entitled to be paid all out arrangements for the Board.
of pocket expenses incurred in attending meetings of the Board or Committees or with our shareholders or As detailed earlier in this report, as the Company otherwise in connection with the discharge of their is an externally managed vehicle and has no duties.
No Director is involved in any decisions in executive directors, the Board has decided that it respect of their own individual remuneration.
The fees is not necessary for a Remuneration Committee paid are set out in the table below.
The table below to be constituted.
This situation will be kept sets out the fees that the Non-Executive Directors under review by the Board and the Nomination are entitled to receive pursuant to their letters of Committee.
appointment with the Company: Non-Executive Directors' fees 000 Board committees supplemental fee Management Total Director Fee Audit Nomination Engagement fees Charlotte Valeur 120 - - 25 145 1 William McMorrow - - - - - Mark McNicholas 75 - 25 - 100 Simon Radford 75 25 - - 100 1 Mary Ricks - - - - - The aggregate remuneration and benefits in kind to make a payment in lieu of the notice period on of our Directors in respect of any financial year are termination.
The letters of appointment provide payable out of the assets of the Company.
that the office of a Director can be terminated with Our Directors hold their office in accordance with immediate effect without notice or payment in lieu their letters of appointment and the articles of of notice in certain circumstances including fraud, association of the Company.
Each Director has dishonesty or serious misconduct, bankruptcy, a letter of appointment dated 10 February 2014. disqualification as a director or material breach Directors appointments can be terminated with of obligations under their respective letters of three months notice and the Company is entitled appointment.
The Investment Manager has waived the right to receive fees for the members of the Board nominated by it as Directors or as members of any Board Committee Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 Governance Corporate governance statement Remuneration Interests of Directors in share capital At 31 December 2014 At 13 March 2015 Number of shares % of holding in Number of shares % of holding in 1 1 held Company held Company Director Charlotte Valeur Chair - - - - William McMorrow 80,916 0.06 80,916 0.06 Mark McNicholas - - - - Simon Radford - - - - Mary Ricks 80,916 0.06 80,916 0.06 There have been no changes in the above interests in the period between 31 December 2014 and 13 March 2015 being the latest practical date prior to the date of publication of this report.
Based on the issued share capital of the Company at the date 66 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
