Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Annual Report on Remuneration The Committee met three times during the year.
The principal agenda items considered by the Committee during the year Role of the Committee were as follows: The principal role of the Committee is to support the Group to achieve its strategic objectives by designing a remuneration policy reconfirming the Groups remuneration policy in the context consistent with the Groups business model such that we have of the proposed new legislation relating to executive the ability to attract, recruit, retain and motivate the high-calibre remuneration: individuals needed to deliver the Groups strategy.
The Committee preparing an Annual Remuneration Report and Remuneration is responsible for the broad policy governing senior staff pay and Policy consistent with the legislation relating to executive remuneration.
It sets the actual levels of all elements of the remuneration: remuneration of the Executive Directors and reviews that of Group agreeing the remuneration packages of the Executive Executive Board members.
The Policy remains under periodic Directors and reviewing those of Group Executive Board review to ensure that it remains consistent with the Companys members: scale and scope of operations, supports business strategy and approving the grant of Performance Share Plan awards: and growth plans and helps drive the creation of shareholder value.
approving the grant of share awards to fee-earners and The Committee also oversees the operation of Savills employee senior managers across the Group.
Responsibilities of the Committee Committee members and attendees The Committees principal responsibilities are to determine As shown in the table below, the Committee comprises the Company policy on senior executive remuneration and to set Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive the remuneration arrangements of the Executive Directors and Chairman: to review those of the members of the Group Executive Board.
The Committee excluding the Non-Executive Chairman also Committee member Position Status determines the level of fees payable to the Non-Executive Tim Freshwater Chair of the Independent Chairman.
In these respects, the Committee is advised by Committee Deloitte LLP, who provide an independent commentary on from 12 May 2014 matters under consideration by the Committee and updates on market developments, legislative requirements and best practice, Martin Angle Member of the Independent and internally by the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary.
Committee Liz Hewitt Member of the Independent Given the fundamental role that remuneration plays in the appointed Committee success of the Group, in terms of the recruitment, motivation 24 June 2014 and retention of high quality staff, the Group Chief Executive Peter Smith Member of the Non-Executive attends meetings by invitation and is consulted on the Committee Chairman remuneration packages of the Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Executive Board members.
Clare Hollingsworth Chair of the Independent retired 12 May Committee Advisors to the Committee 2014 to 12 May 2014 In determining Executive Director remuneration, the Committee has access to detailed external information and research on Committee attendee Position Status market trends and peer practice provided by its independent Jeremy Helsby Group Chief Attends by invitation external advisor Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte is a member of the Executive except when his Remuneration Consultants Group, and adheres to the voluntary own remuneration code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting is discussed in the UK.
Deloittes fees are based on a time and material basis, Chris Lee Group Legal Provides advice and within the parameters of an overall annual budget.
In 2014, Director & support except when Deloitte received fees of 73,400 in relation to advice provided Company his own remuneration to the Committee.
Secretary is discussed as well as acting as Secretary The Committee is satisfied that the advice received from Deloitte to the Committee during the year was entirely objective and independent.
The Committee will continue to keep these arrangements under review to ensure that they remain appropriate to the needs of Meetings the Committee in developing remuneration policy to support Attendance table the delivery of Group strategy.
Meetings Meetings eligible to Committee member attended attend Terms of reference The Committees terms of reference, which are reviewed Tim Freshwater 3 3 annually, or by exception to take account of regulatory changes Martin Angle 3 3 or best practice, are available from the Group Legal Director Liz Hewitt appointed 24 June 2014 1 1 & Company Secretary upon request or can be viewed on Peter Smith 3 3 the Companys website www.
Clare Hollingsworth retired 12 May 2014 2 2 As at 31 December 2014 and up to the date of this Report, the Committee comprised Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Chairman.
Biographical details relating to each of the Committee members are shown on page 40.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 51
