CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL STATEMENT OF THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committees key decisions during the year related to the ELIZABETH McMEIKAN following areas: REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REVIEW OF BASE SALARIES CHAIRS OVERVIEW Towards the end of the year the Committee undertook a detailed review of the salaries of our Executive Directors.
This review took into account a number of factors including external DEAR SHAREHOLDER, benchmarking against comparable companies, an assessment On behalf of the Board, it is my pleasure to present of individual experience and performance, and pay conditions the Directors Remuneration Report for 2014, my first across the Group.
Following this review, the Committee agreed year as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
that basic salaries for Executive Directors will increase by 2.5%, effective March 2015.
Across the organisation, salary increases Similar to last year, this report is split into three for 2015 will average 2.5%, with higher increases to around 200 sections: the Annual Statement, the Policy Report employees following the Companys commitment to pay a Living Wage see page 68. and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Our remuneration policy, detailed on pages 64 71, ANNUAL BONUS OUTCOMES FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR remains consistent with that approved by Following another outstanding year, Executive Directors will shareholders at the 2014 AGM, and is reproduced receive bonuses of 128.8% of their respective base salaries against a maximum of 144% of salary.
The proposed bonuses in full for both ease of reference and in order to reflect both the strong financial performance of the group and provide context to the decisions taken by the the exceptional individual contributions made by each of the Committee during the year.
Executive Directors over the last year.
As in 2013, having carefully considered performance against individual objectives, as well Unite has continued to perform strongly across all as the performance of the Group as a whole, the Committee areas in 2014.
Our financial performance has been approved a maximum personal performance multiplier for each headlined by growth in recurring profits up 44% on Executive Director.
A summary of the key achievements by a recurring basis and 9% overall, NAV up 13.6% to individual is included on page 74.
434pps equating to a 15.0% total return on equity LONG-TERM INCENTIVES and dividend up 133% to 11.2pps, together with As outlined in our 2013 report, Executive Directors were each a further strengthening of the Groups capital granted an award under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP structure evidenced by a reduction in see-through during the year based on performance over the three financial years to 31 December 2016.
These awards will vest to the extent LTV down to 43%.
For more detail, please see that challenging Earnings per Share EPS, Total Return TR and the Financial highlights on page 1 and Key relative Total Shareholder Return TSR targets are achieved over Performance Indicators on page 24 and 25. the period, with one-third of any award vesting required to be held for an additional year.
Performance share awards made in 2012 vested on performance to 31 December 2014.
These awards were based on net asset value, net portfolio contribution and TSR outperformance of the FTSE 350 Real Estate.
The Company exceeded maximum targets for both the NPC and TSR elements, with strong NAV performance resulting in 86% of maximum for that element vesting.
The Committee is satisfied that the implied vesting level reflects the underlying performance of the Company.
Consistent with the rules of the plan, these awards will vest in tranches with two-thirds released on the third anniversary of grant, and the remaining one-third being released after a further year-long holding period.
62 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information ADJUSTMENTS FOLLOWING PLACING During the year, Unite raised 96 million through a share placing and open offer hereafter placing.
Following the placing, the Remuneration Committee evaluated the potential impact on the outcomes of shortand long-term incentives in respect of 2014 performance and made a number of adjustments to ensure executive incentives were neutral to the capital raise.
Consequently, actual outcomes for both operating cash flow and see-through LTV under the annual bonus, and NPC under the 2012 LTIP, have been adjusted downwards, and further details of these changes can be found in the relevant sections on pages 74 and 75.
The Committee intends to make a similar adjustment to the actual NPC outcome in respect of the 2013 LTIP next year.
REVIEW OF REMUNERATION POLICY During the year the Committee considered Unites remuneration policy and concluded that the current structure made up of base salary and benefits, a bonus plan and a single LTIP continued to be appropriate.
For 2015, the annual bonus will operate on the same basis as in previous years, save for a minor change to the corporate performance measures, where it is intended that operating cash flow and LTV targets will be replaced with a single measure of Net debt to EBITDA ratio which essentially combines the two metrics but measures borrowing levels relative to cash generation rather than property values, which the Committee considers to be more appropriate.
No changes are proposed to the LTIP in 2015, which will continue to be based on an equal blend of EPS, TR and relative TSR, with a mandatory one year holding period for one-third of any vested shares.
Further detail on the implementation of policy for 2015, including rationale for the proposed annual bonus change, is included on page 78.
AREAS FOR FUTURE CONSIDERATION The Committee will continue to monitor market trends throughout 2015 in order to assess ongoing requirements for the Companys remuneration practices, and will consult with shareholders about making changes should any significant departures from best practice arise.
The appropriateness of clawback will be considered by the Committee in time for our next policy vote.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63
