REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee At the 2014 AGM, I promised shareholders that the Committee would During 2014, the Groups Chairman stepped back from his position of continue to monitor and review the Companys Remuneration Policy, Executive Chairman to become Non-Executive Chairman and Diego ensuring that it remains appropriate and relevant.
The Remuneration Hernndez took up the role of Group CEO, having previously been Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and the policy responsible for the mining division.
As a result of these changes, the table is included unchanged in this report for information purposes only.
Committee reviewed the Chairmans remuneration with regard to the non-executive nature of the role, the value to the Group of the role and Following the 2014 AGM, we engaged with a number of major the international mining market for talent.
The result of this review was shareholders and proxy voting agencies to discuss the Remuneration to reduce the Chairmans total annual remuneration by almost 70%.
Policy and the Groups remuneration arrangements more generally.
While the feedback we received was positive, as demonstrated by As was the case in 2012 and 2013, no changes were made to Non- 91.8% of votes supporting it at the 2014 AGM, we received some Executive Director fees excluding the Chairman in 2014. queries in relation to the elements that apply to the recruitment of Although Mr. Hernndez is not a member of the Antofagasta plc Executive Directors and the level of discretion that may be applied Board and we are therefore not required to report his remuneration bythe Committee if an Executive Director is appointed to the Board.
under the UK regulations, we have nevertheless elected to report on his remuneration since becoming Group CEO to provide shareholders We have therefore clarified within the report the way in which the with further information on our pay structure for senior executives.
recruitment policy would be applied in these circumstances.
A significant portion of Mr. Hernndezs total remuneration is in Shareholders are invited to vote on the Companys Remuneration the form of variable remuneration based on Group and individual Report and I hope that you will continue to support the Companys performance, according to metrics fixed at the beginning of each payarrangements in 2015. relevant performance period.
These are designed to align his performance with the performance and strategy of the Group.
We continue to provide information on the structure of pay for executive management, including the variable short and long-term pay of the Executive Committee.
These variable remuneration arrangements are structured to align the Executive Committee TIM BAKER toourshort and long-term business goals.
Chairman of the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee 86 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The full Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders ANTOFAGASTAS APPROVED atthe 2014 AGM can be found in the 2013 Annual Report REMUNERATIONPOLICY atwww.
APPROVAL RECEIVED AT THE 2014 AGM The Companys policy is to ensure that Directors are fairly rewarded The following policy table was approved by shareholders at the AGM with regard to the responsibilities undertaken, and to consider in 2014.
This policy table has not been amended and is provided comparable pay levels and structures in the United Kingdom, Chile, below for reference, in the same format as approved last year.
It does and in the international mining industry.
Corporate and individual not formally form part of the Remuneration Report.
It should be noted performance is taken into account in setting the pay level for the that the Executive Chairman became the Non-Executive Chairman on Chairman as an Executive Director, and this is reviewed annually in 1 September 2014 and that revised terms apply to his role since the comparison with companies of a similar nature, size and complexity.
Remuneration Policy was adopted, which are in accordance with the Remuneration levels for Non-Executive Directors are also reviewed Non-Executive Directors section of the Remuneration Policy below.
inthis way, and take into account the specific responsibilities undertaken and structure of the Board.
PURPOSE OPERATION MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN NOT CURRENTLY RELEVANT FOLLOWING THE RE-DESIGNATION OF JEAN-PAUL LUKSIC AS NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN ON 1 SEPTEMBER 2014 Fees To provide appropriate Fees are the only element of compensation that the Executive Chairman is In normal circumstances, the maximum annual compensation to reflect the eligible to receive.
However, the Committee responsibilities of this role and has discretion to exceed this in exceptional Fees are reviewed annually, with increases, if any, typically taking effect to execute the Groups strategic circumstances, for example: from 1 January each year.
objectives at an appropriate if there is a sustained period of high inflation: The Committee considers the following factors when reviewing fee levels: level of cost.
if the Executive Chairmans fees are out of line with corporate and individual performance: and To act as the sole element of the market: and or compensation.
The Committee the competitiveness of total remuneration assessed against appropriate if fees for chairing or serving as a member ofany feels that this is appropriate peers in terms of nature, size and complexity.
of the Boards Committees is out of line with given the Executive Chairmans The Executive Chairman receives a base fee for services to Antofagasta the market.
interest in the Companys plcs Board as well as additional fees for chairing shares both via a company Any increases will take into account the factors or serving as a member of any of the Boards Committees.
controlled by him and as a described under operation and will not member of the Luksic family, Separate base fees are paid for chairing the Antofagasta Minerals be excessive.
which provides alignment with Board and for being a Director or for chairing certain strategic subsidiary Fee levels for additional roles within the Antofagasta other shareholders.
Group are set based on the needs and time The Executive Chairman is currently Chairman of Antofagasta Railway commitment expected and may be determined and Company plc and Aguas fide Antofagasta.
The Executive Chairman also or paid in a combination of currencies including US receives a base fee for services provided to Antofagasta Railway Company dollars and Chilean pesos.
plc and Antofagasta Minerals pursuant to separate service contracts.
Fees will also be increased to take account ofChilean Fees are determined and paid in a combination of US dollars and Chilean inflation and may be reported as an increase or pesos.
The Committee may determine fee levels and or pay fees in decrease as a result of the exchange rate impact of any other currency if deemed necessary.
For comparison purposes, all Chilean peso denominated fees, given all amounts in compensation is in US dollars inthis report.
this report are reported inUS dollars.
Variable The Committee does not consider it appropriate to make performance-related pay awards, such as bonuses, to the Executive Chairman, given his role as Chairmanof the Board and his interest in the Companys shares both via a company controlled by him and as a member of the Luksic family.
remuneration Benefits To provide appropriate Benefits include the provision of life, accident and health insurance.
In normal circumstances, the maximum value of benefits and reimburse benefits will be $22,000.
However, the Committee The Committee retains the discretion to provide additional insurance expenses incurred in the has discretion to exceed this should the underlying benefits in accordance with Company policy, should this be performance of duties of the cost of providing the pre-existing benefits increase, deemed necessary.
or if additional benefits are provided and are deemed appropriate.
Pension The Executive Chairman does not receive pension contributions nor is he entitled to receive pension contributions under this policy.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Fees To attract and retain highFees are reviewed annually and the competitiveness of total fees is Non-Executive Directors fee levels follow the same calibre, experienced Nonassessed against companies of a similar nature, size and complexity.
policy for increases as the Executive Chairmans fees Executive Directors by offering see above.
Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee for services to Antofagasta globally competitive fee levels.
plcs Board, as well as additional fees for chairing or serving as a member of any of the Boards Committees.
Separate base fees are paid for services to the Antofagasta Minerals Board all Non-Executive Directors are members of both Boards, and for being directors of subsidiary companies and joint venture companies within the Group.
Ramn Jara also receives a base fee for services provided to Antofagasta Railway Company plc and Antofagasta Minerals pursuant to a separate service contract.
Fee levels are denominated in US dollars.
The Committee maydetermine fee levels and or pay fees in any other currency ifdeemed necessary.
Variable Given the predominantly non-executive composition of the Board, there are no arrangements for Directors to acquire benefits through the acquisition of shares inthe Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, to benefit through performance-related pay or to participate in long-term incentive schemes.
remuneration The Code states that remuneration for Non-Executive Directors should not include share options or other performance-related elements.
Benefits To provide appropriate benefits Benefits may be provided to Non-Executive Directors following the same policy as for the Executive Chairman see above.
required in the performance of duties of the NonExecutive Directors.
Pension No Director receives pension contributions.
The Code considers that the participation by a Non-Executive Director in a companys pension scheme could potentially affect the independence of that Non-Executive Director.
As Directors do not receive variable remuneration, there are no provisions in place to recover sums paid or withhold payments to either the Executive Chairman or the Non-Executive Directors.
Antofagasta plc | 87 REMUNERATION REPORT CLARIFICATION OF RECRUITMENT POLICY KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2014 As explained in the Committee Chairmans Annual Statement, the Committee would like to clarify the level of discretion that it may apply implemented the findings of the  review of the if an Executive Director is appointed to the Board: effectiveness of the Committee carried out in 2013. met with major shareholders and proxy voting agencies to discuss Under the Remuneration Policy, a new Executive Directors annual the Groups remuneration arrangements.
variable remuneration is capped at 500% of base salary, unless the level of variable remuneration is not sufficient to secure an commissioned an  review of Executive appointment, in which case variable remuneration may be paid Committee members and Group employees remuneration levels outside this cap provided that it is in line with that provided by against benchmarks.
companies of a similar size, nature and complexity.
To clarify, oversaw an  leadership assessment for the Committee has decided that it will not provide any variable Executive Committee members to support development and remuneration above the 500% cap during the Remuneration succession plans.
approved the 2014 HR plan, which focused on productivity and Under the Remuneration Policy, the Committee also retains capturing synergies, strengthening talent development and discretion to make awards on a one-off basis to new Executive mobility and the implementation of new procedures, policies and Directors on appointment, taking into account the specific systems for employees and contractors.
circumstances of the new Executive Director, such as whether reviewed the Groups 2015 compensation structure and targets.
the Executive Director has had to forfeit existing incentive oversaw the continued implementation of the new Group talent awards when accepting the appointment.
To clarify, in practice management strategy and succession planning policy for key any compensation provided to a new Executive Director as positions within the Group.
compensation for the forfeiture of any award will be reviewed, on a like-for-like fair value basis, taking into account the value of reviewed the performance of the Group CEO for the purpose of such forfeited awards, any performance conditions and the time determining variable compensation under the Annual Bonus Plan.
The Committees intention is that buy-out reviewed the operation of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, including compensation should reflect the nature of the award foregone grants of additional awards.
and include, where appropriate, performance-tested awards over approved the Executive Committee members remuneration an appropriate time period reflecting the fair value of any award levels, including performance under the Annual Bonus Plan and forgone.
Such compensation for the forfeiture of an award would other variable compensation.
oversaw the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements with There is no intention to offer any other awards, such as a signlabour unions at Los Pelambres, Antucoya, Centinela and Michilla.
on awards, outside the annual cap on variable remuneration reviewed the Remuneration Policy and the Companys 2013 described above.
Remuneration Report prior to their approval by the Board and subsequent approval by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
REMUNERATION AND TALENT MANAGEMENT prepared updated terms of reference for the Committee prior to COMMITTEE their approval by the Board.
Membership and meeting attendance Number Maximum attended possible BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THIS REPORT Current members ANDCOMPLIANCE Tim Baker Chairman 7 7 This Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with Juan Claro rotated off the Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Committee on 1 September 2014 2 4 Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
It describes William Hayes 7 7 how the Board has applied the principles of good governance as 1 Ollie Oliveira appointed to the set out in the Code.
During the year under review, the Company Committee on 1 September 2014 2 3 complied with the detailed provisions set out in section D of the Code, except that as explained on page 73, Jean-Paul Luksic was 1 Ollie Oliveira was unable to attend the Remuneration and Talent Committee Meeting on Executive Chairman until 1 September 2014 and did not receive any 26 November due to a family bereavement.
reward structured to vary with individual or corporate performance.
Diego Hernndez was appointed Group Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta plc on 1 September 2014, having previously been the CEO of Antofagasta Minerals, and receives variable remuneration that depends on both his individual and corporate performance, explained in more detail in the Remuneration Report.
88 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ADVISORS TO THE COMMITTEE UNAUDITED INFORMATION During the year, the Committee received advice on matters ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE under its consideration from Towers Watson, the remuneration The purpose of the Remuneration and Talent Management consultant appointed by the Committee.
This included updates on Committee is to ensure that remuneration arrangements support the legislative requirements and market practice.
Towers Watson also Groups strategic objectives and enable the recruitment, motivation, performed a benchmarking review of the Chairmans and the Group retention and development of talent within the expectations CEOs remuneration.
Towers Watson is a widely recognised independent global The Committee is responsible for preparing and reviewing the professional services firm and the Committee is satisfied that the appropriateness and relevance of the Companys Remuneration advice provided was objective and independent, that no conflict of Policy and for reviewing the remuneration of any Executive Directors interest arose as a result of these services and that Towers Watson although there are currently none.
The Committee also reviews and has no other connection with the Company.
Towers Watsons fees approves the remuneration of the Chairman and reviews and approves for this work were charged in accordance with normal billing practices the remuneration of the Group CEO, determining the performanceand amounted to $109,000.
related elements of his compensation.
The remuneration for the other The Companys legal advisors, Clifford Chance LLP, also provided members of the Executive Committee, including awards granted advice on the operation of the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan, under the Long-Term Incentive Plan and Annual Bonus Plan, and the the new remuneration reporting requirements and other legal performance targets for each plan, are reviewed by the Group CEO issuesduring 2014. and recommended to the Committee for approval.
The Committee also received assistance from the Chairman, The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the level and the Group CEO and the Vice-President of Human Resources, structure of remuneration of the Executive Committee, reviewing and none of whom participate in discussions relating to setting their approving performance-related compensation, reviewing succession own remuneration.
planning for the Executive Committee, reviewing any major changes in compensation policies applied across the Groups companies that STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING have a significant long-term impact on labour costs, and reviewing The table below displays the voting results on the Remuneration compensation and talent management strategies.
Policy and the Companys 2013 Remuneration Report at the The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board following 2014 AGM: each Committee meeting, allowing the Board to understand and, Resolution to approve the Remuneration Policy ifnecessary, discuss matters considered in detail by the Committee.
Votes for 965,357,216 The Committee reviewed its terms of reference during the course 91.8% of 2014 and proposed amendments that were approved by the Board Votes against 86,053,542 on 25 November 2014.
The Committees revised terms of reference 8.2% are available on the Companys website at www.
Votes cast as a percentage of Issued Share Capital 88.7% The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Votes withheld 1,350,645 Board as a whole and no Director participates in the determination of his own remuneration.
Resolution to approve the Companys 2013 Remuneration Report Votes for 995,148,615 REMUNERATION AND TALENT MANAGEMENT 97.4% COMMITTEEMEMBERSHIP Votes against 26,958,072 The members of the Committee and their attendance at meetings 2.6% of the Committee during the year are shown in the table above.
Votes cast as a percentage of Issued Share Capital 86.2% Biographical details of the members of the Committee, including Votes withheld 30,654,717 relevant qualifications and experience, are set out on pages 68 to69.
All the Committee members are considered by the Board The considerable vote in favour of the Remuneration Policy and the tobeindependent Non-Executive Directors.
Companys 2013 Remuneration Report confirms the strong support the Group has received from shareholders regarding the remuneration IMPLEMENTATION OF FINDINGS OF THE EXTERNAL arrangements and the performance of the Company over the REVIEWOF THE COMMITTEE past year.
A review of the effectiveness of the Committee was undertaken byIndependent Audit Limited in 2013.
In the lead-up to, and following, the 2014 AGM, the Committee engaged with shareholders and proxy voting agencies to understand The Committee has continued to work with the Vice-President of their views on the Companys remuneration arrangements.
Human Resources to introduce a number of changes to enhance Some shareholders expressed a view that there should be less its effectiveness based on the findings of the effectiveness review.
discretion available to the Company in choosing whether or not to These include enhanced liaison with the Committees external grant sign-on or replacement awards if the Company was to appoint advisors, an increased focus on talent development and succession a new Executive Director during the policy period.
The Companys planning, and improved information flow to the Board on the position on these matters has been clarified, as set out on page 88.
Some of the initiatives implemented inrelation to talent management are explained on page 99.
Antofagasta plc | 89 REMUNERATION REPORT In 2013, the Committee commissioned Towers Watson to perform 2014 REMUNERATION an independent review and benchmarking of Non-Executive Directors CHAIRMAN fees.
In light of the 2013 review, the Board remains satisfied that the current fee levels and structure are aligned with the Groups Mr. Jean-Paul Luksic was appointed Executive Chairman in 2004 international peers.
The Board is not recommending any change and was re-designated as Non-Executive Chairman on 1 September this year, but will continue to review fee levels from time to time, 2014.
As a consequence of this, the contracts for services that inaccordance with the Remuneration Policy.
Mr. Luksic had with the Antofagasta Railway Company plc and Antofagasta Minerals were terminated with effect from that date In addition to Board fees, Directors also receive fees for their and the fee payable for the role of Chairman of the Board was contributions to Board sub-committees during the year.
below summarises Antofagasta plc Board Committee fees payable in2014, which were unchanged from 2012 and 2013.
It is expected The single figure calculations in this report include payments made that these fee levels will be reviewed in 2015. to the Chairman in his capacity as Executive Chairman prior to 1 September 2014 under his service contracts, which included an Additional fees Role $000 annual adjustment for Chilean inflation as is typical for employment contracts or contracts for services in Chile.
The single figure Audit and Risk Committee Chairman 20 calculation also includes payments for services as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee member 10 Board, Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee and Remuneration and Talent Management Committee subsidiary board services, including as Chairman of the Antofagasta Chairman 16 Minerals board and a member of the divisional boards of the transport Remuneration and Talent Management Committee division Ferrocarril fide Antofagasta a Bolivia, the Chilean branch of member 10 Antofagasta Railway Company plc and the water division Aguas fide Nomination and Governance Committee Chairman 10 Antofagasta S. A.. As some of the Chairmans fees for the Antofagasta Nomination and Governance Committee member 4 Railway Company plc and Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. are paid in Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Chilean pesos, they are subject to annual exchange rate movements Committee Chairman 16 when reported in US dollars.
Sustainability and Stakeholder Management NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Committee member 10 As was the case in 2012 and 2013, there was no change to the level The Remuneration Policy does not allow for the payment of variable of Antofagasta plc Board fees in 2014.
The base Non-Executive remuneration to the Chairman or Non-Executive Directors.
Directors annual fee in respect of the Antofagasta plc Board remained at $130,000.
Given the core role which Antofagasta Minerals plays IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2015 in the management of the mining operations and projects, and that Except for potential increases in Board sub-committee fees, the Antofagasta Minerals represents the large majority of the Groups Committee does not anticipate any changes to the implementation of business, all Antofagasta plc Directors also served as Directors of the Remuneration Policy during 2015. the Antofagasta Minerals Board.
The annual fee payable to Directors of Antofagasta Minerals remained at $130,000 for members of the Board.
Therefore, the combined base fees payable to Non-Executive Directors of both Antofagasta plc and Antofagasta Minerals amounted to $260,000 per annum.
90 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION AUDITED INFORMATION SINGLE FIGURE REMUNERATION TABLE The remuneration of the Directors and the Group CEO for the year isset out below in US dollars.
Unless otherwise noted, amounts paid in Chilean pesos have been translated at exchange rates at the time of payment.
As explained above, Antofagasta plc Directors may also be appointed as directors of subsidiary companies and joint ventures within the Group, and receive fees for these specific roles in addition to their Antofagasta plc and Antofagasta Minerals Board fees.
These additional fees are included within the amounts attributable to the Directors within the table of Directors remuneration below.
As explained in the Remuneration Policy, Directors do not receive pensions or performance-related pay and are not eligible to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The 2013 benefits expense also includes car usage, which was terminated on 29 April 2013.
On 1 September 2014, Jean-Paul Luksic became Non-Executive Chairman of Antofagasta plc.
From this date, his service agreements with Antofagasta Minerals S. A. and Antofagasta Railway Company plc terminated and his annual fee as Chairman of the Antofagasta plc Board was reduced from $1,000,000 to $730,000.
He continues to receive an annual fee of $260,000 asChairman of Antofagasta Minerals S. A. an annual fee of $10,000 as Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee and directors fees as a director of Ferrocarril fide Antofagasta aBolivia, the Chilean branch of Antofagasta Railway Company plc and Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A.
2 During 2014, remuneration of $573,000 2013 $646,000 for the provision of services by Ramn Jara was paid to Asesoras Ramn F Jara Ltda.
This amount is included in the amounts attributable to Ramn Jara of $960,000 2013 $1,044,000.
The benefits expense represents the provision of accident insurance to Ramn Jara.
3 Fees payable in respect of Ollie Oliveiras service as a Director are paid to Greengrove Capital LLP, a partnership in which Ollie Oliveira is a partner.
4 Diego Hernndez was appointed Group CEO on 1 September 2014 and amounts disclosed relate to remuneration paid to him since that date including base salary and benefits and the pro rata value of his annual bonus plan and Long-Term Incentive Plan awards.
No pension is payable to Mr. Hernndez.
5 All Directors are covered by the Directors and Officers Life and Travel insurance policies generally maintained by the Group.
Diego Hernndez is covered by Life and Health insurance policies generally maintained by the Group.
6 The amounts payable to Diego Hernndez under the Long-Term Incentive Plan relate to restricted awards and performance awards granted in 2012 and to restricted awards granted in 2013.
The amounts attributable to the restricted awards are the pro rata value of amounts paid following vesting in 2014 following his appointment as Group CEO.
The performance period for performance awards granted in 2012 concluded on 31 December 2014 and will vest on 25 March 2015.
Because the performance awards granted in 2012 have not yet vested, the amounts attributable to these awards have been estimated using the closing share price as at 31 December 2014 of 752.5p and an exchange rate of $1.5577 1.
Antofagasta plc | 91 REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS INTERESTS UNAUDITED INFORMATION The Directors who held office at 31 December 2014 had the following EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION GROUP CEO interests in the ordinary shares of the Company: Diego Hernndez is responsible for leading the senior management Ordinary shares of 5p each team and for the executive management of the Group.
He does not 31 December 1 January sit on the Board and the disclosures above and below in relation to his 2014 2014 remuneration are voluntary disclosures to provide shareholders with 1 Jean-Paul Luksic 41,963,110 41,963,110 further information on the Groups pay structure for senior executives.
2 Ramn Jara 5,260 5,260 GROUP CEO SALARY AND BENEFITS 1 Jean-Paul Luksics interest relates to shares held by Aureberg Establishment, an entity that he ultimately controls.
The total remuneration paid to Diego Hernndez for 2014 following 2 Ramn Jaras interest relates to shares held by a close family member.
his appointment as Group CEO was $688,000.
Fixed remuneration comprises base salary and benefits, and in 2014 represented less There have been no changes to the Directors interests in the shares than45% of his total remuneration package.
of the Company between 31 December 2014 and the date of this report.
Benefits payable to Diego Hernndez reflect amounts paid to maintain Life and Health insurance policies.
The Directors had no interests in the shares of the Company during the year other than the interests set out in the table above.
No Director According to Chilean law, all employees are required to pay their had any material interest in any contract other than a service contract own pension and compulsory healthcare contributions: no additional with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings during the year other contributions are made by the Company, including in relation to than in the ordinary course of business.
DiegoHernndez and accordingly the Company does not make any pension contributions on his behalf.
The Group does not currently have shareholding guidelines forDirectors or executives.
Diego Hernndezs total remuneration package is determined by the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee, taking During the period, no Director was eligible for any short-term or longinto account the performance of the Group and Mr. Hernndez.
term incentive awards and no Director owns any shares that have The Company also benchmarks each element of his remuneration resulted from the achievement of performance conditions.
and the total remuneration package by reference to FTSE 100, FTSE mining and comparable international mining companies.
LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT Each Director has a letter of appointment with the Company.
EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT The Company has a policy of putting all Directors forward for Diego Hernndez is employed under a contract of employment re-election at each Annual General Meeting, in accordance with with Antofagasta Minerals S. A. a subsidiary of Antofagasta plc.
the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Under the terms of the His contract is governed by Chilean Labour Law.
It does not have letters, if shareholders do not confirm a Directors appointment, a fixed term and can be terminated in writing by either party on the appointment will terminate with immediate effect.
In other notice in writing.
Except in the case of termination for breach of circumstances the appointment may be terminated by either party contract or misconduct under the Chilean Labour Code, Diego is on one months prior written notice.
entitled to receive one months base salary for each year of service There is a contract between Antofagasta Minerals S. A. and Asesoras on termination: otherwise no other compensations or benefits are Ramn F Jara Ltda formerly E. I. R. L. dated 2 November 2004 for payable on termination of employment.
The salary payable to Diego the provision of advisory services by Ramn Jara that does not have Hernndez under his employment contract as of 1 September 2014 an expiry date but can be terminated by either party on one months was CLP44,871,653 per month.
Under the terms of this contract, notice.
No other Director is party to a service contract with the Group.
hissalary is adjusted for inflation in Chile every three months.
Diego Hernndez was appointed Group CEO on 1 September 2014, his total salary payments for 2014 were CLP180,343,660 $302,592.
Under his employment agreement, Mr. Hernndez is entitled to 22 working days paid holiday per year.
Mr. Hernndez is entitled to Life and Health insurance.
Because the Group CEOs fees are paid in Chilean pesos, they are subject to annual exchange rate movements when reported in US dollars.
92 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL BONUS PARTICIPATION IN THE GROUPS LONG-TERM  An explanation of the Groups Annual Bonus Plan is set out on page 95.
Under the Annual Bonus Plan, the bonus payable to the Group LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN CEO is attributable 70% to the performance of the Group and 30% Mr. Hernndez participates in the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan tothe Group CEOs personal performance according to metrics that LTIP described on page 96 and was also granted an exceptional are fixed at the beginning of each year.
one-off award following his appointment as CEO of the mining division The annual bonus payable to the Group CEO for achieving the Group in 2012 the One-off Award.
and personal performance targets in 2014 was 50% of annual base As set out in more detail on page 96, the LTIP comprises salary six months base salary.
two elements: The maximum bonus payable to the Group CEO for achieving Performance Share Awards PSAs rewarding performance over stretch performance targets in 2014 was 100% of base salary three years.
Restricted Share Awards RSAs which vest one third in each year Based on performance achieved against targets during the 2014 over a three-year period following grant of the award.
financial year, the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee determined, based on the performance metrics, that the Group CEO The same performance criteria apply to all participants in the LTIP would receive a bonus payment of $220,000 since the date of his and the LTIP is designed to develop a clear link between business appointment as Group CEO.
objectives, shareholder value and senior management rewards.
The performance criteria that applies to PSAs granted in 2014 The determination of the bonus for the Group CEO for 2014 issetout on page 94. attributable to Group performance took account of the performance metrics set out on page 96.
The determination of the bonus for In the period in 2014 following Mr. Hernndezs appointment as the Group CEO for 2014 attributable to personal performance Group CEO, he received total payments of $124,000 in respect iscommercially sensitive.
ofthe RSAs granted in 2012 and 2013.
Using the Companys share price as at 31 December 2014, Mr. Hernndezs estimated payment for PSA awards granted under the 2012 programme and vesting on the conclusion of performance in 2014 is $36,000.
Using these calculations, LTIP awards amounted to 52% of his base salary for theperiod in 2014 during which he served as Group CEO.
The performance criteria attaching to the PSAs granted in 2012 isas follows: Anticipated Weighting Objective Measure performance 40% Relative Total Comparison against HSBC Global Mining Index with 33% vesting at performance equal to 67% Shareholder Return the index and 100% vesting at performance equal or greater than the index plus 5% during the three-year period.
The index will be calculated over an average index from three months before the beginning and end of the periodrespectively.
25% EBITDA The maximum figure corresponds to the accumulated EBITDA over the period 2012-2014.
98% For2012, this is calculated using the budget figure.
For 2013 and 2014, the figures will be those resulting from the base case prepared during 2012.
7.5% Mineral Resources Maximum figure corresponds to the level of contained resources for the Group at the end 100% Increase of2014 based on exploration activities in 2012.
17.5% Reserves Increase Maximum figure corresponds to level of contained copper reserves for the Group at the 100% endof 2014.
It assumes that resources attaching to certain projects have been incorporated as reserves.
10% Antucoya Project Based on ramp-up according to certain time-based targets.
0% 1 Anticipated performance is based on estimates in March 2015.
These awards will not vest until after the Groups 2014 results have been released to the market.
Antofagasta plc | 93 REMUNERATION REPORT No awards were granted to Mr. Hernndez in 2014 following his appointment as Group CEO.
The following awards were granted to Mr. Hernndez prior to his appointment as Group CEO: Number of Face value of % of award shares award using Market receivable if over which market price price at minimum Year of the grant at grant grant End of performance performance grant Award type relates Date of award Vesting dates period achieved 2012 Performance Share Awards 36,679 22 November 2012 25 March 2015 615,000 12.47 31 December 2014 0% Restricted Share Awards 36,679 22 November 2012 9 January 2013, 615,000 12.47 N A 0% 9 January 2014, 9 January 2015 2013 Performance Share Awards 45,242 12 April 2013 12 April 2016 700,000 10.13 31 December 2015 0% Restricted Share Awards 45,242 12 April 2013 12 April 2014, 700,000 10.13 N A 0% 12 April 2015, 12 April 2016 2014 Performance Share Awards 53,896 19 March 2014 19 March 2017 750,000 7.85 31 December 2016 0% Restricted Share Awards 53,896 19 March 2014 19 March 2015, 750,000 7.85 N A 0% 19 March 2016, 19 March 2017 Note: Diego Hernndez joined the Group on 1 August 2012 and was granted awards under the 2012 LTIP on 22 November 2012.
The portion of RSAs that vested on 9 January 2013 was reduced pro rata to take into account the period before Mr. Hernandez joined the Group.
The payment that Mr. Hernndez receives in relation to the PSAs that are due to vest in 2015 will also be reduced pro rata to the time that Mr. Hernndez has been with the Group during the 2012 programme.
ONE-OFF AWARD The One-off Award was granted to Diego Hernndez to reward him ina way that aligns his interests with the interests of shareholders and As part of the remuneration arrangements agreed on his appointment, with the Groups long-term strategic plan by reference to leadership Diego Hernndez was granted an exceptional, long-term One-off development metrics including: Award on 22 November 2012.
The One-off Award was in the form of conditional rights to receive a cash payment by reference to the Increased leadership effectiveness of the Executive Committee market value of a number of ordinary shares in the Company at evidenced by 360 degree feedback and measured against external vesting.
The One-off Award was not granted over actual shares.
benchmarking performed in 2012 and in fully closing any gaps agreed with the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee: Half of the One-off Award is subject both to certain performance conditions, which are measured over a three-year period ending Implementation of a succession plan for the role of Antofagasta on1 August 2015, the three-year anniversary of the effective date Minerals CEO, the Executive Committee and the General Managers of Diego Hernndezs appointment, and to continued employment.
of each of the Groups operations evidenced by the successful That half of the award will normally vest only after the end of the identification of at least one successor for each position that is three-year performance period and only to the extent that those deemed ready to assume the role: performance conditions are met.
Improvement of organisational climate in the mining The other half of the One-off Award is subject to continued group, specifically as regards quality of life, recognition employment and will normally vest on 1 August 2015. anddevelopment:and Implementation of a development programme for high potential employees.
No amounts were payable or vested under the One-off Award in 2014.
Details of the potential total remuneration for Diego Hernndez in 2015 including his One-off Awards are set out on below.
94 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INDICATIVE TOTAL REMUNERATION IN 2015 EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION The Group CEOs total remuneration in 2015 will consist of the same EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE elements as in 2014, including: The Executive Committee is responsible for leading the day-toBase salary of CLP548,744,412 $885,072 as at 1 January 2015 day operation of the mining business.
The Committee is led by subject to adjustments for Chilean inflation as described above: the CEO ofAntofagasta Minerals.
No member of the Executive Committee, northe Group CEO, sits on the Board of Antofagasta An annual bonus equivalent to 50% of base salary if target plc.
Consequently, the disclosures below relating to the variable performance is achieved with a maximum of 100% if stretch targets pay mechanisms, annual bonus and LTIP, as well as information are achieved: on the Group CEOs remuneration arrangements above, The vesting of LTIP awards, which using the Companys share price arevoluntary disclosures.
as at 31 December 2014, are equivalent to 120% of base salary see REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES details of the LTIP on page 96 : and The remuneration arrangements in place for the Executive Committee The possible vesting of One-off Awards, which using the are structured to align remuneration with performance, the Groups Companys share price as at 31 December 2014 are equivalent to strategic objectives and shareholders interests.
Each Executive 111% of base salary.
Committee member is eligible to receive a combination of base As a result of the Companys Remuneration Policy for the Group CEO, salary and other benefits, as well as variable remuneration in the form a significant portion of the rewards available to the Group CEO is of an annual cash bonus and conditional cash awards based on the dependent on the performance of the Group.
price of the ordinary shares of the Company granted pursuant to the Groups LTIP.
ILLUSTRATIVE APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY The performance components of variable remuneration are selected FORTHE GROUP CEO IN 2015 to incentivise the delivery of the business strategy, to reward Group The following chart outlines the potential total remuneration of the and individual performance and to motivate the Executive Committee.
CEO in 2015 under different performance scenarios.
The chart is forward-looking and does not include information on the vesting ANNUAL BONUS PLAN of awards in 2014 shown in the single figure remuneration table Members of the Executive Committee are eligible to receive onpage98.
cash awards under the Annual Bonus Plan based on Group and individual performance.
The bonus plan focuses on the delivery of GROUP CEO annual financial and non-financial targets that are designed to align remuneration with the Companys strategy and create a platform for Maximum 24% 23% 53% $3.823m sustainable future performance.
The bonus payable to each VicePresident is attributable 50% to the performance of the Group and Target 31% 16% 53% $2.870m 50% to the performance of that Vice-President according to metrics fixed at the beginning of each year.
Minimum 100% $0.898m The performance criteria for the Annual Bonus Plan are set annually by the Committee.
The average maximum available award for the $0 $1m $2m $3m $4m Executive Committee members under the terms of the Annual Fixed elements Annual variable elements Bonus Plan, which would reflect maximum individual and Group Long-term variable elements performance, is 68% of base salary.
In 2014 the average award for the Executive Committee members was approximately 44% of base Notes: Figures are based on the following assumptions: salary.
Individual award levels are calibrated at the conclusion of each Minimum consists of base salary plus benefits only.
annual performance period as part of a review of performance against Target consists of base salary, benefits and incentive awards at 50% of the maximum the criteria set for the year, to ensure that performance targets remain potential award.
stretching and that high or maximum payments under each plan are Maximum consists of base salary, benefits and incentive awards at 100% of the maximum received only for exceptional performance.
Individual award levels potential award.
arealso reviewed by the Committee.
No change in the share price is included in the calculation of the potential awards.
Long-term variable elements awards are calculated using the share price as at 31 December 2014 of 752.5p.
Antofagasta plc | 95 REMUNERATION REPORT In 2014, the performance criteria for the Executive Committee under the Annual Bonus Plan were defined against quantitative criteria as follows.
Weighting Objective Measure Outcome 2014 Result 53% Core Business 15% EBITDA EBITDA $2,060m 109% 15% Production Copper production 705kt 101% Gold production 271koz 100% Molybdenum production 7.9 kt 110% 20% Expenditure Cash costs before by-product credits 182.6 c lb 105% Corporate expenditure $292m 110% 3% Stay in Business Capex Operating companies capex Schedule & Budget 99% 29% Business Development 26% Growth Projects Execution Antucoya Schedule Budget Quality 100% Encuentro Oxides Schedule Budget Quality 99% Pelambres incremental expansion Schedule Budget Quality 100% Centinela second concentrator Schedule Budget Quality 99% Twin Metals pre-feasibility study Schedule and Budget 100% 3% Exploration and Development Mineral Resources Increase 3.8 Mt CuF 110% 18% Sustainability and Organisational Capabilities 9% Safety KPIs and safety model KPI & Milestones 96% 3% People Culture and leadership model Implementation KPIs 108% 3% Environmental Environmental performance KPI & Milestones 102% 3% Social Social programmes Milestones 103% Total 102.80% The choice of these criteria, and their respective weightings, reflect Awards granted pursuant to the LTIP are split between Restricted theCommittees belief that any incentive compensation should be Share Awards RSAs and Performance Share Awards PSAs.
tiedboth to the overall performance of the Group and to those areas The RSAs are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference ofthe business that the relevant individual can directly influence.
to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares subject to the relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN RSAs vest.
The PSAs are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares The Company introduced the LTIP at the end of 2011.
Eligibility to subject to both the satisfaction of performance conditions and the participate in the LTIP is determined by the Committee each year relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the on an individual basis and all members of the Executive Committee PSAs vest.
The first awards under the LTIP were granted on29 December 2011 and awards have since been granted annually.
Under the rules of the LTIP, Directors are not eligible to participate.
Under the LTIP, participants are eligible to receive phantom share awards conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares, which are paid in cash upon vesting and may be made to participants based on the price of the Companys ordinary shares at the time of vesting.
96 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The PSAs granted in 2014 will be measured over a three-year performance period based on the following performance conditions: Weighting Objective Measure 25% Relative Total Shareholder Return Comparison against HSBC Global Mining Index with 33% vesting at performance equal to the index and 100% vesting of award at performance equal or greater than the index plus 5% during the three-year period.
The index will be calculated over an average index from three months previous to the beginning and before the end of the period, respectively.
30% EBITDA The maximum figure corresponds to the accumulated EBITDA over the period 2014-2016.
For2014, this is calculated using the budget figure.
For 2015 and 2016, the figures will be theonesresulting from the base case prepared during 2014.
7% Mineral Resources Increase Maximum figure corresponds to the level of contained resources for the Group at the end of 2016.
5% Reserves Increase Maximum figure corresponds to level of contained copper reserves for the Group at the end of 2016.
33% Projects, Development and These performance criteria relate to safety performance according to lost injury time frequency Sustainability rates, reported incidents and successful implementation of the new Group health and safety model as well as the performance of priority projects for the Group including Encuentro Oxides, Antucoya, Los Pelambres incremental expansion and the Twin Metals Project.
The LTIP was amended by the Committee in March 2015.
REMUNERATION STRUCTURE As aconsequence, any LTIP awards granted after 17 March 2015 The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration arrangements are subject to malus provisions in the LTIP rules which allow the in place for the Group CEO and the Executive Committee are Committee to, at its discretion, reduce the number of shares to which linked to performance, appropriately stretching and aligned to the an award relates or cancel an award as a result of: business strategy.
Variable remuneration is a core component of Executive Committee remuneration and up to 62% of the Executive actions by a participant that, in the reasonable opinion of the Committees total annual remuneration may be achieved under the Committee, amount to gross misconduct which has or may have Annual Bonus Plan and the LTIP.
amaterial effect on the value or reputations of the Company or any of its subsidiaries: a materially adverse error in the consolidated financial statements ofthe Group during the resting period: or any reasonable circumstance that the Committee determines in good faith to have resulted in an unfair benefit to the participant.
Antofagasta plc | 97 REMUNERATION REPORT The total remuneration of the Chairman who was Executive Chairman COMPARISON OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE until 1 September 2014 and Non-Executive Chairman thereafter and AND REMUNERATION the Group CEO from 1 September 2014 for the past six years, in US The following graph shows the Companys performance compared dollars, has been as follows: with the performance of the FTSE All-Share Index and the Euromoney Single figure Global Mining Index over a six-year period, measured by total remuneration $000 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 shareholder return as defined below.
The FTSE All-Share Index has Jean-Paul Luksic 3,184 3,330 3,521 3,598 3,615 2,196 been selected as an appropriate benchmark as it is the most broadly Diego Hernndez 688 based index to which the Company belongs and relates to the London Total 3,184 3,330 3,521 3,598 3,615 2,884 Stock Exchange, the market where the Companys ordinary shares Percentage change are traded.
on previous year -20% 1 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN Proportion of Antofagasta plc vs FTSE All-Share Index maximum bonus and Euromoney Global Mining Index % paid to the Group CEO 69% 450 Proportion of 400 maximum LTIP 350 awards vesting in 300 favour of the Group CEO 76% 250 Note: The Chairman was not eligible for any variable remuneration in 2013 and 2014 and this 200 table therefore only includes variable remuneration for Mr. Hernndez.
The proportion of maximum LTIPs vesting in favour of the Group CEO represents the 100% vesting of restricted 150 awards granted in 2012 and 2013 and an estimated 76% vesting of performance awards granted in 2012 estimated using the share price of 752.5p as at 31 December 2014.
100 50 The total remuneration paid to the Chairman from 1 January to 31 August 2014 and to the Group CEO from 1 September to 0 31 December 2014 was 20% lower than the total remuneration paid Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 to the Chairman in 2013.
This comprised a 30% decrease in fees Antofagasta FTSE All Share Index remuneration and a 55% reduction in benefits.
These amounts are Euromoney Global Mining Index higher than the overall decrease in total remuneration because a large proportion of Diego Hernndezs total remuneration is made 1 Total Shareholder Return represents share price growth plus dividends reinvested over up of variable remuneration.
The equivalent average percentage the period.
Total Return Basis Index 31 December 2008 100. change for Group employees as a whole was an increase of 6.7%.
This comprised a 5.6% increase in salaries and a 1.1% increase in benefits for Group employees as a whole in 2014.
It is common for Total shareholder return performance in comparison with the employment contracts in Chile to include an annual adjustment for Euromoney Global Mining Index is one of the performance criteria Chilean inflation.
for Performance Share Awards granted pursuant to the LTIP as described above.
RELATIVE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION Total shareholder return is calculated to show a theoretical growth The table below compares the changes from 2013 to 2014, in salary in the value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that benefits and Annual Bonus paid to the Groups lead executive and dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares at the closing Group employees as a whole.
The underlying elements of the price applicable on the ex-dividend date.
Total shareholder return for Executive Chairman and Group CEOs pay are based on the values the FTSE All-Share Index and the Euromoney Global Mining Index reported in the single figure remuneration table.
iscalculated by aggregating the returns of all individual constituents Percentage ofthose indices at the end of the six-year period.
Percentage Percentage change in change in change in annual base salary benefits bonus Executive Chairman Group CEO 30 % 55 % N A 1 Group Employees 5.6% 1.1% 2.0 % 1 This figure relates to the percentage change in annual bonus for mining group employees and does not include one-off bonus paid to employees as a result of the conclusion of collective bargaining agreements with labour unions in 2014.
98 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF REMUNERATION SPEND TALENT MANAGEMENT AND SUCCESSION The table below shows the total expenditure on employee PLANNING remuneration, the levels of distributions to shareholders and the 2014 was the first full year following the implementation of the new taxation cost in 2013 and 2014. talent management strategy and succession planning policy for key positions within the Group as identified by the Committee.
A As part of this policy, the Committee oversaw processes during A 2014 to identify and agree key positions and existing employees who are possible successors for these positions in the future.
Under the agreed succession planning policy, whenever a key position becomes vacant a replacement will first be sought from within the Group, taking B into account the succession plan previously developed and agreed for C that position.
During 2014, 68% of vacancies in positions identified as key positions B were filled by internal candidates, in accordance with the new C succession planning policy.
2013 $m 2014 $m % change 1 A Employee remuneration 440.9 508.6 15.4% The Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board and signed 2 on its behalf by B Distribution to shareholders 936.5 212.0 77.4 % 3 C Taxation 681.5 729.2 7.0% 1 The employee remuneration cost includes salaries, social security costs and awards under the LTIP, as set out in Note 24 to the financial statements.
There was a larger increase than usual due to the commencement of new employees at the Antucoya Project.
2 The distributions to shareholders represent the dividends proposed in relation to the year, as TIM BAKER set out in Note 11 to the financial statements.
3 Taxation has been shown above as this provides an indication of the contribution of the Groups Chairman of the Remuneration operations in Chile to the Chilean State via its tax contributions.
The taxation cost represents and Talent Management Committee the current tax charge in respect of corporate tax, mining tax royalty and withholding tax, as set out inNote 9 to the financial statements.
16 March 2015 This report does not disclose information in relation to the following, which was not relevant for the 2014 financial year: payments for loss of office no such events occurred in the 2014 financial year: further details on pension arrangements Directors do not receive pension benefits: and payments to past Directors no such payments were made inthe year.
Should such events occur in future, the necessary disclosures will be made at the appropriate time.
