Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The economic challenges and business performance Sir Philip Hampton are reflected in the remuneration received by executive Chairman, Remuneration Committee directors in 2014.
Specifically: underlying earnings were ahead of the targets set at the start of the year the relatively subdued level of earnings over the last three years means that the required three-year earnings growth was not achieved and, therefore, of the The role of the Companys Remuneration Enhancement Shares initially awarded in 2012, none vested at the end of 2014 Committee remains to ensure that the the results of the Companys longer term efficiency remuneration arrangements for executive programmes mean that half the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards initially granted to executive directors in directors offer every encouragement for them 2012 are likely to vest.
The remainder will not vest as the to enhance the Companys performance and full value of these savings has yet to be returned to you, as shareholders, in the form of superior Total Shareholder deliver our strategy in a responsible manner.
We have chosen to reproduce the Companys 1.
I NTRODUCTORY LETTER Remuneration Policy as approved at the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM in full, rather than an abridged Dear Shareholder, version, so that the Implementation Report for 2014, starting The role of the Companys Remuneration Committee on page 93, will be more meaningful for you.
remains to ensure that the remuneration arrangements The Remuneration Policy continues to support the delivery for executive directors and other members of the Group of our strategic objectives as evidenced by the performance Management Committee offer them every encouragement measures and targets for both the Bonus Share Plan BSP to enhance the Companys performance and deliver our and LTIP awards made in 2014, both of which are outlined in strategy in a responsible manner.
It is also our task to ensure the Implementation Report.
that the rewards received by the executive directors are proportionate to the levels of performance achieved and the I am pleased to report that the strengthening of the malus returns received by you as shareholders.
As a Committee, and clawback provisions of the BSP and LTIP, introduced for we therefore have to give full consideration to the awards made from 2014 onwards, meet the requirements of Companys strategy, its performance, your interests and the revised Corporate Governance Code that will apply for the interests of the wider communities we affect.
As reported by the chief executive in his introduction to this years Annual Report, it has been a challenging year Sir Philip Hampton for Anglo American.
Whilst 2014 has seen a marked Chairman, Remuneration Committee softening of commodity prices, the Company is continuing its operational turnaround and delivering on many of its strategic objectives, for example: completing the Minas-Rio project, with first iron ore shipped before the end of October and production being ramped up rolling out a revised operating model to improve operational performance continuing the review of its asset portfolio implementing organisational change.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 83
