Governance Remuneration policy report 2014 2.0 Remuneration policy report 2014 Please note that the Remuneration policy report 2014 is reproduced exactly as published in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Therefore, as the content remains the same the page numbers, examples and illustrations are necessarily historical.
2.1 Remuneration policy The table below summarises the remuneration policy which will take effect, if approved, from the AGM to be held on 20th May 2014.
Element Purpose and link to Operation Performance Maximum potential strategy measures value Fixed elements of Executive Director remuneration Base salary To enable the Reviewed annually by the Committee, taking into account: Reviews take into Ordinarily, salary Group to attract, account Company and increases will not Scale, scope and complexity of the role retain and motivate individual performance.
exceed the average Skills and experience of the individual highperforming increase awarded to Executive Directors other Group employees.
Wider workforce comparisons of the calibre required The maximum value Market benchmarking, within a defined external comparator to meet the Groups of any annual increase group.
The Committee uses this information with caution, strategic objectives.
in Executive Director given the limited number of direct comparators and to avoid salaries will be capped remuneration inflation as a result of benchmarking exercises at country of residence with no corresponding improvement in performance.
The Committee may The Committee considers the impact of any base salary award increases above increase on the total remuneration package.
this level, subject to a maximum of country of residence inflation plus 10%, in circumstances such as i where a new recruit or promoted Executive Directors salary has been set lower than the market level for such a role, or ii where there is a significant increase in the size and responsibilities of the Executive Directors role.
Pension To offer market For eligible Executive Directors who joined the UK Company N A For DB scheme as per competitive levels of before 2001 the Company provides a UK defined benefits actuarial value.
pension scheme DB scheme or cash alternative allowance.
For all other To attract and retain For UK nationals who joined the UK Company after 2001 arrangements the individuals with the the Company provides a defined contribution pension total contribution to all personal attributes, arrangement DC plan and or contributions to a private pension arrangements skills and experience pension and or a cash allowance.
will comprise no more required to deliver than 25% of base salary.
Executive Directors who have transferred internally from Group strategy.
overseas may continue to participate in home country No element other than pension arrangements and or receive a cash allowance.
Common To provide market The Company provides common benefits including: N A The aggregate maximum benefits competitive benefits.
cash value of providing all Company car and associated running costs or cash common benefits will not To enable the Executive alternative allowance exceed 20% of Directors to undertake Private health insurance base salary.
their roles through ensuring their wellbeing Telecommunications and computer equipment and security.
Life assurance Longterm disability insurance.
The Remuneration policy report 2014 is reproduced exactly as published in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
90 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Element Purpose and link to Operation Performance Maximum potential strategy measures value Variable elements of Executive Director remuneration Mobility To ensure that The Company will pay all reasonable expenses for the Executive N A Based on individual Director to relocate on appointment.
Costs will primarily be circumstances related Executive Directors benefits who have relocated dependent on geographical location and family size.
and subject to nationally or written agreement.
The Company will pay all reasonable expenses for repatriation internationally are of the Executive Director and his her family to the original home Maximum values will compensated for country at the end of their assignment and or employment.
not exceed the normal costs incurred.
market practice of Executive Directors are personally responsible for all taxes companies of a similar and social charges incurred in the home and host locations size and nature at the as a result of their appointment.
To ensure that Executive time of relocation.
Directors who relocate internationally are able to fulfil their tax obligations in the home and host countries the Company will pay for reasonable tax advice and filing support in relation to workrelated income for international Executive Directors.
Executive Directors are reimbursed under a Tax Treaty Adjustment for any double tax they might be liable for as a result of being subject to home country and host country taxation typically for days worked in the home location.
Executive Directors are not entitled to tax equalisation.
Annual To incentivise and Measures, targets and their relative weightings are reviewed Subject to the Threshold: 0% of salary.
bonus reward performance regularly by the Committee to ensure continuing alignment Committees Target: 75% of salary against selected KPIs with strategic objectives, and will be detailed in the relevant judgement, 60% in 2014. performance measures which are directly linked Annual report on remuneration.
In 2012 and 2013, the target to business strategy.
was 60% and the maximum was 100% of base salary.
and their respective Maximum: 125% targets are set at a ofsalary 100% in 2014.
To recognise Bonus is based largely or entirely on the achievement of Group or divisional performance through challenging financial performance measures, which have Or such lower sum level depending variable remuneration been selected to ensure the Company is focused on its as determined by the on the Executive and enable the strategic objectives.
Company to flexibly Bonus is delivered in cash.
Executive Directors must use control its cost base Any measure can that part of the bonus over 60% of base salary net of tax to and react to events and be incorporated at buy shares until the shareholding guidelines have been met.
the Committees Purchase to be made within 12 months of bonus receipt.
discretion provided To ensure a significant Bonus is subject to clawback for up to three years following it is clearly aligned to proportion of Executive payment.
Circumstances include financial misstatement, the Groups strategic Director remuneration erroneous calculations determining bonus payments or gross objectives, subject to is directly linked to misconduct.
the requirement that business performance.
financial measures will The Committee can adjust some performance targets to account for a minimum reflect certain nonoperating items such as the amortisation of 90% of bonus of acquisitionrelated intangible assets and exceptional opportunity, with up to reorganisational costs, and to reflect the inclusion of 10% being available for Associate companies.
These adjustments are mechanical sustainability or other rather than discretionary.
The weighting of each component will be chosen specifically to reflect the Executive Directors role.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91 4.
Strategic report Governance Remuneration policy report 2014 continued Element Purpose and link to Operation Performance Maximum potential strategy measures value Variable elements of Executive Director remuneration Vesting is currently Normal circumstances: Performance To incentivise and The Committee makes an annual conditional award of shares Share Plan reward Executive to each Executive Director.
Annual participation is subject to based on two 100% of salary.
performance PSP Directors for delivery Committee approval.
Exceptional against longterm measures, which have Measures, targets and their relative weightings are reviewed circumstances: up to been chosen as they Group performance.
regularly by the Committee to ensure continuing alignment 150% of salary.
are clearly aligned with To align Executive with strategic objectives, and will be detailed in the relevant our strategic objectives: Directors interests to Annual report on remuneration.
TSR Performance is measured over a threeyear period, starting To drive sustainable at the beginning of the financial year in which awards EPS growth are granted.
Company The Committee will performance.
Share awards made from 2012 are subject to clawback for review performance To retain key up to three years following award.
Circumstances include to ensure outcomes executive talent.
financial misstatement, erroneous calculations determining under the PSP are fair bonus payments or gross misconduct.
Dividends are not payable on PSP awards prior to vesting.
Employee To offer all eligible Eligible UK Executive Directors are entitled to participate in an N A Maximum annual Share UKbased employees HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan known as the ESOP.
investment subject to Ownership the opportunity to build HMRC limits or such Whilst not currently operated, if in the future employee share Plan ESOP a shareholding in a lower sum as determined plans are offered outside the UK, eligible Executive Directors taxefficient way.
will be entitled to participate on the same basis as all other To align Executive eligible employees.
Potential 1:1 matching Director interests to share award from Awards granted under the ESOP are not subject to clawback.
the Company and The ESOP operates over a fiveyear period.
dividend shares can be reinvested.
If the ESOP or an approved subplan is offered outside the UK, Executive Directors will be subject to the same limitations as all other participants.
Share To provide Following the date of appointment to the Board, Executive N A N A ownership alignment with Directors are required to accumulate, over a maximum period guidelines shareholder interests.
of five years, a shareholding in the Company worth at least 100% of base salary and to maintain this level of shareholding whilst the Executive Director remains on the Board.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Fees To attract and retain The Chairman is paid a single fee for all responsibilities.
N A The aggregate value highcalibre individuals, of fees paid to the The NonExecutive Directors are paid a basic fee.
The with appropriate Chairman and Chairmen of the main Board Committees and the Senior experience or NonExecutive Directors Independent Director are paid an additional fee to reflect their industryrelated skills, will not exceed 750,000 extra responsibilities.
by offering market as set out in the Articles Fees for the Chairman and the NonExecutive Directors are competitive fee levels.
reviewed annually by the Board, with reference to any change in the time commitment required, UK market levels and the average base salary increase across the wider workforce.
The Chairman and the NonExecutive Directors do not participate in any annual bonus or incentive plans, pension schemes, healthcare arrangements, the Companys PSP or ESOP.
The Company repays the reasonable expenses that the Chairman and the NonExecutive Directors incur in carrying out their duties as Directors.
92 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2.2 Notes to the policy table 2.2 i Outstanding incentive awards Details of outstanding incentive awards granted to Executive Directors prior to the Policy coming into force, including awards granted in 2013, and details of the performance targets are set out on pages 84 to 87 of the Annual report on remuneration 2013.
All incentive awards granted prior to this Policy coming into force will continue on their existing terms including the exercise of discretion toamend such awards.
2.2 ii Remuneration policy for other employees The Companys approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the scope of the role, level of experience, responsibility, individual performance and market pay levels.
The most senior managers in the business approximately 80 people globally participate in bonus arrangements with similar targets, measures and relative weightings to the Executive Directors.
Target and maximum potential values are lower and determined by the grade of the managers role.
Performance targets are based on an appropriate combination of Group, divisional and local operating company financial measures.
Contractual terms and benefits for the wider workforce aresubject to local employment legislation and best practice.
2.2 iii Measure selection and the target setting process Measures are selected taking into account the key strategic priorities of the Company, shareholder expectations and factors that sit within anindividuals span of control.
Targets are set with reference to internal and external forecasts to ensure that they are realistic, yet sufficiently stretching.
An appropriate mix of long and shortterm targets will be used, informed by the nature of the measure.
2.3 External directorships Directors are permitted to hold external directorships in order to broaden their experience, to the benefit of the Company.
Such appointments are subject to approval by the Board and the Director may retain any fees paid in respect of such directorships.
The Board ensures compliance by Directors with Code provision B.
Mark Vernon served as a NonExecutive Director at Senior plc during 2013, for which he received and retained total fees of 40,400.
2.4 Approach to recruitment and promotion remuneration When appointing external hires or when promoting executives, or an Executive Director, internally, the Committee will continue to act in the best interests of shareholders when determining remuneration, in line with the stated policy.
The main elements of the remuneration policy forExecutive Director appointments are: Base salary will be set on appointment taking into account the factors set out in the policy table, but also the individuals experience.
Depending on an individuals prior experience, the Committee may set salary below market norms, with the intention that it is realigned over time, typically two to three years, subject to performance in the role.
In this situation, the Committee is permitted to exceed the normal rate of annual salary increase set out in the policy table.
Ongoing annual incentive pay opportunity will not exceed 275% of salary, in line with the maximums stated in the policy table up to 125% of salary for annual bonus and an award of up to 150% of salary under the PSP.
In the year of appointment an offcycle award under the PSP may be made by the Committee to ensure an immediate alignment of individual interests.
In addition to the standard elements of remuneration, on the appointment of an external candidate, the Committee reserves the right to buyout incentive awards that the individual has foregone by accepting the appointment, if appropriate.
The terms of such awards would beinformed by the amounts being forfeited and the associated terms for example the extent to which the outstanding awards were subject to performance, the vehicles and the associated time horizons.
It is the intention of the Committee that on an expected basis, the value of the awards being made would not exceed those being forfeited.
Awards would be made either through the existing share plans or in accordance with the relevant provisions contained within the Listing Rules.
When an internal appointment to the Board is made, any preexisting obligations may be honoured by the Committee and payment will bepermitted under this remuneration policy.
For Executive Director internal promotions, salary will be capped at that of the incumbent Group Chief Executive.
The Committee shall have discretion to grant oneoff cash or sharebased awards to Executive Directors pursuant to the Listing Rules.
The Committee will exercise this discretion only in exceptional circumstances, where it determines that such an award is necessary to secure the recruitment or retention of an Executive Director and where the Committee determines that it is in the best interests of the Company to doso.
Any oneoff award will be subject to a maximum of 100% of salary and will be performancerelated.
In such circumstances, the Company will disclose a full explanation of the detail and rationale for the oneoff award.
The Committee does not expect to have to make any oneoff awards as a matter of course, and this power has been included in the policy to cater for any exceptional and genuinely unforeseen circumstances, such as a grant to a key individual where it is vital to retain them in the business.
Details of the remuneration for any new Chairman or Executive Director appointed to the Board will be disclosed on a timely basis on the Groups website, www.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 93 4.
Strategic report Governance Remuneration policy report 2014 continued 2.5 Service agreements and termination policy The Companys policy on service agreements and termination arrangements for Executive Directors is set out below.
Service agreements aredesigned to reflect the interests of the Company, as well as the individual concerned.
Executive Directors service agreements are kept atthe Companys headquarters in Cheltenham.
In accordance with the Code and guidelines issued by institutional investors, Executive Directors have service agreements that are terminable by either the Company or the Executive Director on 12 months notice.
In the event of termination or resignation, and subject to business reasons, the Company would not necessarily hold the Executive Director to his or her full notice period.
All Directors are subject to election ifnewly appointed in the year or reelection at the AGM.
Service agreements set out restrictions on the ability of the Executive Director to participate in businesses competing with those of the Group or to entice or solicit away from the Group any senior employees or to solicit deal with clients of the Group or interfere with supply, in the 12 months following the cessation of employment.
Salary, pension and benefits are included in the agreements and are treated as described in the policy table on pages 75 to 77.
There is nocontractual entitlement to payment of an annual bonus or granting of an award under the PSP, until individual participation, level of award, measures and targets have been set for a particular year.
The Chairman and NonExecutive Directors do not have service agreements but serve the Company under letters of appointment, for an initial period of three years, subject to annual reelection at the AGM.
Appointments may be terminated by the Company or individual with onemonths notice.
Group Chief Executive and new appointments from 1st January 2013 The details of the service agreements of the Group Chief Executive and for new appointments to the Board are outlined below.
The Group Chief Executive's service agreement has been updated to reflect latest best practice.
In the event of a material change in role, function or responsibilities, Executive Directors agreements will be reviewed and will be expected to be updated to meet the requirements outlined below.
Notice Period 12 months by the Executive Director and 12 months by the Company Termination No payment if Executive Director commits a repudiatory breach of the service agreement or for gross misconduct or in certain circumstances No additional termination payment if notice worked If notice only part worked part on garden leave, payment in respect of unexpired period of notice Otherwise 12 months base salary only Company discretion to pay in lieu of notice in lump sum or monthly except within 12 months of a change of control, when a lump sum will be paid If paid monthly, payment will be reduced by the value of any salary, fees and benefits, excluding longterm incentives, earned in new paid employment in that period No automatic entitlement to payments under the annual bonus or PSP.
See page 80 Garden leave clause Robust posttermination restrictions on confidentiality, noncompete, nonsolicitation and noninterference with customers or suppliers Service agreements may be terminated without notice and without payment of compensation on the occurrence of certain events, such as gross misconduct or financial misstatement Clawback Bonus payments and PSP awards are subject to clawback for up to three years following award Circumstances include financial misstatement, erroneous calculations determining bonus payments or gross misconduct Executive Directors legacy agreements Within the legacy agreements of Executive Directors, termination of agreements is subject to a 12 month notice period.
Where payment is made in lieu of notice on termination, the payment of a sum in respect of lost future bonus opportunity based on an average of the preceding three years bonus payments is subject to the Committees discretion, with the power to reduce the amount to reflect performance on the part of the Executive Director which is considered by the Committee to be unsatisfactory.
On termination of such an Executive Directors service agreement, the Committee will take into account the departing Executive Directors need to mitigate his or her loss when determining the amount of bonus.
Payment will only be made at the discretion of the Committee after taking into account individual performance in order to ensure that there will be no payments for failure.
In any event, payments will be subject to clawback provisions.
Executive Directors service agreements may be terminated without notice and without payment of compensation on the occurrence of certain events, such as termination for gross misconduct or financial misstatement.
94 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 While the Executive Directors service agreements include a provision to deal with termination on a change of control, in the event of an offer being made, shareholders have discretion to accept the offer or not.
The decision to recommend acceptance, or not, is a matter for the Board and the Committee is of the clear view that the change of control provision within the Executive Directors service agreements would have no influence on the voting pattern of those Executive Directors.
Executive Directors legacy agreements are summarised in the table below.
Notice Period 12 months by the Executive Director and 12 months by the Company Termination No payment if Executive Director commits a repudiatory breach of the service agreement or for gross misconduct or in certain circumstances No additional termination payment if notice worked If notice only part worked part on garden leave, payment in respect of unexpired period of notice Otherwise 12 months base salary, the value of other benefits, plus the cost of pension credits or contributions for the period plus the average of the prior three years annual bonus payments, with Committee discretion to reduce the amount of the bonus that would otherwise be calculated, to reflect performance on the part of the Executive Director that is considered by the Committee to be below the required standards, provided that termination by the Company does not occur within 12 months of a change of control Committee discretion to pay in lump sum or monthly except within 12 months of a change of control when a lump sum will be paid If paid monthly, payment will be reduced by the value of any salary, fees and benefits excluding longterm incentives, earned in new paid employment in that period No automatic entitlement to payments under the current annual bonus or PSP.
See below Garden leave clause Robust posttermination restrictions on confidentiality, noncompete, nonsolicitation and noninterference with customers or suppliers Clawback Bonus payments and PSP awards are subject to clawback for up to three years following award Circumstances include financial misstatement, erroneous calculations determining bonus payments or gross misconduct Treatment of leavers under the incentive plans Whilst it is not an entitlement, it is expected that where an Executive Director is a good leaver ie where the cessation of employment is due to death, disability, redundancy, retirement or the company business in which he she works being disposed of where the ending of employment is instigated by the Company and is not for cause, payments will be made under the annual bonus plan if performance targets are met subject to, and in accordance with, the plan rules.
If the Executive Director is not a good leaver it is expected that no bonus will be paid.
The treatment of leavers under the PSP is determined in accordance with the shareholder approved PSP rules.
Any awards granted within six months prior to termination or the giving or receiving of notice will lapse.
Any awards granted six months or longer prior to termination of employment but prior to the end of the performance period will lapse unless the Executive Director is considered to be a good leaver.
In the case of a good leaver the award will vest on the termination date, or the normal vesting date, at the Committees discretion.
This issubject to the satisfaction of the performance targets at that date and a prorata reduction in the number of shares to take account ofthe shortening of the performance period.
For awards granted on or after 1st March 2012, if the Executive Director is a good leaver where the ending of employment is not for cause, the number of shares vested may be reduced including to zero by the Committee in its absolute discretion.
If an Executive Director ceases employment or notice is given on or after the end of the performance period but prior to the date on which the Committee has determined the extent to which the award has vested, if the Executive Director is a good leaver, his her award will be preserved and will be treated in the same way as if his her employment had continued, whereas if the Executive Director is not a good leaver, his her award will lapse on the earlier of his her cessation of employment and the giving of notice.
Change of control Bonus: if termination occurs within 12 months of a change of control, the Executive Director is entitled to i a lump sum payment in lieu of notice and ii receive a full bonus payment calculated by reference to the average of the preceding three years bonus payments without any reduction for performance.
PSP: the rules provide that in the event of a change of control, outstanding sharebased awards will vest to the extent that performance targets are met at the date of the event.
Any such vesting would generally be on a time prorated basis.
The Committee may, at its discretion, increase the level of vesting if it believes that exceptional circumstances warrant such treatment.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 95 4.
Strategic report Governance Remuneration policy report 2014 continued 2.6 Illustrations of application of the remuneration policy Under the remuneration policy, a significant portion of remuneration is variable and depends on the Companys performance.
Below we illustrate how the total pay opportunity for the Executive Directors varies under three performance scenarios: maximum, on target, and below threshold.
The scenarios, informed by the current application of our pay policy, are defined as follows: Element Fixed pay, benefits and ESOP Fixed pay and ESOP does not vary with performance and comprises: Base salary effective 1st January 2014 Benefits value based on 2013 disclosure Pension value DB 2013 as reported: cash allowance: rate applied to 2014 salary ESOP participation of up to 1,500 1:1 matching shares for eligible Executive Directors Percentage of base salary Below threshold On target Maximum Annual bonus % of salary 0% 60% 100% 1 PSP % of salary at award 0% 25% 100% 1 A l evel of 25% vesting for on target performance is equivalent to threshold performance under the PSP, which the Committee believes to be a fair assumption foron target performance given the approach taken to setting performance targets.
Total remuneration by performance scenario Nick Anderson Group Chief Executive David Meredith Finance Director 40% 30% 30% 40% 30% 30% Maximum Maximum 1.56m 1.07m 60% 28% 12% 62% 27% 11% Target 1.01m Target 0.70m 100% 0% 0% 100% 0% 0% Threshold 0.61m Threshold 0.43m 0.0m 1.0m 2.0m 0.0m 1.0m 2.0m Neil Daws Executive Director EMEA Jay Whalen Executive Director WMFTG 40% 30% 30% 44% 28% 28% Maximum 0.96m Maximum 0.93m 61% 28% 12% 65% 25% 10% Target 0.62m Target 0.63m 100% 0% 0% 100% 0% 0% Threshold 0.38m 0.41m Threshold 0.0m 1.0m 2.0m 0.0m 1.0m 2.0m Fixed Annual bonus PSP The Remuneration policy report 2014 is reproduced exactly as published in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
96 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2.7 Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group When determining the remuneration of Executive Directors, the Committee considers the pay of employees across the Group.
Whenconducting the annual salary review, the average base salary increase awarded to the UK workforce and senior managers across the Group provides a key reference point when determining levels of increase for Executive Director remuneration.
The remuneration policy was drawn up by the Committee without the need for any consultation with employees.
The Committee also determines the principles and policy of remuneration which shall apply to the Groups senior managers.
The responsibility for determining precise compensation packages that meet local practice and performance targets lies with the Group Chief Executive and the responsible Executive Director.
To ensure consistency in remuneration policy across the Group and to encourage a performance culture, senior managers participate in the PSP.
The Board believes that share ownership is an effective way of aligning the interests of managers and shareholders and to strengthen the development of the business.
2.8 Statement of consideration of shareholder views In developing and reviewing the Companys remuneration policy for Executive Directors and other senior executives, the Committee seeks and takes into account the range of views of shareholders.
The Committee Chairman actively engages with institutional shareholders when appropriate and takes into account their views when reviewing and implementing the Companys remuneration policy.
The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year and guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally.
This feedback, plus any additional feedback received during the year at meetings with shareholders, is considered as part of the Companys annual review of remuneration policy.
At the AGM in 2013, the advisory vote on the 2012 Directors remuneration report received 96.3% in favour.
The views of shareholders have been helpful and constructive and assisted in the development of a proforma Executive Director service agreement which has been applied to Nick Anderson on his appointment as Group Chief Executive and which will apply to all new appointments.
Specifically in relation to the termination arrangements, the revised service agreement restricts any termination payment to 12 months base pay.
This applies to the new Group Chief Executive service agreement and, in the event of a material change in the role, function or responsibilities, existing Executive Directors service agreements will be reviewed and changed to meet the new standard.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 97 4.
