Corporate Governance 87 Directors remuneration report Grow third-party income and generate asustainableannual operating profit from ourfundmanagement activities Assets under management grew by 41 million to 12,911 million during the year, and together with the cost reduction programme the Fund Management platform generated an underlying profit excluding restructuring and amortisation costs and margin of 33 million and 26% respectively, compared to 17 million and 13% for the previous year.
Improve capital allocation, focusing on enhanced shareholder distributions and re-investment in ourcore investment businesses There continues to be significant improvement in the shift away from using Jonathan Asquith, Chairman, Remuneration Committee capital to pay operating costs, funding costs and debt repayment costs and towards more being used for shareholder distributions and reinvestment.
The Committees remuneration These significant achievements and progress made during the year arereflected in the remuneration decisions contained within the decisions have been based Implementation report.
uponachievement against the Priorities for the Committee strategicpriorities for the year.
The Companys strategic objectives for the current year are reflected inthe performance measures that will be applied to the annual bonus Statement by the Remuneration with our longer-term objectives reflected in the performance measures applicable to the LTIP awards.
As the Restructuring and Transition Committee Chairman phasesof the strategic plan near completion we have reviewed the As Remuneration Committee Chairman, I am pleased to introduce appropriateness of continuing to link 50% of the LTIP performance theDirectors remuneration report for the financial year 1 April 2013 measures to a balanced scorecard of particular strategic measures.
to31 March 2014 the year and to provide some details of the Following the review, and to ensure the performance measures remain background against which the Committees decisions have been taken appropriate, the strategic measures used last year will be replaced with inthe year.
References to the current year relate to the financial year a relative total shareholder return metric.
The details of this are shown 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015. in more detail on page 101.
The Committee considers the annual bonus objectives to be commercially sensitive, and while they are not fully This report is the first that has been prepared in accordance with the disclosed on page 101 of the report, they will be disclosed retrospectively Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports with the performance achieved against each of them.
The report is presented in two sections: The levels of pay that our Directors will be eligible to receive will remain substantially unchanged in the current year.
Since the completion of our the Policy report, which is subject to a binding shareholder vote: and strategic reward review last year and following further consultation with the Implementation report, which sets out how the policy was some of our key shareholders, there have been two changes to our implemented for the year and how we intend to apply the policy arrangements to reinforce the long-term alignment of our pay with forthecurrent year, which will be subject to an advisory vote.
shareholders, being: The increase in the deferral level of annual bonuses for Executive Performance in the year Directors and Executive Committee members from 40% to 50% of any bonus awarded starting with any bonus awarded in respect of FY2015.
We are now almost two years into the multi-year strategic plan that This deferral will continue to be invested in Company shares, and be wasset out by our Chief Executive, Simon Borrows, in June 2012. released 25% per annum over four years: and Following the successful delivery of the first years Restructuring phase, the Company has moved into the Transition and delivery phase of the As announced at last years Annual General Meeting, the timing of the plan, and is now a more streamlined business delivering strong release of LTIP awards will revert to the previous practice of being performance.
The Committees decisions regarding the remuneration released 50% on the third anniversary and 25% on the fourth and fifth ofthe Executive Directors have been made based upon achievement anniversaries of grant.
against the strategic priorities for the year, with the highlights being: The Remuneration Committee values all feedback from shareholders, and hopes to receive your support at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual operating cash profit In the past the Company has operated at a material annual operating Jonathan Asquith, cash deficit.
The impact of the savings delivered by the restructuring, Chairman, Remuneration Committee while maintaining cash income, resulted in a 5 million profit for the year.
13 May 2014 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 88 Corporate Governance Directors remuneration report Policy report Remuneration policy table The table below summarises the policy in respect of each element of the Companys remuneration for Executive and non-executive Directors effective from the date of the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
This policy will be put forward for shareholder approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006.
This policy remains unchanged from FY2014, except where highlighted below.
While the Committee will consider the appropriateness of the Remuneration policy annually to ensure it continues to align with the business strategy, there is no current intention to revise the policy more oftenthan every three years, unless required to through changes to regulations or legislation.
Executive Directors Purpose and link Performance to strategic objectives Operation Opportunity metrics Base salary To provide a fixed Salaries are normally reviewed Whilst there is no maximum salary None, although the element of pay at annually by the Committee, with any level, increases are generally Committee considers alevelthat aids the changes usually becoming effective considered in the context of those when setting salary recruitment, retention from 1 July.
awarded to other employees and the levels the breadth and and motivation of high wider market.
responsibilities of These are reviewed by taking into performing people.
theroleas well as account a number of factors, Higher increases may be awarded in thecompetence To reflect their role, including: exceptional circumstances.
For andexperience experience and example, this may include a change performance of the Company and oftheindividual.
importance to in size, scope or responsibility of role, individual: thebusiness.
or development within the role or a wider market and economic specific retention issue.
conditions: The annual base salary for each Executive Director is set out in the any changes in responsibilities: and Annual report on Remuneration the level of increases made across forthe year.
Pension To provide contributions Participation in the defined Executive Directors receive a pension N A to Executive Directors contribution pension scheme contribution or cash allowance of toenable them to 3iRetirement Plan or cash equivalent.
makelong-term Prior to 2011 Executive Directors In addition if an Executive Director is savingsto provide were eligible for membership of the amember of the 3i Group Pension post-retirement income.
3i Group Pension Plan, a defined Plan they are eligible to receive a Pension contributions benefit contributory scheme.
Pension maximum additional contribution of are provided to both accrual ceased for all members with 5% of the first 50,000 of pensionable support retention and effect from 5 April 2011, although salary inthe year to April 2015 only.
recruit people of the alink to final salary is maintained For those Executive Directors who necessary calibre.
forexisting accrual up to the date were members of the 3i Group ofleaving theCompany.
Pension Plan, their deferred pension For the period from 5 April 2011 will change to reflect the deferred until5April 2015, defined benefit pension available onleaving, payable members receive additional from age 60. contributions into their defined Details for the current Executive contribution pension scheme as Directors are set out in the Annual transitional relief for members report of remuneration for the year.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate Governance 89 Purpose and link Performance to strategic objectives Operation Opportunity metrics Benefits To provide market Executive Directors are entitled to Whilst there is no maximum level of N A competitive benefits acombination of benefits, including benefits, they are generally set at an atthe level needed to anon-pensionable car allowance, appropriate market competitive level, attract and retain high private medical insurance, an taking into account a number of performing people.
annualhealth assessment and factors including market practice for lifeassurance.
comparable roles within appropriate To provide health pay comparators.
benefits to support The Remuneration Committee may thewell being remove benefits that Executive The Remuneration Committee may ofemployees.
Directors receive or introduce other review the benefits for an existing or benefits if it is appropriate to do so.
new Executive Director at any point.
Executive Directors are also eligible toparticipate in any tax-approved allemployee share plans operated bythe Company on the same basis asother eligible employees.
Annual bonus To incentivise the Bonus awards are considered Maximum bonus of 400% of salary Performance is achievement of the annually based on performance forthe Chief Executive.
assessed against a Groups strategic intherelevant financial year.
balanced scorecard Maximum bonus of 250% of salary objectives on an which aligns with the All performance targets are forthe Group Finance Director.
strategic objectives reviewedand set by the Committee ofthe Group.
A bonus of above 75% of Deferral into shares early in theyear.
 reinforces retention The targets can be Awards are determined by the isonlyawarded for andenhances alignment arange of financial, Committee after the year based .
with shareholders business line specific, uponthe actual performance byencouraging personal, risk and other againstthese targets.
No more than 50% of any bonus The Committee uses the award is paid as cash.
scorecard as a prompt At least 50% of any bonus award will and guide to judgment be deferred into shares vesting in and considers the equal instalments over four years.
performance outcomes in the wider context of Deferred bonus awards may be personal performance granted in the form of conditional including values and share awards, options or forfeitable behaviours, risk, market shares.
Awards may also be settled and other factors.
Details of the annual Participants receive the value of performance targets dividends in cash on the shares and performance whichare subject to the award.
against targets are shown within the Deferred share awards are subject Annualreport tothe malus clawback policy as set ofremuneration.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 90 Corporate Governance Directors remuneration report Purpose and link Performance to strategic objectives Operation Opportunity metrics Long-term Incentive Plan Alignment of reward All performance targets, along with Awards granted in respect of a The scorecard used with long-term, relative weightings, are reviewed financial year will have a face value tomeasure the sustainable Company andsetby the Committee prior ofup to 400% of salary for the performance links at performance and toawards being made.
least half of the award thecreation of tototal shareholder The Committee may make an award Awards granted in respect of shareholder value returns and the balance, inthe form of forfeitable shares, afinancial year will have a face overthe longer-term.
if any, to strategic conditional share awards, stock valueofup to 250% of salary for objectives set by The combination of appreciation rights, or options under the theGroup FinanceDirector.
Awards may be settled in cash.
Normally, no payment will be made measures and total The achievement Award levels are determined by forbelow threshold performance.
shareholder return againstthese targets reference to individual performance Between 20% and 25% of the targets balance ismeasured over prior to grant.
awardvests at threshold internaland external athree-year period performance, depending upon perspectives of Awards vest subject to the Groups andisdetermined .
performance, and achievements against the bytheCommittee.
alignparticipants with performance targets over a The Committee can shareholders interests.
reduce any award which To the extent that shares vest, they would otherwise vest are released 50% on or around but ifgross debt or gearing not earlier than the third anniversary targets are missed.
of grant, and 25% on or around but Details of the current not earlier than the fourth and fifth performance conditions anniversaries of grant.
are shown within theAnnual report The Committee may determine that ofremuneration.
participants may receive the value ofdividends in cash or shares which would have been paid on the shares that vest under awards.
Performance share awards are subject to the malus clawback policy as set out in the notes opposite.
Shareholding requirements To create alignment Executive Directors are required to The shareholding targets for the N A withshareholders by build up over a reasonable period Executive Directors are: encouraging longeroftime, and thereafter maintain, Chief Executive 3.0 times salary termfocus.
ashareholding in the Companys shares.
Vested shares net of Group Finance Director 1.5 times incometax and National Insurance salary contributions under the Deferred Executive Committee members have Bonus Plan and Long-term Incentive atarget of 1.5 times salary and Plan should be retained until the selected partners 1.0 times salary.
In addition, shareholding targets existforother members of the Executive Committee and for staff designated as partners in the Groups businesses.
The Committee retains the abilitytointroduce additional retention conditions.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate Governance 91 Within each of the Groups businesses, senior members of staff have Notes to the Remuneration policy table asignificant part of their compensation linked to the long-term Performance conditions performance of the Groups and its clients investments through The Committee selected the performance conditions used for carriedinterest schemes or similar arrangements.
determining the annual bonus and LTIP awards as they align directly Co-investment and carried interest plans with the short and long-term strategy of the business.
These conditions are set annually by the Committee at levels that take into account the Executive Directors, other than the Chief Executive and Group Finance Boards business plan.
Director, arepermitted to participate in carried interest plans and similar arrangements.
This was approved by shareholders on 4 July 2001 Changes to the policy operated in FY2014 and6 July 2011 when approving the Groups Long-term Incentive Plan.
There have been no changes to the remuneration policy from that which No current Executive Director benefits from these arrangements.
was applied during the year, other than an increase in the proportion Malus Clawback policy ofthe annual bonus thatis deferred over four years from 40% to 50%.
This has been increased to align the Executive Directors interests The Committee has agreed a policy, which applies to long-term incentive moreclosely withthose of shareholders.
awards and deferred bonus share awards made during the year to Executive Directors and certain other Senior Executives, under which Consistency with policy for all employees awards may be forfeited or reduced prior to vesting in exceptional All employees are eligible to receive salary, pension contributions circumstances on such basis as the Committee considers fair, reasonable andbenefits and to be considered for a discretionary annual bonus, and proportionate.
This would include material misstatement of Group withthe maximum opportunities reflecting the role and seniority of financial statements, or cases where an individual is deemed tohave eachemployee.
Other members of the Executive Committee are subject caused a material loss for the Group as a result of reckless, negligent tothesame bonus deferral arrangements as the Executive Directors.
orwilful actions or inappropriate values or behaviour.
Higher-earning members of staff below Executive Committee have The Committee may make minor changes to this policy, which do aportion of their bonus deferred into shares vesting in equal instalments nothave a material advantage to Directors, to aid in its operation over a three-year period.
orimplementation without seeking shareholder approval for arevisedversion of this Policy report.
Non-executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Non-executive Directors Fees To attract and retain high Non-executive Directors receive a basic annual fee.
Fees are set at a level which is considered performing non-executive appropriate to attract and retain the calibre The fee is delivered in a mix of cash and shares.
Directors of the calibre ofindividual required by the Company but the required.
The Chairmans fee is reviewed annually by Company avoids paying more than necessary theCommittee.
Additional fees are paid for the following Fees are benchmarked against other companies roles duties: ofcomparable size and against listed financial services companies.
Senior Independent Director The Board is responsible for determining all other Committee Chairman non-executive Director fees, which are reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate.
Committee membership Committee fees are payable in respect of the Audit and Compliance Committee, Remuneration Committee and Valuations Committee.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 92 Corporate Governance Directors remuneration report It may be necessary to compensate the new Executive Director Recruitment policy for variable pay being forfeited from their current employer.
The Committees intention is that any such award would be no In determining remuneration arrangements for new executive more generous than the awards being forfeited and would be appointments to the Board including internal promotions, the determined on a comparable basis at the time of grant, including Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors, includingthe thepayout schedule and performance conditions, where appropriate.
calibre of the individual, the nature of the role, local market practice, the individuals current remuneration package, 3iremuneration policy, In determining whether it is appropriate to use such judgment, the internal relativities and existing arrangementsforother Executive Committee will ensure that any awards made are in the best interests Directors.
Forexternal appointments, some variation may be necessary ofboth the Company and its shareholders.
The Committee is at all times in order toattract the successful candidate and to reflect particular skills conscious of the need to pay no more than is necessary, particularly or experience specifically required.
The maximum level of variable pay as expressed as a multiple of base For an internal appointment of a new Executive Director, any existing salary which may be awarded to new Executive Directors in respect awards made prior to becoming a Director would be allowed to vest oftheir appointment shall be no more generous than the combined andpay out in accordance with the existing plan rules.
maximum limits expressed in the Remuneration policy table above in In the event of the appointment of a new non-executive Director, respect of the Chief Executive, with an appropriate mix between annual remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those detailed bonus and LTIP opportunity, excluding any awards made to compensate in the relevant table above.
the Executive Director for awards forfeited by their previous employer.
Service contracts The main terms of the service contracts of the Executive Directors who served in the year were as follows: Provision Policy Notice period 12 months notice if given by the Company 6 months notice if given by the Executive Director Company policy is that Executive Directors notice periods should not normally exceed one year.
Save for these notice periods the contracts have no unexpired terms.
Dates of contracts Mr S A Borrows 17 May 2012 Mrs J S Wilson 1 October 2008 Termination payments Mr Borrows contract entitles the Company to terminate employment without notice subject to making 12monthly payments thereafter equivalent to monthly basic pay and benefits less any amounts earned from alternative employment.
All Directors contracts entitle the Company to give pay in lieu of notice.
Remuneration and benefits The operation of all incentive plans, including being eligible to be considered for an annual bonus and Long-term Incentive Plan awards, is non-contractual.
On termination of employment outstanding awards will be treated in accordance with the relevant planrules.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors do not have service contracts or contracts for services.
Their appointment letters provide for noentitlement to compensation or other benefits on ceasing to be a Director.
Service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys headquarters in business hours.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate Governance 93 The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant Payment for loss of office share plan rules.
The following table and the note below it summarise the leaver categories and the impact on the share awards which As outlined above, the Committee must satisfy any contractual employees including Executive Directors may hold.
obligations agreed with the Executive Directors.
Details of the Directors notice periods are shown alongside the service contract information.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Committee reserves the right to makeany remuneration payments and payments for loss of office An Executive Director may be eligible to receive a time pro-rated annual notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above, bonus in respect of the year up until he or she ceased employment.
where the terms of that payment were agreed i before the policy came In determining whether to award any bonus, the Committee will assess into effect or ii at atime when the relevant individual was not a Director performance during the financial year up to the date of cessation of of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was active involvement in their management role.
not in consideration forthe individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award or option over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the timethe award is granted.
1 1 Plan Good leaver categories Good leaver treatment Bad leaver treatment Deferred Death Awards vest in full on the normal Unvested awards lapse in full share awards vesting date Retirement Vested awards structured as On death, awards vest in full options may be exercised for three Ill-health, injury, disability immediately months following the participants Redundancy cessation of employment Employing company business ceasing tobe part of 3i Group Scheduled Departure ie a participant leaving on such a basis and or within aspecified timeframe as agreed by theCommittee Long-term Death Awards normally vest on the Awards lapse in full Incentive Plan normal vesting date subject to Retirement If the Committee decides the performance.
Scaling back for awards should vest after the Ill-health, injury, disability timewill normally apply participants cessation of Redundancy If a participant dies, the Committee employment, awards will vest will determine the extent to which subject to performance and Employing company business ceasing awards should vest as soon as itmayscale back awards or tobe part of 3i Group practicable following the imposeadditional conditions Scheduled Departure ie a participant participants death leaving on such a basis and or within aspecified timeframe as agreed by theCommittee 1 The treatments set out in the table above apply to all employees and are expected to operate in the vast majority of cases.
The Plan rules retain discretion for the Committee to reduce awards in exceptional circumstances to Good Leavers or permit vesting in whole or in part of awards which would otherwise lapse to BadLeavers.
The Committee will report on the use of this discretion if it is exercised in relation to any Executive Director.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 94 Corporate Governance Directors remuneration report The assumptions made in preparing these graphs are that: Change of control Minimum this includes only the fixed elements of pay, being base If there is a takeover or winding up of the Company, awards will vest salary, benefits and pension: tothe extent determined by the Committee.
Actual this represents the remuneration received by each Executive Director for their performance in the year: Scenarios Maximum this is calculated as the fixed elements and the maximum Chief Executive 000s Annual Bonus and Long-term Incentive Plan awards: and Remuneration arising as a result of share price movements or rights to dividends and other distributions have been excluded.
Maximum 12% 44% 44% 4,982 Consideration of wider Actual employee pay 22% 78% 2,617 FY2014 As part of the annual Committee agenda, the Committee reviews the overall pay and bonus decisions in aggregate for the Group.
This ensures that the pay and conditions in the wider Group are taken into account when determining directors pay.
In particular: 100% 582 Minimum Salary increases awarded over time to other employees are taken 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 intoaccount when considering salary increases for the Executive Fixed remuneration Annual bonus including deferred element Long-term incentive Directors: and The bonus awards made to Directors are considered and made in thecontext of discretionary bonus awards made within the business.
Finance Director 000s These are based upon Company performance, and are closely correlated to the Executive Director bonus awards.
The Company does not consult with employees when preparing the Maximum 19% 40.5% 40.5% 2,472 Executive Director remuneration policy.
However, a number of our employees are shareholders and so are able to express their views inthesame way as other shareholders.
Actual 39% 61% 1,222 FY2014 Consideration of shareholder views As part of the shareholder consultation process during 2012 13, the Company proposed moving the payment date for awards under the Minimum 100% 471 Long-term Incentive Plan to three years and six months following the date of award.
The Committee received and considered feedback from 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 shareholders on this point, and decided to retain the existing framework under which the awards have a performance period of three years and Fixed remuneration Annual bonus including deferred element Long-term incentive then are released in tranches on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary ofthe date of grant.
The Committee will continue to be mindful of shareholder views when evaluating and setting ongoing remuneration strategy, and commits toconsulting with shareholders prior to any significant changes to remuneration policy.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate Governance 95 The Annual report of remuneration Implementation report Director remuneration for the year Single total figure of remuneration for each Director FY2014 FY2013 LTIP LTIP no LTIP no LTIP Salary Annual performance performance Salary Annual performance performance 000 fees Benefits Pension Bonus condition condition Total fees Benefits Pension Bonus condition condition Total S A Borrows 550 17 15 2,035 605 0 3,222 541 17 14 1,980 380 2,932 J S Wilson 400 19 53 750 0 1,222 400 19 55 800 0 1,274 Sir Adrian Montague 295 295 295 295 J P Asquith 84 84 81 81 A R Cox 68 68 65 65 D A M Hutchison 31 31 R H Meddings 90 90 87 87 W Mesdag 56 56 81 81 M G Verluyten 64 64 61 61 1 Benefits include a car allowance, provision of health insurance and, for Mrs Wilson, the value of the Share Incentive Plan matching share awards.
2 Pension for Mr Borrows is a salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions, and the pension value for Mrs Wilson is the combination of the value of the Company contributions made to the 3i Retirement Plan on her behalf and the salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions from March 2014.
3 Annual bonus awards made in respect of the current year are delivered as 60% cash immediately, and 40% payable in shares deferred for four years, subject tothemalus clawback policy.
These shares are released in four equal annual instalments over the four years commencing June 2015 and carry the right to receivedividends and other distributions.
4 In addition to the table above, dividends or dividend equivalents on unvested deferred share awards were paid during the year Mr Borrows 55k, Mrs Wilson 13k.
5 The value shown in the LTIP no performance condition for Mr Borrows represents the award made in 2011 on joining the Company in recognition of awards forfeitedonleaving his previous employment.
The award value represents 171,087 shares vesting at a market price of 353.75 pence.
6 The fees shown for the non-executive Directors include fees used to purchase shares in the Company.
7 In addition to the fees shown above, Mr Borrows retained directors fees of 71k from The British Land Company PLC and 74k from Inchcape plc, and Mrs Wilson retaineddirectors fees of 99k from Legal and General Group plc.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 96 Corporate Governance Directors remuneration report FY2014 Annual bonus The annual bonuses for Executive Directors for the year were awarded against a balanced scorecard agreed by the Committee in March 2013, basedupon the strategic priorities announced in June 2012.
The Committee uses the scorecard as a prompt and guide to judgment and considers theperformance outcomes in the wider context of personal performance including values and behaviours risk, market and other factors.
Performance against the strategic priorities set out in the 2013 Annual report and accounts was as follows: Strategic priority Priority for 2013 14 Result Create a leaner organisation Reduce cumulative run-rate operating cost by 60 million Over achieved with a cost base more closely Cover operating costs with annual cash income on a run-rate basis aligned with its income Improve consistency and Grow Private Equity investment portfolio earnings through asset management Over achieved discipline of investment improvement initiatives processes and asset Continue to re-establish investment track record through improved performance management approach andnew investment Re-focus and re-shape the Continue to manage intensively the existing portfolio and realise investments Over achieved Private Equity business atvalues representing good uplifts to book value and strong cash-on-cash multiples, thereby optimising the value of the portfolio for 3i, its shareholders anditsfund investors Selective investing in our core markets using a combination of proprietary capital andthird-party co-investment Grow third-party AUM Continue to explore opportunities to further grow and develop our three fund Over achieved and income management platforms Grow annual operating profit from fund management activities, demonstrating additional value beyond NAV Improve capital allocation, Initiate additional shareholder distributions above the annual base dividend Over achieved focusingon enhanced Reduce gross interest payable to less than 60 million, excluding costs of early shareholder distributions and debtrepayment re-investment in our business The Committee also took into account performance against the non-financial targets listed below, concluding that the Executive Directors have met or exceeded the Boards expectations in each case: Maintain good engagement with investors and the quality of the Groups shareholder register Rearticulate the people strategy of the Group Develop the strategic vision for the Group to the satisfaction of the Board Continue the transformation of the Groups culture As a result of these achievements, taking all of the above into consideration in the round, the Committee awarded Mr Borrows a bonus for the year of370% of base salary being 92.5% of his maximum bonus opportunity, and a bonus for the year to Mrs Wilson of 187.5% of base salary being 75% ofher maximum bonus opportunity.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate Governance 97 Share awards vesting in 2013 subject to performance conditions 2010 Long-term incentive award The long-term incentive award granted in 2010 to Mrs Wilson was subject to a performance condition which compared the growth in value ofashareholding in the Company over three years to June 2013 averaged over a 60-day period with the FTSE 100 Index both with dividends reinvested.
The table below shows the achievement against this condition and the resulting proportion of the award that vested in June 2013.
Threshold Maximum Actual Measure Performance % vesting Performance % vesting Performance % vesting Growth in value for Company 8% pa above versus FTSE 100 Same as FTSE 100 35% FTSE 100 100% 1.1 % 0% 2011 Long-term incentive award The long-term incentive awards granted in July 2011 to Mrs Wilson and in November 2011 to Mr Borrows were subject to a performance conditionbased on annualised Total Return on Equity over the three financial years to 31 March 2014.
The table below shows the achievement againstthis condition and the resulting proportion of the awards that will vest in June 2014.
The performance condition for the award made to Mr Borrows in November 2011 included performance for the six month period to 30 September2011, a period which preceded Mr Borrows joining the Group on 17 October 2011.
The Groups total return for that six month perioddeclined by523 million.
Threshold Maximum Actual Measure Performance % vesting Performance % vesting Performance % vesting Annualised three-year total returnonequity 10% pa 20% 18% pa 100% 2.2% 0% Change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive compared to otheremployees The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration awarded to the Chief Executive and employees as a whole, between last year andthis year.
Salary Benefits Bonus Chief Executive 0% 0% 2.7% All other employees 2.2% 0% 19.2% 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 98 Corporate Governance Directors remuneration report Details of share awards granted in the year LTIP Performance share awards were granted to the two Executive Directors during the year as shown in the table below.
Description of award A performance share based award, which releases shares, subject to satisfying the performance conditions, 50%onthe third anniversary of grant and 25% on the fourth and fifth anniversaries.
Face value Chief Executive 400% of salary, being 613,325 shares.
Group Finance Director 250% of salary, being 278,784 shares.
The share price used to make the award was the average mid-market closing price over the five working days startingwith the day of the announcement of the 2013 annual results 358.7p.
Performance period 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2016.
Performance targets 50% of the award is based on absolute TSR measured over the performance period, and vests: 0% vesting below 10% pa TSR: 20% vesting at 10% pa TSR: Straight-line vesting between 10% and 18% pa TSR: and 100% vesting at 18% pa TSR.
50% of the award is based on achieving strategic targets that align costs with income and improving capital allocation, with: Half of this is based on progress achieved covering the Groups operating costs with annual cash income: and Half of this is based on progress achieved in reducing remuneration costs relative to fee income.
20% of this portion of the award will vest for threshold performance.
The Committee will assess performance againstthe strategic targets at the end of the performance period, and will use its judgment to determine vesting levelsagainst an agreed framework.
The targets set for the strategic measures are commercially sensitive and are therefore not being disclosed in advance.
At the end of the performance period and subject to commercial constraints, we commit to providing shareholders with as much context as possible on the framework used to assess performance against these targets and the rationale for the resulting vesting levels.
Remuneration The Committee can reduce any award which would otherwise vest if gross debt or gearing targets are missed.
Committee discretion As part of the review of Executive Director remuneration policy during FY2013, the Company proposed moving the payment date for awards under the Long-term Incentive Plan to three years and six months following the date of award.
Awards were granted on this basis in June 2013, prior to the AGM.
However, the Committee received and considered feedback from shareholders on this point, and decided to revert to the previous framework under which the awards have a performance period of three years and then are released in tranches on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
The Executive Directors voluntarily agreed to the terms of the 2013 award already made to them being adjusted to reflect this.
In return, the Committee agreed that if the individual ceased employment following the third anniversary of the date of grant the award would not be pro-rated for time.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate Governance 99 Share Incentive Plan During the year Mrs Wilson participated in the HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan which during the year allowed employees to invest up to 125permonth from pre-tax salary in ordinary shares partnership shares.
For each partnership share, the Company grants two free ordinary shares matching shares which are normally forfeited if employment ceases within three years of grant.
Dividends are reinvested in further ordinary shares dividend shares.
During the year Mrs Wilson purchased 408 partnership shares, and received 816 matching shares and 327 dividend shares at prices ranging between 3.296 and 4.144 per share, with an average price of 3.693.
Pension arrangements Mr Borrows receives a salary supplement of 12% of pensionable salary in lieu of pension 15k in FY2014.
Mrs Wilson is a member of the 3i Retirement Plan, a defined contribution stakeholder pension scheme, which she joined with effect from 6 April 2011.
During the year, the Company made contributions of 48k to this plan and paid a salary supplement of 4k in respect of Mrs Wilson.
Mrs Wilson was also a member of the 3i Group Pension Plan, a defined benefit contributory scheme, in the year to 31 March 2014.
Pension accrual ceased for all members with effect from 5 April 2011, although a link to final pensionable salary is maintained for existing accrual up to the date ofleaving the Company.
Further details of the Plan are set out in Note 8 to the financial statements on pages 121 to 124.
Transfer value Accrued pension of accrued Pensionable Normal Scheme normal at 31 March 2014 benefit service retirement age retirement date 000 pa 000 J S Wilson 5 60 2027 14.7 395.0 1 The Plan closed to future accrual on 5 April 2011 and pensionable service ceased at this date.
No member contributions were paid into the Plan during the year.
2 The increase in accrued pension shown reflects the difference between deferred pensions on leaving, payable from age 60.
3 The pension shown is a deferred pension payable from the Normal Retirement Age of 60.
4 The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with regulations 7 to 7E of the Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Values Regulations 1996.
5 Additional voluntary contributions are excluded from the above table.
Payments to past Directors Mr Queen ceased his employment with the Group on 16 May 2012 and retained interests in two carried interest arrangements relating to his previous roles within the Group as Managing Partner, Infrastructure and Managing Partner, Growth Capital as previously disclosed.
During the year he received carried interest payments of 176,709 Primary Infrastructure 2005-06 and 13,288 Pan European Growth Capital 2005-06.
He did not receive any payments other than these carried interest payments.
Payments for loss of office No payments to Directors for loss of office have been made in the year.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 100 Corporate Governance Directors remuneration report Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests The Companys share ownership and retention policy requires Executive Directors to build up over time, and thereafter maintain, a shareholding intheCompanys shares equivalent to at least 3.0 times gross salary in the case of the Chief Executive and 1.5 times gross salary for the Group Finance Director.
In addition, shareholding targets have been introduced for other members of Executive Committee at the 1.5 times gross salary level and forpartners in the Groups businesses at 1.0 times gross salary.
Details of Directors interests in the Companys shares as at 31 March 2014 are shown below.
The share price on 31 March 2014 was 3.979.
Shares Current Owned Deferred Subject to Unexercised Shareholding shareholding 1 outright shares performance share options requirement % salary 2 S A Borrows 8,909,332 569,748 2,553,993 300% 6,400% 2 J S Wilson 67,500 111,513 1,147,122 21,170 150% 67% Shares owned outright 2 Sir Adrian Montague 80,707 2 J P Asquith 7,500 2 A R Cox 19,900 2 D Hutchison 966 2 R H Meddings 23,460 2 M G Verluyten 15,000 1 The share interests shown for Mrs Wilson include shares held in the 3i Group Share Incentive Plan.
The owned outright column includes partnership shares under the SIP.
The deferred shares column includes matching shares under theSIP.
In addition, Mrs Wilson owns outright 1,038 B Shares.
2 Directors are restricted from hedging their exposure to the 3i share price.
3 From 1 April 2014 to 10 May 2014, Mrs Wilson became interested in a further 32 shares overall outright SIP Partnership Shares and a further 64 deferred shares SIP Matching Shares.
There were no other changes to Directors share interests in that period.
Table of historic Chief Executive data Performance graph and table Single figure of total Percentage Percentage TSR Graph remuneration of maximum of maximum This graph compares the Companys total shareholder return for the Year Chief Executive 000 bonus paid LTIP vesting fivefinancial years to 31 March 2014 with the total shareholder return FY2014 S A Borrows 3,222 92.5% 0% ofthe FTSE 250 Index.
Mr Borrows was appointed Chief Executive on 17 May 2012 having previously been Chief Investment Officer.
250 200 Relative importance of spend on pay 2013 14 2012 13 Change % 150 Remuneration 77m 84m 8 % 100 Dividend 114m 76m 50% 50 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 3i Group FTSE 250 Rebased at 100 at 31 March 2009 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate Governance 101 Statement of implementation Long-term incentive targets 50% of the award is based on absolute TSR measured over the of the remuneration policy performance period, and vests: in the coming year 0% vesting below 10% pa TSR: A Group-wide 3% increase to salaries will take place in 2014, which will 20% vesting at 10% pa TSR: also be applied to Executive Director salaries.
No changes to benefits, Straight-line vesting between 10% and 18% pa TSR: and pension arrangements or maximum levels of annual bonus or LTIP awards for Executive Directors have been made for the current year.
As part of the consultation with some of our key shareholders after the 50% of the award is based on relative TSR measured against 2013 AGM, we are increasing the level of deferral of any future annual theFTSE250 Index over the performance period, and vests: bonus award made to Executive Directors to 50%.
This will also apply 0% for below median performance against the index: toall members of the Executive Committee.
25% for median performance against the index: The relevant performance targets for the annual bonus and long-term incentive awards being granted in respect of the financial year to 100% for upper quartile performance against the index: and 31 March 2015 are shown below.
Straight-line vesting between median and upper quartile performance.
Annual bonus scorecard Non-executive Director fees The annual bonuses for Executive Directors for FY2015 will be The table below shows the non-executive Director fee structure awardedagainst a balanced scorecard agreed by the Committee as at 1 April 2014: earlyinthe financial year.
The Committee will use the scorecard asapromptand guide to judgment.
Chairman fee: 265,000 plus 30,000 of 3i shares Non-executive Directors: The annual bonus scorecard for FY2015 will be based on portfolio Board membership fee 50,000 plus 2,500 3i shares returns, investment, operating profit and objectives relating to strategy, investor relations and culture.
The Committee will also consider Senior Independent Director fee 10,000 performance outcomes in the wider context of personal performance Committee fees: including values and behaviours, risk, market and other factors.
Chairman 20,000 The Committee considers that the targets set for the performance Member 4,000 measures are commercially sensitive and as permitted by the Regulations, are therefore not being disclosed in advance.
We will Committee fees are payable in respect of the Audit and Compliance report to shareholders next year on performance against these Committee, Remuneration Committee and Valuations Committee.
targetsand the resulting bonus outturns.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 102 Corporate Governance Directors remuneration report Consideration by the Directors Result of voting at the 2013 AGM At the 2013 AGM, held on 18 July 2013, votes cast in respect of the ofmatters relating to Directors remuneration report were:  Votes Votes Total votes Votes Resolution for against cast withheld The following Directors were members of the Remuneration Committee Approval of the 462,025,345 122,906,743 584,932,088 122,794,938 during the year: remuneration report 78.99% 21.01% Remuneration Committee Meetings Meetings eligible attended to attend Audit Committee members during the year in the year in the year The tables in this report including the Notes thereto on pages 95 to 101 J P Asquith Chairman 6 6 have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP.
A R Cox 6 6 By Order of the Board D A M Hutchison from 1 December 2013 2 2 W Mesdag until 30 November 2013 4 4 Jonathan Asquith Chairman, Remuneration Committee The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys 13 May 2014 website.
During the year, the Committee received external, independent advice from Kepler Associates until September 2013 and Deloitte LLP fromOctober 2013.
The Committee decided to conduct a review of advisers during the year.
The decision to appoint Deloitte as advisers with effect from October 2013 was led by the Committee Chairman in consultation with all other Committee members.
Four potential advisers were interviewed and assessed against a range of requirements that were set by the Committee.
Both Kepler Associates and Deloitte are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such, voluntarily operate under the code ofconduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Kepler Associates did not provide any services to the Group during theyear other than to the Remuneration Committee.
During the year, Deloitte LLP also provided 3i with certain tax advisory services.
TheCommittee has reviewed the advice provided by both firms during the year and is satisfied that it has been objective and independent.
Thetotal fees for advice during the year were 87,695 excluding VAT, ofwhich 13,695 was paid toKepler Associates and 74,000 to Deloitte.
The Chief Executive, the General Counsel, Company Secretary, HeadofHR and the Remuneration Director attend Committee meetingsbyinvitation, other than when their personal remuneration isbeing discussed.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
