Remuneration report Remuneration committee Chairmans summary statement Introduction Any such sales are permitted only in accordance with regulatory requirements, and directors will, of course, continue to be bound by I am pleased to present the remuneration report for the year to 30 September 2014.
There are two parts to the report: the Groups requirement that they build and maintain a meaningful shareholding of at least 300% of base salary.
Directors remuneration policy: and Shareholder engagement and further extension of the bonus Annual report on remuneration deferral period The directors' remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at During the year I have continued to engage proactively with the AGM in January 2014, and has thereafter been applied during shareholders and representative groups and the committee the year to 30 September 2014.
No changes to the policy are has considered the comments and feedback generated from proposed and so there will be no vote at the February 2015 AGM.
The committee has also taken account of However, for convenience, we include the approved policy on pages written guidelines from shareholder groups, including the guidance 67 to 69 of this report.
on Directors' remuneration reporting from the GC100 and Investors' Group.
The annual report on remuneration explains how the policy has been applied during the year, and will be subject to an advisory In 2012, the committee decided that the period of deferral for shareholder vote at the AGM in February 2015. equity bonus awards should be extended to four years from the award date.
Following further discussion, and taking account of Pay principles emerging practice, the committee has now decided that the deferral Our remuneration philosophy is focused on pay for performance, period should be extended by a further year, to five years from the tempered by an emphasis on ensuring that performance is achieved award date, starting with bonus awards made in respect of the within the Boards risk appetite.
The remuneration committee works financial year to 30 September 2014.
This change is consistent with closely with the risk committee to ensure that remuneration takes the policy approved by shareholders, which permits an increase in account of the need to manage risk exposure.
The principles supporting our remuneration policy are: Base salaries The committee has decided to increase the base salaries of executive simple and clear executive pay: directors by approximately 1.5% with effect from 1 January 2015, linked to the delivery of superior financial results for our which is below the average increase awarded to other staff.
shareholders: Cap on the variable pay pool subject to a cap on aggregate variable remuneration: and The committee continues to monitor the debate in the financial significant proportion of variable pay awarded in Company services sector over the capping of variable compensation, and shares, with deferred vesting and subject to clawback provisions, is aware of the desire expressed by some shareholders to apply a so that executives retain a substantial personal stake in the cap on the maximum variable pay that any individual can earn.
on-going success of the Group.
The committee's continuing policy is to set a maximum level of These principles are also applied in considering the remuneration of bonus pool for any year, rather than set a limit on individual awards.
In particular, the teams who joined on completion of We believe that this policy ensures that Aberdeen is not placed at the acquisition of Scottish Widows Investment Partnership SWIP a market disadvantage when competing for talent, when the during the year have been integrated and their remuneration is now majority of our competitors do not have individual caps on variable governed by these principles.
The committee is also conscious that individual bonus caps could place upward pressure on fixed remuneration, which it The policy includes a significant level of deferral, both in the length believes would not be in the best interests of shareholders.
of vesting period and quantum, with clawback arrangements The committee's view is that the policy of long term deferral of which enable the committee to reduce or cancel the vesting of 75% of annual bonus into Aberdeen shares ensures that, when a accumulated deferred awards.
Executive directors are thus rewarded in line with sustained performance, and in a manner which large annual bonus is earned, the vesting of this to the individual is aligned with longer-term sustained performance expressed through encourages control of risk.
Aberdeen's share price and dividends.
Deferred awards represent remuneration for prior performance.
Variable remuneration for 2014 Once the vesting and clawback limitations expire, the committee As described in more detail in other sections of the annual report, believes that the individual should be free to benefit from 2014 has been a transformational year, with the challenge of weaker the awards they have earned without further restriction.
The investor sentiment towards some of the Groups key markets being committee recognises that, vested shares represent previous mitigated by the progress made on integrating the SWIP business.
years' compensation and that directors may choose to sell shares Aberdeen has delivered solid financial results, has achieved greater from time to time following the expiry of vesting and clawback diversification in its AuM and new business opportunities and restrictions.
Such sales should not be interpreted as conveying a increased dividend payments to shareholders, and the remuneration view on the Groups performance or its outlook.
of the executive directors reflects this performance.
66 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance The Groups financial achievements are the result of strong The committee believes that the aggregate bonus pool in any year operational disciplines, and profit performance is a significant factor should normally be no higher than 25% of pre-bonus operating in setting the appropriate level of bonus pool each year.
We believe profit: for 2014 awards, the aggregate pool has been set at that the primary imperative is to look after our clients and provide approximately 22%.
As a consequence, we have been able to superior long term investment performance.
maintain the overall staff cost, incorporating both fixed and variable remuneration, at approximately 35% of the Groups revenue over a Annual bonus awards for executive directors have been determined number of years.
by the committee based on a rounded assessment of Group and personal performance.
A range of key indicators has been considered As ever, I welcome any comments from investors and will be including: investment performance delivered for clients: client available to answer any questions you may have at the AGM.
retention, service and conduct: growth in underlying EPS: operating margin: cash conversion: ROCE: corporate governance and risk management: operational objectives and progress towards strategic goals.
The committee considers what has been achieved for each KPI, relative to both the annual business plan and the longer term Simon Troughton strategy.
Levels of bonus award therefore reflect actual performance Chairman of the Remuneration Committee relative to both annual and longer term expectations.
The financial results achieved in any one year are a reflection of the delivery of our long term strategy.
Directors remuneration policy This part of the Directors' Remuneration Report sets out the Considerations elsewhere in the Group remuneration policy for directors of the Company, which was The Group applies a consistent remuneration philosophy for staff approved by shareholders at the AGM in January 2014. at all levels.
Base salaries are targeted around the median of the relevant markets in which the Group competes for talent.
All Policy overview employees are eligible to be considered for performance-related The remuneration committee determines, on behalf of the Board, annual bonus, and the principle of bonus deferral applies to all the Group's policy on the remuneration of the chairman, executive annual bonuses above a minimum threshold.
Rates of pension directors and other senior executives.
The committee's terms of contribution and fringe benefit provisions are consistent between reference are available on the Group's website.
executives and other employees within each country where In setting the remuneration policy for the executive directors, the the Group operates.
The committee considers the base salary committee takes into account the following: percentage increases for the Group's broader UK and international employee populations when determining any the annual salary the need to attract, retain and motivate talented executive increases for the executive directors.
directors and senior management: The committee has not conducted a specific employee internal pay and benefits practice and employment conditions consultation exercise on the directors' remuneration policy.
both within the Group as a whole and within the particular However, the Group consults with its employees on general geographic regions in which the Group operates: employment policies in a range of ways, including formal external comparisons to examine current market trends and consultation forums in some countries where it operates.
practices and equivalent roles in similar companies taking into Members of staff are encouraged to provide feedback directly account their size, business complexity, international scope and to their line managers or to the human resources team.
The relative performance: and remuneration committee monitors the effectiveness of the Group's remuneration policy in recruiting, retaining, engaging alignment of remuneration policy with the interests of and motivating colleagues, and receives regular feedback from shareholders.
the Global Head of Human Resources on how the Group's How the views of shareholders are taken into account remuneration policies are perceived by colleagues and whether The remuneration committee chairman engages pro-actively and they are meeting business needs.
regularly with major shareholders and shareholder representatives.
The committee does not seek to apply fixed ratios between The committee considers shareholder feedback received, as part of pay levels of different roles in the Group, as this would restrict its annual review of remuneration policy.
flexibility in aligning reward and achievement, and potentially If any material changes to the remuneration policy are create barriers to recruiting and retaining the necessary talent in a contemplated, the remuneration committee chairman consults highly competitive employment market.
with major shareholders about these in advance.
Policy table Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last The table summarises the key aspects of the Companys years remuneration report are provided in the annual report on remuneration policy for executive directors.
remuneration section of this report.
com 67 Remuneration report continued Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation, performance measures, deferral and clawback Maximum opportunity Base salary Reviewed annually, taking account of market salary levels, Group performance, individual There is no prescribed maximum salary or maximum rate of increase.
The committee is guided by the general increase for the broader Fixed pay performance, changes in responsibility and levels of increase for the broader employee population.
employee population but on occasions may need to recognise, for example, development in role, change in responsibility, specific retention issues, market practice or changes in regulatory requirements.
To pay a fair salary, commensurate with Reference is made to mid-market levels within relevant FTSE and industry comparators.
the individual's role, responsibilities Details of the outcome of the most recent salary review are provided in the annual report on remuneration.
The committee considers the impact of any base salary increase on the total remuneration package.
and experience, and having regard to the market rates for similar roles in the asset management sector and other comparable companies.
Benefits The Group currently provides a range of fringe benefits such as: medical insurance: disability Fringe benefits are not subject to a specific cap, but represent only a small percentage of total remuneration.
The costs associated with Fixed pay insurance: life insurance: paid holiday: and international benefits assistance where appropriate.
benefits provision are closely monitored and controlled.
To provide cost-effective fringe benefits, Specific benefits provision may be subject to minor change from time to time, within this policy.
to support the wellbeing of employees.
Pension Employee contributions are made to appropriate defined contribution pension arrangements, or Company contribution of up to 20% of base salary, or equivalent cash allowance in lieu.
Fixed pay equivalent cash allowances are paid, subject to normal practice in the relevant country.
To provide market competitive defined Where there are legacy defined benefit plans from corporate acquisitions, these are closed to all contributions, to assist with recruitment future accrual at the earliest reasonable opportunity.
Annual bonus Bonus awards to executive directors are made from the Group's aggregate bonus pool in which The aggregate bonus pool for all employees including executives is capped.
The policy is not to cap individual bonus awards other than Variable pay all staff participate and which is approved by the remuneration committee each year.
The indirectly through the impact of the aggregate pool cap as this is not market practice for most of the Group's peers and would risk placing aggregate pool is normally capped at no more than 25% of the pre-bonus operating profit, unless the Group at a competitive disadvantage.
To reward performance and exceptional circumstances justify a higher cap.
Executive bonus awards paid from this pool take align executives' interests to those The high proportion of bonus deferral 75%, clawback arrangements, and risk controls incorporated in the Group's team-based account of the Group's key financial performance indicators for the relevant financial year such of shareholders.
investment process, ensure that the uncapped individual incentive opportunity encourages both excellent performance and prudent as underlying profit before tax, underlying earnings per share, operating margin, cash conversion, management of risk.
ROCE, corporate governance and risk management.
Details of the performance indicators for the most recent financial year and performance against them are provided in the annual report on The committee will consider, where appropriate, the use of tax-approved share plans, to be applied to all employees on similar terms, remuneration.
Similar indicators have been applied for the forthcoming year and we will report on where these are consistent with the Group's overall remuneration policy.
the outcomes against these measures in the 2015 report.
75% of any bonus earned is paid in Company shares which are released to executive directors in equal tranches over not less than four years.
An amount equivalent to the dividends due on the shares is paid to participants only after the earliest vesting date has passed.
Clawback A clawback principle applies to the bonus plan.
This enables the committee to seek to recoup The committee has discretion to determine the amount of any award which it seeks to clawback.
annual bonus in the exceptional event of: misstatement or misleading representation of To ensure that bonus awards do performance: a significant failure of risk management and control: or serious misconduct of not encourage excessive risk.
Share ownership Executive directors are required to build up a substantial interest in Company shares.
The current requirements are set out in the annual report on remuneration.
Employment contracts, and loss Notice periods from the company are normally limited to 12 months, unless there are exceptional Any severance payment in lieu of notice is capped at an amount equivalent to the remuneration the executive director would otherwise of office reasons for a longer period of notice during a temporary transition period.
have been eligible to receive had they been permitted to work the notice period.
To facilitate recruitment and retention, Deferred bonus awards normally lapse on cessation of employment unless 'good leaver' status See further detail after this table regarding any new executive director contracts.
and support pay for performance, applies under the relevant plan rules.
by providing fair but not excessive contract features.
New executive director appointments Remuneration for new appointments will be set in accordance with the policy detailed in this table.
Where necessary, the committee may offer additional remuneration, such as shares or To facilitate recruitment of cash-based awards, to replace remuneration the individual has foregone in order to be able to join necessary talent.
68 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation, performance measures, deferral and clawback Maximum opportunity Base salary Reviewed annually, taking account of market salary levels, Group performance, individual There is no prescribed maximum salary or maximum rate of increase.
"com 69 Remuneration report continued Approach to remuneration for new executive Choice of performance measures and how performance director appointments expectations are set The remuneration package for a newly appointed executive The annual bonus is based on a range of key performance director is set in accordance with the terms of the Groups indicators ""KPIs"" linked directly to the Groups strategy, which approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment."
provides a rounded assessment of the Groups performance.
The variable remuneration for a new executive director would be The remuneration committee reviews the KPIs each year, and determined in the same way as for existing executive directors, varies them, if appropriate, to ensure that they continue to reflect and would be subject to the maximum limit on aggregate variable the priorities for the business.
pay referred to in the policy table above.
The main emphasis is on financial metrics such as underlying profit before tax, underlying earnings per share, operating margin, cash The committee may also offer additional cash and or share-based conversion, and ROCE.
These KPIs are used because: they support elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of the value creation for shareholders: are a good indication of the strong Group and shareholders, to replace variable remuneration awards operational disciplines in place: and, most importantly, reflect the or arrangements that an individual has foregone in order to join Group's imperative to look after our clients.
Any such payments would take account of the details of the remuneration foregone and would take account of the The committee considers what has been achieved for each nature, vesting dates and any performance requirements attached KPI, relative to both the annual business plan and the longerto that remuneration.
Levels of bonus award therefore reflect actual performance relative to both annual and longer-term For external and internal appointments, the Group may meet expectations.
The financial results achieved in any one year are a certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
reflection of the delivery of our long term strategy.
Service contracts and loss of office payment policy The remuneration committee periodically reviews the Differences in remuneration policy for executive directors contractual terms for new executive directors to ensure that compared to other employees these reflect best practice.
The remuneration approach for the executive directors is broadly consistent with that for employees across the Group as a whole.
Service contracts normally continue until the directors agreed However, there are some differences which the committee retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
The service believes are necessary to reflect the different responsibilities of contracts contain provision for early termination.
Notice periods employees across the Group: are limited to 12 months.
Below executive director level, whilst the same 75% bonus Executive directors appointed up to 31 December 2013 deferral policy applies, some individuals are permitted to elect For existing executive directors, if the employing company to receive up to half the deferred amount in the form of an terminates the employment without giving the period of notice investment in funds managed by Aberdeen: the balance of the required under the contract, then the executive director is deferred amount is delivered in Aberdeen shares.
entitled to receive up to 1 year's remuneration in recompense.
For executive directors and the other members of the Group Compensation is limited to: base salary due for any unexpired management board the 75% deferred portion of annual bonus notice period: any amount assessed by the committee as vests over not less than four years in equal tranches on the 1st, representing the value of contractual benefits and pension which 2nd, 3rd and 4th anniversaries of the award.
For employees below would have been received during the notice period: and any annual this level, the 75% deferred portion currently vests in equal bonus which the director might otherwise have been eligible to tranches over three years on the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd anniversaries of receive had they been permitted to serve their notice, subject to the award.
the committee's assessment of Group and personal performance.
Any executive directors who are appointed after External non-executive director positions 31 December 2013 Executive directors are permitted to accept a limited number of In the case of any new executive director appointment since directorships outside the Group, recognising that this can assist January 2014, if the individual's contract were terminated by the in their personal development.
All such appointments are subject employing company and payment in lieu of notice were to be to approval in advance by the Board.
Where the appointment is made, the committee would normally seek to limit this to base accepted in furtherance of the Groups business, any fees received salary, pension and benefits for up to 12 months.
An amount in are remitted to the Group.
If the appointment is not connected to respect of loss of annual bonus for the period of notice would the Groups business, the director is permitted to retain any fees only be included in exceptional circumstances such as ill health, received.
Details of outside directorships held by the executive and would not apply in circumstances of poor performance.
For directors and any fees that they received are provided in the the avoidance of doubt, note that the individual would be eligible annual report on remuneration.
to be considered in the normal way for an annual bonus for any period they have served as an executive director, subject to the normal assessment of Group and personal performance.
70 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance The directors' contracts also provide for termination on three A directors service contract may be terminated without notice months' notice if, in the opinion of the Board and having given the and without any further payment or compensation, except for director adequate opportunity to improve, the director has failed sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of to perform at a satisfactory standard.
In such a case, the directors' certain events such as gross misconduct.
contracts do not provide for any liquidated damages to be paid.
Legacy arrangements In summary, the contractual provisions are as follows: For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this directors' remuneration policy, authority is given to the Group to honour Detailed any commitments entered into with current or former directors terms any new such as the payment of a pension or the unwind of legacy share Detailed terms for executive director schemes that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous existing executive appointments post remuneration reports.
Details of any payments to directors will be Provision directors 31 December 2013 set out in the annual report on remuneration as they arise.
Notice period 12 months 12 months Reward scenarios Termination Base salary plus Normally limited The Group's policy results in the majority of the remuneration payment in value of benefits to base salary, plus received by executive directors being dependent on Group the event of including pension.
termination by the Also eligible for including pension.
The chart below illustrates the minimum fixed remuneration, Company without annual bonus and provides an indication of the total remuneration for a year due notice.
which the director of good performance using the annual bonus figures for the year would otherwise ending September 2014 and the base salary effective 1 January have received.
As the Groups policy is not to cap individual variable pay, Any share-based entitlements an executive director holds under a maximum total remuneration figure is not shown in the chart.
the Groups share plans will be determined based on the relevant It also shows the weighting of the main remuneration components plan rules.
The default treatment is that any outstanding awards for executive directors.
As the chart indicates, performance-related will lapse.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as remuneration represents between 59% and 89% of the total, death, disability, redundancy, retirement or other circumstances and three-quarters of the performance-related remuneration is at the discretion of the committee taking into account the delivered in Aberdeen shares.
individual's performance and the reasons for their departure 'good leaver' status can be applied.
Relative sizes of remuneration components 000 4,767 4,504 67% 67% 2,176 60% 1,225 1,224 1,026 22% 22% 49% 49% 44% 517 20% 504 425 426 424 426 16% 15% 16% 11% 100% 11% 100% 35% 35% 100% 100% 100% 41% 100% 20% Minimum Actual Minimum Actual Minimum Actual Minimum Actual Minimum Actual Minimum Actual Fixed Fixed Fixed Fixed Fixed Fixed Martin Gilbert Andrew Laing Rod MacRae Bill Rattray Anne Richards Hugh Young Fixed remuneration Cash bonus Deferred bonus aberdeen-asset.
com 71 Remuneration report continued Fees policy for the Board Chairman and other non-executive directors Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum Board To attract and retain The Chairman is paid a single fee for all his From 1 October 2014 the fee for Chairman a high-calibre Board responsibilities.
The level of the fee is reviewed the Chairman is 325,000.
The fee Chairman by offering periodically by the remuneration committee, with Directors' Remuneration Policy allows a market competitive reference to market levels in comparably sized FTSE the fee to be changed periodically by fee level.
companies, and a recommendation is then made to the committee.
the Board without the Chairman being present.
NonTo attract and retain The non-executives are paid a basic fee.
From 1 October 2014, the basic executive high-calibre nonFee supplements may be paid for additional fee is 65,000 with a supplement director fees executive directors responsibilities and activities, such as for the of 30,000 for each of the Chairmen by offering a market committee chairmen and other members of the of the audit, remuneration and risk competitive fee level.
audit, remuneration, committees and a supplement of risk, and nominations and the Senior Independent 20,000 for the Senior Independent Director, to reflect the additional responsibilities.
From 1 October 2014, the supplement is 13,000 for The fee levels are reviewed periodically by the other members of the audit, Chairman and executive directors, with reference to remuneration and risk committees, market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies and 5,000 for members of the and a recommendation is then made to the Board.
The fee levels are subject to change periodically under this policy.
There is no maximum fee level.
Non-executive directors are engaged under letters of appointment and they do not have contracts of service.
The appointment will normally terminate on: i a director choosing to resign voluntarily: or ii a director being prohibited from serving by law, bankruptcy or illness: or iii annually, if the nominations committee does not approve the extension of the appointment: or iv a director being found guilty of misconduct: or v a director not being re-elected by the shareholders following retirement by rotation at an Annual General Meeting.
No fee is paid to non-executive directors appointed to represent a major shareholder.
Compliance with FCA Remuneration Codes The committee regularly reviews its remuneration policy to ensure compliance with the principles of the Remuneration Code of the UK financial services regulator, as applicable to Aberdeen.
The remuneration policy is designed to be consistent with the prudent management of risk, and the sustained, long term performance of the Group.
The Group Head of Risk is involved in reviewing the remuneration policy and practice to ensure that it is aligned with sound risk management, and keeps the committee informed of Aberdeen's risk profile so that this can be taken into account in remuneration decisions.
72 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance Annual report on remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 4 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and relevant sections of the Listing Rules.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM.
Where indicated, information has been audited as required under the regulations.
com 73 Remuneration report continued Annual bonus for the year to 30 September 2014 Annual bonus awards for the year under review were based on performance against a range of objectives.
The relevant performance indicators and the committee's assessment of performance are shown in the table.
Remuneration Key points in 2013-14 Committee's Key Key performance indicators financial year assessment Above target Key financial: Around target Growth in underlying diluted EPS -4.1% Between threshold and target Operating margin 43.9% Below threshold ROCE 21.3% Cash conversion 111% Qualitative: Client retention, service and Delivering consistently high investment performance standards of client service and investment performance Distribution Expanding and deepening our global distribution Risk management, compliance Ensuring a Group wide focus on and conduct all aspects of risk, compliance and conduct For additional information, the history of performance against financial metrics for the last five years is as follows: KPI % change v prior year 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Change in underlying PBT 1.6% 38.8% 15.2% 43.8% 146.8% Change in underlying EPS diluted -4.1% 43.6% 20.9% 40.6% 111.1% Operating margin 43.9% 45.4% 40.6% 39.5% 34.8% Conversion of operating profit to cash flow 111% 108% 119% 129% 115% Net new business -20.4bn -2.5bn 0.0bn -1.7bn 2.6bn The resulting bonuses for year ending 30 September 2014 were as follows: Cash Deferred 1 Individual 000 000 Total Martin Gilbert 1,062 3,188 4,250 Hugh Young 1,000 3,000 4,000 Anne Richards 437 1,313 1,750 Andrew Laing 200 600 800 Bill Rattray 200 600 800 Rod MacRae 150 450 600 1 The deferred component vests in five equal tranches in December 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019.
The bonus is paid 25% in cash and 75% in shares.
The shares vest to executives over five years in equal instalments, subject to continued employment with the Company.
Both the cash and share elements of the bonus are subject to the clawback policy.
74 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance Consideration of clawback in 2013-14 A clawback principle applies to the bonus plan.
This enables the committee to seek to recoup annual bonus in the exceptional event of: misstatement or misleading representation of performance: a significant failure of risk management and control: or serious misconduct of an individual.
It allows both the equity and cash portions of bonus awards to be clawed back via the reduction or cancellation of any outstanding unvested deferred bonuses regardless of the bonus year to which they relate.
As 75% of each year's bonus award is deferred, there is an ongoing substantial amount of accumulated, unvested deferred remuneration that can be recouped.
The committee considered there were no any events or circumstances that would have made it appropriate to claw back remuneration during 2013-14.
Outstanding share awards The table below sets out details of executive Directors outstanding share awards which will vest in future years subject to continued service.
These interests represent ordinary shares which will vest on the dates stated.
Directors' interests in share options audited information Date of Exercised Market price Status of grant 2013 in year exercise 2014 Exercise Earliest Latest price Martin Gilbert 23.1.
08 116,666 116,666 130.25p Jun 2013 Jun 2018 Achieved The market price of the Company's ordinary shares at 30 September 2014 was 400.5p and the range during the year was 363.3p to 500.0p.
Directors share interests audited information Details of the directors interests in shares are shown in the table below.
As set out in the policy report, the executive directors are required to build up a shareholding equivalent to 300% of salary, including vested deferred bonus shares.
The Board Chairman and nonexecutive directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Company but are not subject to a formal shareholding guideline.
Mr Cornick held these Notes at the year end and continued to hold these Notes at the date of this Report.
The directors are not permitted to hold their shares in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans without the express permission of the Board.
No director currently holds their shares in such an arrangement.
There have been no other changes to the directors' holdings between 30 September 2014 and 28 November 2014.
Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer The following table shows the percentage change in the base salary, benefits and annual bonus of the Chief Executive between the current and previous financial year compared to average for all employees of the Group.
Chief Executive Average for all employees Base salary 1.8% 4.3% Benefits No change No change Total annual bonus -7.6% -6.0% aberdeen-asset.
com 77 Remuneration report continued Review of base salaries The executive directors' salaries were reviewed by the committee and a salary increase from 1.4% to 1.8% will take effect from 1 January 2015.
The average rate of salary increase awarded to all staff, other than directors, is 4.3%.
Base salary changes for the executive directors Salary as at Salary as at 1 January 2014 1 January 2015 % change Martin Gilbert 506,000 515,000 1.8 Andrew Laing 355,000 360,000 1.4 Rod MacRae 355,000 360,000 1.4 Bill Rattray 355,000 360,000 1.4 Anne Richards 355,000 360,000 1.4 Hugh Young S$705,000 S$718,000 1.8 Fee levels for non-executive director were reviewed with effect from 1 October 2014, and the following changes were agreed, to take account of the market level of fees for financial sector companies, and other companies of similar size to Aberdeen.
Fee rate as at Fee rate as at 1 October 2013 1 October 2014 % change Board Chairman 300,000 325,000 8.3 NED Base fee 60,000 65,000 8.3 Senior Independent Director 20,000 20,000 No change Committee Chairman supplement Audit, Remuneration, Risk 30,000 30,000 No change Committee membership supplement Audit, Remuneration, Risk 12,000 13,000 8.3 Committee membership supplement Nominations 5,000 5,000 No change Total shareholder return The graph below shows the Companys TSR performance with dividends re-invested against the performance of the FTSE All Share and the FTSE All Share General Financial Sector indices for the last 6 years.
As the chart indicates, Aberdeen's TSR of 306% was substantially above the two comparator indices.
% - Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Aberdeen Asset Management FTSE All Share General Financial Sector FTSE All Share Source: Thomson Reuters 78 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance Total remuneration for Chief Executive The total remuneration of the Chief Executive for each of the financial years shown in the TSR graph is shown in the following table.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus awarded, and LTIP awards which vested, based on performance in each year.
The LTIP percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
As there is no cap on the maximum individual bonus award, a percentage of maximum annual bonus is not shown.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total remuneration 000 1,925 3,751 4,501 4,728 5,102 4,757 LTIP vesting % 0% 85% 100% 100% N A N A Relative importance of the spend on pay The chart below shows the year-on-year movement in total remuneration of all employees, compared to the change in dividends paid and declared on ordinary shares.
m Total employee pay Dividends 2013 2014 Implementation of remuneration policy in the year commencing 1 October 2014 The committee intends to continue to apply broadly the same performance metrics and weightings to variable remuneration as in the previous year and to take account of strategic and annual expectations for the Company.
Meetings and attendance The remuneration committee is chaired by Simon Troughton and, during the year, he was supported by two independent non-executive directors, Anita Frew and Richard Mully.
Anita Frew retired as a director on 30 September 2014 and her replacement on the committee is Jutta af Rosenborg.
All members served on the committee throughout the year.
The committee operates under formal terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and held four meetings during the year.
There was full attendance at all meetings by members, as shown in the table: The members of the committee during the year and their attendance at the meetings of the committee were: Maximum possible Meetings attendance attended Simon Troughton 4 4 Anita Frew 4 4 Richard Mully 4 4 The Chief Executive attends the meeting by invitation and assists the committee in its deliberations, except when his personal remuneration is discussed.
No directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
The committee also received advice from the Global Head of Human Resources.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the committee.
"com 79 Remuneration report continued External advisors The remuneration committee receives independent advice from New Bridge Street ""NBS"" consultants."
NBS abides by to the Remuneration Consultants' Code of Conduct, which requires it to provide objective and impartial advice.
NBS was appointed by the committee and does not provide other services to the Group.
Total fees charged by NBS for the year were 66,000.
External Directorships The Group earned fees of 23,000 for Martin Gilbert's services as a non-executive director of one Aberdeen managed company and 67,000 for Hugh Young's services as a non-executive director of three Aberdeen managed companies.
The table below sets out details of the external directorships held by the executive directors and any fees that they received in respect of their services during the year.
Position 2014 2013 Martin Gilbert Non-executive chairman, FirstGroup plc 48,000 191,000 Non-executive director, British Sky Broadcasting plc 104,000 93,000 Anne Richards Non-executive director, esure Group plc 60,000 49,000 Member of the Council of the Duchy of Lancaster 17,000 17,000 Statement of shareholder voting At the 2014 AGM, shareholder voting on remuneration was as follows: January 2014 Approve the Directors' Remuneration Policy AGM % Votes cast in favour 700.2m 86.3 Votes cast against 110.7m 13.7 Total votes cast 810.9m 100.0 Abstentions 9.4m January 2014 Approve the Directors' Remuneration Report AGM % Votes cast in favour 720.5m 88.8 Votes cast against 90.8m 11.2 Total votes cast 811.3m 100.0 Abstentions 9.1m Approval This Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Simon Troughton Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 November 2014 80 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
