REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Statement from Annette Court A number of changes are proposed to the DFSS to ensure that senior managers remain motivated and are appropriately rewarded.
Annette Court Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to introduce the Directors Remuneration Report the Report for the year ended 31 December 2014, which has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee the Committee and approved by the Board.
This is the first report Ihave prepared in my capacity as new Committee Chairman, arole I assumed on 9 April 2014, replacing John Sussens.
2014 has been another good year for the Admiral Group despite challenging conditions in the cyclical core UK motor insurance market.
Earnings per share in the year were 103.0 pence 2013: 104.6 pence with a return on equity of52% 2013: 58%.
Total dividends for the financial year including the proposed final dividend of 49.0 pence per share will be98.4 pence per share, representing 95% of ourearnings.
The Groups strategy remains to continue to maximise our position in the UK while taking what we know and do well, which is internet and telephone delivery of car insurance and price comparison, toour overseas businesses.
Two of the three Executive Directors are founding Directors and receive remuneration that comprises salary and modest benefits only.
The Committee continues to hold the view that this is appropriate, as their significant shareholdings provide a sufficient alignment of their interest with those of other shareholders.
In order to provide full transparency of pay arrangements for our Executive Directors, this Report includes single figure and comparative data for our CFO as well as for our CEO, asthe pay arrangements for the CFO are more reflective of those for non-founder executives.
My predecessor, John, advised in his letter last year that one of the Groups share plans the DFSS Discretionary Free Share Scheme is due toexpire in 2015, and that the Company would carry out a comprehensive review of the plan in the context of the Groups Remuneration Policy in 2014, with any proposed changes put to shareholders for approval at the Groups AGM in 2015.
The review took into account the changes to the business in both size and geography since the last review in 2004, shortlyafter flotation, and recent trends in FTSE incentive design and pay levels particularly in the context of the Group maintaining base salary levels for most senior management positions at well below the lower quartile of their peer group in the FTSE 350.
As a result of the review, a number of changes are proposed to the DFSS in order to ensure that senior managers remain motivated: are appropriately rewarded and that the Group continues to be an attractive employer that talented individuals want to join, whilst at the same time providing appropriate incentives, and rewards, for the 2,300 employees that participate in the DFSS across the Group.
I am confident that the proposed changes will continue to support the view, held by the Board, that share ownership drives outstanding performance and promotes the long term success of the business whilst remaining in alignment with shareholder interests.
The key changes that have been proposed to the DFSS are: @ Increased maximum DFSS opportunity of 2 million.
For awards above 1 million, a maximum of 600% of base salary applies.
We would only expect to utilise the increased maximum award in certain particular circumstances such as the recruitment of a new Executive Director.
In this case, we would provide an explanation in our Annual Report on Remuneration.
@ Introduction of 100% performance related awards to key senior employees where their award exceeds a threshold.
@ In addition to Earnings per Share EPS, two additional performance measures in the DFSS: relative Total Shareholder Return TSR and Return on Equity ROE.
The exact measures for each award may vary to reflect strategic priorities.
For the 2015 awards, it is intended that vesting will be linked one third to each of EPS, TSR and ROE.
@ Introduction of malus and clawback provisions to allow the recovery of both vested and unvested awards, for example, in the event of gross misconduct or misstatement.
58 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
CO. UK INTR INTRO OD DU UC CTI TIO ON N S STR TRA ATE TEG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O OTH THE ER R IN INF FO OR RM MA ATI TIO ON N During the early part of 2015, we consulted with our top shareholders on the proposed revisions to the DFSS.
Feedback has been positive and we hope to receive your support for both the revised DFSS and the revised Remuneration Policy atthe upcoming AGM.
In addition to consideration of the proposed DFSS changes set out above, the Committee also considered the following matters during the year ended 31 December 2014: @ Reviewing the salary arrangements and fee proposals for the Executive Directors, the Chairman and senior management.
@ Reviewing the appropriateness of the performance conditions for the Free Share Incentive Plan SIP awards.
@ Reviewing the Groups two key share plans to ensure both are up to date with current legislation.
@ Reviewing the maximum limit for shares distributed via the SIP.
@ Reviewing the Companys performance against the performance conditions applicable to the DFSS and SIP awards and where appropriate authorising the vesting of awards.
@ Reviewing and authorising the grant of awards under both the DFSS and SIP.
@ Reviewing minimum shareholding requirements for Executive Directors.
@ Reviewing the Committees Terms of Reference and recommending amendments to the Board for approval.
Annette Court Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4 March 2015 ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 59
