CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 64 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY OUR REMUNERATION STRUCTURE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT The Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy was table on these pages.
The full Policy, as approved approved by shareholders at the AGM in May 2014. by shareholders, can be found in last years Nochanges to the Policy are proposed and so there Remuneration report and on the BG Group website willbe no vote on the Policy at the 2015 AGM.
com remunerationpolicy However, for convenience, we are including the Policy PURPOSE AND LINK TOSTRATEGY OPERATION FIXED PAY BASE SALARY Paid monthly and, usually, reviewed experience and performance: anExecutive Directors role or market To attract and retain annually with any increases taking effect Business performance, the wider positioning changes significantly.
talent to help achieve from 1 April.
The review involves the market and economic conditions: and Where the change in role is on an our strategic objectives.
consideration of market position relative The range of salary increases applying interim basis, the Committee may torelevant comparator groups, including across the Group in similar inflationary determine that, instead of an increase our sector peers andnon-financial environments.
insalary, a non-pensionable interim services FTSE 30 constituents, and is allowance is payable, the level of The Committee may review and adjust alsoinfluenced by: which will be informed by those salaries other than in the course of factors influencing salary reviews.
The Executive Directors role, theannual review, including where BENEFITS Benefits typically include life assurance, acompany car or cash in lieu of a Executive Directors are covered under To attract and retain income protection, personal accident company car and, where appropriate the terms of the Companys directors talent to help achieve insurance, annual leave, financial to assist with their roles, chauffeur and officers liability insurance.
services may also be provided.
Executive Directors may be provided Executive Directors are also eligible to with additional benefits, such as onparticipate in our all-employee share site fitness facilities, on the same basis plans, currently the Share Incentive Plan asother employees.
Flexible benefit and the Sharesave Plan, on the same arrangements may be offered, including basis as other employees.
PENSION Executive Directors can choose to Employees who joined BG Group was closed to future accrual on To attract and retain participate in the relevant local defined intheUK prior to April 2007 may be 31December 2013. talent to help achieve contribution pension arrangement deferred members of the UK defined our strategic objectives.
orreceive cash in lieu, or a combination benefit pension arrangement which thereof.
VARIABLE PAY ANNUAL INCENTIVE SCHEME The AIS is reviewed prior to the start of Company appropriately, it may adjust which may be reduced if the individual each financial year to ensure the bonus the stage one outcome, downwards ceases to be an Executive Director Delivered in the form of cash opportunity, performance measures and or upwards, within the overall AIS limits, oremployee as a result of misconduct.
awards, automatic deferral weightings are appropriate and continue at its discretion.
Executive Directors are also able voluntarily into DBP share awards to support the strategic and operational AIS awards are subject to automatic todefer a proportion of their AIS award into and or voluntary deferral business priorities for the forthcoming and or voluntary deferral into awards over awards over BG Group shares under the into VBDP shareawards.
Stretching financial and BG Group shares.
For AIS awards inexcess VBDP, which is available to other employees.
non-financial performance measures of 100% of base salary, theexcess is VBDP awards vest three months after and targets are set at the start of each Designed to reward the automatically deferred for three years into thedate of grant.
achievement of the strategic share awards over BGGroup shares under accrue on VBDP awards.
andoperational business Actual AIS awards are determined by a the DBP, whichaccrue dividend equivalents.
The number of shares comprising DBP or prioritiesfor the financial year.
Firstly, performance is Forfeiture and malus provisions apply VBDP awards is calculated using the average assessed against the agreed measures and tothe vesting of DBP awards, which may share price over the three or five dealing days targets.
Secondly, the Committee reviews be reduced in circumstances where the preceding the date of grant.
The automatic The DBP and VBDP are designed these results in the context of individual Company becomes aware of misconduct or and voluntary deferral arrangements are toprovide further alignment with performance and the underlying performance issues relevant to the bonus reviewed periodically and may be altered the interests of shareholders.
performance of and prospects for the award year, or if the individual ceases to orremoved by the Committee.
If the Committee considers that be an Executive Director or employee Details for the Executive Directors forthe the stage one outcome does not reflect as a result of misconduct.
Forfeiture and period under review are set out in the the performance or prospects of the malus provisions apply to VBDP awards, Annual Remuneration report on page 66.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVEPLAN In accordance with the rules of the LTIP, EPV is a measure of the economic or subject to afurther holding period, theCommittee may grant PSAs, and or fair value of an award.
The measure takes duringwhich forfeiture and malus Awards over BGGroup shares Market Value Options to Executive account of the performance conditions, provisions apply.
Todate, the Committee has the risk that the performance conditions thatwill be released atthe end of Designed to align the interests granted only PSAs to Executive Directors.
might not be met and the risk that thisholding period may bereduced ofExecutive Directors with those awardsmay be forfeited.
EPV is calculated incircumstances where theCompany The award levels and performance ofshareholders by rewarding independently by the Committees becomes aware of misstatement of the conditions on which vesting will be theExecutive Directors for value advisers.
The face value of an award financial accounts, individual misconduct dependent are reviewed annually growth over the longer term.
isequal to the number of shares, or or performance issues.
At grant, the toensure they remain appropriate.
sharesunder option, multiplied by the Committee sets thelength of the holding Anumber of factors are considered relevant share price at grant.
period and the proportion of net vested when determining the level ofany award, shares subject tothe holding period.
including the position of the Executive PSAs vest over aperiod set by the Forthe life of thisPolicy, these will Directors overall reward package Committee, which will normally be beatleast two yearsand at least 50% relative to the market, the Executive threeyears from the date of grant.
respectively n. b. implemented from Directors performance and experience, Dividendequivalents accrue on PSAs.
the face value and EPV of the proposed For2013 andlater LTIP PSAs, a proportion award, and plan dilution limits.
ofthenet vested shares on vesting are BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | REMUNERATION REPORT | DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY 65 OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES Base salary increases will be applied change in the responsibilities of the role.
Individual and business performance inline with the outcome of the review.
isconsidered in reviewing and setting The level of base salary paid, and any Maximum salary increases to Executive base salary.
interim allowance, will vary by role and Directors will be within the range of will be no more than is necessary to those awarded to other employees in attract and retain Executive Directors similar inflationary environments, other with the necessary experience and skills.
than where it is appropriate to recognise Details for the Executive Directors for the performance showing significant period under review are set out in the progression within the role or a material Annual Remuneration report onpage 66.
Benefit values vary by role and are travel, accommodation and subsistence.
Some benefits, such as life assurance, reviewed by reference to market position Occasional travel, accommodation and are calculated by reference to periodically.
The maximum level of subsistence expenses will be reimbursed base salary.
benefits will be no more than is necessary and may be grossed up for any tax due to attract and retain Executive Directors where the Company requires Executive with the necessary experience and skills.
Directors spouses or partners to travel.
Executive Directors will be reimbursed Details for the Executive Directors for the period under review are set out inthe for business expenses relating to the Annual Remuneration report onpage 66. performance of their duties, including Executive Directors can choose deferred member of the UK defined Calculated by reference to base salary.
a pension contribution or receive benefit pension arrangement.
cash inlieu, or a combination Details for the Executive Directors for the thereof, upto30% of base salary.
period under review are set out in the Annual Remuneration report onpage 66.
No current Executive Director is a The AIS offers a maximum opportunity under the VBDP that vests, provided The performance measures selected for The Committee has the flexibility of up to 200% of base salary, with their voluntary award is deferred for the year, and their relative weighting, tovary the weightings and to select target and threshold opportunities atleast three years.
Where employees may vary each year depending upon alternative or additional measures over ofup to100% and up to 45% of base with these awards subsequently strategic and operational business the life of this Policy to ensure that salary, respectively.
Each year, the become members of the GLT, it is priorities.
The performance of each theAIS is aligned to the strategic and Committee determines maximum, theCompanys policy to honour the Executive Director is measured against operational priorities of the business target and threshold AIS opportunities, awards in accordance with their terms, their individual objectives for the year for the forthcoming financial year, which may vary by role, on an individual which may differ from the terms of which, as part of their operational subject to maintaining a weighting basis, within those scheme limits.
awards granted under this Policy.
objectives, include challenging budget ofat least 50% for externally reported and stretch targets in key operational financial measures, such as EPS Employees who are not members of Individual limits for the Executive areas.
Performance measures may and ROACE.
Directors receiving an award for the the GLT are eligible for an additional period under revieware set out in the beselected from externally reported 10% award of the amount deferred Details of the performance measures for Annual Remuneration report on page 66. financial measures, such as EPS theperiod under review are set outin the and ROACE, other internal financial Annual Remuneration report on page 67. measures, such as working capital targets, and or operational measures, such as project performance and HSSE.
Awards granted to individuals under FTSE 30 constituents and themedian LTIP awards vest in accordance with To ensure that the LTIP rewards value the LTIP are subject to the following of awards to the chief executives of the plan rules and vesting is usually creation over the longer term, the annual limits: theGroups sector peers.
subject to the following conditions: Committee has the flexibility to vary the weighting of the TSR performance An overall EPV limit of 300% The maximum opportunity for Continued employment: measure and to set the weighting of ofbasesalary: and threshold performance is 25% of the The individuals performance not other measures, which are externally The face value of each type of award award granted n. b. implemented from having fallen significantly below that reported financial measures, such cannot exceed 600% of base salary.
2014as 15%, above which straight-line expected at the date of grant: and as EPS and ROACE.
Over the life of this vesting applies.
The Companys performance over Both limits may be exceeded in exceptional Policy, relative TSR will be retained athree-year performance period, circumstances, such as recruitment or Employees who are not Executive as a performance measure and this which will usually start with the retention, at the Committees discretion.
Directors may receive awards performance measure will have month of grant for TSR.
Insuch exceptional circumstances, the withoutperformance conditions.
maximum annual value is an overall EPV Where employees with these awards Performance measures are reviewed Buy-out awards on recruitment limit of 575% of base salary, other than subsequently become Executive each year by the Committee and may begranted without performance forbuy-out awards on, or in connection Directors, it is the Companys policy selected to focus Executive Directors conditions and or a holding period with, recruitment.
This limit has been tohonour the awards in accordance onthe strategic business priorities atthe Committees discretion.
determined following a review of the with their terms, which may differ andthe interests of shareholders upper quartile of awards to the chief from the terms of awards granted overthe longer term.
Details of the performance measure for theperiod under review are set outin the executives of the non-financial services under this Policy.
Annual Remuneration report on page 68.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
