CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | REMUNERATION REPORT | ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 74 STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OFREMUNERATION POLICY IN 2015 LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN Through consultation with a number of our believes it is appropriate that the Company of the Company to achieve exceptional shareholders during 2014, it was evident that performance metrics for theLTIP reflect this.
financial and business performance, and certain shareholders favoured that a basket willthereby promote the long-term success Following consultation with major shareholders ofCompany performance metrics apply ofthe Company.
Further details of the metrics, during February 2015, we have revised the LTIP to the LTIP PSAs, rather than a single metric thestructure of the awards and the targets performance conditions for future awards dependent solely on relative TSR.
The single areset out below.
As the LTIP outcome will sothat they are based on a basket of metrics.
TSR metric was well-suited to the first phase be derived, in part, from reported financial These changes are all within the Companys of BG Groups development, during which the metrics EBITDA and ROACE that are based remuneration policy approved by shareholders Company was judged principally onits ability on completed financial years 1 January to inMay 2014 and the Committee considers to add value through discovering resource.
31 December, it is proposed to move from a thatthe structure for future LTIP awards, using However, as we now shift the Companys focus September to a May grant date, which will allow abasket of metrics that are clearly linked to to improving return on capital and delivering the vesting period to align more closely with the evolving strategic priorities of the Group, earnings and cash-flow growth, theBoard the relevant period of Company performance.
will serve to incentivise the senior management 2015 LTIP PERFORMANCE METRICS KPI WEIGHTING LINK TO STRATEGY Prioritising safety and asset integrity TSR 50% Disciplined financial approach EBITDA New 25% World-class exploration Excellence in project development and execution a ROACE New 25% Maximising value through supply and market positions Existing KPI, see page 18 NEW Included as a KPI for 2015 and forward, see page 19. a Following the inclusion of ROACE as a metric for the LTIP, the Committee considered whether it was appropriate to retain ROACE as a metric for the 2015 AIS at a 12% weighting and decided that it was a sufficient value driver for the Groups business for it to be retained as an AIS metric for 2015.
The Committee will review the overall balance of the metrics across the AIS and the LTIP for 2016 following the conclusion of the Chief Executives review of the Groups longer-term strategy with the Board.
Performance metric Measurement of performance Performance targets Determination of vesting outcome TSR Measured on a relative Threshold performance is performance at the median of the peer group.
basis compared to a sector Maximum performance is performance that exceeds the median peer group.
of the peer group by 7% on a compounded annual basis.
The peer group for the 2015 award comprises: Anadarko Petroleum Corp. : Apache Corporation: BHP Billiton Plc: BP plc: Chevron Corporation: ConocoPhillips: Devon Energy Corporation: EniS.
p. A. : EOG Resources Inc: Exxon Mobil Corporation: Hess Corporation: Marathon Oil: Novatek: Occidental Petroleum Corp. : Repsol S. A. : For each metric, 15% of the Royal Dutch Shell plc: Statoil ASA: Total S. A. : Tullow Oil plc: and portion of the award will vest Woodside Petroleum Ltd. for threshold performance, EBITDA Measured by the cumulative The targets for threshold vesting for EBITDA set by the Committee are increasing on a linear basis performance of the Company informed by the forecast level of performance of the Company and the to 100% for maximum over the three-year period on an targets for maximum vesting are set at a level that the Committee performance.
absolute basis, normalising for considers represents a significant challenge for the Company to achieve.
commodity prices and material exchange rate movements.
ROACE Measured by the average annual The targets for threshold vesting for ROACE set by the Committee are performance of the Company informed by the forecast level of performance of the Company and the over the three-year period on an targets for maximum vesting are set at a level that the Committee absolute basis, normalising for considers represents a significant challenge for the Company to achieve.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON2015 LTIP PERFORMANCE METRICS TSR The TSR peer group was reviewed and theyapply, as such disclosure would provide However, the Committee will include updatedto include the most relevant theCompanys competitors with confidential qualitative intra-cycle disclosures during the comparator companies.
information onthe timing of key projects LTIP performance period of the forecasted and may adversely impact the Groups ability level of vesting for each of the LTIP metrics Seventeen of the 20 companies in the 2015 peer to optimise its marketing activities.
It may toinform ongoing dialogue with shareholders groupwere also included in the 2014 peer group alsorequire the Company to provide earlier on the linkage between performance and pay.
Foralisting disclosure of material events that mayor ofpeer group companies for prioryears The targets for EBITDA and ROACE will be maynot impact on the EBITDA andROACE seepage69.
adjusted by the Committee for any acquisitions forecasts informing the LTIP targets.
In or disposals during the performance period on EBITDA and ROACE accordance with the approved remuneration aconsistent basis by reference to a framework The Committee considers that it would policy, the targets will be disclosed following of principles agreed with the Board.
These bedetrimental to disclose the performance thecompletion of the financial years to adjustments will be explained when the targets for EBITDA and ROACE before the whichthey apply, when theyare no longer targets are disclosed following the end completion of the financial years to which commercially sensitive.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
