62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT The Committee recognises that 2014 has beena particularly important year for the Company on remuneration matters, and is grateful for the high level of engagement fromshareholders.
SIR JOHN HOOD | CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE As the Chairman noted in his introduction parallel award was unusual and understands Extending the application of the two-year tothis Corporate Governance report, the theconcerns expressed by shareholders.
holding period for LTIP Performance Share Companys approach to executive remuneration Further detail on the rationale for the parallel Awards from 50% to 100% of net vested came under close scrutiny in 2014. award is set out in the main body of the report.
sharesafter the three-year performance period, sothat the performance period Over the past 18 months, BG Group has renewed In the case of Helge, our objective was to andholding period of five years in total the executive management of the Company, and offer remuneration that was competitive inthe appliesto the whole award.
our remuneration approach has reflected the international market for oil and gas executives.
need to bring new leaders into the business.
There is a difficult balance to be struck between Through consultation with a number of our meeting that objective and taking appropriate In the lead up to our AGM in May, we engaged shareholders during 2014, it was also evident account of shareholder and public concern in the with shareholders about aparallel share award that certain shareholders favoured a basket UK about the level of executive pay.
The Board made to Simon Lowth, the Groups new Chief of Company performance metrics applying recognises that, in designing the original package Financial Officer, in respect of our agreement to tothe LTIP Performance Share Awards, rather for Helge, it didnot strike the correct balance.
buy out the value ofthe awards he had forfeited than a single metric dependent solely on The Board isgrateful to Helge for working on leaving hisprevious employer.
relative total shareholder return TSR.
actively andconstructively with us to find a In the autumn, we proposed a conditional timely solution, and to shareholders for the The single TSR metric was well-suited to the shareaward to Helge Lund, the Groups new support received for the revised package.
firstphase of BG Groups development, during ChiefExecutive, and consulted widely with Asummary ofthe remuneration arrangements which the Company was judged principally shareholders in the run-up to the General of the new Chief Executive is set out to the onits ability to add value through discovering Meeting specially convened to approve that right of this letter.
However, as we now shift the award.
Following feedback from our shareholders Companys focus to improving return on Both these cases have underlined how important regarding the conditional share award, the capital and delivering earnings and cash flow itis that the Board and the Remuneration Board revised the original package, with the growth, the Board believes it is appropriate Committee are engaged with, and attentive to, agreement of Helge, to bring all elements of his that the Company performance metrics the views of shareholders, and we will redouble remuneration within the Companys Directors fortheBG Group LTIP reflect this.
our efforts in that regardin 2015 and beyond.
Remuneration Policy approved byshareholders Following an extensive consultation exercise in May 2014.
During the 10-month period following the with major shareholders during February resignation of Chris Finlayson as Chief Executive In both cases, the Board and the Remuneration 2015, we have revised the LTIP performance and Helge starting in the position, Andrew Committees major consideration was to act in conditions for future awards so that they are Gould served as interim Executive Chairman of the best interests of shareholders by securing based on a basket of metrics comprising 50% BG Group.
Despite taking on significant additional executive talent of the appropriate calibre and relative TSR, 25% cash flow earnings before responsibilities, the Committee determined to promote the long-term success of the Company.
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation that the Chairman should not receive any EBITDA and 25% return on capital return In the case of Simon, our objective was to retain additional remuneration or fees for this period: onaverage capital employed ROACE and the services of a proven and highly capable Chief adecision with which the Chairman agreed.
thatappropriately challenging targets are Financial Officer to provide essential stability During 2014, the Committee had several setat threshold and stretch.
The expected in the financial leadership of the Company opportunities to consult widely with our value of theBG Group LTIP awards will be after three changes in that position within shareholders on remuneration matters, broadly unchanged.
These changes are all a three-year period.
Simon is making a major bothgenerally and on specific issues.
within the Directors Remuneration Policy contribution to the future success of the approved by shareholders in May 2014 and Company.
While the Directors Remuneration In response to feedback received andto reflect theRemuneration Committee considers Policy received strong support at the 2014 developing market trends, theCommittee thatthe structure for future LTIP awards, AGM 93.7% for and 6.3% against, a significant introduced the following changes during 2014: usingabasket of metrics that are clearly proportion of shareholders voted against the Reducing the level of vesting at threshold linkedto the evolving strategic priorities implementation report 67.2% for and 32.8% Company performance for annual Long Term oftheGroup, willserve toincentivise the against.
Through consultations with shareholders, Incentive Plan LTIP Performance Share senior managementof the Company to both before and since the AGM, the Committee Awards from 25% to 15% which results in achieve exceptional financial andbusiness understands that this relatively low level of support areduction of the threshold vesting level performance, and will thereby promote arose primarily as a result of the parallel award from150% to 90% of base salary for the thelong-term success of the Company.
that was made to the Chief Financial Officer ChiefExecutive, which, at the time of the Furtherdetails are set out in the tohonour the value of the original buy-out revision, was beneath the median threshold followingreport.
ofthe awards forfeited on leaving his previous vestinglevel for the non-financial services employer.
The Committee recognises that the FTSE30 constituents: and BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | REMUNERATION REPORT 63 During 2014, as highlighted by the Chairman CHIEF EXECUTIVE HELGE LUND BONUS ANNUAL INCENTIVE SCHEME inhis review, the Company made strong The Company announced on 15 October 2014 Target 100% of base salary.
progress, particularly at our key growth assets thatHelge Lund would be appointed as Maximum 200% of base salary.
inAustralia and Brazil, and posted a solid ChiefExecutive.
On 1 December 2014, following LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN yearin terms of operating performance consultation with shareholders, thekey An initial grant with an EPV on award of anddelivered E&P and LNG volumes, elements of Mr Lunds reward arrangements approximately 4.6 million, and a face whilealsoimproving the Companys safety were announced.
These arrangements, value of approximately 10.6 million.
The Committee reviewed the which are summarised below, will apply from outcome of the2014 annual bonus scorecard the dateof his employment as Chief Executive An annual grant with a face value on forsenior management in this context.
on9 February 2015 and areconsistent with award of up to9 million six times salary Aftercareful consideration, the Committee BGGroups Directors Remuneration Policy, and, for 2015, an EPV of up to 4 million.
determined that the business performance which was approved byshareholders at A one-off buy-out of forfeited variable scorecard outcome of 69.9% compared theMay 2014AGM.
Statoil pay inBG Group shares valued to42.5% at target and amaximum of 85% BASE SALARY at approximately 750 000. should apply, before considering individual 1.5 million, fixed for the first five years performance for the remaining 15%.
details of the targets and performance for A one-off relocation allowance up to each of the metrics areset out in the PENSION a maximum net value of480 000. followingreport.
A cash payment in lieu of pension and Mr Lund has indicated that he intends to equivalent to30% ofsalary, also fixed for For the LTIP award granted in 2011 that holdallshares that vest to him net of tax thefirst five years ofemployment.
wasdue to vest in 2014, the threshold level forthe duration of his employment with ofperformance was not attained and no BGGroup.
As the markets in which we operate change, REMUNERATION REPORT GLOSSARY OF TERMS andHelge reviews the strategy for the Group with the Board, the Remuneration Committee These terms or acronyms are used in the following report: will keep the Companys remuneration Acronyms arrangements under review toensure that AGM Annual General Meeting they continue toincentivise thesenior AIS Annual Incentive Scheme, the Groups annual bonus plan management of the Company to achieve CSOS Company Share Option Scheme, a legacy plan under which share options exceptional financial and business performance were previously granted over the longer term.
We lookforward to DBP Deferred Bonus Plan continuing our dialogue onremuneration EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation matters and will provide updates in this report EPS Earnings per share as these matters evolve.
The Committee EPV Estimated present value, a measure of the economic or fair value ofashare award recognises that 2014 hasbeen a particularly GLT Group Leadership Team important year for theCompany on remuneration HMRC HM Revenue & Customs matters, and isgrateful for the high level of HSSE Health, safety, security and environment engagement from shareholders.
LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan SIR JOHN HOOD PSA Performance Share Award, an award granted under the LTIP whichissubject CHAIRMAN OF THE to performance conditions other than in  REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ROACE Return on average capital employed SIP Share Incentive Plan, an HMRC approved plan for UK employees TRCF Total recordable case frequency TSR Total shareholder return VBDP Voluntary Bonus Deferral Plan BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
