48 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Remuneration report We present the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2014.
This report is divided into two parts: The first part sets out clearly how reward is aligned closely to our business strategy this is a shortened summary of the Policy Report approved by shareholders in 2014, and An Implementation Report which details the practical application of our policy in 2014.
In this years Remuneration report we have worked hard to provide sufficient detail around our performance and reward outcomes but doing so in a more simple and transparent manner.
For the first time we have also outlined the measures we have set our Executive Directors in respect of 2015.
These measures are closely aligned to our business strategy and designed to drive long term value creation for our shareholders.
By disclosing them in advance we believe that this is an important tool by which our shareholders can hold us to account for future performance.
The Remuneration Committee, whose members are detailed on pages 36 and 37, have listened carefully to the views of shareholders and to market sentiment and have added a two year holding period to the Long Term Incentive Plan.
This creates a longer term focus and stronger retention measure for the business.
I am pleased to recommend the resolution submitted for approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Alastair Kerr Chair, Remuneration Committee Key areas of focus in 2014 Decisions taken The Committee considered the awards to be made to the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer based on their performance against their agreed objectives and agreed the awards made as explained in more detail on pages 54 and 55.
Executive The Committee also considered the salary and other benefits which the Executive Directors receive and Directors decisions were taken having received data on the levels of pay for peer comparators from an external remuneration benchmarking specialist.
There is no change to the Executive Directors salaries for 2015.
The Committee considered recommendations made for the Remuneration Code staff and other senior Other Executive managers and, after debate and changes, approved awards to those individuals.
The Committee also considered and approved the performance conditions attaching to the LTIP arrangement and the remuneration individuals who would be granted awards under that arrangement.
This year all full-time participants who were in the Plan for the full year will receive an award of shares, valued at 2,000.
Part-time employees and those that joined the Plan part way through the year will AESOP award receive a pro-rated award.
Long-term The Committee added a two year holding period to the Long-Term Incentive Plan with effect from 2015 incentive grants.
The malus and clawback clauses will extend throughout the new five year period.
arrangements The Committee discussed and agreed objectives for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer for Objectives 2015.
The Committee considered the disclosures that are required to be made under the FCAs Remuneration Remuneration Code and the list of the individuals that might fall within that requirement and also under the future disclosures AIFMD disclosure requirements.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 49 Summary Directors Remuneration Policy In this section, we provide a summary of our Remuneration Alignment with our employees Policy which was approved by our shareholders on 1 May 2014 The Company regularly seeks the views of its employees and and is unchanged.
The full text of our approved policy can be found at http: investor.
co. uk ati investorrelations specifically targets feedback on reward structures and whether literature.
We provide summary details of the payments pay outcomes are fair and reasonable given the level of that can be made under our Policy as it applies to our Nonresponsibilities and contributions made throughout the year.
Executive Directors on page 53 and to our Executive Directors Feedback from our people is an important measure of success in over the next two pages.
The Committee reserves the right to make a payment outside Our people are also shareholders in our business, as we actively the Policy in exceptional and unforeseen circumstances.
The encourage share ownership, through our AESOP scheme and Committee would only use this right where it believes that partnership shares, which are matched in part by the Company.
this is in the best interests of the Company, and when it would We believe that encouraging share ownership not only gives our be disproportionate to seek specific approval from a general people a voice, as shareholders of the business, but it aligns the meeting.
Prior to the Annual General Meeting last year the interests of our people with our external shareholders.
Company clarified that this discretion will not be used in a recruitment situation, given the existing terms of the policy covering recruitment and promotion and that where the discretion is used to grant a variable or performance-related award, that award will be made within the terms of the policy on incentives.
Any such payments will be fully disclosed on a timely basis and none have been made this year.
Remuneration strategy Our aim is to deliver strong and sustainable investment performance for our shareholders over the longer term.
The route to achieving this is through our people.
Our remuneration strategy is designed to help us recruit the best talent and retain and motivate them to deliver our longterm business strategy.
The driving principle behind our reward strategy is to link the delivery of strong performance closely to pay outcomes, thereby aligning the interests of directors and employees with those of shareholders and clients.
The remuneration packages of Executive Directors will be structured in such a way as to promote sound and effective risk management within the Companys risk appetite.
To ensure that our reward structures do not encourage excessive risk taking a clawback mechanism has been introduced to allow awards under our long-term incentive plan to be recovered in the exceptional event of: misstatement or misleading representation of performance: a significant failure of risk management and control: or serious misconduct of an individual.
Consideration of shareholder views We regularly engage with our shareholders on all aspects of performance and governance, including remuneration issues.
