50 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Summary of Directors Remuneration Policy Executive Directors Base Salary Benefits Annual incentives To help recruit, retain and To help recruit and retain To encourage and reward motivate high performing employees.
delivery of the Companys employees.
strategic goals and to align To provide market competitive the interests of directors Reflects individual experience, benefits which add a level of closely with interests of role and importance of the protection and preventative shareholders and clients.
individual to the business as care for our people.
For Executive Directors, Benefits currently received by individual awards are currently Reviewed annually with directors include: assessed at least 50% against levels set to reflect individual Paid holidays Corporate KPIs and no more responsibilities, level of than 50% against a set of experience and performance Life insurance business objectives linked to outturns.
Travel insurance A market benchmarking Private health insurance Executive Directors are required exercise will be undertaken to defer at least 50% of any each year to ensure that salaries Permanent health insurance cash bonus into the LTIP.
remain around the median of Subsistence allowance the market level, for roles of The annual bonus is currently similar size and complexity.
capped at 150% but the Subscriptions to professional Committee have discretion bodies or other relevant Salaries are reviewed annually to increase the maximum to organisations and increases are effective 200% in future years.
It is our intention The Company provides a to target salaries around the The Committee can set range of market benchmarked market median of similar different performance measures benefits.
The costs of these sized businesses.
and or targets provided that, in benefits may change year the opinion of the Committee, on year due to external Any increases will consider UK the proposed changes are not insurance costs.
Retail Prices Index and market significant.
conditions and will typically Should we recruit a Director be in line with increases All employees can receive from overseas, flexibility will offered to our wider shares under a HMRC approved be retained to provide population of employees.
All Employee Share Ownership benefits which would typically Plan dependent upon the have been provided in their Year on year increases are performance of the business country of origin.
These may unlikely to be more than twice in each year and can elect to include school fees, and the rate of increase in the RPI.
purchase up to the HMRC limit relocation costs.
of partnership shares from preDirectors receive a cash payment tax income each tax year.
of up to 25% of salary instead of If changes are contemplated, a pension contribution.
the Committee will consider consulting with our main shareholders.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 51 Long term incentives Total remuneration To drive the execution of our long-term strategy through close The fundamental principle of our alignment of performance criteria.
reward strategy is payment for performance.
Total remuneration To incentivise long-term value creation.
is weighted heavily towards Matching Awards: these entitle the participant to receive shares at variable pay in both the short nil cost with the number of shares being calculated with reference to term annual bonus and within the amount of deferred bonus which is used to purchase shares in the the long term incentive plans.
Company and which are deposited in the plan.
The maximum that can Executive Directors are required be received is twice the number of shares that could be purchased with to build up the equivalent of the gross value of the annual bonus.
150% of salary in Alliance Trust Performance Awards: these are based on a multiple of salary.
The PLC shares and it is expected maximum number of shares which can be awarded is calculated on twice that this would be reached the annual salary of the participant at the date of the award.
Both awards are based on a combination of two separate performance Benefits: To provide market measures one relating to growth in NAV and another to TSR over competitive benefits which three consecutive financial years and then compared to a comparator add a level of protection and group comprising global investment trusts these can be found at preventative care for our people.
Variable Pay: New directors will participate in short-term TSR NAV Performance against Peer Group % of share awards that vest and long-term incentive plans Below Median 0 with the same maximum Median 25 opportunities as existing Between Median and Top Quartile 25-100 directors.
Top Quartile 100 Where appropriate, the Remuneration Committee may These targets have been selected as they are the key financial metrics offer additional remuneration, which determine value creation for our shareholders.
such as shares or cash-based awards, to replace remuneration The Committee can make minor changes to the performance the individual has given up in condition.
Any significant change will require shareholder approval.
order to be able to join the Vesting between median and top quartile is based on a vesting curve.
We have chosen a vesting curve to align the interests of LTIP participants to that of the shareholders reflecting our belief that consistent median The Remuneration Committee to top quartile performance will, over time, lead to top quartile has reviewed the terms of performance without incentivising excessive risk taking.
awards to include new malus and clawback provisions.
LTIP awards from 2011 onwards 100 75 50 25 0 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Peer Group Ranking 100 75 50 25 0 31 29 27 25 23 21 19 17 15 13 11 9 7 5 3 1 Vesting % 52 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Illustration of the application of the Remuneration Policy The charts below illustrates the remuneration opportunity provided to each Executive Director at different levels of performance for 2015.
3,454,968 3500000 Chief Executive Of cer Chief Financial Of cer 65% 3000000 2500000 2000000 1,521,886 1500000 1,312,968 64% 31% 1000000 19% 621,511 26% 567,093 32% 500000 16% 296,886 20% 100% 43% 16% 100% 20% 48% 0 Minimum On Target Maximum Minimum On Target Maximum Fixed Cash Deferred In developing the above scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: Minimum On-target Maximum Includes only payments to which This is based on what a Director could receive if 100% of the Annual bonus.
the Director is contractually performance was in line with targets: 100% vesting of Long-Term entitled including salary, Annual bonuses pay out at 50% of the maximum Incentive Awards assuming allowances and benefits.
maximum matching awards based on full deferral of bonus.
Long-term incentive plan performance at target would see approximately 33% of the award vesting.
payment would be based on current salary, pension allowance Payments on loss of office and benefits.
Service contracts do not contain a default normal retirement age.
A Directors service contract may be Notice Notice terminated without notice and without any further payment Date of from the to the Provision of contract Company Company compensation or compensation, except for sums accrued up to the date of Katherine 20 04 07 Twelve Six Loss of office termination, on the occurrence of certain events such as gross Garrett-Cox months months up to one years misconduct.
salary, pension allowance Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director and benefits under the Groups share plans will be determined based on the Alan Trotter 01 02 10 Twelve Six Loss of office relevant plan rules.
The default position is that any outstanding months months up to one years salary, pension awards lapse on cessation of employment.
However, in certain allowance prescribed circumstances, such as death, injury or disability, and benefits redundancy, retirement or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee taking into account the individuals performance Executive Directors Service Contracts and the reasons for their departure good leaver status can be applied but individuals will wait until normal date of vesting and The Executive Directors have service contracts which may be awards will normally be pro-rated for length of service.
terminated on twelve months notice from the Company or six months notice from the Director.
The contracts contain The rules of the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan contain specific mitigation provisions should their contracts be a change of control clause, which crystallises the share awards, terminated.
The mitigation provisions are structured to provide subject to pro-rating of awards within the three year cycle monthly payments, during the notice period, against which based on days worked and to the participant giving up their any income received during the period is offset.
The monthly entitlement for replacement shares in any new company.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 53 External directorships The Company has a policy of permitting its Executive Directors to hold one paid external directorship in another company where this does not conflict with their duties to the Company.
Katherine Garrett-Cox became a member of the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Bank AG in 2011 for which an annual fee is payable and is retained by the Director.
In 2014 she received fees of 75,000 in respect of the previous year.
Non-Executive Directors Each Non-Executive Directors appointment is governed by written terms which are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and are also available at the Annual General Meeting.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed subject to annual re-election at the Companys AGM and their appointment may be terminated at any time by notice given by three quarters of the other Directors.
The current basic Non-Executive Directors fee is 35,000.
The Articles of Association set a maximum of 224,000 on fees payable to directors.
This does not include salary payments to Executive Directors, the Chairs fee, fees paid for serving on or chairing Committees, or for other additional responsibilities.
In 2014 fees are paid for service on committees as follows: Chair no other fees are payable to the Chair 120,000 Chair of Audit Committee 11,000 Chair of Remuneration Committee 7,500 Chair of Board Risk Committee 7,500 Chair of Nomination Committee nil Senior Independent Director 5,000 Membership of Audit Committee 3,000 Membership of Remuneration Committee 3,000 Membership of Board Risk Committee 3,000 Membership of Nomination Committee nil
