Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report Statement by Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, the first remuneration report of the Remuneration Committee following the initial public offering IPO on 25 June 2014.
The Work of the Remuneration Committee The year ended 31 December 2014 was a major milestone in the history of Allied Minds.
The Committee was formally constituted at IPO, but a significant amount of its work took place prior to that event with a full review of the Companys Remuneration Policy undertaken by the Non-Executive Directors who now constitute the membership of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee met on two occasions during the year subsequent to the IPO.
Messrs. Davis, Dolan and Rohr were present at all meetings during the year.
A key objective of this review was to ensure an appropriate Remuneration Policy was in place for a UK listed company, whilst also ensuring that it was designed to continue to attract and retain US-based management and employees of the highest caliber.
The programme is weighted toward rewarding entrepreneurial achievement and the creation of shareholder value over time.
Additionally, since its formation, the Committee has adopted a UK Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and made initial awards under the LTIP, reviewed the cash incentive bonus awards and progress against LTIP performance targets for the last financial year, and established base salaries and LTIP performance targets for the current financial year.
The Committee received professional advice from the Hay Group where appropriate.
Objectives of the Remuneration Policy In setting the Remuneration Policy, the Committee focused on simple and transparent market competitive remuneration and incentive schemes.
The proposed Remuneration Policy is designed to: attract, retain and motivate high caliber US-based senior management, and to focus them on the delivery of the Companys long-term strategic and business objectives: promote a strong and sustainable performance culture: incentivise growth and the achievement of milestones: align the interests of Executive Directors and members of the senior management team with those of shareholders through equity ownership: and be simple and designed taking into account best practice guidelines for UK listed companies.
The key components of remuneration are set out in detail within the Remuneration Policy, which will be subject to a binding vote at our AGM.
Performance and Reward for 2014 As outlined earlier in this Annual Report, the Groups performance has been strong, with progress across many of the Groups portfolio businesses contributing to a significant increase in the Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value to $488.
0 million as of 31 December 2014, compared to $367.
3 million at 31 December 2013, an increase of $120.
In addition, the Group share price of 367p at 31 December 2014, was an increase of 93.
2% over the initial public offering price of 190p at 25 June 2014.
indb 63 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued As detailed in this Directors Remuneration Report, the Committee determined to provide cash incentive bonus awards to the Executive Directors that reflected the level of performance and achievement in 2014.
In addition, upon IPO, the Executive Directors received their first awards under the Companys new LTIP, which was adopted at IPO.
These awards will vest after three years, and be paid out over the two years following vesting, provided that stretching performance targets are met.
The Committee intends to make annual awards under the LTIP.
Prior to the IPO, the Executive Directors had received awards under the Companys US Stock Option Stock Issuance Plan US Stock Plan.
All outstanding options issued to the Executive Directors have already vested and become exercisable in accordance with the terms upon which they were granted and or as a consequence of the IPO.
The Committee does not intend to make any further grants under the US Stock Plan.
Shareholder Feedback The Committee recognises that building a close relationship with shareholders can complement the work of the Committee in developing the Remuneration Policy.
Prior to the publication of our first Directors Remuneration Report we consulted with a number of our major shareholders.
One of our overarching aims has been to develop a Remuneration Policy which closely aligns the interests of our senior executives and our shareholders, and with this in mind we have adopted the LTIP to encourage share ownership and included malus and clawback provisions in LTIP.
As this is the first time we are reporting to you, and the first time we will be asking you to approve the Remuneration Policy, we appreciate any feedback you may have.
Richard Davis Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 April 2015 What is in this report?
The Directors Remuneration Report sets out the Remuneration Policy for the Company on pages 66 to 78, describes the implementation of that Remuneration Policy and discloses the amounts paid relating to the year ended 31 December 2014.
It has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, as amended.
The Remuneration Policy has been developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2013, the Listing Rules and shareholders executive remuneration guidelines.
The Remuneration Policy for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors on pages 66 to 78, will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM on 28 May 2015.
The Remuneration Policy will take formal effect from that date.
The Statement by Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on pages 63 to 64, and the Annual Remuneration Report on pages 79 to 87, will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
As explained in the basis of consolidation accounting policy, the Groups financial statements reflect the continuation of the preexisting Group headed by Allied Minds, Inc. now Allied Minds, LLC In keeping with that accounting, the Company has chosen to include the remuneration of these directors when they were directors of Allied Minds, Inc. now Allied Minds, LLC or any of its subsidiaries.
indb 64 25 04 2015 02:07 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Overview The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for determining remuneration for the Executive Directors, and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The Committee designed this Remuneration Policy with close regard to market practice in other UK listed companies so as to ensure that the arrangements are appropriately competitive and structured in line with best practice.
However, the Remuneration Policy also retains some of the key elements which helped to drive the Groups success prior to IPO, and other customary service arrangements and incentive elements for US-based management and employees.
Allied Minds success depends in part on the talent of its management and employees.
Allied Minds has a highly skilled workforce, with significant expertise throughout the Group across a range of science and technology disciplines, as well as a highly experienced management team.
Allied Minds seeks to ensure that its management team and its employees and consultants working within the Groups individual businesses are fairly and appropriately rewarded and incentivised.
Allied Minds seeks to achieve this through a combination of competitive levels of remuneration that is appropriate to the scale of responsibility and performance of the employee or consultant, and incentives tied directly to increasing shareholder value.
The Group operates in the highly competitive US market, and attraction and retention of individual talent is important to success of the Groups businesses.
Allied Minds deploys a careful and considered approach to remuneration with the objective of attracting, motivating and retaining individuals of the necessary caliber.
It is important to note that each national market for talent is different making cross-border comparisons very difficult.
In addition to general standard of living costs, there are large differences with respect to taxes, pensions, provision of cars, and medical plans and costs, among many others.
The Company believes that it is important that remuneration is weighted toward rewarding entrepreneurial achievement and the creation of shareholder value over time as its employees work toward the commercialisation of the scientific and technological innovations.
Accordingly, Allied Minds has established share incentive plans with the aim of incentivising and rewarding employees and Directors to achieve long term shareholder value.
The Directors believe the share incentive arrangements at the level of the subsidiary businesses, as well as the overall Group, are an important factor in the promotion of shareholder value creation.
The aim of the Remuneration Policy is to attract, retain and motivate high caliber senior management and employees, and to focus them on the delivery of the Companys long-term strategic and business objectives, to promote a strong and sustainable performance culture, incentivise growth and the achievement of milestones, and to align the interests of Executive Directors and senior management team with those of Shareholders through equity ownership.
In promoting these objectives the Remuneration Policy aims to be simple in design, transparent and understandable both to participants and Shareholders, and has been structured so as to adhere to the principles of good corporate governance and appropriate risk management.
indb 65 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy pages 66 to 78 The Remuneration Policy for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM on 28 May 2015.
How the views of Shareholders and employees are taken into account The Committee does not formally consult directly with employees on executive pay but does receive periodic updates in relation to salary and bonus reviews across the Company.
As set out in the Remuneration Policy table below, in setting remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Committee takes note of the overall approach to reward for employees in the Company and salary increases will ordinarily be considered in light of those of the wider workforce.
Thus, the Committee is satisfied that the decisions made in relation to Executive Directors pay are made with an appropriate understanding of the wider workforce.
The Committee is conscious that this is the first time that shareholders will vote on the Remuneration Policy since the Companys IPO and with this in mind we offered our largest shareholders the opportunity to discuss our Remuneration Policy in advance of publication.
In addition, we will consider any shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM.
This, plus any additional feedback received from time to time, will be considered as part of the Committees annual review of the Remuneration Policy.
The Committee will seek to engage with shareholders and their representative bodies when it is proposed that any material changes are to be made to the Remuneration Policy.
As Allied Minds has not held an AGM since listing, no voting outcomes are available and we will publish details of remuneration related voting outcomes in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
indb 66 25 04 2015 02:07 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Future Remuneration Policy Table for Executive Directors The total remuneration package is structured so that variable elements annual bonus and long-term incentives make up a significant proportion of the package, with the emphasis on variable pay focused on long-term incentives.
The tables below summarise the key aspects of the Companys Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
Element of How it supports the Operation Opportunity Performance Remuneration Companys Short and Metrics Long-Term Strategic Objectives Salary The Committees overall An Executive The Remuneration Committee policy in There are no performance policy is to set a total on Directors basic relation to salary is: conditions attached to the target reward of up to salary is considered payment of salary although up to median salary on appointment median level compared by the Committee there are a number of depending on the experience and with the Companys peer on appointment and performance based factors both background of the new Executive groups.
Salaries are set as normally reviewed once at the individual and Company Director: part of this Remuneration a year or when there is level that influence the level of on promotion up to the median salary Policy and to achieve this a significant change to salaries provided to Executive for the new role.
The Company role or responsibility.
is required to provide a The current salaries for the Executive When making a basic salary at this level Directors are: determination as in order to be competitive to the appropriate 2015 2014 Review and to maintain its ability to remuneration, the $000 $000 Date recruit and retain Executive Committee where it is Directors.
relevant, benchmarks Christopher Silva $500 $400 1 Jan For the purpose of the remuneration Mark Pritchard $425 $350 1 Jan benchmarking salaries and against the Companys other remuneration, the peer groups.
There is no prescribed maximum annual principal peer grouping The results of salary.
The Committee is satisfied that used by the Company benchmarking will, the salaries conform to its strategy, whilst consists of companies however only be one remaining competitive against similar roles within similar industry of a number factors within the relevant peer groups sectors which are either taken into account US or UK listed with a by the Remuneration range of capitalisations.
Committee and which The Committee wishes will include: to ensure that fixed costs scale, scope and are minimised and that responsibility of the total actual payments to role: executives will only exceed skills and experience the median level within the of the individual: Companys peer groups through the operation of retention risk: the performance related base salary of other element of the package.
employees: and As described in this economic Remuneration Policy, the environment.
performance elements of total reward are directly linked to the achievement of the Companys strategy.
indb 67 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element of How it supports the Operation Opportunity Performance Remuneration Companys Short and Metrics Long-Term Strategic Objectives Benefits The Committees policy The Executive Directors This is the cost of providing those benefits There are no performance is to provide a benefits may be entitled to the detailed above which in 2014 was as conditions attached to the package with a value up following benefits: follows: payment of benefits.
to median level within the l ife assurance: peer group and in line with Benefits disability insurance: US employment market Cost practice.
medical benefits and $000 dental care: The Company is required Christopher Silva $40 to provide this benefits a car allowance: package in order to Mark Pritchard $7 an annual payment be competitive and to to cover personal maintain its ability to recruit The cost of benefits provided changes in legal and tax advice.
and retain Executive accordance with market conditions and Executive Directors Directors.
will, therefore, determine the maximum may also participate in amount that would be paid in the form any all-employee share of benefits under the policy.
There is plans that may be therefore no overall maximum opportunity operated by the Group under this this component of the from time to time on Remuneration Policy the same terms as other employees.
Additional benefits, which may include relocation expenses, housing allowance or other benefits-in-kind, may be provided in certain circumstances if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee, including as may be required on recruitment.
indb 68 25 04 2015 02:07 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element of How it supports the Operation Opportunity Performance Remuneration Companys Short and Metrics Long-Term Strategic Objectives Cash The Committees overall An Executive Directors As noted in Operation, There are no caps on the amount of Incentive policy is to set a total on cash incentive bonus decision to provide any cash bonus which may be paid.
This cash Bonus target reward of up to award is considered by incentive bonus award and incentive bonus awards in 2014 were as Awards median level compared the Committee upon the amount and terms of any follows: with the Companys peer completion of each such award, shall be in the sole groups.
The and absolute discretion of the Cash Incentive bonus awards are set as decision to provide Committee.
Any award is based Bonus Award part of this Remuneration any cash incentive on performance against criteria $000 Policy and to achieve bonus award and the and subject to such conditions Christopher Silva $500 this objective.
The cash amount and terms of as the Committee may impose.
incentive bonus award, any such award, shall The Committee may consider Mark Pritchard $450 taken together with salary, be in the sole and any and all performance criteria is required in order to absolute discretion of in making its determination to be competitive and to the Committee.
Any provide an award, and may maintain the ability to award is based on generally consider: recruit and retain Executive performance against the individual performance of Directors.
criteria and subject the Executive Director: to such conditions as For the purpose of the Committee may the general performance of benchmarking cash impose.
the Company: and incentive bonus awards the principal peer grouping When exercising this KPIs, the achievement of used by the Company discretion to provide company milestones, and consists of companies an award, and making other company and individual within similar industry a determination as objectives.
sectors which are either to the appropriate US or UK listed with a remuneration, range of capitalisations.
the Committee where it is relevant, As described below, the benchmarks the performance elements of remuneration against total reward are directly the Companys peer linked to the achievement groups.
The results of the Companys strategy.
of benchmarking will, In addition, given the however only be one absolute discretionary of a number factors nature of the cash taken into account incentive bonus awards, by the Remuneration the Committee is able to Committee and which support the Companys will include those set strategic objectives forth in Performance because i there is a risk Metrics.
adjustment mechanism in that awards need not be granted, ii the interests of shareholders are served by having a substantial amount of cash remuneration subject to annual discretion, and iii the Committee can tailor the awards to recognise expected and unexpected performance outcomes.
indb 69 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element of How it supports the Operation Opportunity Performance Remuneration Companys Short and Metrics Long-Term Strategic Objectives Pension It is the Committees policy No element of the None.
to provide pension benefits Executive Directors in line with US employment remuneration is market practice.
The Group does not The Company is not operate any pension required to provide pension scheme or other benefits in order to be scheme providing competitive and to ensure retirement or similar its ability to recruit and benefits.
The Group retain Executive Directors.
does not contribute to any personal pension schemes for employees.
However, the Company offers a retirement plan in accordance with subsection 401 k of the Internal Revenue Code 401 k Plan in which Executive Directors may make voluntary pre-tax contributions toward their own retirement.
The Company does not make any payments or contributions to such 401 k Plan.
indb 70 25 04 2015 02:07 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element of How it supports the Operation Opportunity Performance Remuneration Companys Short and Metrics Long-Term Strategic Objectives Allied The LTIP provides a The LTIP is reviewed Save in relation to the awards granted In respect of the initial awards Minds plc competitive, performanceannually at or around at IPO, the maximum value of Ordinary which were made at the IPO, Long Term linked long-term incentive the start of each Shares over which awards under the LTIP vesting is dependent upon Incentive Plan mechanism that will: financial year to may be granted to a participant in any performance metrics measured LTIP ensure the detailed financial year of the Company may not as follows: attract, retain and performance measures generally exceed 300% of base salary for motivate individuals with 60% of each award will and weightings are that financial year, unless circumstances the required personal be subject to performance appropriate and arise which the Committee believe justify attributes, skills and conditions based on the continue to support the granting an award outside this limit.
experience: Companys total shareholder business strategy.
The Committee would only envisage return TSR performance in provide a real incentive overriding the 300% in limit in exceptional Financial and or nonrespect of the period from to achieve our long-term circumstances such as where there was a financial performance the date of the IPO until strategic objectives: and need to do so to attract a new executive.
targets are set at or 31 December 2016: and align the interests of around the start of Awards were made under the LTIP 40% of each award will management and each financial year.
to the Chief Executive Officer at the be subject to performance shareholders.
IPO in respect of a total of 1,398,341 Awards under the LTIP conditions based on a basket Ordinary Shares.
This was considered to Executive Directors of shareholder value metrics, an appropriate level of award by the will normally take the including but not limited to: Committee after giving due consideration form of restricted i the increase in quality of to the fact that the Chief Executive Officer share units RSUs a pipeline intellectual property would have no unvested equity following form of conditional reviewed: ii the increase the IPO.
share award in in quality of the partnership respect of shares in pipeline: and iii subsidiary Allied Minds although level performance assessed instruments with similar by reference to such matters economic effect may as external funding raised, be used if considered corporate collaborations, appropriate.
product co-development and proof of principal commercial Calculations of the pilots and revenues.
achievement of the Performance will be assessed vesting targets are on these measures on a reviewed and approved scorecard basis over a three by the Committee.
Awards are subject At the end of the three year to cancellation or period, performance against clawback provisions the relevant measures will be under which in the calculated to determine the event of a material number of Ordinary Shares correction of any capable of vesting.
50% of the accounts of the award will then vest at that time.
Company used to The remaining 50% will vest in assess satisfaction two equal tranches in years 4 of any performance and 5 subject to the relevant conditions, or in the participant still being employed event of a participants within the Group at the relevant gross misconduct, vesting date.
awards may be reduced, adjusted The level of vesting for threshold or cancelled as performance is 33.
33% of the determined by the maximum.
The level of vesting Committee.
Clawback for target performance is applies for the two 66.
year period following The Committee expects to vesting.
make annual awards under the LTIP with similar vesting criteria, including as to the percentage levels of vesting for threshold and target performance, and as to the weighting of the performance criteria between TSR and other conditions, as applied to these IPO awards, with such vesting ordinarily occurring on or about three years from grant.
indb 71 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element of How it supports the Operation Opportunity Performance Remuneration Companys Short and Metrics Long-Term Strategic Objectives Allied Minds The Committee policy is The Phantom Plan is The maximum aggregate number of units No amounts accrue under the Phantom Plan to reward participants for a performance based, that may be awarded under the Phantom Phantom Plan, and no amounts a successful subsidiary cash settled bonus Plan is 200,000 units, The maximum are distributed to participants, company liquidity event.
plan for Allied Minds number of units which will be awarded in until and unless a successful The Committee recognises Executive Directors aggregate to any Executive Director will subsidiary company liquidity that successful subsidiary and management.
event occurs, and the cash company liquidity events Plan is triggered by a generated in such liquidity Upon a liquidity event Allied Minds will are a key strategic successful subsidiary event exceeds the amount distribute 80% of the Phantom Plan objective of the Group liquidity event, including Allied Minds invested in such account to the participants based on and its shareholders, i a subsidiary IPO, subsidiary company, plus their pro rata share of all vested units and believes that the ii the sale of all or accrued interest and expenses on the date of the applicable liquidation Phantom Plan is designed substantially all of a in respect of such investment.
event, and the remaining 20% of the to align the interests of subsidiary companys No other performance metrics Phantom Plan account will be distributed the Executive Directors assets, iii the sale of at apply.
to participants at the discretion of the and management of Allied least two-thirds of the Committee.
outstanding shares of a subsidiary companys voting equity, iv the merger or consolidation of a subsidiary company with or into another entity, or v a subsidiary companys liquidation.
Upon a liquidity event, Allied Minds will deduct the amount it invested in such subsidiary company and deduct the accrued interest in respect of such investment, and will then allocate 10% of the remaining net proceeds to the Phantom Plan account for allocation among the participants.
Participation in the Phantom Plan is evidenced by units.
Vesting of units is determined at the time of grant of the units.
Current policy is for a proportion of the units to vest at grant and the remainder on an annual basis over a two year period.
indb 72 25 04 2015 02:07 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Future Remuneration Policy Table for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors The Company Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee other than the Company Chairman himself.
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are reviewed by the Board, excluding the Non-Executive Directors.
The table summarises the key aspects of the Remuneration Policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors: Element of How it supports the Operation Opportunity Performance Remuneration Companys Short and Metrics Long-Term Strategic Objectives Non-Executive The Companys policy Non-Executive The Companys policy is to set fees at up to median There are no Directors Fees is to set fees at up Directors have specific on appointment depending on the experience and performance to median level and terms of engagement background of the new Non-Executive Director.
conditions at a level necessary provided in formal attached to the The current fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors to attract and retain letters of appointment.
payment of fees or are as detailed below.
In each case the fees paid take experienced and skilled Their remuneration the vesting under account of responsibilities in acting as Chairman of a Non-Executive Directors is determined by the the awards granted Board Committee or as Senior Independent Director.
with the necessary Board within the limits under the LTIP.
experience and set by the Articles of 2014 2013 Review expertise to advise and Association and based $000 $000 Date assist in establishing on equivalent roles in and monitoring the FTSE 250 companies Richard Davis $80 $50 1 Jan strategic objectives of and the peer groups the Company.
Fees used for Executive Peter Dolan $55 1 Jan also reflect the time Directors.
The fees Jeffrey Rohr $65 1 Jan commitment and for Non-Executive responsibilities of the Directors are reviewed The fees for the Non-Executive Directors were reviewed roles.
annually and fixed for the fiscal year.
The in December 2014 and the decision taken to set the fees An additional fee is paid Non-Executive Directors for 2015, for any Non-Executive Directors serving in the for Chairmanship of a following capacities, as follows: are appointed for a Board Committee and three year term, subject to the Chairman of the to annual re-election by 2015 2014 Board.
the shareholders, at the $000 $000 Companys AGM.
Cash Component Non-Executive Directors do not receive any cash Non-Executive Director $75 $75 incentive bonus and Annual Fee do not participate in any Company pension Audit Committee Chair $25 $25 scheme.
Annual Fee The Non-Executive Directors are eligible Remuneration Committee $10 $10 for RSU awards under Chair Annual Fee the LTIP.
Awards to the Non-Executive Nomination Committee $10 $10 Directors will be subject Chair Annual Fee to time-based vesting provisions, and will Chairman of the Board $75 not be subject to Annual Fee performance metrics.
Each Non-Executive Equity Component Director is also entitled to reimbursement of Non-Executive Director $50 - reasonable and properly LTIP Award Value documented expenses Chairman of the Board $75 -- incurred in performing the duties of their office.
LTIP Award Value The fees proposed to be paid to the Chairman shall only be payable where the Chairman is a Non-Executive Director.
Given the US-based nature of the Groups business, and the need to attract and retain independent directors with significant US business and leadership experience, the proposed fees above include an equity component, based upon a recommendation from the Hay Group.
The Committee is satisfied that the level of fees conform to its strategy, whilst remaining competitive against similar roles within the relevant peer groups.
Careful consideration has been given as to whether including an equity component would affect the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, and the conclusion was reached that it would not, given the level of the awards and the fact that they are not performancerelated.
indb 73 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Remuneration Policy set out in the tables on the previous pages, where the terms of the payment were agreed either: i before the policy came into effect, or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Details of any such payments will be set out in the Annual Remuneration Report as they arise.
Differences between the Remuneration Policy and that applied to employees generally The components of remuneration set out on the previous pages for Executive Directors are also applied to the Groups senior management team and differ only in values and award maxima.
The basic benefits package is typically available to all US employees at the Group level following completion of a probationary period.
Overall there is more emphasis on variable pay for the Executive Directors and senior management, but all US employees at the Group level are eligible for discretionary cash incentive bonus awards.
In addition, the Company is committed to fostering alignment with shareholders through widespread share ownership, and thus all US employees at the Group level are eligible to participate in the LTIP.
The Group has also implemented equity incentive plans within its subsidiaries in order to incentivise employees within the subsidiary businesses.
The employees of the subsidiary businesses do not participate in any of the Group level incentive plans.
Schemes or arrangements under which allocations or awards are no longer being made In addition to the Executive Directors remuneration arrangements set forth in the Remuneration Policy, the Group previously maintained the Allied Minds Stock Option Stock Issuance Plan US Stock Plan.
The Company does not intend to make any further grants under the US Stock Plan.
The interests of the Executive Directors in outstanding options under the US Stock Plan are shown in the statement of directors shareholding and share interest on page 81 of this Annual Report.
The exercise price of the options is equivalent to the fair market value of Common Stock of Allied Minds, Inc. as at the date of grant of the options and all outstanding options have already vested and become exercisable.
indb 74 25 04 2015 02:07 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Illustration of the Application of the Remuneration Policy The value and composition of the Executive Directors remuneration packages for the year ending 31 December 2015 at minimum, threshold and maximum scenarios under the Remuneration Policy are set out in the charts below.
The charts depict an estimate of the remuneration that could be received by each executive director under the Remuneration Policy set out in this report.
Each bar is broken down to show how the total under each scenario comprises fixed remuneration salary and benefits, the annual cash incentive bonus award and the LTIP.
Maximum 20% 20% 60% Threshold 44% 12% 44% CEO Minimum 100% - $500 $1,000 $1,500 $2,000 $2,500 Base Bonus LTIP Maximum 50% 50% Threshold President 80% 20% Minimum 100% - $500 $1,000 $1,500 $2,000 $2,500 Base Bonus Notes: Fixed remuneration reflects base salary as in effect as of 1 January 2015, and expected cost of benefits.
Cash incentive bonus award is not capped, but for the purposes of this illustration is assumed to be 100% of base salary at maximum, 25% of base salary at threshold, and nil below threshold.
Awards are capped at 300% of base salary at maximum, 100% of base salary at threshold, and nil below threshold.
Awards of restricted share units under the LTIP are made based on a percentage of the participants salary in face value terms and therefore the above amounts relating to the LTIP component reflect this.
Changes in the value of those shares over the vesting period are therefore ignored.
The current President, Mark Pritchard, is eligible to participate in the LTIP, but has currently elected to waive such remuneration.
indb 75 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Approach to Recruitment Remuneration The Committee will apply the Remuneration Policy for any new Executive Director recruited to the Board in respect of all elements of forward-looking remuneration.
The maximum level of variable remuneration under the cash incentive bonus awards and LTIP that may be awarded will be within the usual maximums set out in the Remuneration Policy i. e. no cap under the cash incentive bonus awards: and 300% of salary under the LTIP, subject to the exceptions permitted under the LTIP.
The Committee retains flexibility to provide benefits in kind, pensions and other allowances, such as relocation, education and tax equalisation, required in order to recruit the intended candidate.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Committee will seek to structure buyout awards on a comparable basis to awards forfeited, taking into account relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash or shares and the timeframe of awards.
It is intended that the value awarded would be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited awards.
The Committee would seek as far as possible to make such buyout awards under the Companys existing share plans but, if necessary, may rely on the Listing Rules exemption which allows for the grant of awards to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of a Director.
Similarly, the Remuneration Policy for a new Chairman or new Non-executive Directors would be to apply the same remuneration elements as apply to existing Non-Executive Directors under the Remuneration Policy.
In addition to the above principles, the following additional considerations may be applied as appropriate depending on the circumstances: In the case of internal promotion, any existing performance-related elements arising from an individuals previous role will continue to be honored under the Remuneration Policy, even if they may not otherwise be consistent with the Remuneration Policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
In the case of promotion to executive director following an acquisition or other business combination, the Committee may permit equity-based incentive arrangements to continue in force if they can be rolled-up into awards over Allied Minds shares provided the performance and vesting conditions are considered appropriate.
In the case of the recruitment of an executive at a time of the year when it would be inappropriate or not possible to provide an LTIP award for that year for instance due to price sensitive information or if there is insufficient time to assess performance, the quantum in respect of the months employed during the year may be transferred to and amalgamated with the subsequent years award if considered reasonable to do so by the Committee.
The Committee will include details of the implementation of the Remuneration Policy in respect of any such recruitment to the Board in its future Annual Remuneration Reports.
Service Contracts and Letters of Appointment The Executive Directors Christopher Silva and Mark Pritchard each have a service contract that commenced in May 2014 and has an initial term of employment that expires in May 2016.
Beginning in May 2016, and at each anniversary thereafter, the service contracts shall be deemed to be automatically extended for Page 76 of 152 c111026.
indb 76 25 04 2015 02:07 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued successive periods of one year unless either party provides at least ninety 90 days written notice prior to the applicable renewal date of its intention not to extend the term of the service contract.
None of the Executive Directors contracts provide for extended notice periods or compensation in the event of a change of control.
However, as noted below, the rules of the LTIP provide that, in the event of a change of control, awards would vest to the extent determined by the Committee where the Committee considers that the performance conditions are satisfied at the date of such event.
If an Executive Directors employment is terminated by Allied Minds for Cause, he shall only be entitled to amounts that are accrued or owing but not yet paid and reimbursement of any properly incurred business expenses but excluding any bonus payments or other compensation provided pursuant to Allied Minds incentive compensation plan such amounts, the Standard Benefit.
If the Executive Director terminates the service contract for Good Reason or Allied Minds terminates the service contract without Cause or following delivery by Allied Minds of a Non-Renewal Notice, the Executive Director shall be entitled to: payment of twenty four 24 months base salary in accordance with regular payroll: an annual incentive award equal to the product of: A the Executive Directors average bonus for the prior three 3 years the Average Bonus : and B a fraction based on the number of days in which the Executive Director was employed during that year: pro-rated payments equal to the Executive Directors average bonus during any transition period whilst the Executive continues to receive base salary: and payment of the Standard Benefit.
Mr Silva will also be entitled to: i continued participation under medical insurance plans for a period of six 6 months for him and each of his eligible dependents: and ii continuation of life and disability insurance coverage for six 6 months.
In the event of death or disability, similar payments will be made as those payable as a termination for Good Reason save that the payment of base salary shall only continue for 90 days after the death of the Executive Director and or until the commencement of long term disability payments in the case of termination due to disability.
The Executive Directors may terminate their service contract without Good Reason at any time during the term of the employment, provided they give at least ninety 90 days advance written notice.
If an Executive Director terminates his employment with Allied Minds without Good Reason and not because of his death or due to disability or if such Executive Director delivers to Allied Minds a Non-Renewal Notice, the Executive Director shall be entitled solely to payment of the Standard Benefit.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors Richard Davis, Peter Dolan and Jeffrey Rohr have letters of appointment that commenced May 2014, are for an initial fixed term of three years, which are reviewed and may be extended, and are terminable on one months notice by either party.
The letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors do not provide for any compensation on termination.
The service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
indb 77 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy on Payment for Loss of Office The Directors believe the payments owed upon loss of office detailed below are customary and appropriate to attract and retain US-based senior management of the highest caliber.
The Committee reserves the right to make payments where they are made in good faith in discharge of an existing obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment where they are in the best interest of Allied Minds and its shareholders and reflecting the directors contractual and legal rights.
Impact of Loss of Office on Awards under LTIP Participants who cease to be employees, directors or service providers to the Group will normally forfeit any unvested awards.
However, if a participant leaves as a result of death, disability, dismissal other than for cause or any other reason determined by the Committee, awards will vest on the normal vesting date on a pro-rata basis taking into account performance and the period of time since the grant of the award and the date on which the participant ceased to provide services.
The Committee may in its discretion determine that there are exceptional circumstances justifying vesting to a greater or lesser extent.
Impact of Change of Control on Awards under LTIP If there is a change of control of the Company, the number of Ordinary Shares over which awards will vest will be calculated on the basis of the extent to which the performance criteria applicable to those awards have been satisfied as at the date of the change of control.
The resulting number of shares will then be reduced on a pro rata basis to reflect the reduced period between the date the award was made and the date of the change of control, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee may recommend full vesting.
This discretion to accelerate vesting upon a change of control is included in the LTIP to meet the expectations of a US-based workforce.
Statement of Consideration of Employment Conditions Elsewhere in the Company In considering changes to the remuneration of the Executive Directors the Committee is mindful of pay and conditions in the wider Group.
Whilst the Group operates a range of bonus plans appropriate to its various businesses the main drivers of these plans, in common with the cash incentive bonus awards to Executive Directors, are the achievement of company milestones, and other company and individual objectives.
The Committee has not expressly sought the views of employees and no remuneration comparison measurements were used when drawing up the Remuneration Policy.
Through the Board, however, the Committee is updated as to employees views on remuneration generally.
In the event that an employee is promoted to the Board that individual would be allowed to retain any preexisting incentive entitlement that had not vested at that time.
indb 78 25 04 2015 02:07 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Remuneration Report pages 79 to 87 The Annual Remuneration Report will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
Single Total Figure of Remuneration for Each Director audited The following table sets out the single total figure for remuneration for Directors for the financial years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013.
Base salary 1 2 3 fees Benefits Pension Annual Bonus EBP Total in $000 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Executive Directors Christopher Silva 400 335 40 34 500 220 15,002 647 15,942 1,236 Mark Pritchard 350 294 7 2 450 210 807 506 Non-Executive Directors 4 Rick Davis 80 50 80 50 Peter Dolan 55 55 Jeffrey Rohr 65 65 Notes: 1 Actual Non-Executive Directors fees, prorated for the portion of the year they served on the board.
2 Includes, where applicable, Company contribution to medical and dental insurance premiums, car allowance, and reimbursement for personal legal and tax advice.
3 Equity-based payments include awards under the US Stock Plan.
All equity awards, including stock options and restricted stock, under the US Stock Plan became vested and fully exercisable, or vested and fully transferable, in connection with the IPO.
No equity-based awards vested under the LTIP during 2014 or 2013.
In addition, no equity-based awards are expected to vest under the LTIP in 2015 or 2016.
4 Includes fees of $50,000 per year as director of Allied Minds, Inc. now Allied Minds, LLC before becoming director of Allied Minds plc in 2014.
5 In addition, in connection with the IPO, Christopher Silva and Richard Davis exercised stock options under the US Stock Plan, resulting in pre-tax gain of $6.
Individual Elements of Remuneration Base Salary and Cash Incentive Bonus Awards during 2014 In January 2014, prior to the IPO, the independent member of the Board engaged the Hay Group to conduct a compensation benchmarking study for the Companys senior management in conjunction with the Companys 2013 year-end compensation process, including an analysis of the traditional elements of executive pay base salary, annual cash incentive bonus, long-term equity incentives and total direct compensation.
The Hay Group utilised a variety of information sources to evaluate the market for executive compensation, including an analysis of nine US publicly-traded companies and three UK publicly-traded companies.
For the purpose of benchmarking salaries and other remuneration the principal peer grouping used by the Company consisted of companies within similar industry sectors which are either US or UK listed with a range of capitalisations.
Based upon the results of the benchmarking study, the independent director concluded that based upon the modest cash incentive bonus awards that had been paid in the previous financial year, each of the Executive Directors total direct compensation was below the 25th percentile of the peer group.
Given the strong company performance in 2013, and the achievement of company and individual goals, the Board recommended an increase in the level of cash incentive bonus awards, and an increase in base salary to Page 79 of 152 c111026.
indb 79 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued move the Executive Director total direct compensation above the 25th percentile of the peer group.
The increase in base salary is reflected in the table above.
In December 2014, the Remuneration Committee engaged the Hay Group to conduct a compensation benchmarking study for the Companys senior management in conjunction with the Companys 2014 yearend compensation process, including an analysis of the traditional elements of executive pay base salary, annual cash incentive bonus, long-term equity incentives and total direct compensation.
The Hay Group utilised a variety of information sources to evaluate the market for executive compensation, including an analysis of eight US publicly-traded companies and three UK publicly-traded companies.
For the purpose of benchmarking salaries and other remuneration the principal peer grouping used by the Company consists of companies within similar industry sectors which are either US or UK listed with a range of capitalisations.
Based upon the results of the benchmarking study, the Remuneration Committee concluded that based upon the continued modest cash incentive bonus awards that had been paid in the previous financial year, each of the Executive Directors total direct compensation was still at or below the 25th percentile of the peer group.
Given the strong company performance in 2014, and the achievement of company and individual goals, the Board recommended an increase in the level of cash incentive bonus awards, and an increase in base salary to move the Executive Director total direct compensation above the 25th percentile of the peer group, and towards the 50th percentile of the peer group.
The Remuneration Committee designed the increases to reflect its policy of moving the Executive Director compensation, in connection with superior performance, towards the 50th percentile of the peer group.
The Remuneration Committee also designed the increases to emphasise the variable component of compensation, by allocating more of the increase to the cash incentive bonus award and not base salary.
Notwithstanding the increases, the Executive Director total direct compensation remained below the median for the peer group during 2014.
The increase in base salary is set forth in the Remuneration Policy tables above.
The increase in cash incentive bonus award is reflected in the table above.
LTIP Awards made during 2014 audited Face value % of value % of value Basis of Number of of award to vest at to vest at Type award shares $000 threshold target Vesting conditions Executive Directors Christopher Silva RSU See below 1,398,341 $ 4,500 33% 67% Based on performance achievement, 50% end of 2016, 25% end of 2017, 25% end of 2018 On the date of the IPO, the LTIP award above was granted to the Chief Executive Officer.
The total value of the award has been calculated using the IPO price of 190p.
The level of award was determined by the Committee after giving due consideration to the fact that the Chief Executive Officer would have no unvested equity following the IPO.
Vesting of the LTIP award is dependent upon performance metrics measured over the three years to 31 December 2016, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Policy table on page 71 of the Report.
The level of vesting for threshold performance is 33.
The level of vesting for target performance is 66.
indb 80 25 04 2015 02:07 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Long Term Incentive Plan Vesting during 2014 audited information As described above, the Company did not make any awards under the LTIP prior to the IPO.
Therefore, no awards vested under the LTIP in 2014, or are expected to vest in 2015.
US Stock Plan Awards made during 2014 audited Face value % of value % of value Basis of Number of of award to vest at to vest at Type award shares $000 threshold target Vesting conditions Executive Directors Christopher Silva Option Pre-IPO 634,326 $ 1,576 n a n a Fully vested at IPO Non-Executive Directors Rick Davis Shares Pre-IPO 39,600 $ 98 n a n a Three years to June 2017 Peter Dolan Shares Pre-IPO 39,600 $ 98 n a n a Three years to June 2017 Jeffrey Rohr Shares Pre-IPO 39,600 $ 98 n a n a Three years to June 2017 Payments to Past Directors audited information No payments to past Directors were made during the last financial year.
Loss of Office Payments audited information No payments for loss of office were made to past Directors during the last financial year.
Total Pension Entitlements audited information No payments for pension entitlements were made to Directors during the last financial year.
The Company offers a retirement plan in accordance with subsection 401 k of the Internal Revenue Code 401 k Plan in which Executive Directors may make voluntary pre-tax contributions toward their own retirement.
Statement of Directors Shareholding and Share Interests audited Share ownership plays a key role in the alignment of our executives with the interests of shareholders.
While we have not imposed minimum requirement for our Executive Directors, each of them has a very significant shareholding and would exceed and reasonable limit that we would impose.
The table below sets out the number of shares held outright by Directors as at 28 April 2015.
Shares Options to Shares held conditional on purchase outright performance shares Total Executive Directors 1 Mark Pritchard 22,407,704 550,000 22,957,704 Christopher Silva 2,844,402 1,398,341 3,105,498 7,348,241 Non-Executive Directors Rick Davis 259,600 259,600 Peter Dolan 39,600 39,600 Jeffrey Rohr 39,600 39,600 Notes: 1 Includes shares held through connected persons.
indb 81 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Performance Graph The graph below illustrates the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment companies and the FTSE All Share index of which the Company is a constituent, from the start of conditional share dealing on 25 June 2014.
The graph shows performance of a hypothetical 100 invested and its performance over that period.
250 200 150 100 50 0 25-06 31-12 2014 2014 ALM FTSE 250 FTSE All Share Change in remuneration of Chief Executive compared to US Group employees The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the Chief Executive and that of our US Group employees excluding Directors from 2013 to 2014: % change in % change in % change in base salary cash bonus benefits CEO 19.5% 127.
6% Historical CEO remuneration outcomes The table below summarises the Chief Executive single total figure for total remuneration, annual cash incentive bonus award, and share award US Stock Plan as a percentage of maximum opportunity for the last financial year.
As the company listed in 2014, the comparative for 2013 only is provided.
2014 2013 CEO single total figure for remuneration $15,942 $1,236 1 Annual cash incentive bonus award pay-out % of maximum n a n a 2 Share award vesting US Stock Plan % of maximum 100% 100% Notes: 1 The percentage of maximum is not applicable because the company did not have any cap on cash incentive bonus award payments in those financial years.
As a percentage of base salary, the award was 65.
2 Equity-based payments include awards under the US Stock Plan.
No equity-based awards vested under the LTIP during 2013 or 2014.
indb 82 25 04 2015 02:07 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Relative importance of spend on pay The chart below shows the total employee costs, change in Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value, and change in share price from 2013 to 2014.
The information shown in this chart is based on the following: Total employee pay: Total US Group employee staff costs from note 5 on page 115, including wages and salaries, social security and healthcare costs, and share-based payments.
Change in Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value GSOAV taken from page 20.
Returns to shareholders: since the Group does not currently pay a dividend, returns to shareholders are represented by the change in the Groups share price over the period from 25 June 2014 to 31 December 2014 annualised.
488.0 367.3 367.0 29.6 19.9 190.0 Total employee costs $m GSOAV $m Share Price p 48.8% 32.9% 93.2% 2014 2013 Share price at IPO Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year Base Salary and Benefits Effective from 1 January 2015, the base salaries of the Executive Directors will be: Base Salary Increase % Increase Christopher Silva $500,000 $100,000 25.
4% As noted above, based upon the results of the benchmarking study, the Remuneration Committee concluded that based upon the continued modest cash incentive bonus awards that had been paid in the previous financial year, each of the Executive Directors total direct compensation was still at or below the 25th percentile of the peer group.
indb 83 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Cash Incentive Bonus Awards The Remuneration Committee does not expect to implement any changes to the cash incentive bonus awards.
The Executive Directors cash incentive bonus awards shall be considered by the Committee upon completion of the financial year.
The decision to provide any cash incentive bonus award and the amount and terms of any such award, shall be in the sole and absolute discretion of the Committee.
Any award shall be based on performance against criteria and subject to such conditions as the Committee may impose.
When exercising this discretion to provide an award, and making a determination as to the appropriate remuneration, the Committee where it is relevant, shall benchmark the remuneration against the Companys peer groups.
The results of benchmarking will, however only be one of a number factors taken into account by the Remuneration Committee and which will include those set forth below.
The Committee may consider any and all performance criteria in making its determination to provide an award, and may generally consider: the individual performance of the Executive Director: the general performance of the Company: and KPIs, the achievement of company milestones, and other company and individual objectives.
Long Term Incentive Plan The Remuneration Committee expects to make LTIP awards subsequent to the release of this Annual Report.
The number of awards is expected to be at a reduced level as compared to the awards made at the time of the IPO.
Whilst the maximum value of Ordinary Shares over which awards under the LTIP may be granted to a participant in any financial year of the Company may not generally exceed 300% of base salary for that financial year, the Committee expects that any grant to Executive Directors will not exceed 200% of base salary per financial year.
In respect of the 2015 awards, the Committee expects vesting to be dependent upon performance metrics as follows: 60% of each award will be subject to performance conditions based on the Companys total shareholder return performance in respect of the period from the date of the IPO until 31 December 2016: and 40% of each award will be subject to performance conditions based on a basket of shareholder value metrics, including but not limited to: i the increase in quality of pipeline intellectual property reviewed: ii the increase in quality of the partnership pipeline: and iii subsidiary level performance assessed by reference to such matters as external funding raised, corporate collaborations, product co-development and proof of principal commercial pilots and revenues.
Performance will be assessed on these measures on a scorecard basis over a three year period.
In respect of the 2015 awards, at the end of the three year period, performance against the relevant measures will be calculated to determine the number of Ordinary Shares capable of vesting.
The level of vesting for threshold performance will be 33.
The level of vesting for target performance will be 66.
indb 84 25 04 2015 02:07 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Effective from 1 January 2015, the base salaries of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will be: 2015 Cash Component Non-Executive Director Annual Fee $75,000 Audit Committee Chair Annual Fee $25,000 Remuneration Committee Chair Annual Fee $10,000 Nomination Committee Chair Annual Fee $10,000 Chairman of the Board Annual Fee $75,000 Equity Component Non-Executive Director LTIP Award Value $50,000 Chairman of the Board LTIP Award Value $75,000 The Non-Executive Director annual fees, and Committee Chair annual fees set forth in the table above remain unchanged from 2014.
The fees proposed to be paid to the Chairman shall only be payable where the Chairman is a Non-Executive Director.
Given the US-based nature of the Groups business, and the need to attract and retain independent directors with significant US business and leadership experience, the proposed fees above include an equity component, which will have a time-based vesting schedule.
Christopher Silva and Mark Pritchard, as Executive Directors, will not be entitled to any Board fees.
Outside Appointments for Executive Directors Any proposed external directorships are considered and approved by the Board to ensure they do not cause a conflict of interest but, subject to this, Executive Directors may accept outside non-executive appointments.
Limits on the number of shares used to satisfy share awards dilution limits All of the Groups incentive schemes that contain an element that may be satisfied in Allied Minds plc shares incorporate provisions that in any ten-year period ending on the relevant date of grant, the maximum number of the Shares that may be issued or issuable under all such schemes shall not exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time excluding shares issued pursuant to awards granted prior to IPO under the US Stock Plan.
The Committee regularly monitors the position and prior to the making of any share-based award considers the effect of potential vesting of outstanding awards to ensure that the Company remains within these limits.
Any awards which are required to be satisfied by market purchased shares are excluded from such calculations.
No treasury shares were held or utilised in the year ended 31 December 2014.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The full terms of reference of the Committee, which are reviewed annually, are available on the Groups website at www.
In summary, the Remuneration Committee has specific responsibility for advising the Groups Board on the remuneration and other benefits of executive directors, an overall policy in respect of remuneration of other employees of the Group and establishing the Groups policy with respect to employee incentivisation schemes.
indb 85 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Remuneration Committee comprises the following independent non-executive directors, all of whom served from the IPO through the end of the financial year, and whose backgrounds and experience are summarised on pages 43 to 44: Richard Davis Chair Peter Dolan Jeffrey Rohr Committee meetings are administered and minuted by the Company Secretary.
In addition, the Committee received assistance from the Chief Executive Officer, President and Director of Finance, each of who attend meetings by invitation, except when matters relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
During the year, the key activities carried out by the Committee were: Reviewed and approved an appropriate Remuneration Policy for a UK listed company, whilst also ensuring that it was designed to continue to attract and retain US-based management and employees of the highest caliber: Designed and adopted a UK LTIP to advance the Committees policy to provide a competitive, performance-linked long-term incentive mechanism that will: i attract, retain and motivate individuals with the required personal attributes, skills and experience, ii provide a real incentive to achieve our long-term strategic objectives, and iii and align the interests of management and shareholders: Considered i the individual performance of the Executive Directors, ii the general performance of the Company, and iii KPIs, the achievement of company milestones, and other company and individual objectives, and carried out benchmarking, in order to determine the cash incentive bonus awards for the Executive Officers for the last financial year: Considered the i scale, scope and responsibility of the role, ii skills and experience of the individual, iii retention risk, iv base salary of other employees, v and economic environment, and carried out benchmarking, in order to determine base salaries of the Executive Directors, for the period starting 1 January 2015: Issued the initial LTIP awards at the time of the IPO: Reviewed progress against LTIP performance targets for the last financial year: Established LTIP performance targets for the current financial year: and Reviewed of the remuneration reporting regulations in connection with the development of the Groups Remuneration Policy and preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report.
External advisers The Remuneration Committee is authorised, if it wishes, to seek independent specialist services to provide information and advice on remuneration at the Companys expense, including attendance at Committee meetings.
During the year the Remuneration Committee continued its review of executive remuneration and took into consideration professional advice from Hay Group carried out in in January 2014, in the months leading up to the IPO in June 2014, and in December 2014.
Hay Group performed peer benchmarking to assist Page 86 of 152 c111026.
indb 86 25 04 2015 02:07 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued the Committee with determinations regarding base salary and cash incentive bonus awards, and assisted in the design of the LTIP adopted at the IPO.
Fees paid to Hay Group in connection with advice to the Committee in 2014 were $83,000 2013: nil.
Hay Group did not provide any other services or advice to the Group during the year.
They are a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adhere to its Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Statement of voting at general meeting As mentioned previously, Allied Minds has not held an AGM since listing and therefore no voting outcomes are available.
We will publish details of remuneration related voting outcomes in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
Remuneration disclosure This report complies with the requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012 and the Listing Rules.
Approval This Directors Remuneration Report, including both the Remuneration Policy and Annual Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors.
Richard Davis Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 April 2015 Page 87 of 152 c111026.
