Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee report continued Relationship with external auditors The authorisation limits for non-audit services allowed by the policy are: During 2014 we approved PwCs audit plan and terms of engagement.
We reviewed the scope of PwCs audit and how PwC was working with Chief Executive or Chief 50,000 the internal audit and risk functions to see if it could use audits carried Finance & Operations out by Amlin to support its audit.
We agreed that it would be useful if, Officer going forward, PwC involved Amlin in the audit planning process to a greater degree.
As part of this, I attended the PwC planning meeting Audit Committee 50,000 250,000 in order to obtain greater clarity with regards to how areas of risk are Chairman identified.
This meeting discussed Amlins audit risks and areas of focus, the audit approach to the new SBU structure and the working Audit Committee 250,000 500,000 relationship between Amlin and PwC.
This includes where the aggregate of all annual non-audit fees is above We conducted a review of the effectiveness of the external audit 500,000. process.
Our review took the form of a questionnaire which was circulated to members of the Committee, Executive Directors and senior management.
The survey was designed to assess the A detailed breakdown of fees paid to the auditor for non-audit work is performance, independence, resources and effectiveness of the audit in note 7 g to the accounts.
In 2014, 53,600 was spent on non-audit process.
The results concluded that the external auditor remained and assurance services.
In the last financial year independent and effective.
Two main areas for improvement were there were no non-audit services conducted by PwC that exceeded suggested to and accepted by PwC.
These were improving face- 50,000 in value.
to-face dialogue at subsidiary level and being mindful about the experience of the audit team.
In addition to the internal evaluation Internal audit process, I have reviewed the results of the FRCs audit quality We review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, inspections which provide an external opinion on the effectiveness including internal audit resources, plans and performance, as well of PwC and discussed its relevance to Amlin.
Additionally, I review as how the function interacts with management.
and discuss the outcome of any internal PwC quality reviews of Amlins audit team: there were no such reviews in 2014.
In 2014 we appointed a new Head of Internal Audit to refresh the internal audit function within Amlin.
The Head of Internal Audit In line with Auditing Practices Board requirements, a new lead audit has a direct reporting line to me and I interviewed the prospective partner was appointed for 2014.
We monitored the transition from one candidates prior to appointment and was engaged with the process partner to another throughout the year.
I also received and reviewed throughout.
I have subsequently met with the new Head of Internal PwCs internal assessment of the lead audit partner and have regular Audit to discuss the approach to internal audit going forward.
Throughout 2014 the Committee spent a significant amount of time discussing risk and assurance within the Group in order to further PwC was appointed as Amlins external auditor in 2009, following strengthen our risk-based approach to internal audit for 2015. a comprehensive competitive tender process.
In line with new rules At our request, work is underway to develop a risk and assurance introduced by the Competition and Markets Authority in October 2014, heat map for the whole Group to ensure there is comprehensive 2019 is the latest date we can put our audit services out to tender and coverage across all three lines of defence.
In addition, we have will also be the end of the current lead audit partners rotation and agreed with the Head of Internal Audit that a section on risk and we will comply with the requirements.
control culture within Amlin will be included in each audit report.
We approved the move to a rolling audit plan approach from 2015 In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, in order to provide flexibility in areas of audit focus.
a resolution proposing the reappointment of PwC as Group auditor will be put to the shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
We receive a report from the Head of Internal Audit at each meeting which includes an update on the current internal audit plan, the Non-audit services findings of all internal audit reports and the consequent actions agreed We continue to monitor the use of the external auditors for non-audit with management, and a separate report covering fraud.
In addition, services to ensure compliance with Amlins policy and to safeguard we had two private sessions with the Head of Internal Audit during the further PwCs independence.
The policy details the circumstances in year which gave us the opportunity to question the outcome of any which the auditors may be permitted to undertake non-audit work for report and discuss the new approach to internal audit.
We consider the the Group and is reviewed annually by the Committee.
The last review results of the audits undertaken by the internal audit function and the was undertaken in November 2014 and incorporated a number of adequacy of managements response to the matters raised, including changes deriving from EU legislation and in particular altered the the issues identified, managements resolution plans and the time actuarial and taxation services permitted under the policy.
A further taken to resolve any such matters and challenge where we believe review will be undertaken in 2015 to ensure the policy is fully compliant sufficient progress has not be made.
with the forthcoming requirements from the Competition and Markets Authority and EU legislation.
Since its publication in July 2013, the CIIA Code has set challenging standards and we continue to work with management on the necessary Services prohibited by the policy include: preparing statutory accounts, developments of the internal audit function to ensure that it is well selecting accounting policies, designing and implementing internal equipped to perform in line with the Codes standards and support controls or processes and financial information systems, valuation effective delivery.
Many elements of the guidance in the Code services, and tax planning and advice.
have now been implemented and will be fully embedded during the forthcoming period.
In addition, we completed an evaluation of the In addition to Amlins policy, PwC completes its own independence effectiveness of internal audit in the latter half of the year and I procedures before commencing each piece of work.
discussed the areas of strength and development with the Head of Internal Audit.
We will continue to address the areas of development that have been identified during 2015.
We reviewed and approved revised terms of reference for the internal audit function which were updated in line with the CIIA guidance and these were also recently published on the website www.
Amlin plc 80 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Whistleblowing Amlin has a number of grievance policies in place and a whistleblowing policy for employees.
All matters reported via the whistleblowing hotline, which is operated by an external and independent third party, are investigated and escalated to the Committee as appropriate.
During 2014 we received an update on the arrangements in place for employees to raise matters of concern.
Internal control and compliance Our role relating to internal control is set out in the Boards internal control statement on pages 75 to 76 within the Corporate governance report.
Throughout the year, we monitored the Groups compliance with the requirements of the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA, the FCA, Lloyds and other regulatory bodies in the UK and elsewhere.
We receive a report from the Group Head of Compliance at each meeting.
Issues covered during 2014 included UK and overseas regulation updates, Solvency II implementation, anti-bribery and corruption measures, and entity-specific updates.
At our November 2014 meeting we reviewed and approved the 2015 compliance plan and the underwriting assurance plan, both of which complement the work being undertaken on risk assurance, which is discussed in the Internal Audit section above.
The Committee will receive updates on progress against both plans and on-going assurance work in 2015.
Committee evaluation We addressed a number of action points arising from the 2013 evaluation process, including reviewing the forward calendars of both the Audit Committee and the Risk & Solvency Committee to address any overlap of items and holding an additional scheduled meeting in April to ensure we had sufficient time to discuss all issues fully.
The 2014 evaluation process concluded that the Committee was considered to be effective in fulfilling its role throughout the year.
Assurance controls and setting the internal audit agenda were identified as areas of focus going forward and both were discussed at the November meeting as part of the planning process for 2015.
Further information about the performance evaluation can be found on page 72.
On behalf of the Audit Committee Shonaid Jemmett-Page Chairman of the Audit Committee 27 February 2015 Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 81 Corporate governance report continued Risk & Solvency Committee report Marty Feinstein Committee Chairman Committee membership We also receive detailed reports arising from the risk framework and our Own Risk & Solvency Assessment ORSA process, on the status Meetings attended of risk and controls within Amlin.
The Committee also requests specific 1 Marty Feinstein Chairman 5 6 reviews into certain risk items arising from these reports or other factors during the year.
Julie Chakraverty 6 6 2 Richard Davey 5 6 Governance Shonaid Jemmett-Page 6 6 The Committee is required to meet at least four times each year 3 Oliver Peterken 2 2 according to its terms of reference and met six times during 2014.
We felt that the extra meetings were beneficial and enabled the Former Member Committee to have further deep dives on either complex topics or 4 Sir Alan Collins 3 3 areas of interest to the Committee.
Each meeting is attended by the Notes: Chief Executive, the Chief Finance & Operations Officer, the Head of 1.
Marty Feinstein was unable to attend the October meeting due to illness.
Internal Audit and the CRO, who all have a standing invitation to attend 2.
R ichard Davey was unable to attend the November meeting due to a change in meeting dates.
Additional Board members are welcome to attend the 3.
Oliver Peterken joined the Committee from 1 September 2014 meetings and the Chief Underwriting Officer CUO attended both 4.
Sir Alan Collins retired from the Committee on 22 May 2014 the October and November meetings.
The Committee meets with the CRO without other management being Key items in terms of reference present at least once each year and also receives an areas of concern Lead the review of risk management, risk appetite and report from him at each meeting, which enables risks pertinent to the regulatory capital business to be discussed with a degree of immediacy.
I also speak to Review and make recommendations to the Board based the CRO and the Group Company Secretary at least six weeks before upon the review of the ORSA each meeting to agree the agenda and to receive updates on any Review the adequacy, effectiveness and governance of the matters of concern to them.
Groups Internal Model Review the effectiveness of internal controls and enable The Committee has access to external advice when required.
At the recommendation to the Board for approving the internal suggestion of the CRO, results of two external reviews into the Internal control statement Model were provided to the Committee.
None of these services was provided by our auditor, although the reports were shared with PwC when requested.
The Board last reviewed the terms of reference on 26 February 2015, and these can be found in the governance section at www.
The Committee has routine agenda items which are either reviewed at each meeting, such as proposed changes to the Internal Model: quarterly, such as the solvency and risks to solvency: or annually Introduction such as assessing the risks to, or arising from, the forthcoming years The Risk & Solvency Committee plays an integral role in assessing the business plan.
In addition to this we have also requested information management of the Groups risk.
As a Committee we have oversight of relating to new or emerging risks as and when required, and during the policies that cover our internal capital model and we agree any major 2014 we received updates on the risks arising from the acquisition changes to that model, which is key to our regulatory Internal Model of Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP, clash risk where two policies approval process, which we hope to complete in 2015.
The Committee may be underwritten independently of each other but will cover the also approves all Group level regulatory filings as part of that process.
same risk location and outsourcing.
These are complicated subjects which are constantly evolving within the regulatory environment as different regulators interpret Solvency II and other requirements.
As such we receive briefings on Solvency II and on how the Internal Model works and interacts with the business.
To assist this, the Chief Risk Officer CRO and the Group Company Secretary will be devising a training and update plan for the Committee throughout 2015.
Amlin plc 82 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 One area of focus during 2014 has been understanding the integrated The risk function also highlighted a number of developing and emerging risk and assurance map of the Group and we have worked closely with risks which we discussed along with the need for contingency plans.
the Audit Committee to begin to develop this map across Amlin.
The Audit Committee is leading the development of this area and more Internal Model on this topic can be found in its report.
The Committee received reports on the development of the Internal Model as part of Amlins overall preparations for Solvency II.
We Throughout the course of 2015 we will be reviewing the changes to received quarterly updates from the Dynamic Financial Analysis DFA the guidance on risk from the FRC.
Our early analysis in 2014 suggests Steering Committee on the evolution of the model including model that we meet many of the new requirements, but that there is still changes.
The Committee was asked during the year to approve a Major some further work for the Committee to do.
We will seek to address Model change associated with the implementation of a new Economic these throughout the course of 2015 and will report on these Scenario Generator ESG for market and credit risk.
detailed training session on this matter we approved the change.
Significant issues We also received training during the year on the basis on which Economic As a Committee we reviewed several non-routine risks during the year, Capital is calculated, recent changes made to the methodology and the the three most significant being: resulting use for setting technical pricing targets.
Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP acquisition We received, and approved, independent validation reports produced The Board asked the Committee to review the risks of acquiring a by the risk function and external advisers that provided assurance on further stake in Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP and we undertook an the appropriateness of the Internal Model for use in capital setting and exercise to understand the risks in so doing, the risks of not acquiring making strategic business decisions.
The Committee was also updated a controlling stake in Leadenhall Capital Partners and the assumptions on progress in addressing prior validation findings.
These were reviewed in advance of starting negotiations and once again prior to completion, the risks having been Risk culture and risk framework updated following a due diligence exercise.
The Committee was able to The risk function presented to the Committee on developments make a recommendation to the Board to proceed with the transaction in UK Corporate Governance associated with the new FRC guidance on that basis.
on risk management and internal controls and in particular the increased focus on risk culture.
This aligned with the FCA regulatory Review of outwards reinsurance programme developments and the introduction of guidance from the Financial As a Committee we reviewed the outwards reinsurance programme Stability Board FSB.
which had been internalised to a greater extent for the 2014 financial year.
This was looked at from a cost perspective and also from the We reviewed, and agreed, to sponsor a programme of work focused extent to which the cover bought externally, and internalised, increased on analysing Amlins current risk culture and on helping the Board or decreased our risks and probability of making a loss.
We reviewed to articulate the nature of the risk culture they wish to foster.
This the proposed programme for 2015 and discussed the options with the will be reported on to the Committee during 2015.
CRO and CUO, trying to strike the correct balance between reducing risks without reducing overall expected profit.
At the same time we recognised that the risk management framework needed to evolve as a result of the Groups reorganisation and we agreed As a Committee we were satisfied with the approach proposed by the terms of reference for a review of the framework.
The risk function management and were able to recommend to the Board that the has completed its review of the framework and is implementing the programme be adopted.
necessary changes to align to the new structures.
The function also completed a risk assurance mapping exercise during 2014 and this is Review of risks relating to the reorganisation being revisited in conjunction with internal audit and the compliance Amlin underwent a significant reorganisation during 2014.
As a functions to ensure it addresses the impact of the reorganisation.
Committee we requested that the risks arising from the reorganisation be presented and tracked throughout the course of the programme.
In Committee evaluation addition we considered the risks of not implementing the reorganisation The Committee carries out an evaluation of its activities in the third and the future risks associated with the new structure, including a deep quarter of each year and receives the results at the November meeting, with actions in response to that evaluation presented to the following dive into the manner in which, under the new management structure, February meeting.
During 2014 we implemented the actions from the the Groups regulated entities would be able to exercise proper oversight 2013 evaluation, which included reducing the overlap with the Audit and control of their respective activities.
These three views allowed Committee and refining the risk reporting to the Committee.
the Committee to monitor progress and to be satisfied that the risks associated with the reorganisation were being mitigated On behalf of the Risk & Solvency Committee and managed appropriately.
Own Risk & Solvency Assessment ORSA The Committee receives quarterly updates on the Companys ORSA process in the form of risk status reports.
In addition, a bi-annual review of the capital implications of the proposed business plan was considered at the start and finish of the planning cycle to help us judge Marty Feinstein the prudence of the proposed 2015 plan and consider the balance Chairman of the Risk & Solvency Committee between risk and reward.
27 February 2015 The outcomes of the Internal Model were considered in the context of the risk profile of the business.
During the year we conducted specific reviews of the Internal Model, including receiving deep dives on economic capital and the investment operating model as well as market risk generally.
These deep dives helped inform our understanding of these topics interaction with the Internal Model.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 83 Directors remuneration report Sir Mark Wrightson Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder, As part of the remuneration review, the 2014 PSP became the sole I am pleased to introduce the Directors report on remuneration for senior executive long-term incentive, supplanting the Long-Term 2014.
The Committee remains focused on its key objectives and has Incentive Plan LTIP.
Recognising the importance of the 2014 PSP, sought to balance the level and structure of executive remuneration the Committee reviewed the targets and vesting schedule for the with the long-term interests of the Companys stakeholders.
The targets and the vesting schedule have been modified is split into four sections: a summary of the Directors Remuneration to remove the top level of risk from its incentive arrangement by Policy which is applicable from 1 January 2015: the annual statement discouraging excessive levels of risk taking to achieve maximum on remuneration, which provides details on the remuneration pay-out.
Set out on this page is an illustrative graph that shows how earned by Directors in 2014: a section detailing how the Directors the target and vesting levels have not altered for minimum and target Remuneration Policy will be implemented in 2015: and a section performance and only the maximum pay-out target has been modified.
detailing how the Committee operated during 2014.
The annual report on remuneration section on pages 91 to 101 will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM.
RONTA Targets & Vesting Schedule % During 2014 the Committee extensively reviewed the executive 100% remuneration framework, as part of the Group-wide review of remuneration, to ensure that it is aligned with Amlins strategic 80% direction.
Following careful consideration and consultation, the Committee proposed a revised and improved remuneration framework 60% which has a greater emphasis on the longer term, delivery of performance in alignment with Amlins agreed level of ambition 40% and risk appetite, and greater emphasis on shareholder alignment.
20% As planned, key shareholders were consulted during the review of the remuneration framework and any resulting suggestions or comments 0% were taken into consideration in the amended Remuneration Policy.
0% 10% 15% 18% 20% The remuneration review focus was on two main areas: to align the RONTA Target Companys annual bonus arrangement across the Group: and to Current Proposed simplify Amlins long-term incentive arrangements into one scheme.
The changes were in support of the Companys new structure.
As well as discouraging excessive risk taking, the Committee believes As a result of the remuneration review, the Remuneration Policy that the new targets reflect market conditions and are sufficiently was amended and a new 2014 Performance Share Plan PSP was challenging but attainable to incentivise the intended participants.
adopted and approved at a General Meeting of shareholders on 24 Page 100 sets out the proposed return on net tangible assets RONTA November 2014.
I am delighted that the amended Policy received targets for the 2014 PSP for 2015 award.
over a 98% vote For from shareholders.
The Remuneration Policy is operational from 1 January 2015 and is available, with a summary The Committee will continue to monitor the regulatory environment of changes, under shareholder circulars in the investor section at and, where appropriate, to seek shareholder views on remuneration.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee Sir Mark Wrightson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Amlin plc 84 Annual Report 2014 Award Vesting Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Directors Remuneration Policy This section of the Directors remuneration report sets out on pages 85 to 90 the executive remuneration policies for the Company collectively entitled the Policy.
The Policy reflects the Companys practice, and is effective from 1 January 2015.
Policy Table The table below summarises each element of the executive directors remuneration packages, linkage to the Companys strategy and how they are maintained and operated.
This applies to remuneration earned from 1 January 2015 onwards.
Element of pay and purpose How operated Maximum opportunity Performance measures with link to Amlins strategy Fixed Salary Salary is reviewed annually with Base salaries will be set by n a To recruit and retain executives increases made in April.
the Committee taking into of a high calibre account the scale, scope and The Remuneration Committee responsibility of the role, skills may consider exceptional and experience of the individual, increases in line with any change retention risk, base salary of in role or for retention purposes.
individuals undertaking similar The Committee also takes into roles in companies of comparable account pay and employment size and complexity, as well conditions elsewhere in the as total overall remuneration Company when considering levels and the weighting of the increases to base salary.
package to fixed and variable remuneration.
Salary increase percentages for Executive Directors will not normally exceed those awarded on average to other group employees and will be a maximum of 10% per annum.
However higher increases may be awarded, for example but not limited to, if there is a significant increase in responsibility, change in size or scope of a role, or size of the business, or if there is a new appointment where executives are moved towards the desired market positioning as their experience and performance in role develops.
Benefits Including but not limited to: The range of benefits provided is n a To ensure benefits are Car cash and or company car set by the Committee after taking commensurate with the Private medical insurance into account market practice and market in which the Company Permanent health insurance the relevant circumstances and operates and in line with Life assurance requirements of the executive.
Long Service Awards Due to the uncertainty and Choice of benefits such volatility surrounding the cost as gym, private dental etc.
of insured benefits and any are part of a salary relocation allowance in a sacrifice scheme particular year and in order to In respect of a Director comply with the requirements relocating a relocation of the Regulations a maximum allowance amount of 50% of salary is set for the cost of benefits.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 85 Directors remuneration report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued Element of pay and purpose How operated Maximum opportunity Performance measures with link to Amlins strategy Pension The Company pays a percentage Pensionable salary is base n a To provide pension benefit of base salary into a Group salary only.
commensurate with the occupational and or a stakeholder market in which the pension plan.
Executive Directors In relation to the DC pension Company operates.
participate in the relevant Group scheme the maximum employee pension plans on the same basis and employer contribution as other senior employees.
allowed under the scheme is 26% of base salary.
Directors reaching lifetime or annual pension limits will receive DB employer contribution cash payments in lieu of pension.
rates will vary from year to year according to actuarial advice in Executive Directors who are also order to deliver the agreed levels members of the Groups defined of pension.
Due to the uncertainty benefit DB scheme continue and volatility surrounding the to accrue additional years service cost of providing DB pensions under the scheme but only based and in order to comply with the on their 2006 pensionable salary requirements of the Regulations with salary increases from April an absolute maximum is set at 2006 onwards being pensioned 50% of salary.
through the defined contribution DC arrangements.
Annual Bonus Plan Bonus Stretching Targets are set For the Executive Directors who The Committee will set To incentivise the achievement annually and performance are not involved in underwriting performance targets for the of annual targets rewarding against targets is reviewed by activities, there is a 165% of base Annual Bonus Plan at the strong financial performance the Remuneration Committee.
beginning of each financial year.
and the delivery of annual personal objectives aimed Any Bonus paid to an Bonuses to Executive Directors 47.44% of salary will be payable at continuously improving Executive Director in excess involved in underwriting activities for threshold performance.
the capability of the Group of a predetermined percentage will be capped at a maximum and its businesses.
of salary will be deferred in of 400% of base salary.
At least 70% of the maximum three tranches over the ensuing Bonus opportunity for the three-year period and will be Executive Directors will be deferred into shares.
Total or partial claw-back of Bonuses for the Executive Bonus payments will apply in Directors may be determined the event of either the Committee in part by personal performance finding that a participant has up to a maximum of 30% of not complied with internal the maximum opportunity.
standards or controls or has caused reputational damage to the Company or if any results or accounts on which the Bonus was based prove to be incorrect or are required to be re-stated.
Long-term share-based Awards will be granted annually The maximum award for Awards vest based on a sliding incentive awarded under the and will vest on the fifth Executive Directors is 200% of scale of financial performance Amlin Performance Share anniversary of the date of grant, salary over shares valued on determined by the Committee Plan 2014 2014 PSP provided the performance and grant for the 2014 PSP scheme.
prior to the date of award.
The plan is intended to aid employment conditions have been the recruitment, retention, satisfied.
Awards will be made A minority not more than 25% motivation and reward of in the form of nil-cost options.
of each award will vest for the key senior executives and to achievement of a threshold level reward the achievement of of performance increasing to full superior financial returns for vesting at a stretch level.
shareholders and long-term target underwriting returns.
The performance conditions selected and specific targets set for each year will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
There is no provision for retesting.
Amlin plc 86 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Element of pay and purpose How operated Maximum opportunity Performance measures with link to Amlins strategy All-employee share plans SAYE: All Employees in the UK, SAYE: Shares to the value of n a SAYE and Share Incentive Plan Bermuda and Singapore who the total anticipated savings and SIP offers are made under meet the employment criteria accrued interest over up to a the HMRC-approved plans are invited to participate in the five-year savings period divided to all applicable employees savings scheme.
by a share price set with up to including Executive Directors.
a 20% discount around the time SIP: All employees across the of grant.
Maximum HMRC savings Group who meet the employment available are 500 per month, criteria may receive an award of which translates into a maximum free shares up to the maximum value of shares of around amount permitted by HMRC at 40,000 over a five-year period the discretion of the Committee.
calculated at the date of grant.
SIP: 3,600 worth of shares with the value calculated at the date of grant.
Non-Executive Directors The Chairman is paid an annual There is no prescribed maximum n a To provide an appropriate fee fee which is determined and fee or fee increase.
Total fees will level to attract individuals with reviewed by the Remuneration not exceed the amount specified the necessary experience and Committee taking into account in the Companys Articles of ability to make a significant the levels of fees paid by Association of 500,000. contribution to the Groups comparable companies for activities while reflecting the comparable services, time time commitment and commitment, experience, responsibility of the role.
responsibility and scope of role.
The fees for Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman are determined and reviewed by the Committee.
These Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee and may be paid a further fee for additional services, such as committee or subsidiary Board responsibility.
They may also be paid additional fees calculated on an appropriate day rate in the event of exceptional levels of additional time being required, for instance in response to corporate developments.
Fees are determined and reviewed taking into account the levels of fees paid by comparable companies for comparable services, time commitment, experience, responsibility and scope of role.
Fees will be reviewed annually.
Non-Executive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of travel and other necessary expenses.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive or variable pay arrangements and do not receive any pension benefits.
Notes The Committee sets thresholds for the business performance element of the bonus potential on an annual basis.
The thresholds set vary over the insurance cycle and the Committee believes that lower thresholds are appropriate when insurance market margins are low and higher thresholds are appropriate when margins are higher.
The Committee also has regard to the anticipated investment returns.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 87 Directors remuneration report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued The chart below illustrates how the Executive Directors total pay opportunities for 2015 will vary for different performance scenarios Threshold, Target and Maximum.
The chart is illustrative and the actual value ultimately received will depend on business and personal performance, the actual vesting of variable pay and share-price performance.
Reward scenarios 000s 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum C E L Philipps R A Hextall S C W Beale Fixed Pay Short-Term Incentives Long-Term Incentives Executive remuneration levels Executive remuneration levels are reviewed annually to ensure continued relevance and alignment to the Groups strategy and business plans.
The remuneration strategys three key goals are: to reward our people for performance, in line with the Groups ambitions and creating shareholder value to have first-class employment practices, contributing to Amlin being the place to work for high-quality people in its sector.
This requires appropriate levels and remuneration structures to attract, retain, incentivise and reward the high-calibre talent needed for the Group to succeed to reward management focus on financial measures, such as return on equity, risk and underwriting returns, and on longer-term objectives, such as underwriting cycle management attaining the Groups Vision.
When determining executive remuneration, the Committee will take into account pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group and the sector.
Remuneration structure The core structure of remuneration is broadly the same for the senior management and employees.
Both constituents receive a fixed salary, with benefits appropriate for their role, the opportunity to participate in a pension and all-employee share schemes, all of which are subject to local variances.
Executive Directors and other senior employees are eligible to participate in additional long-term performance incentives.
Employee pay and employment conditions, along with wider associated undertakings, are also considered when determining Executive Director remuneration.
Overall remuneration levels The remuneration strategy for senior management, including the Executive Directors, is designed with regard to the remuneration for employees across the Group as a whole.
The job, market rate and personal performance with the market rate having regard to the median for the appropriate market determine base salaries across all categories of staff.
Variable pay will be designed so that top-quartile performance is rewarded with top-quartile remuneration.
When determining individuals remuneration, the Group takes account of remuneration statistics for the non-life insurance sector in which the Group operates.
Where applicable for certain roles, the Group also considers wider remuneration statistics.
In all spheres of operation, the Committee aims to continually review the practices of its competitors.
The Committee also believes that, as the market and Amlins own practices evolve, it is vital we ensure remuneration structures are aligned to strategy to continue supporting the Groups competitive advantage.
This has been demonstrated over the last year with a Group-wide remuneration review.
Considering shareholders views The Remuneration Committee considers feedback received from shareholder representative bodies as part of its annual remuneration policy review.
Amlin plc 88 Annual Report 2014 100% 764.9 48% 32% 20% 1,606.3 25% 34% 41% 3,082.7 100% 612.8 47% 33% 20% 1,311.1 24% 34% 42% 2,536.4 100% 550.8 34% 53% 13% 1,600.8 18% 55% 27% 3,070.8 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Discretion retained by the Committee The Committee will operate the Companys incentive plans according to their respective rules and consistent with normal market practice, the Listing Rules, and HMRC rules where relevant, including flexibility in a number of regards.
These include: when to make awards and payments how to determine the size of an award or payment, or when and how much should vest who receives an award or payment how to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group whether a Director is a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes, and whether and what proportion of awards vest at the time of leaving or at the original vesting date s how and whether an award may be adjusted in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, events and special dividends what the weighting, measures and targets should be for the annual bonus plan and LTIP from year to year The Committee also retains the discretion within the policy to adjust the targets and or set different measures and alter weightings for the annual bonus plan.
It can also adjust targets for the incentive plans if events cause it to determine that the conditions are unable to fulfil their original intended purpose and the metrics are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
The Committee may make adjustments to take account of variations in capital and similar matters.
In the event of the Company being subject to a takeover or similar event before the normal vesting date, vesting will take place to the extent that the Committee is satisfied that the performance condition has been satisfied up to that early vesting date.
The proportion of the award which vests will also depend on the time that has elapsed since the award was made, although the Committee retains the discretion to not pro-rate in exceptional circumstances.
Recruitment policy Salaries for a new hire or an appointment of an internal candidate to the Board of Directors will be set to reflect skills and experience, the Companys intended pay positioning and the market rate for the role.
If it is considered appropriate to appoint a new Executive Director on a below-market salary for example, to allow them to gain experience in the role their salary may be increased to a market level by way of a series of above inflation increases over two-to-three years to reflect their development in the role as detailed in the Policy.
The prevailing maximum annual bonus and long-term incentive opportunity for the current Chief Executive will not be exceeded for any newly appointed non-underwriting Executive Director.
The prevailing salary, maximum annual and long-term incentive opportunities for the current Group Underwriting Director will not be exceeded in aggregate for any newly appointed underwriting Executive Director.
Existing incentive arrangements will be used where possible and guaranteed bonuses will not be offered.
Benefits and pension will be in line with the Companys prevailing policy unless under very exceptional circumstances.
Current entitlements for example, bonus and share awards which will lapse on the executives departure from a previous employer may be replaced with awards that have no shorter time horizons, are subject to performance conditions if replacing awards subject to performance conditions and do not have a higher theoretical fair value.
The Committee retains flexibility to do so on such basis as it deems appropriate in the circumstances, and to compensate new executives if necessary on a net-of-tax basis for any reasonable other expenses for example, relocation costs.
The Committee also retains the discretion to set a lower shareholding guideline for new Directors, or permit a longer period for it to be met relating to the minimum shareholding requirement.
Fee levels for Non-Executive Director appointments, including the Chairman of the Company, will take into account the expected time commitment, experience of the candidate, responsibility and scope of role, and the current fee structure in place at that time.
Termination or loss of office policy Our policy regarding termination payments is to limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements.
In the event that the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
The Committee will normally ensure that any payments made are mitigated in the event that the individual assumes a new role immediately following termination.
Furthermore, the Committee retains discretion to alter these provisions on a case-by-case basis following a review of circumstances and to ensure fairness for both shareholders and participants.
The table below sets out the basis for determining payment on termination in relation to variable remuneration.
The Committee will use its judgement depending on the particular circumstances of a cessation to determine the treatment of those executives who do not fall automatically into the categories set out on the next page.
It recognises that it may exercise its judgement where applicable so that only certain elements of pay are determined in accordance with the good leaver category on the next page.
In determining whether an executive should be treated as a good leaver, the Committee will take into account the performance of the individual and the reasons for their departure.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 89 Directors remuneration report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued Payment Bad leaver Good leaver e. g. voluntary resignation to join e. g. death, injury, ill health, disability and any other circumstances agreed by the Committee a competitor or termination for cause Annual Forfeits entire award Annual Bonus for the performance period in which the individual left would Bonus Plan be calculated at the end of the performance period and would be pro-rated for the length of time served and paid once calculated.
Variable pay earned but retained under the deferral rules would be paid on cessation.
PSP Awards Forfeits entire award Share awards are tested against the performance condition at the time of termination and are pro-rated in accordance with the terms of the scheme s. Vesting is assumed to occur in accordance with the terms of the scheme.
Where the participant dies or cessation is by reasons of ill health, the performance condition may be waived.
The Committee retains the discretion not to pro-rate in exceptional circumstances.
Executive Directors service contracts The dates of the service or employment contracts of each Director who served as an executive during the year, all of which are with the Companys subsidiary, Amlin Corporate Services Limited, are stated below.
Date of service or employment contract C E L Philipps 20 February 1997 R A Hextall 26 November 1999 S C W Beale 7 November 1994 1 B D Carpenter 17 February 1997 Note: 1.
Mr B D Carpenter stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2014.
With the exception of Mr Carpenter, all the contracts remain in force at the date of this report and are on a full-time basis.
The contracts provide for 12 months notice of termination by either party.
There are no special provisions for compensation on termination in any Directors contract, other than that the employer has the right to pay salary in lieu of any required period of notice.
Executive Directors service or employment contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The Companys policy is that service contracts may be terminated with 12 months notice by either party except in certain specific and limited recruitment situations where the Committee may exercise its discretion and where a longer notice period from the Company may be set provided that it reduces to a maximum of 12 months with a specified time limit.
Shareholding Guidelines Under the Shareholding Guidelines, Executive Directors and members of the next tier of management are expected to retain shareholdings in the Company up to a specified percentage of base salary.
Shareholdings include vested and unexercised options and are valued at the end of the relevant financial year.
Base salaries for the purposes of completing the calculation are also taken at the end of the relevant financial year.
It is expected that Executive Directors will achieve this level of holding within three years of either their appointment to the Board or any increase in the Shareholding Guidelines.
Non-Executive Directors The Board aims to recruit Non-Executive Directors of a high calibre, with broad commercial, international or other relevant experience.
The Board appoints Non-Executive Directors on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
Their appointment is for an initial term of three years, subject to election by shareholders at the AGM following their appointment and annual re-election thereafter.
The Non-Executive Directors terms of engagement are set out in a letter of appointment.
If, at the end of a term of office, a Non-Executive Director is not nominated to continue, the Director is not entitled to any extra payment on termination.
In other circumstances, either side may give six months notice of termination without any entitlement to compensation.
Amlin plc 90 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Annual Statement on Remuneration 2014 Basis of calculation To comply with changes in regulation applicable to this report, remuneration is stated on an earned rather than paid basis.
Where remuneration earned for a particular year is unknown until after the date of this report, then an estimate has been used and will be restated as appropriate in future years.
This methodology is applicable for both the Capital Builder and Profit Commission plans.
Directors remuneration received for 2013 and 2014 The table below sets out the key elements of pay relating to the Directors annual remuneration for 2013 and 2014.
Amounts include deferred elements, see page 92 for description of payments under the Profit Commission scheme.
The LTI value for S C W Beale and B D Carpenter is the amount accrued under the Capital Builder plan for the five years 2010-2014 and 2009-2013 for 2014 and 2013 respectively.
In the case of B D Carpenter the relevant figure for 2014 is 156,419 and 11,643 for 2013 and the regulations require that this negative value be shown as a zero.
The 2009 PSP award vested at 95.6% of the maximum.
The share price at vesting was 453.00p.
The 2010 PSP award vested at 68.9% of the maximum.
As the share price at vesting is not currently known we have used the three month average share price to 31 December 2014 of 446.59p.
Value of free shares awarded under the Share Incentive Plan SIP that vested in the relevant financial year and, where applicable, long-term service awards as per the Remuneration Policy in place at the time R A Hextall 1,000 and B D Carpenter 2,500.
O L E Peterken was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2014.
N J C Buchanan retired down from the Board on 16 May 2013.
B D Carpenter stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2014.
Sir Alan Collins retired from the Board on 22 May 2014.
The 2013 PC figures have been restated from estimated amounts to actual paid amounts.
Details of variable pay earned in the year Annual Bonus Plan For those Executive Directors and other employees who are not directly involved in underwriting activities, the Groups shorter-term performance incentive is a cash bonus scheme.
The Group Annual Bonus Plan aims to reward and incentivise the achievement of annual financial targets and the delivery of annual personal objectives aimed at continuously improving the capability of the Group and its businesses in line with the Groups strategy.
Performance targets are set and reviewed annually with any bonus paid to an Executive Director in excess of a predetermined percentage of salary to be deferred into shares or cash or a mixture of both for three years.
The business performance is measured by reference to the Groups ROE compared with target returns set by the Committee at the beginning of each year.
The individuals performance is measured against agreed stretching personal objectives.
The mix of business and individual performance bonus elements varies by seniority, with at least 70% of the maximum bonus opportunity of the potential target reward at the most senior role levels including participating Executive Directors being rewarded on Group business performance, and up to a maximum of 30% of the maximum opportunity based on individual performance.
The total target and maximum bonus levels also increase with seniority.
For 2014, the participating Executive Directors scale was 12% for on-target performance, rising to a potential maximum of 165% of base salary if the Group business and personal performance elements reached their maxima.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 91 Directors remuneration report continued Annual Statement on Remuneration 2014 continued For participating Directors and those at other senior management levels, any amount of annual bonus above the base salary maximum percentage for the relevant management level for example, 120% for Executive Directors has been deferred for three years from the usual date of payment.
Total or partial claw-back of such deferred cash bonus will also apply in the event of either the Committee finding that a participant has not complied with internal standards or controls: or has caused reputational damage to the Company: or if any results or accounts on which the bonus was based prove to be incorrect or are required to be re-stated.
Provisions also apply whereby a leaver during the three-year deferral period will forfeit the deferred bonus, unless they leave for one of a number of specified good leaver reasons, including circumstances the Committee agrees to be exceptional.
The business performance targets for the 2014 annual bonus and performance against them are set out below.
Vesting % of business 2014 ROE budget targets maximum Minimum payment ROE threshold 6% 22.8 Target ROE 12% 45.5 Maximum payment ROE threshold 18% 100 1 Total ROE achieved for year 14.9% 82.8 Note: 1.
The Committee adjusts the ROE to remove the effects of final dividends being included in opening shareholders equity and of foreign exchange items relating to hedging.
The combined total of the business performance element 70% maximum and the personal performance element 30% maximum.
Neither Messrs. Beale nor Carpenter participated in the Group Annual Bonus Plan in respect of the 2014 Financial Year.
Profit Commission PC The PC was a shorter-term incentive for underwriters.
It consists of a cash profit share in respect of each underwriting year.
Participants are from the UK and Bermudian businesses, and include certain Executive Directors of Amlin plc.
PC is paid on an underwriting-year basis, usually partly related to the business unit in which the relevant participant works and partly to wider Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Bermuda underwriting performance.
The last PC award was made in December 2013 and will vest in March 2017.
PC for an underwriting year is calculated over a 36-month period from the start of the underwriting year, allowing for a more informed assessment of reserves.
Payments for this are paid in two tranches.
The first 30% of the estimated payment is made in the second year following the year of account: and a further balancing payment of up to 70% of the estimated payment is made in the year following the year of account.
PC for Brian Carpenter comprises two elements: a profit award based upon Amlin UKs profitability a performance award based upon Group ROE and personal performance during the year PC for Simon Beale also comprises two elements: a profit award based upon Group underwriting profitability a performance award based upon Group ROE and personal performance during the year Simon Beale moved to a Group Underwriting role during 2012 and, reflecting his change in responsibilities, he moved from the Amlin Syndicate PC scheme, covering Amlin London and Amlin Bermuda, to a Group PC Scheme in 2013.
The payment in respect of the Group scheme is based upon calendar year performance and for 2014 has been adjusted to reflect the proportion of 2014 GAAP underwriting profits generated from that year.
Therefore in 2014 Mr Beale received a deferred payment under his historic awards as well as a payment from the Group Scheme.
The cap for each scheme will still apply and any award in excess of 300% of salary will still be deferred.
Amlin plc 92 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Capital Builder Plan The Amlin Capital Builder Plan 2006 the Plan was designed to reward senior underwriters if they exceed long-term target underwriting returns over rolling five-year performance periods.
Payments under the Plan may be made at the Companys discretion in either cash or shares.
There is a cap of 1 million on the total amount that may be paid to a participant in respect of each rolling five-year performance period.
Payments will be made over the two years after the end of each performance period.
Awards were made in each of the years from 2010 to 2014 inclusive in respect of performance periods of five underwriting years commencing in the year each respective award was made.
Forecasts of rewards in respect of all performance periods are subject to change, particularly regarding later performance periods.
Subject to that caveat, the forecast rewards based on earned premium and reserving as at 31 December 2014, for the periods stated to date, are as set out below.
Where a positive result on the Syndicate creates a shortfall against the demanding return targets on individual classes, no payment will be due.
These figures represent the performance of the Plan.
Amlin Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006 LTIP LTIP Performance Conditions Senior underwriters and senior non-underwriters, including Executive Directors, participate in the LTIP.
The LTIPs primary performance condition is a relative Total Shareholder Return TSR measure.
The Committee sets performance conditions at the time of each award.
For all the awards made to date, the extent to which awards vest depends on the Companys TSR over the ensuing three years relative to an index of TSRs.
The following is the comparator group of insurers in respect of the 2014 grant.
Axa Hiscox RenaissanceRe Holdings Hannover Rueckversicherung Novae Group Validus Holdings Muenchener Rueckversicherung Ace White Mountains Insurance Group RSA Insurance Group Argo Group International Holdings W. R. Berkley Scor SE Chubb XL Group Swiss Re Everest Re Group Zurich Insurance Group Fairfax Financial Holdings Beazley Markel Catlin Group PartnerRe Irrespective of relative TSR, no award will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that the Companys financial performance over the performance period has been satisfactory.
The performance period is always a single three-year period with no provision for re-testing the performance conditions.
LTIP awards vesting in year No LTIP awards vested in respect of the LTIP performance period ending 31 December 2014 as the threshold vesting performance conditions, set out below were not met 2013: 0.
LTIP awards made during the year Awards were made in 2014 to 127 participants in all parts of the Group 2013: 110, over a total of 1,782,778 shares 2013: 1,721,567.
LTIP awards granted on 7 March 2014 will vest on 7 March 2017, subject to continued service to that date.
A performance period ending on 31 December 2016 determines the vesting of these, as set out below.
The Companys TSR compared with the comparator group index Vesting percentage Below index Nil Equal to the index 25% Between index and index plus 25% on a straight-line basis 25% to 100% Equal to or greater than index plus 25% 100% Details of awards made to current and former Executive Directors can be found in the table on page 98.
No further awards will be made under the LTIP scheme.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 93 Directors remuneration report continued Annual Statement on Remuneration 2014 continued Amlin Performance Share Plan 2004 PSP PSP Performance Conditions Under the PSP a small number of key senior executives who are not underwriters, including relevant Executive Directors were granted awards.
The PSPs primary performance condition is a RONTA measure.
For all the awards made to date, the extent to which awards vest depends on the Companys RONTA over the ensuing five years.
Irrespective of the RONTA measure, no award will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that the Companys financial performance over the performance period has been satisfactory.
The performance period is always a single five-year period with no provision for re-testing the performance conditions.
PSP awards vesting in year PSP awards granted on 5 March 2009, with a performance period ending 31 December 2013, vested on 5 March 2014.
PSP awards granted on 5 March 2010, with a performance period ending 31 December 2014, will vest on 5 March 2015 subject to continued service to that date.
Performance Average return on Award Vesting date period NTA for period Vesting % 2009 March 2014 2009-13 18.9 95.6 2010 March 2015 2010-14 14.07 68.9 Details of awards vesting to current Executive Directors can be found in the table on page 96.
PSP awards made during the year During 2014, awards were made to a total of 23 participants 2013: 19 over an aggregate of 709,801 shares 2013: 675,314.
The rules of the PSP provide that no individual may receive an annual award over shares valued on grant at more than 100% of base salary.
In 2014, the maximum such value was awarded to the Chief Executive, the Chief Finance & Operations Officer and the Chief Underwriting Officer.
PSP awards granted on 7 March 2014 will vest on 7 March 2019, subject to continued service to that date.
A performance period ending on 31 December 2018 determines the vesting of these, as set out below.
Average return on consolidated Net Tangible Assets per annum % of shares that will vest Less than 10% Nil 10% 20% Between 10% and 15% Straight-line basis between 20% and 80% 15% 80% Between 15% and 20% Straight-line basis between 80% and 100% 20% or over 100% Details of awards made to current and former Executive Directors can be found in the table on the page opposite.
At the General Meeting EGM held in November, the Amlin plc 2014 Performance Share Plan 2014 PSP was approved.
No further awards will be made under the 2004 PSP.
All-employee share plans The Company offers HMRC-approved SAYE options, the current plan having been adopted in 2008 with a 10-year life for new grants.
An annual offer was made in September 2014.
Sharesave offers are made under the plan to staff in all jurisdictions where local tax and regulation makes this practicable without amending the plan, which does not include continental Europe.
The 2014 SAYE offer was open to all applicable employees employed by the Group on 1 July 2014.
Exercises are not subject to any performance condition.
Since 2007, the Company has also operated an HMRC-approved all-employee SIP, allowing offers of shares at no cost to employees.
Such free shares are offered or allocated to all Group staff meeting an employment qualification period.
The Committee has a policy of making an award of free shares each year, on an equal basis to all eligible Executive Directors and staff subject to a pro-rata adjustment, where permitted, for part-time employees, based on the annual results.
The quantum, between nil and the annual maximum level currently permitted by HMRC of 3,600 worth of shares per employee, is decided in light of the ROE achieved in the previous year.
In respect of the period ending 31 December 2014, an award of 3,000 2013: 3,000 was made to eligible employees.
The Committee considers that the plans are successful in encouraging staff at all levels to build up interests in the Company, at an acceptable accounting and administrative cost to the Company.
Executive share option schemes Executive share options were granted at the discretion of the Committee under the Approved and Unapproved Amlin Executive Share Option Schemes each year from 1997 to 2006.
The options were granted to Executive Directors and other staff whether underwriters or not above a certain level of seniority, and were subject to performance conditions.
No further grants can be made.
Executive Directors PSP, LTIP and share option participations As at 31 December 2014, the options held under these plans by Executive Directors, all of whom were Directors throughout the year and any changes during the year, are set out in the following table.
New shares can also potentially be sourced from Treasury.
C alculated assuming maximum vesting of awards, using the closing share price of 478.2p from the last trading day of 2014.
During the year under review, the lowest and highest mid-market trading prices of the shares in the Company were 410.2p and 490.8p respectively.
Performance conditions tested as at 30 September 2014.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 95 Directors remuneration report continued Annual Statement on Remuneration 2014 continued The share price on the day prior to the grant of the Directors PSP and LTIP awards on 4 March 2014 was 453p.
During the year Mr Philipps and Mr Hextall elected to receive the deferred element of their 2013 bonus as shares.
These shares are not included in the table on the previous page.
Directors options exercised during 2014 Met by Number of Profit on treasury or shares Share price on exercise of Executive Scheme ESOT shares exercised Exercise price Date of exercise exercise 000 R A Hextall PSP 2009 ESOT 58,472 1 Nominal 6 March 2014 462p 270.1 C E L Philipps PSP 2009 ESOT 91,345 1 Nominal 6 March 2014 462p 422.0 Deferred share awards In 2014 Mr Philipps and Mr Hextall elected to receive the deferred element of their 2013 bonus as shares.
These shares are held by a nominee on behalf of Mr Philipps and Mr Hextall and are eligible to be released in March 2017, subject to the same restrictions as if they had received cash under the 2013 Group Bonus Scheme, including a clawback provision.
The awards are set out in the table below.
Deferred element of 2013 1 Participant Bonus Number of shares R A Hextall 188,700 39,117 C E L Philipps 184,440 38,234 Note: 1.
The number of shares was calculated using the MMQ of 479p on 26 March 2014.
Shareholding target In 2006, an objective was set that Executive Directors would retain or build up shareholdings in the Company to the value of at least 100% which was later increased to 125%.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the targets and proposed that the amount of shareholding target value for Executive Directors would increase from 125% to 150% of their base salaries.
It was agreed that this would be achieved through the vesting of future incentive plans for those Executive Directors and senior executives who were not already at their target shareholding value.
The Committee retains the discretion to amend the target.
The Committee believes that the combination of these shareholdings and the structure of performance incentives continue to ensure that the interests of management and shareholders in the Companys success are closely aligned.
Total cash equivalent of % Total of beneficially shareholding Beneficially beneficially Vested but owned at guideline owned at owned at unexercised 31 December achieved at 2 31 December Deferred 31 December LTIP and PSP 2014 31 December 1 1 Director 2014 bonus shares 2014 awards 000 2014 C E L Philipps 614,063 38,234 652,297 0 3,119 507.2 R A Hextall 169,043 39,117 208,160 0 995 193.3 S C W Beale 327,644 0 327,644 0 1,567 384.0 Note: 1.
The closing share price at 31 December 2014 was 478.2p.
Using unissued and existing shares for incentive plans The rules of the Companys share incentive plans include limits on the overall number of unissued shares over which options may be granted.
The only employee schemes under which either unissued or treasury shares are committed to be issued are the executive share option schemes, the Sharesave plans, and the schedules to the PSP and LTIP applying to awards to participants in continental Europe.
New shares were also issued in 2007 to the trustee of the Share Incentive Plan as SIP Free Shares.
However, in subsequent years, such shares were purchased in the market.
Shares awarded under the PSP and LTIP are intended to be satisfied from shares held, or to be purchased by the Groups Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT, unless overseas requirements dictate otherwise.
Grants of options over new and or treasury shares under any selective plan, after deducting any such options which have lapsed, are limited to 5% of the issued share capital in any 10-year period.
Grants over new treasury shares under any scheme are also limited to 10% over 10 years.
The percentages of the year-end shares in issue, together with the equivalent percentages a year earlier relating to each of these limits are shown in the table on the next page.
Amlin plc 96 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Utilisation of new and Treasury shares Percentage Percentage of shares in of shares in issue utilised issue utilised 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Executive 5% limit over 10 years 3.8% 3.8% All schemes 10% limit over 10 years 5.25% 5.0% Executive Directors pensions Pension details, as applicable for each Executive Director who served as a Director during the year Non-Executive Directors not being eligible, are shown in the table below.
The total defined contributions DC employer contributions for the Directors were 65,250 2013: 74,864.
The increase in accrued pension during the year in respect of defined benefit DB schemes is before the effects of inflation.
The changes in total transfer values during the year are shown before the effects of inflation and after deducting the individuals DB contributions during the year.
The inflation measure used for the purposes of this disclosure is the change in the retail price index RPI.
Transfer values are calculated in accordance with regulations 7 to 7E of the Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Values Regulations 1996, as amended.
Only base salary is pensionable.
The table below sets out disclosures of relevant pension amounts in line with the new regulations.
31 December 2014 disclosure 31 December 2013 disclosure Payments in Accrued Accrued Accrued Accrued lieu of DC employer pension pension Pension Payments in DC employer pension pension Pension pension contributions entitlement at entitlement at input lieu of pension contributions entitlement at entitlement at input contributions 31 December 31 December 31 December amount contributions 31 December 31 December 31 December amount 2014 2014 2013 2014 for 2014 2013 2013 2012 2013 for 2013 DB or DC 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 S C W Beale DB & DC 47.5 65.8 71.3 66.9 44.9 61.1 65.8 61.4 1 B D Carpenter DB & DC 18.3 1.1 80.4 81.2 0 24.0 3.7 R A Hextall DC 52.7 16.7 41.7 26.2 C E L Philipps DC 113.5 0 109.8 0 Notes: 1.
Directors reaching lifetime or annual pension limits received cash payments in lieu of pension.
These payments are included in the table above.
External appointments To broaden the experience of Executive Directors, they can accept one external appointment as a non-executive director of another public company, provided they seek advance permission from the Board.
Any external appointment must not conflict with the Directors duties and commitments to the Company.
Richard Hextall received and retained a non-executive directors fee of 30,000 from the City of London Investment Trust PLC 2013: 29,000 and Simon Beale received a fee of 37,500 from the Council of Lloyds 2013: 37,500, which was paid over to the Company.
Charles Philipps become a non-executive director of Great Portland Estates plc with effect from 1 April 2014 and received a pro-rated fee of 39,425.
Non-Executive Director fees The regular annual review of Non-Executive Director fees took place during 2014.
The review involves considering a number of key factors, including market movements, time commitment and competition for high-quality Non-Executive Directors.
The results of this review, which were effective from 1 July 2014, are summarised below.
Or date of appointment if later.
O L E Peterken was appointed on 1 September 2014 2.
J Chakraverty and S Jemmett-Page were appointed to serve on the Audit and Remuneration Committees respectively and both received an additional fee of 8,000.
M Feinstein and Sir Mark Wrightson both received a 2,000 increase in their Committee Chairman fee, with a further 2,000 paid to Mr Feinstein in respect of his position as Senior Independent Director.
The annual NED fees are calculated: base fee 51,000, with 8,000 per Committee, excluding Nomination, and 12,000 per Chairman position.
