Remuneration report Remuneration Committee Chairmans summary statement I am pleased to take on responsibility for the Remuneration Committee at Ashmore as the Companys remuneration structure, which has remained unchanged since the Company first listed, is designed to align all employees with the long-term success of the business.
As shareholders will be aware, Ashmore has a 30 June year end, and as a result 2014 is the first year in which the Company is required to comply with the new regulations governing disclosure of Directors remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee chose to present last years report in accordance with the disclosure requirements under the new regulations, and so there are minimal changes to the structure of the report for this period.
In 2014, the Directors Remuneration Policy DRP will be subject to a binding vote for the first time and the Annual Report on Remuneration ARR will be subject to an advisory vote.
The Remuneration Policy will formally become effective from the date of the AGM, 30 October 2014.
Ashmores successful team-based approach to investment management is well supported byits Remuneration Policy: Executive Directors, members of the investment team, and indeed all other employees, participate in a single capped incentive pool andemployees are long-term shareholders in the business.
Ashmores Remuneration Policy has always been closely aligned to the long-terminterests of both clients and shareholders.
The policy includes: A capped basic salary, at 100,000 for Executive Directors, to contain the fixed cost base: A cap on the total variable compensation available for all employees as a percentage of profits, which has yet to be fully utilised: and, A deferral for five years of a substantial portion of variable compensation into Company shares or equivalent, which, in the case of Executive Directors is also subject to additional performance conditions measured over five years.
As described in detail in other sections of the annual report, AuM declined by 3% as a result of net outflows of US$7.5 billion and positive investment performance of US$5.1 billion.
Investment performance remains strong with 81% and 92% of AuM outperforming benchmarks over three years and five years, respectively.
While the Groups operating performance was sound, profit before tax declined by 34% to 170.3 million.
This is principally the result of adverse foreign exchange translation effects given Sterlings 12% appreciation against the US dollar, and lower performance fees following market weakness at the end of the prior year and volatility during the current year.
This performance is reflected in the variable compensation received by employees, including the Executive Directors, for the year under review, with variable compensation as a percentage of earnings before variable compensation, interest and tax VC EBVCIT being 20% FY 2012 13: 20%.
Annual bonuses for Executive Directors were substantially reduced relative to the prior year.
On 25 November 2013, it wasannounced that Tom Shippey had been promoted to the role of Group Finance Director having previously served as the Head of Corporate Development since 2007.
Hisremuneration package as an Executive Director is in line with the proposed Directors Remuneration Policy.
As in previous years, both Executive Directors are paid at the cap which remainsat 100,000.
The Directors Remuneration Policy for the forthcoming period is set out in the first section of the report.
The Remuneration Committee would welcome your support forthe Directors Remuneration Policy and theRemuneration report.
Yours sincerely Simon Fraser Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 56 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors remuneration policy This section of the Remuneration report has been prepared Considerations elsewhere in the company in accordance with Part 4 of The Large and Medium-sized The Company applies a consistent remuneration philosophy Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment for employees at all levels.
It sets out the Remuneration Policy for the The cap on base salary means that Executive Directors base Company.
The Policy has been developed taking into account salaries are set at the same level as other senior investment and the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and professional employees in the Company, and the base salary range shareholders executive remuneration guidelines.
The Policy is from lowest to highest in the Company is considerably narrower subject to a binding shareholder vote for the first time in 2014. than the market norm.
Policy overview All employees are eligible for a performance-related annual bonus, The Remuneration Committeedetermines and agrees with the and the principle of bonus deferral into Company shares or equivalent Board, the Companys policy on the remuneration of the Board applies to annual bonuses for all employees who have at least one Chairman, Executive Directors and other members of executive full years service.
Rates of pension contribution and fringe benefit management including employees designated as Code Staff under provisions are consistent between executives and other employees the FCAs Remuneration Code.
The Remuneration Committees within each country where the Company operates.
terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The Company does not operate formal employee consultation In determining the Remuneration Policy, the Remuneration on remuneration.
However, employees are able to provide direct Committee takes into account the following: feedback on the Companys Remuneration Policy to their line the need to encourage and promote the long-term success managers or the Human Resources department.
The Remuneration of the Company: Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Companys Remuneration Policy in recruiting, retaining, engaging and motivating the need to attract, retain and motivate talented Executive employees, and receives reports from the Chief Executive Officer on Directors and senior management: how the Companys remuneration policies are viewed by employees consistency with the remuneration principles applied to Ashmore and whether they are meeting business needs.
employees as a whole: external comparisons to examine current market trends and The Remuneration Committee does not seek to apply fixed ratios practices and equivalent roles in similar companies taking into between the total remuneration levels of different roles in the account their size, business complexity, international scope and Company, as this would prevent it from recruiting and retaining relative performance: and the necessary talent in a highly-competitive employment market.
However, the base salary multiple between highest and lowest the requirements of the Remuneration Code of the UK financial paid UK-based employee in the Company is less than 4x pre-tax.
Policy table How the views of shareholders are taken into account The table overleaf summarises the key aspects of the Companys The Remuneration Committee regularly compares the Companys Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors which will be formally Remuneration Policy with shareholder guidelines, and takes account effective from 30 October 2014. of the results of shareholder votes on remuneration.
If material changes to the Remuneration Policy are contemplated, the Remuneration Committee chairman consults with major shareholders about these in advance.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last years Remuneration Report are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration section of this report.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57 Directors remuneration policy continued Figure 1 Remuneration Policy the Policy for Executive Directors BASE SALARY Fixed pay PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES LONG-TERM STRATEGY AND PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK Provides a level of fixed remuneration sufficient to permit a zero Base salaries are capped.
bonus payment should that be appropriate.
The cap on base MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY salary helps to contain fixed costs.
The cap is reviewed periodically: the Policy permits the cap to be changed if this is deemed necessary to meet business, legislative or regulatory requirements.
FRINGE BENEFITS Fixed pay PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES LONG-TERM STRATEGY AND PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK Provide cost-effective benefits, to support the wellbeing The Company currently provides fringe benefits such as medical of employees.
In the event of relocation of an executive, the Company could consider appropriate relocation assistance.
Specific benefits provision may be subject to minor change from time to time, within the Policy.
MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY Fringe benefits are not subject to a specific cap, but represent only a small percentage of total remuneration.
PENSION Fixed pay PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES LONG-TERM STRATEGY AND PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK Provides a basic level of Company contribution, which Company contributions are made, normally on a defined employees can supplement with their contributions.
contribution basis, either to a pension plan or in the form of an equivalent cash allowance.
MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY The current level of Company contribution is 7% of base salary.
The contribution level is reviewed periodically: the Policy permits the contribution rate to be amended if necessary to reflect trends in market practice.
58 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance VARIABLE COMPENSATION Discretionary 3.
Matching Shares awarded on the voluntarily commuted PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND cash bonus from 1. above.
LONG-TERM STRATEGY Matching is provided on the voluntarily commuted cash bonus, Rewards performance and aligns executives closely with subject to the same performance condition on half of the other shareholders.
Matching award as that described in 2. above.
The maximum OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND match used to date on any award made under the current policy PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK was one-for-one: the policy permits the matching level to be Executive Directors are considered each year for a discretionary changed for future awards but not to exceed three-for-one.
variable pay award depending on personal and Company Dividends or dividend equivalents on deferred Bonus Share or performance, by applying a range of performance indicators such Phantom equivalent awards and on the portion of Restricted as growth in AuM, investment performance, profits, and strategic Share and Matching Share awards that are not subject to a and operational achievements.
The variable pay award comprises performance condition vesting after five years will bepaid out in a cash bonus part of which may be voluntarily deferred and line with the Companys dividend payment schedule.
Dividends a long-term incentive in the form of both a Restricted Share or dividend equivalents on the portion of Restricted and Matching award and a Matching Share award on any voluntarily deferred Share or Phantom equivalent awards which are subject to a cash bonus.
performance condition will be accrued and paid outat the time the award vests and to the extent of vesting.
Cash bonus 60% of total award.
made to a Director prior to their appointment as a Director, the The executive may voluntarily commute up to half of the cash dividend or dividend equivalent payments are made on share bonus in return for the same value in a Bonus Shares award or awards in full, under previous commitments made to participants.
Phantom equivalent deferred for five years.
The deferred Shares are eligible for Matching Shares or Phantom equivalent vesting In addition to the TSR condition described above, claw-back after five years subject to conditions see 3. opposite.
can be applied to the long-term incentive components during the five-year deferral period, if performance has been materially Long-term incentives under The Company Executive misstated or there is gross misconduct.
Omnibus Incentive Plan Omnibus Plan : The Remuneration Policy permits the award of deferred 2.
Restricted Shares award 40% of total award.
remuneration in alternative forms such as share options, This is compulsorily deferred into Company Shares or Phantom although none have been granted in recent years, and to vary equivalent for a period of five years and does not qualify for the percentage split of award between cash and share awards Matching.
Half of this deferred portion is subject to additional to meet business, legislative or regulatory requirements.
The Policy permits the MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY Committee to set suitable performance conditions for each award.
The aggregate variable compensation pool for all employees, The performance condition for the most recent award was including executives, is capped, currently at 25% of earnings relative total shareholder return TSR measured against an asset before variable compensation, interest and tax EBVCIT.
The management peer group, measured over five years.
None of policy permits the Remuneration Committee to vary this cap the awards vest below median TSR: 25% of the award vests at if necessary to meet business needs.
median: 100% vests at upper quartile straight-line proportionate The policy is to cap the aggregate cap on variable compensation vesting between median and upper quartile.
rather thanto cap individual variable compensation awards, as the capping of individualsis not market practice for most of the Companys peer group.
The high proportion of variable compensation deferral, with vesting after five years and subject in part to ongoing performance conditions, encourages a prudent approach to risk management, in support of the Companys risk and compliance controls.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59 Directors remuneration policy continued If the employing company terminates the employment of an Executive Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive Director without giving the period of notice required under the contract, Directors compared to other employees the Executive Director would be entitled to claim recompense for up The Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors is generally to one years remuneration subject to consideration of theobligation to consistent with that for employees across the Company as a whole.
Such recompense is expected to be limited to: base However, there are some differences which the Remuneration salary due for any unexpired notice period: any amount assessed by Committee believes are necessary to reflect the different the Remuneration Committee as representing the value of other responsibilities of employees across the Company.
Below Executive contractual benefits, and pension which would have been received Director level, whilst the same five-year deferral policy applies, share during the period.
In the event of a change of control of the Company awards are not subject to an additional performance condition.
there is no enhancement to these terms.
External Non-executive Director positions In summary, the contractual provisions are as follows: Executive Directors are permitted to serve as Non-executive Directors of other companies where there is no competition with the Companys Provision Detailed terms business activities and where these duties do not interfere with the Notice period 12 months individuals ability to perform his duties for the Company.
Tom Shippey Termination payment in the Base salary plus value of benefits holds two external appointments with companies limited by guarantee event of termination by the including pension paid monthly having social and charitable purposes respectively.
Save as aforesaid Company without due notice and subject to mitigation Executive Directors do not presently hold any external appointments Change of control Same terms as above on termination with any non Ashmore-related companies.
Any outstanding share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director under the Companys share plans will be determined Where an outside appointment is accepted in based on the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment is that any furtherance of the Companys business, any fees outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, disability, received are remitted to the Company.
If the retirement or other circumstances at the discretion of the appointment is not connected to the Companys Remuneration Committee taking into account the individuals business, the Executive Director is entitled to performance and the reasons for their departure good leaver retain any fees received.
An Executive Directors service contract may be terminated without notice and without any further payment or compensation, except for Approach to remuneration for new Executive sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of Director appointments certain events such as gross misconduct.
The remuneration package for an externally recruited new Executive Incentive plan discretions Director would be set in accordance with the terms and maximum The Remuneration Committee will operate the current share plans levels of the Companys approved Remuneration Policy in force at the in accordance with their respective rules and the policy set out above, time of appointment.
and in accordance with the Listing Rules and relevant legislation or In addition, the Remuneration Committee may offer additional cash regulation.
As is consistent with market practice, the Remuneration and or share-based elements to take account of any remuneration Committee retains discretion over a number of areas relating to relinquished when leaving the former employer when it considers operating and administrating these plans.
These include but are not these to be in the best interests of the Company and therefore limited to the following: shareholders.
In considering any such payments the Committee Who participates in the plans: would take account of the nature, vesting dates and any performance The timing of the grant of an award and or payment: requirements attached to the relinquished remuneration.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect The size of an award and or a payment within the plan limits of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, approved by shareholders: adjusted if necessary to take into account the appointment.
The choice of and adjustment of performance measures and targets in accordance with the policy set out above and the rules For external and internal appointments, the Company may meet of each plan including the treatment of delisted companies for certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
the purpose of the TSR Comparator Group : Service contracts and loss of office payment policy Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the Service contracts normally continue until the Executive Directors event of a change of control or reconstruction: agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
The Determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified service contracts contain provisions for early termination.
Notice categories for incentive plan purposes, based on the rules of periods are limited to 12 months by either party.
Service agreements each plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules: and contain no contractual entitlement to receive variable pay: Adjustments required in certain circumstances participation in these arrangements is at the Remuneration e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, special dividends and Committees discretion.
The Executive Directors service contracts are on a change of control.
available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
60 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be period and assuming full vesting, five years later, of the long-term explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
As appropriate, incentive components based on upper quartile TSR.
it might also be the subject of consultation with the Companys Non-executive Directors are engaged under letters of appointment major shareholders.
and do not have contracts of service.
They are appointed for an Legacy arrangements initial three-year period, subject to annual shareholder re-election.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Policy includes authority for the Their continued engagement is subject to the requirements of Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or the Companys Articles relating to the retirement of Directors by former Directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous rotation.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection Remuneration Reports.
Details of any payments to former Directors at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
Compliance with the Remuneration Code Reward scenarios The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews its Remuneration The Companys Policy results in the majority of the remuneration Policys compliance with the principles of the Remuneration Code received by the Executive Directors being dependent on of the UK financial services regulator, as applicable to Ashmore.
Remuneration Policy is designed to be consistent with the prudent management of risk, and the sustained, long-term performance As noted earlier, the policy is not to cap individual awards, but of the Company.
As such it is not possible to demonstrate minimum, target and maximum remuneration levels.
In lieu of this, the minimum fixed remuneration is illustrated in Figure 2, which provides an indication of the potential range of total remuneration using the highest and lowest variable pay awards in a rolling five-year Figure 2 Executive director total remuneration at different levels of performance 000 CEO Fixed minimum Lowest pay received in 5 year rolling period Highest pay received in 5 year rolling period 000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 Base salary Pension Share bonus face value using share price at grant Benets Cash bonus LTI: Restricted Shares and Matching awards face value using share price at grant Notes:No prior year comparison data is shown for the Group Finance Director as he was appointed during the period under review.
Figure 3 Fees policy for the Board Chairman and other Non-executive Directors Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Board Chairman fee To pay an all-inclusive basic The Board Chairman is paid a single fee for The overall fees payable to Nonfee that takes account of the all his responsibilities.
The level of the fee executive Directors will remain role and responsibilities is reviewed periodically by the Committee, within the limit stated in the Articles with reference to market levels in comparably of Association, currently 750,000 sized FTSE companies, and a recommendation The current level of fees is is then made to the Board without the disclosed in the Annual Report Chairman being present on Remuneration Non-executive To pay an all-inclusive basic The Non-executives are paid a single inclusive The overall fees payable to NonDirector fees fee that takes account of the basic fee.
There are no supplements for executive Directors will remain role and responsibilities Committee Chairmanships or memberships.
within the limit stated in the Articles of Association, currently 750,000 The fee levels are reviewed periodically by the Chairman and Executive Directors The current level of fees is disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 Annual report on remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and 9.8.
Figure 4 Remuneration for the year ending 30 June 2014 audited information The table below sets out the remuneration received by the Directors in the year ending 30 June 2014.
Benefits for Executive Directors include membership of the Company medical scheme.
Long-term incentives vesting relates to awards with performance conditions where the performance period has ended in the relevant financial year and payments of dividends or dividend equivalents on such awards.
In respect of the year ended 30 June 2013, Mark Coombs chose to waive 10% of any element of his potential variable remuneration award in return for the Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to charity or charities nominated by himself.
The Cash bonus, Voluntarily deferred share bonus and Total bonus figures are shown excluding the amount waived.
Mark Coombs, Graeme Dells and Tom Shippeys variable compensation is made up of 60% cash bonus and 40% deferred Restricted Share or Restricted Phantom Share awards.
They may commute up to 50% of their cash bonus in favour of an equivalent amount of Bonus Share orPhantom BonusShare awards and an equivalent value in Matching Share orPhantom MatchingShare awards.
All Share or Phantom Shareawards will be reported in the Directors Shareand Phantom Share award tables in the year of grant.
Mark Coombs and Graeme Dell both chose to commute 50% of their cash bonus in 2013 for an equivalent amount of Bonus Share awards.
As described in detail in other sections of the annual report, Total bonus award for the year ending 30 June 2014 Ashmores operating performance was sound, investment Chief Executive Officer CEO and Group Finance Director GFD performance remains strong, and AuM showed resilience in the face performance measures of tough market conditions.
However, the strength of Sterling against The decision regarding the bonus award for the year under review the US dollar resulted in adverse foreign exchange translation effects, for the CEO was based on annual performance against financial and market volatility led to lower performance fees compared with objectives 75% and achievement of non-financial, business the prior year.
These are the principal factors behind the 34% decline development and management objectives 25%.
in profit before tax to 170.3 million.
The bonus award for the GFD relating to the period since his For additional information, Figure 6 shows the history of financial appointment as a Director was based on his performance against results for the last five years.
operational objectives related to the departments he manages 45%, management of subsidiary business activities outside the UK, including joint ventures 20%, corporate development and contribution to business strategy 20% and investor relations and communication with stakeholders 15%.
The performance criteria and performance outcomes for both the CEO and the GFD, as assessed by the Committee are shown in the table opposite.
In respect to deferred Share awards which have been waived to charity, any dividend equivalents associated with the amounts waived are paid directly to the nominated charities.
The figures shown exclude the amounts waived.
6. Dividend equivalents were paid relating to voluntarily deferred Share or Phantom Share awards in the period.
Graeme Dell stepped down from the Board on 25 November 2013 and left employment with the Group on 30 April 2014.
Figures shown in Figure 4 relate to the period of time Graeme Dell served as a Director.
Tom Shippey was appointed as Group Finance Director on 25 November 2013.
Figures shown above relate to the period since his appointment.
Figure 5 1 CEO and GFD performance measures Executive Committee Director KPI Areas considered within KPI Weighting Assessment CEO Business financial performance To achieve higher than budgeted EBIT minus performance 75% All targets below fees, to achieve higher than budgeted growth in AuM and budget to effectively manage investment performance to deliver consistent growth relative to each unblended investment theme CEO Non-financial management Strategy development and implementation, recruitment, 25% Most targets performance staff turnover and succession planning and regulatory and met compliance adherence GFD Management of departments Department performance assessed for Finance, Corporate 45% Good Development, Investor Relations, Company Secretarial performance and Facilities GFD Management of subsidiary Local asset management business growth and development 20% Satisfactory business activities outside the of profitability and scale, integration of offices and effectiveness performance UK, including joint ventures of joint venture relationships GFD Corporate development Contribution to the development and implementation of strategic 20% Satisfactory and contribution to goals and increasing value for shareholders performance business strategy GFD Investor relations and Broadening the shareholder base and communicating 15% Good communication effectively with external parties, the Board and all other performance relevant stakeholders 1.
Detailed targets and achievement against these are not included due to commercial sensitivities.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 Annual report on remuneration continued Figure 6 Five-year summary of financial results 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 AuM US$bn at period end 75.0 77.4 63.7 65.8 35.3 Operating profit 169.7 232.0 225.1 239.4 209.3 Figure 7 Long-term incentive awards made during the year ended 30 June 2014 audited information Share price on date of award Face Value Face Value Performance period Name Type of award No.
of shares and Face Value figures are shown excluding the amount waived.
The Companys TSR was 105.4% which ranked Ashmore at 4.57 Long-term incentive scheme interests awarded during relative to the TSR peer group of 18 companies: the upper quartile the year ended 30 June 2014 rank which would have resulted in 100% vesting was 4.50.
Therefore Figure 7provides details of the long-term incentive awards that 98.7% of the Restricted and Matching awards vested.
were made during the year.
These represent the mandatory deferral of 40% of the Executive Directors bonus award for the year ended Board Change 30 June 2013 into Restricted Shares, and the Matching Award on the Graeme Dell stepped down from the Board on 25 November 2013, voluntarily commuted portion of cash bonus in respect of year ended and remained in employment with the Group until 30 April 2014 30 June 2013. in order to ensure a thorough handover of his responsibilities to Tom Shippey as the incoming Group Finance Director.
Graeme Both the Restrictedand Matching Share awards vest on the fifth commenced employment in a new role outside the Group on 1 May anniversary of the award date, to the extent that theTSR performance 2014 and as such no further notice payments were made to him as condition is met.
TSR is measured relative to an asset management he had mitigated his losses in full.
The TSR vesting scale and peer group are shown in Figures 8 and 9 respectively.
TSR is a well-established and recognised On 30 April 2014 Graeme Dells voluntarily deferred Bonus Shares performance measure, which aligns the interests of the Executive vested in full on his departure.
Graemes outstanding Restricted Directors with those of shareholders.
A comparator group of and Matching Shares vested pro-rata to the datehis employment 18 companies has been selected from the global investment with the Companyended: the TSR performance conditionwas then management sector.
The Committee reviews the peer group applied, measured tothe same date.
As the TSR condition was not periodically to take account of fide-listings, new listings or other met, no Restricted or Matching Shares vested.
sector changes that are relevant.
Graeme did not receive any additional payments for loss of office The performance and vesting outcome for the Group or any bonus related to the year ending 30 June 2014.
Finance Directors 2008 LTIP which vested during 2013 During the period, shares awarded to Graeme Dell in 2008 reached their vesting date.
On the vesting date all Bonus Shares vested, and the TSR performance condition was applied to the vesting Restricted and Matching shares.
64 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Figure 8 TSR vesting scale Performance % of award vesting Below median of peer group Zero Median 25% Upper quartile 100% linear interpolation between median and upper quartile Figure 9 TSR peer group Company Country of Listing Company Country of Listing Aberdeen Asset Management UK Franklin Templeton USA Affiliated Managers USA Henderson Group UK AGF Canada Invesco USA Alliance Bernstein USA Janus Capital USA Azimut Holding Italy Partners Group Holdings Switzerland Blackrock USA Schroders UK CI Financial Income Fund Canada SEI Investments USA Eaton Vance USA T-Rowe Price USA Federated Investors USA Waddell and Reed USA Outstanding share awards The table below sets out details of Executive Directors outstanding share awards.
In view of Mark Coombs substantial existing shareholding, and taking account of the requirements of the Takeover Code, the Remuneration Committee elected until 2012 to make Phantom Shareawards to Mark Coombs, which have the same terms as Restricted Shares and Matching Shares but are settled in cash.
In respect of the years ending 30 June 2010, 30 June 2011, 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2013 Mark Coombs chose to waive 30%, 20%, 10% and 10% respectively of any element of his potential variable remuneration award in return for the Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to charity or charities nominated by himself.
The Number of shares at 30 June 2013, Granted during year and Number of shares at 30 June 2014 figures are shown excluding the amounts waived.
On the vesting release date any shares waived to charity will vest to them to the extent that any relevant performance conditions have been satisfied.
Key RS Restricted shares PMS Phantom Matching shares BS Bonus shares NDRS Restricted shares awarded whilst not a Director MS Matching shares NDBS Bonus shares awarded whilst not a Director PRS Phantom Restricted shares NDMS Matching shares awarded whilst not a Director PBS Phantom Bonus shares 66 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance The Companys obligations under its employee share plans can be capital.
As at 30 June 2014, the Company had 4% of the Companys met by newly issued shares in the Company, or shares purchased issued share capital outstanding under employee share plans in the market by the trustees of the EBT.
As detailed in the financial to its staff.
statements, the EBT continues to make market purchases of shares Defined benefit pension entitlements to satisfy awards.
None of the Directors has any entitlements under Company defined The overall limits on new issuance operated under the existing benefit pension plans.
share plans were established on the listing of the Company in 2006.
Directors shareholding and share interests Under these agreed limits, the number of shares which may be Details of the Directors interests in shares are shown in the table issued in aggregate under employee share plans of the Company below.
Although there is no formal shareholding requirement, the over any 10-year period following the date of the Companys Executive Directors have substantial interests in Company shares.
Admission in 2006 is limited to 15% of the Companys issued share Figure 11 Share interests of Directors and connected persons at 30 June 2014 audited information Outstanding Restricted and Outstanding voluntarily 1 Beneficially Owned Matching Share awards deferredBonus Shareawards Total interest in shares Executive Directors 2 Mark Coombs 288,574,200 3,531,941 1,513,689 293,619,830 3 Tom Shippey 111,078 717,525 215,034 1,043,637 Non-executive Directors The Hon.
Outstanding Restricted Shares and Matching Shares are subject to performance conditions.
Outstanding Restricted and Matching Share awards to Mark Coombs are in the form of a combination of Shares and Phantom Shares.
Restricted and Matching Shareawards made to Tom Shippey prior to his appointment as a Director are not subject to performance conditions.
Save as described above there have been no other changes in the shareholdings of the Directors between 30 June and10 September 2014.
The Directors are permitted to hold their shares as collateral for loans with the express permission of the Board.
Tom Shippey and his connected persons have granted security over 111,078 Ashmore Group plc shares as part of a pre-existing credit facility.
Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer Figure 12 Comparison of percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus 2013 to 2014 % change Chief Executive base salary 0% Relevant comparator employees base salary -2% Chief Executive taxable benefits -2% Relevant comparator employees average taxable benefits -2% Chief Executive annual bonus -100% Relevant comparator employees average annual bonus -39% Figure 12 compares the percentage change from 2013 to 2014 in remuneration elements for the Chief Executive with the average year-onyear change across relevant comparator employees as a whole.
Relevant employees are full-time employees of Ashmore Group who have been employed throughout the full performance year.
Figures do not include amounts of cash waived to charity.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 Annual report on remuneration continued Performance chart Figure 13 shows the Companys TSR performance with dividends re-invested against the performance of the relevant indices for the last five years.
Each point at a financial year end is calculated using an average total shareholder return value over the month of June i. e. 1 June to 30 June inclusive.
As the chart indicates, 100 invested in Ashmore on 30 June 2009 was worth over 220 five years later, compared with 187 for the same investment in the FTSE 100 index.
Figure 13 Total return performance chart to 30 June 2014 Source: Thomson Reuters 250 225 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 30 Jun 2008 30 Jun 2009 30 Jun 2010 30 Jun 2011 30 Jun 2012 30 Jun 2013 Ashmore Group FTSE 250 FTSE 100 Figure 14 shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive Officer during each of the financial years shown in the TSR chart.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTI awards which vested based on performance in those years.
As there is no cap on the maximum individual bonus award, a percentage of maximum annual bonus is not shown.
Figures do not include amounts of cash, voluntarily deferred Bonus Shares or Phantom Bonus shares or dividend equivalents waived to charity.
Voluntarily deferred Bonus Shares or Phantom Bonus Shares whichare waived to charity will result in a cash payment to the charity on the vesting date, of a sum equivalent to the market value of the number of waived Bonus Shares or Phantom Bonus Shares vesting on that date.
During the restricted period the charity will receive any dividends or dividend equivalents associated withany waivedBonus or Phantom Bonus Shares awarded prior to 2013.
Mark Coombs variable compensation is made up of 60% cash bonus and 40% deferred Restricted Share or Phantom Restricted Share awards.
He may commute up to 50% of his cash bonus in favour of an equivalent amount of Bonus Share or Phantom Bonus Share awards which then attract an equivalent value in Matching Share or Phantom Matching Share awards.
All awards will be reported in the Directors share and Phantom share award tables in the year of grant.
Mark Coombs received dividend equivalents related to his Phantom share awards granted for years prior to 2013.
No performance-related Restricted and Matching or Phantom Share equivalentawards have vested during the periods shown, the sums shown relate to dividends or dividend equivalents paid on share awards.
Mark Coombs receives a cash allowance of equivalent value in lieu of pension contributions.
Figure 15 shows the relative movement in profits, total staff costs and dividends to shareholders, year-on-year.
Figure 15 Relative importance of the spend on pay 2013 to 2014 Metric 2014 2013 % change Remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the Group i. e. accounting cost 64.1 79.7 -20% Average headcount 290 280 4% Distributions to shareholders dividends and or share buy backs 112.5 105.2 7% 68 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Value of 100 invested on 30 June 2008 Governance Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy External advisers in the year commencing 1 July 2014 The Remuneration Committee received independent advice from The Remuneration Committee intends to continue to apply broadly New Bridge Street NBS consultants throughout the period from the same metrics and weightings to annual variable remuneration 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2014.
NBS abides by the Remuneration as in the year ended 30 June 2014.
Consultants Code of Conduct, which requires it to provide objective and impartial advice.
NBS fees for the year ending 30 June 2014 For long-term incentive awards Restricted Shares, Matching Shares were 66,707.
The Company participates in the McLagan Partners and their Phantom equivalents, the Remuneration Committee compensation survey from which relevant data is provided to the intends to apply the same relative TSR performance condition policy Remuneration Committee.
Neither of the above provide other as used the previous year, subject to any changes to the peer group services to the Company.
that may be necessary to take account of fide-listings, new listings or other sector changes that are relevant.
Statement of shareholder voting At last years AGM, the Directors Remuneration Report received Membership of the Remuneration Committee the following votes from shareholders: The members of the Remuneration Committee are listed in the table below.
All of these are independent Non-executive Directors, as Figure 16 defined under the Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of Shareholder voting the Company Chairman who was independent on his appointment.
2013 AGM resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Committee attendance Remuneration Report for the % of year ended 30 June 2013 votes cast Percentage of meetings attended out of potential Votes cast in favour 542,963,314 94.86% maximum Votes cast against 29,404,201 5.14% Nick Land 100% Total votes cast 572,367,515 100.00% Simon Fraser 100% Abstentions 3,001 The Hon.
Michael Benson 100% Dame Anne Pringle DCMG 100% Approval Charles Outhwaite 100% This Directors Remuneration Report, including both the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration have been approved by the Board of Directors.
The Companys CEO attends the meeting by invitation and assists the Remuneration Committee in its deliberations, except when his Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
No Directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as Simon Fraser Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
Other executives may Chairman of the Remuneration Committee be invited to attend as the Remuneration Committee requests.
10 September 2014 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69
