| 92 92 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy This section sets out Avivas remuneration policy for directors, in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 as amended and the Large & Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
The policy approach set out in this section incorporates changes proposed as part of our SRR.
It is intended that this policy will formally apply from the date of Avivas 2015 AGM, for a duration of three years, subject to shareholders approving this policy at that meeting.
Alignment of Group strategy with executive remuneration The committee considers alignment between Group strategy and the remuneration of its EDs is critical.
Our remuneration policy provides market competitive remuneration, and incentivises EDs to achieve both the annual business plan and the longer term strategic objectives of the Group.
Significant levels of deferral and an aggregate shareholding requirement align EDs interests with those of shareholders and aid retention of key personnel.
As well as rewarding the achievement of objectives, variable remuneration can be zero if performance thresholds are not met.
Table 1 below provides an overview of our proposed remuneration policy for EDs.
For an overview of the remuneration policy for NonExecutive Directors NEDs see table 4.
Table 1: Remuneration policy for Executive Directors overview Purpose and link to Operation and recovery provisions Element strategy if applicable Maximum opportunity Performance measures Basic To provide core market Annual review, with changes normally taking Current basic salaries are disclosed on Any movement in basic salary related pay to attract and effect from 1 April each year.
The review is page 106. salary takes account of retain the required level of informed by: performance of the There is no maximum increase within talent.
However, basic salary Relevant pay data including market practice increases take account of the average among relevant FTSE listed companies of basic salary increase awarded to UK comparable size to Aviva in terms of market employees.
Different levels of increase capitalisation, large European and global may be agreed in certain insurers: and UK financial services circumstances at the committees companies discretion, such as: Levels of increase for the broader UK An increase in job scope and employee population responsibility Individual and business performance Development of the individual in the role A significant increase in the size, value or complexity of the Group Annual To incentivise EDs to Awards are based on performance in the year.
Maximum bonus opportunity for the Performance is assessed bonus achieve the annual business Targets are set annually and pay-out levels are Group CEO is 200% of basic salary against a range of relevant plan.
determined by the committee based on with 100% of basic salary payable for financial, employee, performance against those targets.
performance in line with target.
customer and risk targets To reward EDs who achieve designed to incentivise the the Companys strategic Two-thirds of any bonus awarded is deferred Maximum bonus opportunity for achievement of our objectives and demonstrate into shares which vest after three years.
other EDs is 150% of basic salary strategy, as well as the Aviva values and with 100% of basic salary payable for Additional shares are awarded at vesting in lieu individual strategic behaviours.
of dividends paid on the deferred shares.
objectives as set by the Deferral provides alignment Threshold performance would result committee.
Although Cash and deferred awards are subject to malus with shareholder interests in a bonus payment of no more than financial performance is the and clawback.
Details of when these may be and aids retention of key 25% of basic salary.
major factor in considering applied are set out in the notes below.
overall expenditure on Performance below threshold would The committee retains discretion to amend bonuses, performance result in no bonus being paid.
annual bonus pay-outs for a range of factors, against non-financial including financial, market and other measures including considerations.
The committee will exercise its behaviours in line with our discretion to reduce otherwise unreasonable values will also be taken reward outcomes.
circumstances were to arise where the committee felt an adjustment upwards is warranted, it would consult with major stakeholders before making any adjustment.
Any exceptional adjustment would not exceed the stated maximum.
Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 93 93 Table 1: Remuneration policy for Executive Directors overview Purpose and link to Operation and recovery provisions Element strategy if applicable Maximum opportunity Performance measures Long-term To motivate EDs to achieve Shares are awarded which vest dependent on The plan rules allow for awards to be Currently, performance incentive the Companys longer-term the achievement of performance conditions made up to a maximum of 350% of targets over three years are: plan objectives, to align EDs over a three year period.
Additional shares are basic salary.
50% vest based on interests with those of awarded at vesting in lieu of dividends on any Threshold performance would result targets for absolute shareholders and to aid the shares which vest.
in a vesting level of 20% of Return on Equity ROE retention of key personnel.
Shares are typically subject to a two year maximum.
performance holding period after vesting, creating a total of Performance below threshold on both 50% vest based on five years between the award being granted, targets would result in the award relative Total and the first opportunity to sell.
Shareholder Return Awards are subject to malus and clawback.
TSR against a Details of when these may be applied are set comparator group out in the notes below.
Actual targets for ROE and The committee has discretion to amend vesting the appropriate TSR levels to prevent unreasonable outcomes, comparator group are which it may use taking into account a range of agreed by the committee factors, including the management of risk and annually and disclosed in good governance and, in all cases, the the annual remuneration experience of shareholders.
Pension To give a market EDs are eligible to participate in a defined If suitable employee contributions are N A competitive level of contribution plan up to the annual limit.
Any made, employer contributes 28% of provision for postamounts above the annual or lifetime limits are basic salary into pension or as cash as retirement income.
Benefits To provide EDs with a Benefits are provided on a market related basis.
Set at a level which the committee N A suitable but reasonable The Company reserves the right to deliver considers appropriate against package of benefits as part benefits to EDs depending on their individual comparable roles in companies of a of a competitive circumstances, which may include a cash car similar size and complexity to provide remuneration package.
This allowance, life insurance and private medical a reasonable level of benefit.
In the case of non-UK executives, the Costs would normally be limited to executive benefits, and the committee may consider additional allowances providing a cash car allowance, opportunity to participate in line with standard relevant market practice.
private medical insurance, life in flexible benefits EDs employed under UK contracts are eligible insurance, and reasonable travel programmes offered by the to participate in any HMRC approved all benefits, including the tax cost where Company via salary employee share plans operated by the applicable.
In addition, there may be sacrifice.
Company on the same basis as other eligible one-off or exceptional items on a case This enables us to attract employees.
by case basis, which would be and retain the right level of disclosed in the DRR.
talent necessary to deliver the Companys strategy.
Relocation & To assist with mobility Employees who are relocated or reassigned Dependent on location and family N A mobility across the Group to ensure from one location to another receive relevant size, benefits are market related and the appropriate talent is benefits to assist them and their dependants in time bound.
They are not available to execute moving home and settling in to the new compensation for performing the role strategy locally.
but to defray costs of a relocation or residence outside the home country.
The committee would pay no more than it judged reasonably necessary, in the light of all applicable circumstances.
Shareholding To align EDs interests with A requirement to build a shareholding in the N A N A requirement those of shareholders.
Company equivalent to 300% of basic salary for the Group CEO and 150% of basic salary for other EDs.
This shareholding is normally to be built up over a period not exceeding 5 years subject to the committees discretion where personal circumstances dictate.
| 94 94 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Directors remuneration report continued Notes to the table: Performance measures For the annual bonus, performance measures are chosen to align to the Groups KPIs and include financial, risk, employee and customer measures.
Achievement against individual strategic objectives is also taken into account.
LTIP performance measures are chosen to provide an indication of both absolute and relative return generated for shareholders.
In terms of target setting, a number of reference points are taken into account each year including, but not limited to, the Groups business plan and external market expectations of the Company.
Maximum payouts require exceptional performance that significantly exceeds performance targets or expected performance, under both the annual bonus and LTIP.
Changes The notable changes from the previous policy are as shown in table 2 below: Table 2: Proposed changes to remuneration policy for 2015 overview Element Previous policy Proposed policy from 2015 Annual Target opportunity of 75% of basic salary and maximum Target annual bonus opportunity of 100% of basic salary for all EDs.
Bonus opportunity of 150% of basic salary at maximum for all Maximum annual bonus opportunity of 200% of basic salary for the Group CEO EDs.
and 150% of basic salary for other EDs.
Holding No formal holding period for EDs other than existing Additional two year holding period for LTIPs post vesting.
This increases the total Period shareholding requirement.
period between when award is granted and the first opportunity to sell to five years.
Malus and Malus provisions apply to deferred Aviva Annual Bonus Introduction of clawback, in addition to malus provisions, to cash and deferred Clawback Plan 2011 ABP and LTIP awards.
elements of ABP awards and LTIP awards.
The clawback will apply to the annual bonus from 2015 paid March 2016 and the LTIP awards granted in 2015 and any future awards.
The circumstances where these may apply include but are not limited to where the committee considers that the employee concerned has been involved in or partially or wholly responsible for: A materially adverse misstatement of the Companys financial statements, or a misleading representation of performance: or A significant failure of risk management and or controls: or A scenario or event which causes material reputational damage to the Company: or Misconduct which, in the opinion of the committee, ought to result in the complete or partial lapse of an award Clawback applied for two years from the date of vesting or from the date of payment in the case of annual bonus awards.
Shareholding A requirement to build a shareholding in the Company Increase in shareholding requirement from 200% to 300% of basic salary for the Requirement equivalent to 200% of basic salary for the Group CEO Group CEO.
No change to shareholding requirement for other EDs.
Shareholding to be built up over a five year period.
Discretions The discretions the committee has in relation to the operation of the ABP and LTIP are set out in the plan rules.
These include but are not limited to the ability to set additional conditions and the discretion to change or waive those conditions in exceptional circumstances.
In relation to the LTIP, in accordance with its terms, the committee has discretion in relation to vesting and in exceptional circumstances to waive or change a performance condition if anything happens which causes the committee reasonably to consider it appropriate to do so.
Any use of the discretions will be disclosed, where relevant, in the Annual report and, where appropriate be subject to consultation with Avivas shareholders.
Change in control In the event of a change in control, unless a new award is granted in exchange for an existing award, or if there is a significant corporate event like a demerger, awards under the LTIP would normally vest to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied as at the date of the change in control, and unless the committee decides otherwise, would be pro-rated to reflect the time between the start of the performance period and the change in control.
Awards under the ABP would normally vest on the date of the change in control and may vest if there is a significant corporate event.
Consistency of executive remuneration policy across the Group The remuneration policy for our EDs is designed as part of the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the wider Group.
Remuneration arrangements for employees below the EDs take account of the seniority and nature of the role, individual performance and local market practice.
The components and levels of remuneration for different employees may therefore differ from the policy for EDs.
Any such elements are reviewed against market practice and approved in line with internal guidelines and frameworks.
Differentiation in reward outcomes based on performance and behaviour that is consistent with the Aviva values is a feature of how Aviva operates its annual bonus plan for its senior leaders and managers globally.
A disciplined approach is taken to moderation across the Company in order to recognise and reward the key contributors.
The allocation of LTIP awards also involves strong differentiation, with expected contribution and ability to collaborate effectively in implementation of the strategy driving award levels.
Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 95 95 The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Approach to recruitment remuneration On hiring a new ED, the committee would align the proposed remuneration package with our remuneration policy.
In determining the actual remuneration for a new ED, the committee would consider the package in totality, taking into account elements such as the likely contribution of the individual, local market benchmarks, remuneration practice, and the existing remuneration of other senior executives.
The committee would ensure any arrangements agreed would be in the best interests of Aviva and its shareholders.
It would seek not to pay more than necessary to secure the right candidate.
The committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buyout remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the committee would take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which it was paid e. g. cash or shares and the timeframe of awards.
The committee considers that a buyout award is a significant investment in human capital by Aviva, and any buyout decision will involve careful consideration of the contribution that is expected from the individual.
Buyout awards would be awarded on a like for like basis compared to remuneration being forfeited, and would be capped to reflect the value being forfeited.
The maximum level of variable pay which could be awarded to a new ED, excluding any buyouts, would be in line with the policy set out above and would therefore be no more than 550% of basic salary for the Group CEO 200% of basic salary annual bonus opportunity and 350% of basic salary as the face value of a LTIP grant and 500% of basic salary for other EDs 150% of basic salary annual bonus opportunity and 350% of basic salary as the face value of a LTIP grant.
All other elements of remuneration will also be in line with the policy set out above.
Should the Company have any prior commitments outside of this policy in respect of an employee promoted internally to an ED position, the committee may continue to honour these for a period of time.
Where an ED is appointed from within the organisation, the normal policy of the Company is that any legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an ED is appointed following Avivas acquisition of, or merger with, another company, legacy terms and conditions may be honoured.
On hiring a new NED, the committee would align the remuneration package with the remuneration policy for NEDs, outlined in table 4, including fees and travel benefits.
| 96 96 A Aviva viva p plc lc Annu Annual al r report eport a and nd a accounts ccounts 2 2014 014 Directors remuneration report continued Illustration of the policy The charts below illustrate how much EDs could earn under different performance scenarios in one financial year: Minimum basic salary, pension or cash in lieu of pension and benefits, no bonus and no vesting of the LTIP Target basic salary, pension or cash in lieu of pension, benefits, and: A bonus of 100% and an LTIP of 350% of basic salary with notional LTIP vesting at 50% of maximum for the Group CEO: A bonus of 100% and an LTIP of 250% of basic salary with notional LTIP vesting at 50% of maximum for the CFO.
Maximum basic salary, pension or cash in lieu of pension, benefits, and: A bonus of 200% and an LTIP of 350% of basic salary with notional LTIP vesting at maximum for the Group CEO: A bonus of 150% and an LTIP of 250% of basic salary with notional LTIP vesting at maximum for the CFO.
Mark Wilson Tom Stoddard Potential earnings by pay element Potential earnings by pay element Fixed pay Annual Bonus LTIP Fixed pay Annual Bonus LTIP 7,000k 6,699k 7,000k 51% 6,000k 6,000k 5,000k 5,000k 4,004k 43% 4,000k 4,000k 3,604k 47% 29% 3,000k 3,000k 2,423k 35% 24% 2,000k 2,000k 28% 1,309k 28% 100% 33% 20% 904k 1,000k 1,000k 100% 37% 25% 2015 Minimum 2015 Target 2015 Maximum 2015 Minimum 2015 Target 2015 Maximum Notes to the charts 1 Fixed pay consists of basic salary, pension as described in table 1, and estimated value of benefits provided under the remuneration policy, excluding any one offs.
This therefore excludes the relocation assistance for Mr Stoddard, in connection with his relocation to the UK.
Actual figures may vary in future years.
2 The value of the LTIP and deferred element of the annual bonus assumes a constant share price and does not include additional shares awarded in lieu of dividends, that may have been accrued during the vesting period 3 LTIP as awarded in 2015..
Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 97 97 Employment contracts and letters of appointment ED employment contracts and NED letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal hours of business, and at the place of the Companys 2015 AGM from 10.45 am on 29 April 2015 until the close of the meeting.
The key employment terms and conditions of the current EDs, and those who served during the year, as stipulated in their employment contracts, are set out in table 3 below.
Table 3: Executive Directors conditions of employment Provision Policy Notice period By the ED 6 months.
By the Company 12 months, rolling.
No notice or payment in lieu of notice to be paid where the Company terminates for cause.
Termination payment Pay in lieu of notice up to a maximum of 12 months basic salary.
Any payment is subject to phasing and mitigation requirements.
An ED would be expected to mitigate the loss of office by seeking alternative employment.
Any payments in lieu of notice would be reduced, potentially to zero, by any salary received from such employment.
In the case of Mr Wilson, if his employment were to be terminated by the Company, other than for cause, by the end of 2015 then he would be entitled to be reimbursed against evidenced expenditure for reasonable and appropriate costs incurred in relocating outside the UK up to a maximum of 100,000, inclusive of any tax liability.
Remuneration and benefits The operation of the annual bonus and LTIP is at the Companys discretion.
Expenses Reimbursement of expenses reasonably incurred in accordance with their duties.
Car allowance A cash car allowance is received, as varied from time to time.
Holiday entitlement 30 working days plus public holidays.
Private medical insurance Private medical insurance is provided for the ED and his family.
The ED can choose to opt out of this benefit or take a lower level of cover.
However, no payments are made in lieu of reduced or no cover.
Other benefits Other benefits include private medical insurance and participation in the Companys staff pension scheme.
Sickness 100% of basic salary for 52 weeks, and 75% thereafter for a further 52 weeks.
Non-compete During employment and for six months after leaving less any period of garden leave without the prior written consent of the Company.
Contract dates Director: Date current contract commenced: Mark Wilson 1 January 2013 Tom Stoddard 28 April 2014 1 Patrick Regan 22 February 2010 Notes 1 Mr Regan tendered his resignation as CFO on 22 January 2014 and left the Company on 28 March 2014.
Policy on payment for loss of office There are no pre-determined ED special provisions for compensation for loss of office.
The committee has the ability to exercise its discretion on the final amount actually paid.
Any compensation would be based on basic salary, pension entitlement and other contractual benefits during the notice period, or a payment made in lieu of notice, depending on whether the notice is worked.
Where notice of termination of a contract is given, payments to the ED would continue for the period worked during the notice period.
Alternatively, the contract may be terminated and phased monthly payments made in lieu of notice for, or for the balance of, the 12 months notice period.
During this period, EDs would be expected to mitigate their loss by seeking alternative employment.
Payments in lieu of notice would be reduced by the salary received from any alternative employment, potentially to zero.
The Company would typically make a reasonable contribution towards an EDs legal fees in connection with advice on the terms of their departure.
There is no automatic entitlement to an annual bonus for the year in which loss of office occurs.
The committee may determine that an ED may receive a pro rata bonus in respect of the period of employment during the year loss of office occurs based on an assessment of performance.
Where an ED leaves the Company by reason of death, disability or ill health, or any other reason determined by the committee, there may be a payment of a pro rata bonus for the relevant year at the discretion of the committee.
The treatment of leavers under our ABP and LTIP is determined by the rules of the relevant plans.
Good leaver status under these plans would be granted in the event of, for example, the death of an ED, or their departure on ill health grounds.
Good leaver status for other leaving reasons is at the discretion of the committee, taking into account the circumstances of the individuals departure, but would typically include planned retirement.
In circumstances where good leaver status has been granted, awards may still be subject to malus and clawback in the event that inappropriate conduct of the ED is subsequently discovered post departure.
If good leaver status is not granted, all outstanding awards will lapse.
| 98 98 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Directors remuneration report continued In the case of LTIPs, where the committee determines EDs to be good leavers, vesting is normally based on the extent to which performance conditions have been met at the end of the relevant performance period, and the proportion of the award that vests is prorated for the time from the date of grant to final date of service unless the committee decides otherwise.
Any decision not to apply this would only be made in exceptional circumstances, and would be fully disclosed.
It is not the practice to allow such treatment.
Consideration of wider employee pay and shareholder views When determining the remuneration policy and arrangements for our EDs, the committee considers: Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group to ensure that pay structures are suitably aligned and that levels of remuneration remain appropriate.
The committee reviews levels of basic salary increases for other employees and executives based in the UK.
It reviews changes in overall bonus pool funding and long term incentive grants.
The committee does not directly consult with employees on pay issues but it does consider feedback from sources including the employee opinion survey.
The committee also takes into account information provided by the HR function and external advisers Its ongoing dialogue with shareholders.
It seeks shareholder views and takes them into account when any significant changes are being proposed to remuneration arrangements and when formulating and implementing remuneration policy.
For example, during 2014 and continuing in 2015, the committee has had detailed engagement with our largest shareholders to discuss the remuneration policy proposals as set out in this report Topics covered included: Appropriate benchmarking group Measures of short-term and long-term performance Decisions on annual bonus and LTIP opportunities, performance measures, and deferral or holding periods Malus and clawback Shareholding requirements and holding periods Non-Executive Directors Table 4 below, sets out details of our remuneration policy for NEDs.
Table 4: Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors overview Element Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance strategy measures Chairman and To attract individuals NEDs receive a basic annual fee in respect of their The Companys Articles of N A NEDs fees with the required range Board duties.
Further fees are paid for membership Association provide that the of skills and experience and, where appropriate, chairmanship of Board total aggregate remuneration to serve as a Chairman committees.
paid to the Chairman of the and as a NED.
Company and NEDs will be The Chairman receives a fixed annual fee.
Fees are determined by the Board reviewed annually taking into account market data within the limits set by and trends and the scope of specific Board duties.
shareholders and detailed in The Chairman and NEDs do not participate in any the Companys Articles of incentive or performance plans or pension Association.
arrangements and do not receive an expense allowance.
NEDs are reimbursed for reasonable expenses, and any tax arising on those expenses is settled directly by Aviva.
To the extent that these are deemed taxable benefits, they will be included in the annual remuneration report, as required.
Chairmans Travel To provide the Chairman The Chairman has access to a company car and driver N A N A Benefits with suitable travel for business use.
Where these are deemed a taxable arrangements for him to benefit, the tax is paid by the Company.
NED Travel To reimburse NEDs for Reasonable costs of travel and accommodation for N A N A and Accommodation appropriate business business purposes are reimbursed to NEDs.
On the travel and limited occasions when it is appropriate for a NEDs accommodation, spouse or partner to attend, such as to a business including attending event, the Company will meet these costs.
The Board and committee Company will meet any tax liabilities that may arise on meetings.
Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 99 99 The NEDs, including the Chairman of the Company, have letters of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
The key terms of the appointments are set out in table 5 below.
Table 5: Non-Executive Directors key terms of appointment Provision Policy Period In line with the requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all NEDs, including the Chairman, are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
Termination By the director or the Company at their discretion without compensation upon giving one months written notice for NEDs and three months written notice for the Chairman of the Company.
Expenses Reimbursement of travel and other expenses reasonably incurred in the performance of their duties.
Time commitment Each director must be able to devote sufficient time to the role in order to discharge his or her responsibilities effectively.
Committee Date of last appointment on letter Appointment end date in accordance with 1 A R R N G Appointment dates Director appointments of appointment letter of appointment A R R N G Glyn Barker A RAA RRR NRR NGN GG 3 May 2012 AGM 2015 A R R N G A RR RR N G Patricia Cross A A R NR GN G 1 December 2013 AGM 2015 R RR R A A N GN G Michael Hawker A RA RRR NRR GN G 3 May 2012 AGM 2015 A N G A RA RR NR N A R R N G G G 2 A R R N G Gay Huey Evans AA RR RR NN GG 3 May 2012 AGM 2015 A RA RR NR GN G 2 John McFarlane A R R N G 3 May 2012 AGM 2015 AAA RRR RRR NNN GGG AA RR RR NN GG Michael Mire A R R N G 12 September 2013 AGM 2015 Sir Adrian Montague AA RR RRA NNR GGR N G 15 January 2013 AGM 2015 AA RRA RRR NNR N A R R N G GG G A R R N G Bob Stein AA RR RR NN GG 15 January 2013 AGM 2015 R R AA R RA NNR GR N G G A R R N Scott Wheway A R RA NR GGR N G 3 May 2012 AGM 2015 AAA RRR RRR NNN GGG A R RA NR GR N G Key A Audit R RComm N Gittee member A R RiR sk CNomGmittee member A R R N G A R R Rem N une G ration Committee memberA R R N NG omination Committee member A R R N A R R N G G A R R N A R R N G Governance Committee member G Denotes chair of committee A R R N G A R R N G A R R N G Notes 1 The dates shown above reflect actual appointment dates where agreed following signature of the letter as all appointments are subject to regulatory approval.
2 Ms Huey Evans and Mr McFarlane will be retiring from the Board from the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
