| 100 100 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Directors remuneration report continued Annual remuneration report This section of the report sets out how Aviva has implemented its remuneration policies for directors in the course of 2014 and how the proposed remuneration policy will be implemented for 2015.
This is in accordance with the requirements of the Large & Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
Where new requirements have been introduced, Aviva has taken account of the guidance produced by the GC100 and Investor Group and emerging good practice.
Remuneration Committee membership and attendance The committee comprises independent NEDs only.
Table 6 below shows the committee members during the year and their attendance at committee meetings.
Table 6: Committee membership and attendance Number of meetings Percentage 1 Committee member attended attendance 2, 3 Patricia Cross Chairman 8 89% 4 Scott Wheway 1 100% Gay Huey Evans 9 100% Bob Stein 9 100% Notes 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the committee member attended during the year whilst a member of the committee.
2 Patricia Cross became Chairman of the committee on 19 February 2014.
3 Patricia Cross was not able to attend one of the committee meetings due to a family bereavement.
4 Scott Wheway ceased to be Chairman and a member of the committee on 19 February 2014.
Committee responsibilities The committee is responsible for reviewing and making recommendations to the Board regarding the remuneration policy of the Group and for reviewing compliance with the remuneration policy in so far as it relates to EDs and senior managers.
The committee is also responsible for recommending to the Board to seek shareholder approval for the directors remuneration policy.
A revised directors remuneration policy will be presented to shareholders for approval at the 2015 AGM and thereafter will be subject to a shareholder vote at least every three years, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Any change to the approved remuneration policy will only become effective if approved by the shareholders at a general meeting.
The key responsibilities of the committee are to: Make recommendations to the Board regarding the Group remuneration policy in respect of the Board Chairman, EDs, members of the Group Executive GE and members of senior management, taking account of all legal and regulatory requirements and provisions of best practice Work with the Risk Committee to ensure that risk and risk appetite are considered in setting the remuneration policy Obtain information about remuneration in other companies and, in this regard, select, appoint and determine the terms of reference for independent remuneration consultants, to advise on remuneration policy and levels of remuneration Review and determine the remuneration of the Board Chairman and the terms of employment and remuneration of individual EDs and GE members, including any specific recruitment or severance terms Review and recommend to management the level and structure of senior management remuneration Approve the Aviva Investors' reward strategy, including any changes to the strategy Recommend to the Board the establishment of any employee share plans: exercise all the Boards powers in relation to the operation of all share and incentive plans and the Groups Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE share option plan and all employee share ownership plan Have regard to remuneration trends across the Group when setting remuneration policy for EDs Ensure that remuneration arrangements for all employees are commensurate with promoting ethical behaviour Approve the list of Code Staff and any severance packages for Code Staff under the relevant regulatory remuneration code and the remuneration for employees in control functions and those whose remuneration exceeds an agreed limit Monitor and recommend to management the level and structure of remuneration for senior management and, other than in respect of Board members, approve exceptional remuneration activity for employees outside agreed policy The full terms of reference for the committee can be found on the Companys website at www.
com terms-of-reference and are also available from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Consideration by the committee of matters relating to directors remuneration The committee met nine times during 2014 of which six were scheduled committee meetings and three were additional committee meetings.
The Group Chairman generally attended all meetings of the committee.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary acted as secretary to the committee.
The Chairman of the committee reported to subsequent meetings of the Board on the committees work and the Board received a copy of the agenda and the minutes of each meeting of the committee.
The committee received material assistance in considering executive remuneration from the Group Chairman, the Group CEO, the Group HR Director, the HR Director Reward, the Chief Accounting Officer, the Chief Capital & Investments Officer, the CEO Aviva Investors and the Chief Audit Officer.
These people attended meetings by invitation during the year.
No person was present during any discussion relating to their own remuneration.
