| 90 90 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Directors remuneration report needed to maintain momentum and deliver It is not the intention to pay more for on the plans.
the same performance it is about For the participants it is important that proper calibration of the reward reward outcomes are fair in view of the opportunity to the increasingly results achieved and of the effective and stretching year-on-year challenges constructive commitment of the individual.
required to deliver on our strategy.
There is also a strong and evolving Quality of earnings assessment The regulatory element that mandates aspects committee this year implemented a of governance concerning how checkpoint step focusing on quality remuneration policies should operate.
It is of earnings in the assessment it assumed in our remuneration policy that, as undertakes of performance against a company, we will comply with the spirit the financial targets.
This is intended Dear and requirements of regulation on pay, and to provide further assurance that the Dear maintain a strong governance focus - but it performance assessment reflects Shareholder is also a critical part of our reward approach sustainable value for shareholders.
It shareholder that we identify, recognise and reward could, for example, involve the behaviours and performance that are identification and exclusion of consistent with the Aviva values of: extraordinary gains in earnings On behalf of the Board, the Remuneration Care more attributable to matters beyond the Committee is pleased to present the Kill complexity direct control of management.
Directors Remuneration Report DRR for Never rest the year ended 31 December 2014.
Create legacy Disclosure of performance targets The disclosure of annual bonus targets Remuneration policy and Strategic Proposed changes was discussed in depth in various Reward Review SRR undertaken in The dialogue we have had with many key shareholder consultation sessions.
2014 stakeholders over the past year concerning Last year, in presenting our remuneration The committee considers that the SRR has been consistently constructive.
policy, we committed to undertake a meaningful disclosure of targets is a The response overall to the combination of strategic review during 2014 of our key feature of good reward changes we have proposed has been very remuneration framework, policies and governance, and that it is in the supportive.
interests of shareholders that these This review has given us the opportunity The key changes we are proposing to the should be disclosed retrospectively, to consider the continuously changing remuneration policy are: and at the earliest time when regulatory environment, and to have considerations of commercial extensive dialogue with shareholders and Clawback Implementation of sensitivity make it prudent to do so.
clawback provisions to apply to vested annual bonus or Aviva Long Term For Aviva, the financial Key The remuneration policy now being Incentive Plan 2011 LTIP awards made Performance Indicators KPIs used in presented in the DRR, if approved, is to after the approval of this policy this is the reward plans will usually be the apply from the conclusion of the 2015 additional to the current malus same measures that are critical to Annual General Meeting AGM, and it provisions that already apply to unvested managing the business and there is incorporates a number of changes that we awards a genuine possibility that disclosing believe improves its effectiveness as a core the targets used individually and in Shareholding requirement Increase pillar of good governance, an enabler for combination to drive performance for requirement from 200% to 300% of Avivas challenging strategic agenda and as the most recently completed period basic salary for the Group Chief Executive a driver of reward outcomes that are fair for could be detrimental to Aviva and its Officer Group CEO both shareholders and executives.
Annual bonus Three changes to the Certain non-financial targets e. g. Reward objectives existing approach are proposed.
The creation of long-term wealth for our customer and some employee targets They relate to: may have continuing commercial shareholders is the guiding principle that Bonus opportunity: underpins the work and decisions of the sensitivity which makes disclosure The addition of a quality of earnings against the interests of the Company.
committee, and the policy we are proposing assessment in determining outcomes: here for the next three years.
and The committee believes, therefore that A clear Group strategy has been defined The disclosure of performance targets to achieve long-term sustainable growth, the appropriate and balanced approach for Aviva is to disclose the based on the three anchors of: Bonus opportunity An increase is True Customer Composite financial targets with a one year delay proposed in the at target in relation to the reward outcomes Digital First: and opportunity - from 75% to 100% of Not Everywhere that are being reported, i. e. this year, basic salary for all Executive Directors reward outcomes are being reported EDs, as well as an increase in the Delivery against this strategy should result in for the 2014 annual bonus, and maximum opportunity from 150% to financial targets are being disclosed deeper and even more valued relationships 200% of basic salary for the Group with our customers as well as benefits in for 2013.
This is intended to terms of the experience of shareholders.
recognise outstanding execution Long Term Incentive Plan Extend the against annual business objectives and For the Company - it is important to have a plan with the addition of a two year also exemplary leadership and reward framework that supports and compulsory holding period after vesting.
demonstration of the Aviva values in enables this and which protects against Along with the existing three year circumstances where these occur to the risk of not having people with the talent the benefit of shareholders.
Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 91 91 performance period, the LTIP will now major strategic and transformational LTIP have five years duration.
Neither of the current EDs were participants in the 2012 LTIP.
The LTIP vesting process was made For both the Group CEO and Group Both, however, will participate in the more rigorous during 2014, so that Chief Financial Officer CFO this 2015 LTIP, and it is proposed to make once the financial return performance achievement against financial targets awards of 350% of basic salary to the is determined at end of year three, translated to a bonus award of Group CEO: and 250% of basic salary that vesting calculation is now subject 106.8% of basic salary i. e. against the to the CFO.
to a further structured assessment to current at target bonus level of 75% The award to the Group CEO for this ensure that vesting levels are not of basic salary.
year is at the maximum for LTIP awards inflated by windfall items or outcomes under the existing policy and also of accounting treatment that are clearly The annual bonus is not awarded under the proposed policy.
not a result of management against financial targets alone, and the performance.
other performance factors defined While this represents an increase from under the plan structure were then his 2014 grant, the decision to offer an Shareholder approval also considered, i. e. customer, increased opportunity was taken to The Remuneration Committee is seeking employee, risk and personal recognise the level of achievement approval from shareholders for the performance.
being displayed against the Groups remuneration policy that will result from agenda and to help with retention these changes set out in the DRR at pages Whereas last year the bonus awards during this critical time, strategically 100 to110.
If approved, the new policy will were impacted by disappointing and in relation to the objectives of the be effective for three years from the results on the customer and employee proposed Friends Life transaction.
It is conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
measures, 2014 saw stronger the view of the committee that performance on both.
In 2013, the providing a substantial but at risk In combination, the changes are intended employee target scores were missed, reward opportunity through the LTIP in to: so 0% was achieved on that measure this situation means there is a clear link Extend the period over which reward is and a lower bonus was awarded as a to longer-term shareholder outcomes delivered: result.
By contrast, in 2014 the i. e. via the relative total shareholder Provide appropriate incentive and employee engagement target was return performance measure and the retention during a critical time strategically substantially exceeded and this has five year time horizon for the award.
for Aviva: been a key factor in a higher bonus Reflect the commitment required of the being awarded.
The award for the CFO of 250% of EDs as Avivas leaders: and basic salary also represents an increase Demonstrate the level of alignment with For the Group CEO, whose against the prior year grant 225% but shareholders and of concern for achievements in 2014 were a is less than the maximum that can be shareholder outcomes that the committee continuation of the turnaround in awarded 350%.
performance and strategic direction he has led since commencing with Use of judgment and discretion by the We consider that the new policy achieves a Aviva in 2013, the committee committee in 2014 good balance between rewarding success awarded a bonus of 130% of basic While judgment was applied by the and demonstrating good governance, and salary.
committee in determining achievement we seek the support of shareholders for it.
against the non-financial objectives under For the Group CFO, who joined in the annual bonus, the committee did not Remuneration outcomes for 2014 April 2014 and who since arriving has exercise the discretions available to it to The outcomes for 2014 detailed on pages played a critical role in embedding the increase or reduce reward outcomes outside 102 to 106 of the Companys Annual investment thesis and ensuring of the normal operation of the relevant Report and accounts for the financial year alignment of Avivas strategic and incentive plan rules.
ended 31 December 2014 Annual report capital efficiency objectives, a bonus have been determined under the existing of 115% of basic salary was awarded.
The committee did, however, carefully remuneration policy and the current assess the outcomes under both the 2014 annual bonus opportunities and incentive In making its decision on the annual annual bonus and the 2012 LTIP before plan conditions.
bonuses, the committee also finalising its decisions on each.
The considered: committee considers that these earnings Basic salary No change in basic salary is The increase in shareholder wealth assessments, which it has now proposed for either of the EDs.
This may that occurred during 2014: implemented, are an important safeguard be reviewed later in 2015 following the The quality of earnings that were against reward outcomes that might outcome of the proposed Friends Life achieved: otherwise be unreasonable and inconsistent Group Limited Friends Life transaction.
Significant progress made on the with shareholder experience.
2014 Annual bonus The 2014 annual strategic agenda, reflected in progress bonus awards for the EDs reflect strong on the Digital First strategy, and in the financial performance by Aviva for 2014, pursuit of the Friends Life transaction: with 142.42% achievement overall Outstanding leadership and against the annual bonus financial targets.
demonstration of the Aviva values in terms of taking the business forward, This was achieved in a year of great and as reflected in the significant Patricia Cross challenges in the general insurance turnaround in the employee Chairman, Remuneration Committee business and the UK life business that engagement scores in 2014. are discussed in detail earlier in the Annual report, and at a time that a These decisions are detailed on page 103 of the 2014 Annual report.
