Governance Directors remuneration report INTRODUCTION emerging markets, illiquidity of investments and valuation The Board presents the Directors Remuneration Report for issues, aswell as taking into account any data published by theyear ended 31 December 2014 which has been prepared in the Association of Investment Companies.
This comparison, accordance with sections 420-422 of the Companies Act 2006. together with consideration of any alteration in non-executive The remuneration policy which is subject to a triennial binding Directors responsibilities, is used to review whether any vote is set out in the policy table on page 27. change in remuneration is necessary.
This review is performed on an annual basis.
The law requires the Companys auditor to audit certain of the disclosures provided.
Where disclosures have been audited, No element of the Directors remuneration is performance they are indicated as such.
The auditors opinion is included in related.
The Company has not awarded any share options their report on pages 39 to 41. orlong term performance incentives to any of the Directors.
None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company or receives any non cash bene ts, pension entitlements or STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN compensation for loss of of ce.
Directors are entitled to The Boards policy on remuneration is set out below.
A key claimexpenses in respect of their duties.
The terms of their element is that fees payable to Directors should re ect the appointment are detailed in a letter sent to them when they time spent by them on the Companys affairs, and should join the Board.
These letters are available for inspection at besuf cient to attract and retain individuals with suitable theregistered of ce of the Company.
The basis for determining the levelof increase in Directors remuneration is set out in the Other than the Directors, the Company has no employees Policy Report below.
The remuneration was last increased andconsequently no consideration is required to be given to on1October 2013. employment conditions elsewhere in setting Directors pay.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDERS VIEWS The Board as a whole ful ls the function of the Remuneration An ordinary resolution to approve the Remuneration Report Committee and considers any change in the Directors isput to members at each Annual General Meeting and remuneration policy.
A separate Committee has therefore shareholders have the opportunity to express their views and notbeen established.
The Companys Directors are all raise any queries in respect of the remuneration policy at this non-executive and are independent of the Manager.
To date, no shareholders have commented in respect of the remuneration policy.
In accordance with the Companies POLICY REPORT Act 2006, the Company has obtained shareholder approval of In setting the appropriate level of Directors fees, a number of its remuneration policy as set out in the table on page 27.
The factors are considered including the workload of the Directors, policy is subject to shareholder approval on a triennial basis their responsibilities, any change in these responsibilities and it is the intention of the Board that the above policy on andadditional legal duties for example as a result of new remuneration will continue to apply for financial years of the legislation being implemented, the relationship with their Company up to 31 December 2016. suppliers and the size and complexity of the Company.
The time commitment required, the level of skills and appropriate At the Companys previous Annual General Meeting held on experience required and the need for Directors to maintain 8May 2014, 99.75% of votes cast were in favour of the onan ongoing basis an appropriate level of knowledge of resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report in regulatory and compliance requirements in an industry respect of the year ended 31 December 2013 and 0.25% of environment of increasing complexity are also taken into votes cast wereagainst.
In addition, 99.74% of the votes cast account.
The Board also considers the average rate of in ation were in favour of the resolution to approve the Remuneration during the period since the last fee increase and reviews the Policy and 0.26% of votes cast were against.
level of Directors remuneration at other investment companies withsimilarities, such as size, specialisation, [26] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC POLICY TABLE Fees payable to Directors should be suf cient to attract and retain individuals of high calibre with suitable knowledge and experience.
Those chairing the Board and key Committees should be paid higher fees than other Purpose and link to Directors in recognition of their more demanding roles.
Fees should re ect the time spent by Directors on the strategy Companys affairs and the level of complexity of responsibilities borne by the Directors.
Current levels of xed annual fee: Chairman 45,000 Audit & Management Engagement Committee Chairman Senior Independent Director 37,500 Description Directors 30,000 All reasonable expenses to be reimbursed.
Remuneration consists of a xed fee each year, set in accordance with the stated policies and as such there is no set maximum threshold: however, any increase granted must be in line with the stated policies.
The Companys Articles of Association set a limit of 250,000 in respect of the total remuneration that may be Maximum and paid to Directors in any financial year.
In addition, the Directors propose a limit of 50,000 per annum in relation minimum levels to the maximum that may be paid in respect of taxable bene ts.
These ceilings have been set at a level to provide exibility in respect of the recruitment of additional Board members and in ation.
The Board reviews the quantum of Directors fees each year to ensure that it is in line with the level of Directors remuneration for other investment trusts of a similar size.
When considering any changes in fees, the Board will take into account wider factors such as the average rate Fixed fee element of in ation over the period since the previous review, and the level and any change in complexity of the Directors responsibilities including additional time commitments as a result of increased regulatory or corporate governance requirements.
Taxable bene ts comprise travel expenses incurred by the Directors in the course of travel to attend Board and Committee meetings which are held at the Companys registered of ce in London, and which are reimbursed by the Company and therefore treated as a bene t in kind and are subject to tax and national insurance.
The Companys Taxable bene ts policy in respect of this element of remuneration is that all reasonable costs of this nature will be reimbursed as they are incurred.
Chairman of the Audit & Management Engagement Committee and Senior Independent Director.
The information in the above table has been audited.
The amounts paid by the Company to the Directors were for services as non-executive Directors.
As at 31 December 2014, fees of 19,375 2013: 16,875 were outstanding to Directors.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [27] Operation Governance Directors remuneration report continued RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY SHAREHOLDINGS As the Company has no employees, the table on page 27 also The Board has not adopted a policy that Directors are required comprises the total remuneration costs and bene ts paid by to own shares in the Company, although all Directors are the Company.
To enable shareholders to assess the relative currently shareholders.
importance of spend on pay, this has been shown in the table below compared with the Groups total income, total The interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the pro t loss and dividend distributions.
Company are set out in the table below.
The Company does not have a share option scheme, therefore none of the Directors As the Company has no employees, no consideration is has an interest in share options.
required to be given to employment conditions elsewhere in 31 December 31 December setting Directors pay.
No payments were made in the year to any past Directors The information in the above table has been audited.
All of the holdings of the Directors are bene cial.
No changes to these holdings have been noti ed up to the date of this report.
PERFORMANCE The graph which follows compares the Companys net asset value and mid-market share price with income reinvested with RETIREMENT OF DIRECTORS the Euromoney Global Mining Index income reinvested.
This Further details are given in the Directors Report on page 23.
Index was chosen for comparison purposes as it is deemed to be the most relevant to the Companys investment objective andis the benchmark used when reporting to shareholders.
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD A W LEA PERFORMANCE 1 JANUARY 2008 TO Chairman 31 DECEMBER 2014 19 March 2015 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Net asset value per share income reinvested Euromoney Global Mining Index income reinvested Share price performance income reinvested Total return performance record rebased to 100.
[28] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC
