92 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL STATEMENT FROM THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN DEAR SHAREHOLDER During the year, the Committee granted its first round of awards under the new PSP.
These awards are earned based on an average RoNTA, the key financial metric for the Group, On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, it gives me great and relative total shareholder return TSR performance targets pleasure to present our first Directors Remuneration Report which are measured over three years.
If these stretching following Brits return to the listed market.
targets are achieved, shares will vest over a period of three to five years.
In accordance with the UK disclosure regime, this report comprises our Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Consistent with best practice, malus and clawback provisions Remuneration.
The remuneration policy sets out our forward are in place.
looking policy on pay for directors, and will be put forward to shareholders for a binding vote at the 2015 annual general Further detail on Directors remuneration during the year is meeting.
The Annual Report on Remuneration details provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration below.
payments made to directors during the last year, and how we will apply our policy in 2015.
Shareholders will have the Remuneration in 2015 opportunity of an advisory vote on this report at the annual As shareholders will be aware, in light of the offer from general meeting.
Fairfax see page 18 above, there may be changes to the remuneration structure for 2015, depending on if and when Details of the remuneration structure were set out in our the acquisition is completed.
In the event that the acquisition prospectus prior to admission to the London Stock Exchange.
is completed, then, pursuant to the rules of the relevant share The structure implemented was intended to be aligned plan, awards may vest at this time.
Further details will be set with evolving market and best practice.
During the year the out in the offer document.
Committee has given further consideration to how these arrangements will be operated in practice, and further details The Committee has made the following decisions in relation to are set out in this Remuneration Report.
the Chief Executive Officers remuneration for 2015 to reflect the nature of his role, his continued strong performance since The overall remuneration structure is weighted towards appointment and the value created for shreholders since IPO.
performance-related variable pay especially at the Companys senior management levels.
The objectives are closely aligned Annual bonus will continue to be predominantly based on with our strategic financial priorities and reward for creation RoNTA performance.
The maximum opportunity for 2015 of shareholder value.
A large proportion of variable pay will be 300% of salary: and is delivered in shares.
Consistent principles apply to the remuneration structure for all senior executives.
We have also If PSP awards are granted in 2015, then the intention is that rolled out operation of a global all-employee Share Incentive performance targets will continue to be based on RoNTA Plan to facilitate a culture of share ownership across the entire and relative TSR.
The Committee will be carefully monitoring the Companys Remuneration outcomes in respect of 2014 performance against the achievement of financial and strategic This has been a landmark year for Brit.
As well as returning to goals, in order to ensure that our remuneration arrangements the listed market, we have continued the process of strategic continue to support the long-term interests of the Company transformation undertaken over the last four years and and its shareholders, also bearing in mind evolving regulation delivered another strong set of results.
that will apply to the Company.
In 2014, the Company achieved profit after tax of 139.0m We wish to be transparent and open about our remuneration and a return on adjusted net tangible assets excluding FX and for senior management at Brit.
We hope shareholders are IPO costs RoNTA of 20.7%.
This is a very strong result, and comfortable with the decisions we have made and will towards the top-end of the stretching targets set for the year.
support the two resolutions relating to remuneration at the The Committee considered this performance in the context forthcoming annual general meeting.
of both challenging market dynamics and the successful admission.
The Chief Executive Officers bonus is 200% of I would also like to take the opportunity to thank Shareholders, salary and the Committee are of the view that this fairly reflects the Board, management and employees for their support in performance relative to our peers in what has been a very what has been a busy and very successful year.
Hans-Peter Gerhardt 24 February 2015 GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 93 Membership and attendance Member Meetings attended Hans-Peter Gerhardt four out of four Richard Ward four out of four Jonathan Feuer four out of four Gernot Lohr four out of four The Chief Executive Officer and HR Director are usually invited to attend all or part of Committee meetings, but are excluded from any discussions of their own remuneration.
Remuneration principles As part of the process of admission in April 2014, the Company implemented a framework for remuneration that would operate in the listed environment.
Much of the content was articulated in the prospectus.
This Annual Report provides further detail.
Brits overarching objective is to maximise returns and deliver value for our shareholders by focusing on key fundamentals of the specialty insurance business: Investment Operations Capital management Risk management Underwriting management Continued focus on Maintain strong capital Focus on control Deliver best-in-class Proactive management operating efficiency position framework underwriting returns of the investment Sustainable regular Capitalise on profitable portfolio dividend growth opportunities MAXIMISE RETURNS AND DELIVER VALUE FOR SHAREHOLDERS In order to support the above strategy, the Companys approach to remuneration is to provide overall pay packages that: Recognise the strong link between variable compensation and performance at Company, business unit and individual levels: Reward employees for delivering the Groups business plan and key strategic goals: Reward superior performance through incentive compensation: Appropriately reflect the risk appetite incorporated into the business strategy, as well as being balanced against the Groups audit and compliance obligations: and Align employees interests with the interests of shareholders and other external stakeholders.
94 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT This section sets out the Companys Remuneration Policy the Policy, which will be put to shareholders for approval at the annual general meeting on 21 April 2015.
Subject to shareholder approval, the Policy will take effect from 1 January 2016.
Future remuneration policy for executive Directors The table below summarises each element of the Policy for executive Directors, with further details set out after the table.
Base salary Purpose and link The Groups aim is to attract the best talent and strengthen a highly committed team to allow the to strategy Group to achieve its business goals.
Operation Salaries are reviewed taking into account various internal and external factors including size and scope of the role, individual and business performance, and practices both at industry peers and across the FTSE 250 more generally.
Due regard is also taken of the pay and conditions of the wider workforce.
Salaries are normally reviewed annually.
Maximum Salary increases will be based on a range of factors based on individual circumstances.
There is no opportunity maximum opportunity.
The Committee will take into account pay conditions in the Group when determining any increases.
Performance metrics n a Benefits Purpose and link To provide a standard package comparable with practice in the markets in which we operate.
to strategy Operation Benefits include but are not limited to private medical care, life assurance, income protection and employee assistance.
Further benefits may also be provided where the Committee considers this appropriate e. g. on relocation.
Maximum The value of benefits provided will be, in the Committees opinion, reasonable in the context of opportunity relevant market practice for comparable roles, taking into account any individual circumstances e. g. relocation.
There is no maximum monetary value.
Performance metrics n a Retirement benefits Purpose and link To provide market-competitive retirement benefits.
to strategy Operation Benefits are normally provided under the Group Personal Pension Plan GPPP.
The GPPP is a defined contribution pension arrangement, with benefits entirely based on contributions made to the plan and the investment returns on those contributions.
Alternatively, the Company may pay a cash allowance in lieu of participation in the GPPP.
Where appropriate, more bespoke arrangements may be considered e. g. for non-UK participants.
In such circumstances, the Committee will give appropriate consideration to relevant local market practices and the overall cost of the arrangement.
Maximum The current Chief Executive Officer receives a cash allowance equivalent to 25% of salary per annum.
opportunity For new hires the nature and value of any retirement benefit provided will be, in the Committees opinion, reasonable in the context of market practice for comparable roles and take account of both the individuals circumstances and the cost to the Company.
Performance metrics n a GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 95 Annual bonus Purpose and link To provide a short-term incentive based on financial and non-financial performance over one to strategy financial year.
Operation The Group Bonus Plan is a discretionary annual bonus arrangement.
Under the Group Bonus Plan, all awards are subject to the achievement of performance targets.
A proportion of any annual bonus earned in respect of each financial year may be deferred into awards over shares normally vesting after a three-year deferral period, unless the Committee considers an alternative deferral period is appropriate.
This deferral is facilitated by the Deferred Share Plan DSP.
Dividends or equivalents may accrue on any DSP awards shares that vest.
Maximum Maximum annual opportunity up to 300% of salary.
opportunity Performance metrics Bonuses are subject to the achievement of Group and individual performance objectives.
Where relevant, business unit performance may also be considered.
Performance conditions are normally set by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of each financial year.
The overall incentive pool is normally based on Group returns and profitability.
The incentive pool begins to accrue once a threshold performance hurdle is delivered.
There are no payments for performance below this level.
Individual pay-outs to Executive Directors are discretionary, taking into account various factors including achievement of individual performance objectives relevant to the executive Directors roles.
In respect of 2015, the overall incentive pool will be linked to Group return on net tangible assets.
Performance share plan Purpose and link To provide rewards linked to Company performance and shareholder value over the longer-term, to strategy while facilitating share ownership and aligning the interests of executive Directors and shareholders.
Operation Awards normally vest dependent on performance measured over a period of at least three years.
The Committee reviews the metrics, targets and weightings prior to each grant to ensure they remain appropriate.
Dividends or equivalents may accrue in respect of any shares that vest.
Maximum Maximum award of up to 225% of salary in respect of any financial year.
opportunity Performance metrics Vesting is based on performance against financial operational and shareholder return measures.
At least 25% of an award will be based on total shareholder return.
The Committee determines targets each year to ensure that targets are stretching and represent value creation for shareholders, while remaining motivational for management.
No more than 25% of each element will vest for performance at the threshold level set.
There will normally be proportionate vesting for performance between the threshold target and performance required for full vesting.
Prior to granting awards, the Committee will review the performance conditions and may opt to vary the metrics and weightings to ensure targets and measures remain aligned with the corporate strategy.
The Committee will consult as appropriate with its major shareholders regarding any material changes.
96 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Other HMRC all-employee approved plans Purpose and link To create staff alignment with the Company and promote a sense of ownership.
to strategy Operation Executive Directors may participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company or its subsidiaries.
Executive Directors would participate on the same terms as all employees of the Group.
Brit currently operates a share incentive plan SIP.
Maximum Participation in any HMRC-approved all-employee share plan e. g. the SIP is limited to the opportunity maximum award levels permitted by the relevant legislation from time-to-time.
Performance metrics n a Share ownership guidelines Operation Share ownership guidelines are operated to encourage senior executives to build and or maintain a material shareholding in the Company.
The relevant threshold is expected to be reached and maintained within five years from admission or, if later, from the date the individual became subject to the share ownership guidelines.
The Chief Executive Officer is required to build up and maintain a holding equivalent to 200% of his base salary.
Notes to the future remuneration policy table Malus and clawback Malus and clawback provisions may be operated at the Selection of performance measures for incentives discretion of the Committee in respect of awards granted It is intended that the performance measures and targets for under the DSP and the PSP.
Malus under which awards may incentives are closely aligned with the Companys short-term be reduced or made subject to additional conditions may be and long-term objectives.
The intention is to provide a direct applied prior to the satisfaction of the award, while clawback link between reward levels, performance and delivery of the requiring a repayment of cash or some or all of the shares Group strategy, and the shareholder experience.
which have been delivered may be operated up to three years following satisfaction of the award.
Circumstances in The incentive plan incorporates measures which focus on which the operation of these provisions may be considered delivery of long-term value creation and shareholder returns.
include a material misstatement of the Companys financial RoNTA is a measure of efficient profitability and is a key results, a material failure of risk management by any member indicator of how well we execute the Groups strategy.
This is of the Group or a relevant business unit, material reputational the primary KPI used in the business.
Relative total shareholder damage to any member of the Group or relevant business return targets measure the value generated for shareholders unit, or if the participants employment is terminated for gross and provide a direct comparison against our key sector peers.
The Committee may vary or rebalance the weighting of the The Committee is satisfied that the above provisions are performance metrics for future incentives, to ensure that they suitably aligned with good market practice and provide remain aligned with the Companys strategic objectives.
The appropriate safeguards against payments for failure.
Committee may also adjust the calculation of performance measures and vesting outcomes e. g. for material acquisitions or disposals and events not foreseen at the time the targets were set to ensure they remain a fair reflection of performance over the relevant period.
GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 97 Illustration of application of the remuneration policy The chart below shows the potential remuneration receivable by the Chief Executive Officer under three performance scenarios.
2,973k 3,000 35% 2,500 2,000 1,792k 29% 1,500 46% 1,000 39% 610k 500 19% 100% 32% 0 Minimum Mild Maximum Fixed remuneration Annual bonus Long-term variable remuneration The chart above has been compiled using the following assumptions: Assumptions Fixed remuneration Base salary: salary at 31 December 2014.
Benefits: value of benefits provided to incumbent in 2014.
Pension: value of cash allowance of 25% of salary.
Variable remuneration Annual bonus: maximum award of up to 300% of salary.
PSP: allowable under plan rules of 225% of salary.
The amounts shown do not take into account share price growth or receipt of dividend equivalents.
Performance scenarios Minimum Fixed remuneration only.
Mid Fixed remuneration plus variable pay for the purpose of illustration as follows: Annual bonus: assumes a bonus pay-out of 50% of maximum.
PSP: assumes vesting of 50% of maximum.
Maximum Fixed remuneration plus variable pay for the purpose of illustration as follows: Annual bonus: assumes a bonus pay-out of 100% of maximum.
PSP: assumes vesting of 100% of maximum.
98 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Recruitment policy Brit operates in a highly competitive and specialised sector.
The Company competes for talent in both the UK and international markets and therefore needs to remain cognisant of remuneration practices in this wider context.
While aiming to remain competitive when recruiting talent of an appropriate calibre, the Committee will seek to avoid paying more than is necessary.
On recruitment of a new executive Director, the Committee will initially seek to align the remuneration package with the policy described above.
The overall limits are consistent with the Policy Table.
Recruitment policy Fixed pay Salary and benefits including retirement benefits will normally be determined in accordance with the Policy Table above.
In certain cases, the initial salary for a new appointment may be set at a lower level, with the intention of increasing the salary over time as the executive Directors gain experience in the role.
An alternative fixed pay package may be necessary where an individual fulfils an executive role on an interim basis.
Benefits may also need to be tailored based on the individual circumstances e. g. relocation, housing or travel allowances may be required.
Variable pay The maximum variable remuneration that may be offered to an executive Director in respect of recruitment will be no more than 525% of salary excluding any buy-out arrangements.
This limit is consistent with the overall maximum set out in the Policy Table.
Within these limits and where appropriate the Committee may tailor the award e. g. timeframe, form, performance criteria based on the commercial circumstances.
Shareholders will be informed of the terms for any such arrangements.
Buyouts Where there is a need to buyout remuneration terms forfeited on joining the Company, the Committee will seek to ensure any buyout is of comparable commercial value and capped as appropriate.
The quantum, form and structure of any buyout arrangement will be determined by the Committee taking into account the terms of the arrangement being forfeited e. g. form and structure of award, timeframe, performance criteria, likelihood of vesting, etc.. Where appropriate the Committee may seek to deliver any buyout under one of Brits existing incentive plans.
Where appropriate, the Committee will normally seek to clawback any buyouts if the individual departs within two years of joining.
Where an executive Director is appointed from either within the Company or following corporate activity reorganisation e. g. acquisition of another company, the normal policy will be to honour any legacy arrangements in line with the original terms and conditions.
Non-executive Directors On the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive Director, the terms and fees will normally be consistent with the fee policy outlined later in the Policy.
Fees to non-executive Directors will not include share options or performance-related elements.
Executive Director service contracts and payment for loss of office Service contracts General policy The Companys policy is for executive Directors service contracts to normally be terminable on six months notice by either party.
Where appropriate, consideration may be given to a longer notice period of up to 12 months.
The Company may terminate an individuals service agreement at an earlier date by making a payment in lieu of notice in respect of salary and benefits for the outstanding period of notice.
Consideration will be given to appropriate mitigation terms to reduce payments in lieu of notice made on termination in the event of the executive Director commencing alternative employment within the relevant period.
Benefits payable on termination may include certain one-off benefits in connection with termination, such as legal costs and the costs of meeting any settlement agreement.
GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 99 The service contract of the Chief Executive Officer, Mark Cloutier, is terminable on six months notice by either party.
During the notice period the individual may be placed on garden leave.
During this period he remains an employee of the Group and is subject to certain restrictions.
The Company may elect to terminate Mark Cloutiers employment immediately by making a payment in lieu of notice equivalent to his basic salary for the notice period.
This would typically be paid in monthly instalments, which continue until the expiry of the notice period or the date on which the individual obtains alternative employment.
The service agreement also contains post-termination restrictions.
For a period of six months after termination less any period spent on garden leave, he may not be concerned in a similar role in any competing business without the Boards written concent.
For a period of 12 months after termination less any period spent on garden leave he may not solicit or employ any senior employees from the Company in connection with any competing business.
Incentive plans The Committee retains discretion to determine the exact termination terms of any executive Director, having regard to all the relevant facts and circumstances available to them at the time, subject to the terms of the relevant incentive plan rules.
The table below sets out the general position and range of approaches in respect of incentive arrangements.
Incentive arrangements Annual bonus Payment of any bonus is at the discretion of the Committee taking into account the circumstances of leaving and performance over the relevant period.
Usual policy is not to pay any bonus.
DSP Good leaver e. g. cessation due to ill-health Any outstanding awards will ordinarily vest on the normal vesting date.
The extent to which awards vest will be determined by the Committee based on the period that has elapsed between the grant of the award and cessation.
The Committee can alternatively decide that awards may vest early at the time of cessation or on such other date prior to the original vesting date as the Committee may determine.
If a participant dies, his award will vest immediately unless the Committee determines otherwise, on the same basis as referred to above.
Other leavers e. g. termination for cause Any unvested awards lapse on cessation.
Vested but unexercised awards may be exercised for a period of 12 months following cessation or such period as the Committee may determine, except in the case of summary dismissal where all awards lapse.
PSP Good leaver e. g. cessation due to ill-health Any outstanding awards will ordinarily vest on the normal vesting date as determined by the Committee, based on the extent that any applicable performance conditions measured over the original performance period have been satisfied and the period of time elapsed between the grant of the award and cessation.
Alternatively, the Committee can decide that awards may vest early at the time of cessation or on such other date prior to the original vesting date as the Committee may determine but with any vesting subject to performance measured up to cessation and time prorating on the basis referred to above.
If a participant dies, his award will vest immediately unless the committee decides otherwise with any vesting subject to performance and prorating for time on the same basis as referred to above.
100 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Future remuneration policy table for non-executive Directors Remuneration of independent non-executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, is determined by the Chairman and the executive Directors.
The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Committee.
Directors are not involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration.
The current non-independent non-executive Directors are not entitled to any fee in respect of their appointments.
The table below sets out the policy with respect to non-executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in the Companys bonus arrangements, share incentive plans or pension-benefit plans.
Any new independent non-executive Director will be treated in accordance with the policy.
Fees Approach to setting Fees are set at appropriate levels to ensure non-executive Directors are paid to reflect the remuneration individual responsibility taken.
When setting fee levels, consideration is given to a number of internal and external factors including responsibilities, market positioning, inflation and colleague pay increases.
Where appropriate, benefits appropriate to the role may be provided.
Travel and other reasonable expenses including fees incurred in obtaining professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and any associated taxes incurred in the course of performing their duties may be paid by the Company or reimbursed to independent and non-independent non-executive Directors.
Opportunity The total fees paid to non-executive Directors will remain within the limit stated in the Articles of Association.
Individual fees reflect responsibility and time commitment.
Additional fees are paid for further responsibilities, such as chairmanship of committees, or duties related to subsidiary boards.
Benefits provided will be reasonable, in the Committees opinion, in the market context and take account of the individual circumstances and benefits provided to comparable roles.
The appointment of the Chairman and each independent non-executive Director is terminable by either party, giving not less than three months written notice.
The appointment of any non-independent non-executive Director will terminate on the individual resigning from his or her office with the Company and on termination of the applicable relationship deed.
Detailed provisions All incentive awards are subject to the terms of the relevant plan rules under which the award was granted.
The Committee may adjust or amend awards only in accordance with the provisions of the plan rules.
This includes making adjustments to awards to reflect corporate events, such as a change in the Companys capital structure.
In accordance with the plan rules, awards may be settled in cash.
The Committee may amend any performance condition applicable to incentive awards in certain circumstances e. g. significant acquisition or disposal if the Committee considers it appropriate and the amended performance condition would be fair, reasonable and not materially less challenging than the original performance condition would have been in the absence of such circumstances.
If the Company undergoes a change of control, then awards will vest to the extent determined by the Committee based on the period of time elapsed between the date on which the award was granted and the change of control and, in the case of PSP awards, the extent to which any relevant performance conditions have been satisfied after taking into account all factors it considers relevant including its assessment of likely future performance.
The Committee with the consent of the acquiring company may allow or require awards to be exchanged for equivalent new awards in the acquiring company in the event of an internal reorganisation of the Group or if the participant agrees to the exchange.
The Committee may make any remuneration payments including vesting of incentives and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above, where the terms of that payment were agreed before this Policy came into effect: or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 101 The Committee may make minor amendments to the remuneration policy to aid its operation or implementation without seeking shareholder approvals e. g. for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere at Brit Remuneration across the Company is based on similar principles.
When considering remuneration arrangements for senior executives the Committee takes into account pay and conditions across the Group.
Incentive plans are operated across the Group to ensure remuneration is linked to performance.
Incentive opportunities are based on the nature and seniority of the relevant role.
Annual bonus plans are operated across the Group, with arrangements tailored to the nature of the role where appropriate.
Participation in DSP and PSP is generally limited to senior management, usually on similar terms to the Chief Executive Officer.
All employees including the Chief Executive Officer participate in the same retirement and benefits schemes, albeit the Chief Executive Officer has a cash allowance in lieu of participation in the GPPP.
Brit also operates an all-employee share incentive plan to create staff alignment and promote a sense of ownership in the Company.
The Committee does not formally consult with colleagues on the setting of the Policy but as a result of the Companys allemployee share plans, colleagues are able to become shareholders in the Company and can comment on the Policy in the same way as other shareholders.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee recognises the importance of engaging with key shareholders regarding the Companys approach to pay for executive Directors.
An overview of remuneration arrangements for senior executives was disclosed in the admission prospectus.
102 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This Annual Report on Remuneration explains how Directors have been paid in relation to the year ended 31 December 2014 and provides detailed disclosure on how the Remuneration Policy will be implemented in 2015.
This report will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2015 annual general meeting held on 21 April 2015.
Where information has been subject to audit this has been stated.
Brits shares were admitted onto the London Stock Exchange on 2 April 2014 admission.
As such, there are a number of disclosures for which we are only required to report part-year numbers.
However, in the spirit of transparency embodied in the new directors remuneration disclosure regulations we have reported full-year figures wherever possible or appropriate to do so.
Single total figure of remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer audited The table below sets out the remuneration received by the Chief Executive Officer for the financial years ending 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013.
Annual Long-term Salary Benefits Pension bonus incentives All-employee share Total Year 000 000 000 000 000 awards 000 000 Mark Cloutier 2014 450 61 99 900 4 1,514 2013 450 58 99 1,250 1,857 Notes to the Chief Executive Officer Remuneration table Salary The CEOs salary in 2014 was 450,000.
The Committee is mindful that the Chief Executive Officers salary has not been increased since April 2012.
Given the exceptional circumstances, the Committee has not made a decision in respect of the Chief Executive Officers salary for 2015.
Any increase would look to take into account the nature of his role and contribution, as well as practise amongst comparable companies.
Details of any salary review undertaken in due course will be disclosed in subsequent reports as appropriate.
Benefits Benefits provided included private health cover, permanent health cover and life assurance cover in 2014.
As disclosed in the prospectus, prior to admission, a loan was made by Achilles Holdings 1, S.. r. l. to the Chief Executive Officer.
The taxable benefit associated with this loan was 8,584.
This loan has now been repaid in full.
Pension The Chief Executive Officer received a pension allowance of 25% of salary inclusive of employer national insurance contributions in lieu of contributions under the Brit Group Personal Pension Plan.
He received no other retirement benefits from the Group.
Annual bonus The annual bonus plan is designed to reward and incentivise performance over the financial year.
The bonus framework uses a range of performance measures, linked to Group, business unit where relevant and individual performance.
Prior to determining the final bonus outcomes, the Committee considers performance in the round to ensure that actual bonuses are appropriate.
The maximum bonus for the Chief Executive Officer in 2014 was 200% of base salary, as disclosed in the prospectus.
The whole of his 2014 annual bonus was dependent on performance against Group profit targets and assessment of individual performance.
The table below sets out the committees assessment of performance achieved in respect of the 2014 annual bonus.
The Remuneration Committee and the Board have given careful consideration to the retrospective disclosure of targets and has disclosed targets where not considered to be commercially sensitive.
Where details of any performance conditions are considered to be commercially sensitive disclosure will be considered in future remuneration reports where appropriate.
GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 103 The Companys RoNTA performance creates a bonus pool.
An individuals performance then determines the value of the bonus payable to him.
For 2014, the target RoNTA was 18.0% with a range created around this level.
When considering the Chief Executives bonus, the Committee noted his role and contribution played in the successful return to the listed market: growth in premiums and strong underwriting performance notwithstanding challenging market conditions and ongoing progress in developing platforms in line with our long-term strategy.
The RoNTA outcomes represents a third year of sector leading returns.
On the basis of these factors and taking into account overall performance, the Committee determined that the bonus for the Chief Executive Officer would be 200% of base salary.
For 2015, the maximum bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive Officer will be 300% of base salary which is aligned with sector practice.
The Committee has agreed the performance measures and targets against which any annual bonus will be assessed.
The targets have not been disclosed prospectively as the Board considers this commercially sensitive information.
The 2015 bonus will have a broadly similar structure to the award in 2014.
Long-term incentives During 2014 the Company granted the first set of PSP awards.
The key terms of the award granted during 2014 are as follows: Award subject to TSR and RoNTA targets Three-year performance period Awards vest in tranches over three to five years following grant.
The performance targets for the 2014 award are as follows: Performance metrics Weighting Threshold performance Superior performance Performance period Average annual RoNTA 75% 10% 20% FY14-FY16 1 Relative TSR 25% Median Upper quartile 3 years following admission 1 The constituents of this group are: Ace, Amlin, Arch, Argo, Aspen, Axis, Beazley, Catlin, Endurance, HCC Insurance, Hiscox, Lancashire Holdings, Markel, Novae Group, QBE Insurance, Validus, W R Berkley, XL Group.
Total shareholder return performance will be measured from the date of admission on 2 April 2014.
2 The level of vesting for performance between threshold and superior performance will be determined on a straight-line basis.
For performance below threshold for either element of the award, vesting will be nil for that element.
Vesting of each element of the award will take place in three tranches.
Subject to performance, the first tranche 50% of the total award will normally vest and become exercisable on the third anniversary of grant.
The remaining tranches of the award will vest on the fourth 25% of total award and fifth anniversaries 25% of total award of grant.
104 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION In respect of 2014, the Chief Executive Officer was granted an award equivalent to 120% of salary.
The table below sets out further details of the award.
1 Description of award Date of grant Number of shares under award Face value End of the performance period Conditional shares 16 09 2014 219,406 540,000 01 04 2017 1 The Chief Executive Officers award has been valued based on the five-day average share price prior to grant, which was 2.46.
Under the rules of the PSP, the award will be subject to malus and clawback provisions, as summarised in the Policy Report.
If awards are granted in 2015 in the context of the offer from Fairfax to acquire the Company, then details will be disclosed, as appropriate, in our 2015 annual report on remuneration.
All-employee share plan As disclosed in the admission prospectus, the Company granted a one-off IPO award to all eligible employees in order to reward them on the occasion of the admission.
Following admission, awards were made on similar terms under the Brit All-Employee Share Plan.
Accordingly, the Chief Executive Officer was granted an award, as set out in the table below.
2 Number Proportion of award vesting or End of the 1 Description of award Date of grant of shares under award Face value threshold performance performance period Free share award 24 06 2014 1,490 3,600 n a n a 1 The Chief Executive Officers award has been valued based on the five-day average share price prior to grant, which was 2.41.
2 The IPO Award is not subject to performance conditions.
However, in accordance with the rules of the plan this award is subject to a holding period of three years normally subject to continued employment.
Shares must be retained for a further two years i. e. five years in order to benefit from the relevant beneficial tax treatment under the relevant legislation.
GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 105 Single total figure of remuneration for the non-executive Directors audited The table below sets out the remuneration received by the non-executive Directors for the financial years ending 31 December 2014.
Fees Benefits Total Year 000 000 000 1 Richard Ward 2014 229 2 231 Chairman 2 Ipe Jacob 2014 150 2 152 iNED 3 Jonathan Feuer 2014 NED 4 Hans-Peter Gerhardt 2014 121 6 127 iNED 5,6 Maarten Hulshoff 2014 69 10 79 iNED 3 Sachin Khajuria 2014 NED 3 Gernot Lohr 2014 NED 3 Kamil Salame 2014 NED 5 Willem Stevens 2014 69 4 73 iNED 1 Richard Ward receives an all-inclusive fee for his services as Chairman of Brit PLC, Chairman of BSL, and Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Fee prorated for commencement in February 2014.
2 Ipe Jacob is entitled to fees in addition to his basic fee in recognition of services as Brit PLC Audit Committee Chairman, Brit PLC Risk Oversight Committee Chairman, Senior Independent Director, BIG Audit Committee Chairman, BIG Risk Oversight Committee Chairman and UK Audit Committee Chairman.
3 Under the terms of relationship agreements entered into, as disclosed in the prospectus, Apollo AIF VII Euro Holdings L. P. and CVC-affiliated funds have the right to nominate two persons each as Directors of the Company.
These non-independent non-executive Directors Gernot Lohr, Sachin Khajuria, Kamil Salame and Jonathan Feuer are not entitled to any fee in respect of their appointment.
4 Hans-Peter Gerhardt is entitled to fees in addition to his basic fee, in recognition of his services as Remuneration Committee Chairman and Underwriting Committee Chairman.
Fee converted from Swiss Francs to Sterling CHF to GBP 1.51.
5 Fee for period January to March 2014 converted from Euros to Sterling EUR to GBP 1.24: Sterling fee from 27 March 2014 onward.
6 Maarten Hulshoff holds the position of Investment Committee Chairman.
The fee policy with effect from 1 January 2015 is as follows: Chairman 250,000 per annum Base fee 75,000 per annum Senior Independent Director additional 25,000 per annum Chairman of the Audit Committee additional 25,000 per annum Chairman of the Risk Oversight Committee additional 15,000 per annum Chairman of the Underwriting Committee additional 15,000 per annum Chairman of the Investment Committee additional 15,000 per annum Subsidiary Board any additional fees will reflect nature of the role 106 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Payments for loss of office and payments to past directors No payments for loss of office or payments to past directors were made during the year.
Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests The table below sets out the Directors shareholdings in the Company.
Shareholding Guidelines As at Proportion of shareholding 2 31 December 2014 guideline achieved Executive Directors Mark Cloutier 1,204,813 Guideline met Non-executive Directors Richard Ward 102,750 n a Ipe Jacob n a Jonathan Feuer n a Hans-Peter Gerhardt 79,594 n a Maarten Hulshoff n a Sachin Khajuria n a Gernot Lohr n a Kamil Salame n a Willem Stevens n a The table below sets out the Directors interests in shares of the Company.
Shares Options Unvested and Unvested and Unvested and Unvested and subject to not subject to subject to not subject to Vested but Exercised performance performance performance performance unexercised during the year Executive Directors Mark Cloutier 219,406 1,490 Non-Executive Directors Richard Ward Ipe Jacob Jonathan Feuer Hans-Peter Gerhardt Maarten Hulshoff Sachin Khajuria Gernot Lohr Kamil Salame Willem Stevens GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 107 Service agreements The following table sets out detail of the Directors service agreements.
Further details regarding the terms are set out in the Policy Report.
Notice period 1 Date of appointment Date of contract unexpired term Executive Directors Mark Cloutier 27 03 14 27 03 14 6 months Non-Executive Directors Richard Ward 27 03 14 03 02 14 24 months Ipe Jacob 27 03 14 27 03 14 24 months Jonathan Feuer 27 03 14 27 03 14 Hans-Peter Gerhardt 27 03 14 27 03 14 24 months Maarten Hulshoff 27 03 14 27 03 14 24 months Sachin Khajuria 27 03 14 03 03 14 Gernot Lohr 27 03 14 27 03 14 Kamil Salame 27 03 14 03 03 14 Willem Stevens 27 03 14 27 03 14 24 months 1 Jonathan Feuer, Sachin Khajuria, Gernot Lohr and Kamil Salames terms of appointments are determined by the applicable relationship agreement.
Performance and Chief Executive Officers total remuneration The chart below illustrates the Companys TSR performance against the FTSE 250 since admission on 2 April 2014.
This cross-sector index was chosen as the Company is a constituent of that index.
Total Shareholder return index 125 119 120 115 110 105 100 100 95 Admission 31 Dec 2014 FTSE-250 Brit Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream The table below shows the single figure of total remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer in 2014.
Note that this relates to the whole of the 2014 financial year and so is not directly comparable to the period used above for TSR purposes.
2014 000 Total remuneration 1,514 Annual bonus as a % of maximum 100 Long-term incentives as a % of maximum N A 108 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Percentage change in the Chief Executive Officers remuneration The following table compares the percentage change in the Chief Executive Officers remuneration to the average percentage change in remuneration for all employees from 2013 to 2014.
Salary Benefits Annual bonus Chief Executive Officer 0% 6% 20% All-employee average 3% 7% 40% 1 The change in benefits for all employees represents the change in private medical cover.
2 The change in annual bonus refers to the change in awards from the Group Bonus Plan.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows the relative movement in shareholder distributions and total employee remuneration.
2013 2014 m m Total remuneration 59.8 71.0 Distributions 25.0 Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee members in 2014 were Hans-Peter Gerhardt Chairman, Richard Ward, Jonathan Feuer and Gernot Lohr.
In accordance with its terms of reference, the Committee holds delegated responsibility for matters including: The determination of the terms and conditions of employment, remuneration and benefits of each of the Chairman, any executive Directors, other members of the executive Management Committee and the Company Secretary: For the determination of all aspects of share-based incentive arrangements: and Oversight of any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group.
The full Terms of Reference are available for inspection on the governance section of the Companys website.
Deloitte LLP support the Company with the provision of external market perspectives and assist in ensuring evolving best practice is taken into account.
Since admission, Deloitte fees for these services have been 93,400.
The Deloitte remuneration practice also provide advice on wider remuneration and implementation matters.
Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
During the year, a separate Deloitte team also provided the Company with an unrelated regulatory assurance report.
Statement of shareholder voting As this is the Companys first report following admission in 2014, there are no general meeting resolutions, or voting outcomes, to report in respect of Directors remuneration in the prior financial year.
The Company is committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and will be seeking approval for both the Annual Report on Remuneration and the Remuneration Policy at the 2015 annual general meeting.
