67 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 Directors Remuneration Policy This Policy provides details of the remuneration policy for the Directors The non-executive Directors of the Company are entitled to such rates of of the Company.
All Directors are non-executive, appointed under the annual fees as the Board at its discretion shall from time to time determine, terms of Letters of Appointment, and none has a service contract.
subject to the aggregate annual fees not exceeding 200,000, and The Company has no employees.
reimbursement of reasonable fees and expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties.
In line with the majority of investment trusts, A resolution to approve this Remuneration Policy was proposed at the no component of any Directors remuneration is subject to performance Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 19 December 2013. factors.
There are no provisions in Directors Letters of Appointment for The resolution was passed, and the Remuneration Policy provisions set recovery or withholding of fees or expenses.
Annual fees are pro-rated out below will apply until they are next put to shareholders for renewal where a change takes place during a financial year.
of that approval, which must be at intervals of not more than three years, or the Remuneration Policy is varied in which event shareholder approval for the new Remuneration Policy will be sought.
Table of Directors Remuneration Components Component Director Rate Purpose of reward Operation Annual Fee All Directors 23,000 For commitment as Directors Determined by the Board of a public company at its discretion see note 1 Additional Fee Chairman 12,000 For additional responsibility Determined by the Board of the Board and time commitment at its discretion see note 1 Additional Fee Chairman of the 4,000 For additional responsibility Determined by the Board Audit Committee and time commitment at its discretion see note 1 Additional Fee Senior Independent 2,300 For additional responsibility Determined by the Board Director and time commitment at its discretion see note 1 Expenses All Directors n a Reimbursement of expenses paid Reimbursement upon by them in order to perform submission of appropriate their duties invoices Notes: 1.
The Board only exercises its discretion in setting rates of fees after an analysis of fees paid to Directors of other companies having similar profiles to that of the Company, and consultation with third party advisers.
The Company has no employees.
Accordingly, there are no differences in policy on the remuneration of Directors and the remuneration of employees.
No Director is entitled to receive any remuneration which is performance-related.
As a result there are no performance conditions in relation to any elements of the Directors remuneration in existence to set out in this Remuneration Policy.
There have been no changes to the Companys remuneration policy for Directors since the issue of the Companys last Annual Report.
68 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy continued The rates of annual fees for Directors were last increased with effect from Service Contracts none of the Directors has a service contract with 1 April 2013. the Company.
Non-executive Directors are engaged under Letters of Appointment.
The table below shows the rates of annual fees payable to non-executive Directors applicable at 30 September 2014.
Loss of Office Directors Letters of Appointment expressly prohibit any entitlement to payment on loss of office.
Fees 2014 Scenarios the Chairman and non-executives Directors remuneration is Chairman 35,000 fixed at annual rates, and there are no other scenarios where remuneration Board Member 23,000 will vary.
It is accordingly not considered appropriate to provide different Additional responsibilities remuneration scenarios for each Director.
Chairman of Audit Committee 4,000 Senior Independent Director 2,300 Statement of consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company as the Company has no employees, the process of consulting with employees on the setting of the Remuneration Policy Recruitment Remuneration Principles is not relevant.
The remuneration package for any new Chairman or non-executive Director will be the same as the prevailing rates determined on the Other Items bases set out above.
The fees and entitlement to reclaim reasonable None of the Directors has any entitlement to pensions or pension related expenses will be set out in Directors Letters of Appointment.
benefits, medical or life insurance schemes, share options, long-term incentive plans, or performance related payments.
No Director is entitled to 2.
The Board will not pay any introductory fee or incentive to any person any other monetary payment or any assets of the Company except in their to encourage them to become a Director, but may pay the fees of capacity where applicable as shareholders of the Company.
search and selection specialists in connection with the appointment of any new non-executive Director.
Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is maintained by the Company, at its expense, on behalf of the Directors.
The Company only intends to appoint non-executive Directors for the foreseeable future.
The Company has also provided indemnities to the Directors in respect of costs or other liabilities which they may incur in connection with any claims 4.
The maximum aggregate fees currently payable to all Directors relating to their performance or the performance of the Company whilst is 200,000. they are Directors.
The Directors interests in contractual arrangements with the Company are as shown in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Except as noted in the Report of the Directors no Director was interested in any contracts with the Company during the period or subsequently.
Review of the Remuneration Policy The Board has agreed that there would be a formal review before any change to remuneration policy: and at least once a year the Remuneration Policy will be reviewed to ensure that it remains appropriate.
This year, the Boards review concluded that there should be no change to the remuneration policy.
