52 Directors Remuneration Report The annual bonus for 2014 was based 75% on financial measure and for the first time in 2014, 25% on personal and Annual statement customer measures.
Our performance assessment resulted in awards of 39.70% and 26.47% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Finance Officer respectively, marginally over half the bonus opportunity.
Key activities The Remuneration Committee met five times in 2014 and its key activities included: approving the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report: setting and reviewing annual bonus As the new Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am and Performance Share Plan PSP performance targets: pleased to introduce our report on Directors Remuneration for remuneration benchmarking: reviewing policy on extended this, our second year of being listed.
In accordance with the holding periods: reviewing the sharesave plan: agreeing directors remuneration reporting regulations, the report is employer pension contributions as salary supplement: divided into three sections: considering an expected Group life scheme proposal: approving the packages for the Chief Operating Officer and the HR 1.
This Annual Statement which summarises the major Director and reviewing executive and Chairman salaries.
decisions taken in respect of the Directors remuneration: Awards for 2015 2.
The Directors Remuneration Policy setting out the The annual bonus for 2015 will again be based 75% on trading remuneration policy for the Companys Directors: and profit performance and 25% on personal and customer 3.
The Annual Report on Remuneration.
This sets out how the measures.
The maximum opportunity remains unchanged for Committee will implement the Directors Remuneration 2015 at 75% of salary for Chief Executive Officer and 50% of Policy for the financial year ending 31 December 2015 and salary for the Chief Finance Officer.
also the remuneration payable in respect of the financial The PSP awards for 2015 will continue to be based on Earnings year ended 31 December 2014. per Share EPS and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR The Directors Remuneration Policy was put to a binding targets.
The EPS target for the 2015 awards will require EPS shareholder vote at our AGM on 13 May 2014 and is provided growth of 15% to 39% over the three year performance period.
The Remuneration Report will be subject to an The Remuneration Committee considers these targets to be advisory vote at the 2015 AGM.
The votes for 2014 were challenging given the current market conditions, providing the 99.02% in support of the Remuneration Policy and 99.85% opportunity for management to receive some reward if they do in support of the Remuneration Report.
very well in difficult conditions but with exceptional performance required for full vesting.
These targets should not be interpreted Our remuneration policy as providing guidance on the Groups performance over the 2014 has been the first full year of the Group Remuneration relevant period.
Policy and there has been no change to the Policy that was adopted at the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM.
I believe that the remuneration received by our Executive Directors in respect of the financial year 2014 fairly rewards The balance between annual and long-term variable pay them for the business performance achieved, and also that remains weighted to the long-term.
Flexibility has been their remuneration arrangements for the year ahead will incorporated into the maximum limits to allow for this weighting appropriately incentivise and reward them to deliver our to be adapted, if appropriate, during the life of this business strategy, which will promote the long-term success remuneration policy.
However, the Committee would engage of the Company.
with major shareholders before changing the annual bonus or performance share award limits from their current levels.
I trust that this report provides a clear and helpful explanation of our remuneration policy and that we will receive your support Managements performance in 2014 at our AGM to be held on 13 May 2015.
During 2014 the Executive Directors disciplined approach to underwriting and focus on expenses delivered a solid set of Yours sincerely financial results within challenging market conditions.
Good progress was made on a range of important strategic initiatives, enhancing our customer propositions and positioning the Business for growth when market conditions permit.
Key regulatory requirements were progressed, particularly towards the introduction of Solvency II and the executive team was Mike Evans strengthened with two important hires.
The year finished with Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the announcement of, and the successful fundraising for, the acquisition of the remaining 50% of Gocompare.
