Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 53 Directors Remuneration Policy Policy overview This Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy The Group seeks to attract and retain the best talent for the has been provided for reference as this is not benefit of the Business and to align the interests of Executive subject to a binding vote at the 2015 AGM.
Directors, senior management and employees with the longInformation on how the Policy will be applied term interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
in the coming year, including the scenario To that end, the Groups remuneration policies aim to provide charts, have been updated to reflect the Policy appropriate reward for good performance without creating to be applied in 2015.
The Policy, as approved incentives that will encourage excessive risk taking.
In setting by shareholders, can be found in last years the Policy, the Remuneration Committee has regard to the provisions within the FCAs Remuneration Code even though Remuneration Report.
The Policy was subject the Group is not required to comply with that code and to the to a binding vote at the 2014 AGM and became anticipated requirements of Solvency II.
In particular, the effective on 13 May 2014, following approval Committee considers carefully the link between remuneration from shareholders.
and risk and there is cross-membership of the Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
As well as financial risk, this also ensures that there is an appropriate focus on Environment, Safety and Governance ESG issues.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee had discussed with major shareholders the Policy that was put to shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
In the event that future changes to the Policy are proposed, the Committee would consult with its major shareholders in advance of changes being put to shareholders for approval at an AGM.
The Committee will also consider any shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM at the next scheduled meeting after the AGM and any other feedback received at any other time as part of the review of Executive Directors remuneration.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The Committee regularly reviews remuneration trends across the Group, including the differential between the total remuneration at the highest and lowest levels of employees within the Group, and these were taken into account when setting the Policy.
However, there has been no formal consultation with employees in determining the Policy.
The table overleaf summarises the key elements of the Policy.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 54 Directors Remuneration Report continued Policy table Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Salary Takes account of individual performance, experience and responsibilities and pay as well as conditions in Details of the current salaries for the CEO and CFO are set out in the Annual Report on To pay Executive Directors at a level the workforce.
There is no prescribed maximum annual increase.
However, the Committee commensurate with their contribution is guided by the general increase for the broader employee population.
Set with reference broadly to mid-market levels and to remuneration generally within the Group and other to the Group and appropriately based appropriate comparator companies.
Larger increases may be awarded where the Committee determines it appropriate to take on skill, experience and performance into account a change in role and or responsibilities, a significant change in the size, Normally reviewed annually with changes effective from 1 January.
composition and or complexity of the Group, the increased experience or performance in Set at a level that maintains an Paid monthly in cash three weeks in arrears and one week in advance.
role of the Executive or where other exceptional circumstances exist.
appropriate balance between fixed and variable pay ensuring good risk management and no undue emphasis on variable pay.
Annual bonus The Committee sets the performance measures, targets and the weighting between them annually to The maximum bonus opportunity under the Policy has been set at 125% of salary for the Incentivises and rewards reflect the key priorities for the Business for the year ahead and may vary them from year-to-year.
CEO and 100% of salary for the CFO.
annual delivery of financial and All or a majority of the annual bonus will be weighted to one or more financial measures set on a sliding Bonuses for 2015 will be a maximum of 75% of salary for the CEO and 50% of salary non-financial objectives.
Non-financial metrics up to a maximum of 25% of the total bonus may be set by the for the CFO.
Committee if it determines it appropriate.
No more than 25% of the maximum opportunity is payable for threshold performance.
The Committee has overriding discretion to scale back annual bonus payments in the event of, inter alia, risk or regulatory compliance issues and in the event that the level of bonus represents an excessive proportion of the Groups overall profit.
The Committee may claw back bonuses already paid in the event of financial misstatement, an error in the performance condition assessment or gross misconduct.
Performance Share Plan PSP Awards are made annually.
Awards vest subject to continued employment and satisfaction of applicable The maximum award limit under the Policy is 200% of salary face value at date of grant To encourage and reward delivery performance measured over three years.
being the maximum under the plan rules.
of the Groups longer-term Rewards can be made as contingent share awards or nil cost options.
25% of the award vests for threshold performance with a sliding scale of targets to 100% strategic objectives.
Threshold vesting under the relative TSR measure is Performance conditions are based on relative TSR and growth in EPS.
The Committee may use alternative Aligns the interests of Executive for median ranking or above.
measures for future awards if it deems this appropriate.
However not less than one-third of the total award Directors with the interests of will be determined by relative TSR.
Award levels for 2015 will be limited to 175% of salary for the CEO and 150% of salary shareholders through the use for the CFO.
The Committee has an overriding discretion to scale back vesting of the awards in the event that the level of vesting represents an excessive proportion of the Groups overall profit.
EPS is a measure of the Companys overall financial success and TSR The Committee may claw back awards paid in the event of financial misstatement, an error in the provides an external assessment performance condition assessment or gross misconduct.
It Dividend equivalents may be payable on vested shares in respect of dividends earned over the vesting period.
also aligns the rewards received by Executive Directors with the returns 50% of any vested awards net of tax must be held until the minimum shareholding requirement is met received by shareholders.
Pension Pension contributions and or a cash allowance where the lifetime allowance or annual contribution limit is Maximum is 16% of salary.
Provided on a market-competitive exceeded of 16% of salary.
basis, aids retention and follows the general reward structure.
Encourages and assists with responsible provision for retirement.
Benefits Benefits include but are not limited to: There is no prescribed maximum value.
The value is the cost to the Group.
The cost of the To provide market-competitive benefits provision is reviewed by the Committee on a periodic basis.
Family private health care: benefits.
All employee share plans are subject to maximum limits as set by HMRC.
Death in service life assurance: and To ensure well-being of Executive Directors.
Participation in HMRC all-employee share plans.
To aid retention of our best people.
Shareholding guidelines Executive Directors are required to build up shareholdings through the retention of vested PSP awards.
150% of base salary for all Executive Directors.
Alignment of interests of Executive 50% of any vested PSP awards net of tax must be retained until the share ownership guidelines has Directors and shareholders.
Chairmans remuneration and Chairman Details of the current salary of the Chairman and the fee levels for the Non-Executive Non-Executive Director fees The salary and any contractual benefits for the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Directors are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
To remunerate the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors There is no prescribed maximum annual increase.
Total fees will not exceed the amount Non-Executive Directors in an Fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
specified in the Groups Articles of Association of 2,000,000. appropriate way.
The Chairman and Executive Directors are guided by market data for similar Non-Executive roles in other companies of a similar size and complexity as well as the experience and time commitment of its Non-Executive Directors.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 55 Notes to the Policy Table Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity 1 A description of how the Committee intends to Salary Takes account of individual performance, experience and responsibilities and pay as well as conditions in Details of the current salaries for the CEO and CFO are set out in the Annual Report on implement the Policy in 2015 is set out in the To pay Executive Directors at a level the workforce.
However, the Committee Annual Report on Remuneration page 59. commensurate with their contribution is guided by the general increase for the broader employee population.
Set with reference broadly to mid-market levels and to remuneration generally within the Group and other to the Group and appropriately based 2 EPS is a key financial performance for the Group appropriate comparator companies.
Larger increases may be awarded where the Committee determines it appropriate to take on skill, experience and performance providing a good assessment of profitability, into account a change in role and or responsibilities, a significant change in the size, Normally reviewed annually with changes effective from 1 January.
dividend cover and efficient use of share capital to achieved.
composition and or complexity of the Group, the increased experience or performance in fund the Business.
TSR is measured against other Set at a level that maintains an Paid monthly in cash three weeks in arrears and one week in advance.
companies and therefore provides a good measure appropriate balance between fixed of relative stock market performance, with and variable pay ensuring good risk management only being rewarded for the delivery management and no undue emphasis of superior stock market levels of return.
of these measures is considered to be a complementary mix of financial and stock market Annual bonus The Committee sets the performance measures, targets and the weighting between them annually to The maximum bonus opportunity under the Policy has been set at 125% of salary for the performance and focuses on sustainable increases Incentivises and rewards reflect the key priorities for the Business for the year ahead and may vary them from year-to-year.
to profitability and superior stock market returns.
annual delivery of financial and All or a majority of the annual bonus will be weighted to one or more financial measures set on a sliding Bonuses for 2015 will be a maximum of 75% of salary for the CEO and 50% of salary The Committee, in selecting performance measures non-financial objectives.
and setting targets, ensures that there is a strong link between the strategies adopted for the Committee if it determines it appropriate.
Business and the targets set for each PSP award The Committee has overriding discretion to scale back annual bonus payments in the event of, inter alia, and annual bonus cycle.
Performance targets will risk or regulatory compliance issues and in the event that the level of bonus represents an excessive be set annually prior to awards being made with proportion of the Groups overall profit.
regard to the business strategy and economic and market environment at that time.
The Committee The Committee may claw back bonuses already paid in the event of financial misstatement, an error in the has the discretion to vary the performance performance condition assessment or gross misconduct.
conditions and vesting periods set for an existing Bonuses are paid in cash.
PSP award in exceptional circumstances provided an event has occurred which causes the Committee Performance Share Plan PSP Awards are made annually.
Awards vest subject to continued employment and satisfaction of applicable The maximum award limit under the Policy is 200% of salary face value at date of grant to consider that it would be appropriate to do so To encourage and reward delivery performance measured over three years.
and provided that the altered performance of the Groups longer-term condition is, in the reasonable opinion of the Rewards can be made as contingent share awards or nil cost options.
Committee, not materially less difficult to satisfy vesting for maximum performance.
The Committee may use alternative than the unaltered condition would have been but Aligns the interests of Executive for median ranking or above.
However not less than one-third of the total award for the event in question.
The Committee shall act Directors with the interests of will be determined by relative TSR.
Award levels for 2015 will be limited to 175% of salary for the CEO and 150% of salary fairly and reasonably in making the alteration.
shareholders through the use for the CFO.
The Committee has an overriding discretion to scale back vesting of the awards in the event that the level 3 The PSP plan rules contain various discretions of vesting represents an excessive proportion of the Groups overall profit.
which may be exercised by the Committee in the EPS is a measure of the Companys operation of the plan.
Those discretions were set overall financial success and TSR The Committee may claw back awards paid in the event of financial misstatement, an error in the out in the Prospectus for the Groups Listing and provides an external assessment performance condition assessment or gross misconduct.
are incorporated into the Policy by reference.
4 Where appropriate the Committee aims for as also aligns the rewards received by much consistency as possible between the Executive Directors with the returns 50% of any vested awards net of tax must be held until the minimum shareholding requirement is met remuneration policy for Executive Directors and received by shareholders.
for employees across the Group as a whole.
For Pension Pension contributions and or a cash allowance where the lifetime allowance or annual contribution limit is Maximum is 16% of salary.
example all employees including Executive Provided on a market-competitive exceeded of 16% of salary.
Directors participate in similar pension and basis, aids retention and follows the benefits arrangements, and all participate in an general reward structure.
annual bonus plan or profit sharing plan.
The key difference is that only senior employees participate Encourages and assists with in the PSP, which is considered appropriate as responsible provision for retirement.
senior executives are more able to influence the Benefits Benefits include but are not limited to: There is no prescribed maximum value.
The cost of the long term strategic as opposed to operational To provide market-competitive benefits provision is reviewed by the Committee on a periodic basis.
success of the Business, as evidenced by long-term Family private health care: EPS and TSR performance.
encourages and helps facilitate share ownership Death in service life assurance: and To ensure well-being of Executive by all employees by offering participation in the Directors.
Companys Save As You Earn Plan.
Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 56 Directors Remuneration Report continued Illustrations of application of remuneration policy incentives will not exceed 200% of salary not including any The following chart provides an indication of the remuneration arrangements to replace forfeited deferred remuneration.
that each Executive Director might receive in accordance with Participation in the annual bonus plan will normally be pro-rated the Policy for 2015 in respect of minimum fixed pay, on-target for the year of joining and different performance measures may and maximum performance.
be set from those applying to the other Executive Directors, if it is appropriate to do so to reflect the individuals responsibilities The following assumptions have been made in compiling these and the point in the year in which they joined the Board.
The Committee may make additional cash and or share-based Fixed pay for all three scenarios is based on salary levels awards on a one-off basis as it deems appropriate and if the for 2015, the cost of supplying the benefits received for circumstances so demand to replace deferred pay forfeited by 2014 and the current pension policy applied to 2015 salary an Executive Director on leaving a previous employer.
For illustrative purposes, on-target performance under the The Committee has the discretion to make these awards under annual bonus and PSP is shown at 50% of maximum the PSP in excess of the 200% of salary limit or as permitted under the Rule 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules which allows Consistent with the Policy to be applied in 2015, the companies to make one-off share awards in exceptional maximum bonus opportunity is shown as 75% of salary for circumstances, including recruitment.
Awards to replace the Chief Executive Officer and 50% of salary for the Chief deferred remuneration forfeited would, where possible, be Finance Officer.
The PSP grant level is 175% of salary for consistent with the awards forfeited in terms of delivery the Chief Executive Officer and 150% of salary for the mechanism cash or shares, time horizons, attributed expected Chief Finance Officer value and whether or not they were subject to performance No assumptions are made as to share price growth and conditions.
Other payments may be made in relation to dividend accrual, and these have been excluded from relocation expenses, recruitment from abroad, legal and other the analysis.
costs reasonably incurred by the individual in relation to their appointment or the relocation of an existing Executive Director.
000s In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay 1,800 1,776 element awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed 1,600 48% to vest according to its original terms, or adjusted if appropriate to take into account the appointment.
1,400 For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive 1,200 1,170 Director, the fee would be set in accordance with the approved 1,031 1,000 36% Policy in force at that time.
The length of service and notice 47% periods shall be set at the discretion of the Committee, taking 800 20% into account market practice, corporate governance 705 600 16% considerations and the particular candidate at that time.
565 35% 100% 48% 400 32% 380 16% Service contracts and policy on payment for loss 11% 100% 54% 37% of office 200 The Companys policy is that service contracts do not have a 0 specific duration but may be terminated with 12 months notice Fixed pay On-target Maximum Fixed pay On-target Maximum from the Company or the Executive Director.
Chief Executive Officer Chief Finance Officer Under their letters of appointment Non-Executive Directors serve for an initial three-year period subject to annual Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term incentives reappointment at the AGM.
Non-Executive Directors appointment is terminable by either party on three months Approach to recruitment remuneration written notice except where the Director is not reappointed The Committee will aim to set a new Executive Directors by shareholders, in which case termination is with immediate remuneration package in line with the Policy approved effect.
The appointment letters for the Non-Executive Directors by shareholders.
provide that no compensation is payable on termination, other In arriving at a total package and in considering quantum for than for accrued fees and expenses.
each element of the package, the Committee will take into The Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are account the skills and experience of a candidate, the market available for inspection at the Groups registered office.
rate for a candidate of that experience, as well as the importance of securing the preferred candidate.
Annual bonus The obligations of the Group in respect of remuneration and potential will not exceed 125% of salary and long-term payments for loss of office are set out on the next page.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 57 Under their service contracts the Executive Directors are salary payable in a lump sum on termination and six months entitled to salary reviewed annually, pension contributions salary payable in monthly instalments from the seventh month and benefits.
The Chairman is entitled to salary reviewed to the twelfth month, subject to offset against any earnings annually, private health cover and use of a driver for business elsewhere during that period in any new role.
In addition, and a portion of personal travel and these are payable for their statutory entitlements or sums to settle or compromise claims notice period with an obligation to mitigate.
in connection with a termination would be paid as necessary.
The service agreements of the Chairman and the Executive The Committee has a policy framework for payments for loss Directors can be terminated by not less than 12 months notice of office by an Executive Director, both in relation to the service by either party.
The Company may put the Chairman and the contract and incentive pay, which is summarised below.
Executive Directors on gardening leave during their notice The recent performance of the Executive Director will be taken period, and can elect to terminate employment by making a into account as a determining factor in the reason for the payment in lieu of notice equivalent to up to 12 months salary.
cessation and, therefore, the termination payment and exercise This payment may be made as either a lump sum on of the Committees discretion as are set out below.
termination or with an amount equivalent to up to six months Category A Category B Category C Voluntary resignation and Agreed terms Death or cessation by reason termination for cause of disability, injury, or where the individuals employing business leaves the Group Base salary, Paid only until employment Paid for the notice period, Paid only until employment pension and ceases.
ceases or for notice period benefits.
subject to mitigation depending on the reason for cessation.
Treatment will normally Cessation during the financial fall between A and C, subject year or after the financial year to the discretion of the end, but before payment date, Committee, the terms of any may result in bonus being termination agreement and payable pro-rated for the the reasons for the Executive proportion of the financial year Directors departure.
worked unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Vested unexercised, and Treatment will normally Awards will normally vest at the unvested long-term incentive fall between A and C, subject usual time subject to performance awards lapse on cessation of to the discretion of the conditions being met.
Committee, the terms of any In the event of death of a termination agreement and participant, awards will typically the reasons for the Executive vest early.
In other exceptional Directors departure.
circumstances, awards may vest early subject to performance at the date of cessation of employment.
Awards are usually scaled back pro rata to reflect the shorter period of service but with the Committee having discretion not to scale back or to reduce the scale back.
Possible disbursements such as legal costs and outplacement services.
Note 1 If the Committee determines, in the circumstances of a leaver, that a PSP award shall vest before the end of the full performance period then where the performance condition does not specifically provide for early measurement, the Committee has the discretion to determine, on such reasonable basis as it decides, whether the performance condition has been satisfied.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 58 Directors Remuneration Report continued Provisions on a takeover and other corporate events In the circumstances of a takeover or other corporate event, outstanding PSP awards will vest at that time subject to satisfaction of the applicable performance conditions and scaled back to take account of the shorter period of service but with the Committee having discretion not to scale back or to reduce the scale back if it considers it appropriate to do so.
Where the performance condition under the PSP does not specifically provide for early measurement, the Committee has the discretion to determine, on such reasonable basis as it decides, whether the performance condition has been satisfied.
In the event of a takeover or other corporate event the Committee shall determine the extent if at all that any applicable performance targets have been achieved under the annual bonus plan, taking into account such factors as it considers appropriate given the curtailed performance period.
External appointments of Executive Directors The Executive Directors may accept outside appointments, with prior Board approval, provided these opportunities do not impact negatively on the individuals ability to perform their duties at the Group and the Committee shall decide whether the Executive Director may retain the fee payable for such appointments.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 59 Annual Report on Remuneration This report, together with the Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM.
The information that has been audited is separately identified as audited.
How the remuneration policy will be applied for the year ending 31 December 2015 A summary of how the Policy will be applied during the forthcoming year is set out below.
Salaries for Executive Directors The Executive Directors salaries were reviewed in December 2014.
The table shows the salaries as at 1 January 2014 and 1 January 2015.
Salary as at Salary as at 1 January 2015 1 January 2014 % increase Stuart Vann Chief Executive Officer 484,500 475,000 2% Darren Ogden Chief Finance Officer 325,500 310,000 5% Darren Ogden received an increase of 5% in comparison to the 2.6% average employee increase in 2014.
This increase reflects his increased experience in the role.
His last salary review was at the time of the IPO in March 2013.
This gives an effective annual increase of 2.5%.
Salary for the Chairman The Chairmans salary has not been increased for 2015.
The current salary is as follows: Salary as at Salary as at 1 January 2015 1 January 2014 % increase Chairman 730,000 730,000 0% Fees for the Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors fees have not been increased for 2015.
A summary of current fees policy is as follows: 2015 2014 % increase Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 125,000 125,000 0% Base fee 60,000 60,000 0% Committee Chairman 10,000 10,000 0% The role of Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director is held by one person for which a single annual fee is payable encompassing all Board duties.
Annual bonus The maximum bonus potential for the year ending 31 December 2015 will remain at 75% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 50% of salary for the Chief Finance Officer.
The performance measures will be Group trading profit for 75% of the maximum bonus available and personal and customer performance measures for the remaining 25%.
The forward-looking targets are considered to be commercially sensitive.
Performance Share Plan PSP PSP awards to be granted to the Chief Executive Officer in 2015 will be shares worth 175% of salary and to the Chief Finance Officer 150% of salary the same as 2014.
The 2015 awards will be subject to two independent performance conditions.
Two-thirds of the award will be determined by reference to growth in earnings per share and one-third will be determined by reference to relative total shareholder return as set out below.
Performance will be measured over a three-year period beginning on 1 January 2015.
Awards will vest, subject to performance, on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
Threshold Maximum 1 1 Performance condition 25% vesting 100% vesting Earnings per share growth 15% over the 3 year 39% over the 3 year performance period performance period Relative total shareholder return against the constituents of the FTSE 250 at Median performance Upper quartile the date of grant excluding investment trusts and the Company performance 1 There will be straight-line vesting in between these points.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 60 Directors Remuneration Report continued The TSR target and the maximum EPS growth target are the same as those set for the 2014 awards.
The EPS range has been set taking into account current market conditions.
The Committee is confident that these targets are appropriately challenging given the market conditions.
Remuneration payable for the financial year 2014 1 January 2014 31 December 2014 audited The table below sets out the remuneration received by the Directors in relation to performance in 2014.
The Chairmans benefits include private healthcare and the use of a driver.
2 V alue of benefits for the Chairman after deducting qualifying business usage from the total cost of the benefit provided by the Company.
The 2012 and 2013 value of benefits was estimated and has been reduced by 1,635 in 2012 and 12,304 in 2013 compared with previously reported amounts following agreement of qualifying business usage with HMRC.
3 This includes 16% of salary in cash allowance in lieu of pension pension contribution.
4 This relates to the payment of the annual bonus for the years ending 31 December 2013 and 2014.
5 There were no long-term incentives with performance periods ending in the financial years 2014 and 2013.
6 Mara Dolores Dancausa was appointed to the Board on 9 December 2013 and did not provide services to the Group in any other capacity in 2013.
7 Mike Evans was appointed to the Board on 10 June 2013 and did not provide services to the Group in any other capacity in 2013.
8 Shirley Garrood w as appointed to the Board on 31 July 2013 and did not provide services to the Group in any other capacity during 2013.
Shirley was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 30 July 2014 with effect from 1 October 2014.
9 Peter Ward stepped down as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 30 July 2014, taking effect on 30 September 2014. esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 61 Annual bonus for the year ending 31 December 2014 audited The annual bonus for 2014 was based 75% on a financial measure and, for the first time in 2014, 25% on personal and customer measures.
The financial measure is assessed on Groups trading profit with reference to a sliding scale.
Actual trading profit was 115.4 million which was between threshold and target performance and represented a solid set of financial results given market conditions.
The personal measures focus on the delivery of esures strategic priorities and developing organisational capability and enhancing succession plans.
The customer measure focuses on embedding a culture that places customers are at the heart of esures business and is based on achievement against a wide range of measures which are assessed monthly and cover the broad range of customer outcomes.
The scale for the personal and customer measures ranges from not achieved to fully achieved.
The Committee deemed the objectives to be fully achieved for 2014 and this was independently reviewed by the Chief Risk Officer.
The outcome during 2014 is set out below: Max opportunity % of salary Actual % achieved Executive Financial Non-financial Overall Financial Non-financial Total Stuart Vann 56.25% 18.75% 75.00% 20.95% 18.75% 39.70% 188,575 Darren Ogden 37.50% 12.50% 50.00% 13.97% 12.50% 26.47% 82,057 The 2014 financial targets are not disclosed in this report as they are considered commercially sensitive by the Board, given the close link between performance targets and long term strategy.
In addition, the Committee believes disclosing targets would put esure at a competitive disadvantage.
The Committee will disclose targets when they are no longer deemed commercially sensitive.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to scale back annual bonus payments in the event of, inter alia, risk or regulatory compliance issues and also in the event that the level of bonus represents, in the Committees view, an excessive proportion of the Groups overall profitability.
There were no events in 2014 which led the Committee to determine that a scale back of the annual bonus payment was appropriate.
In addition, the Committee did not consider that the level of bonus represented an excessive proportion of the Groups overall profitability such that it should be scaled back.
Vesting of long-term incentive awards for performance periods ending during the year ending 31 December 2014 audited There were no PSP awards, the vesting of which is determined by performance periods ending during the year ending 31 December 2014.
PSP awards made during the year audited On 16 April 2014, the second awards under the PSP were made to the Executive Directors as follows.
Number of Share price shares over Basis of award on date which award Face value % of face value which Performance period Executive Type of award granted of grant was granted of award would vest at threshold determining vesting Stuart Vann Performance share 175% 2.4526 338,926 831,250 25% of total award TSR EPS conditions of salary 8.33% under 3 years TSR condition 1 January 2014 to Darren Ogden Performance share 150% 2.4526 189,594 464,998 16.66% under 31 December 2016 of salary EPS condition The vesting of the awards is subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions set by the Committee as set out below.
The awards will normally vest on the third anniversary of grant, subject to determination of the performance conditions.
Outstanding share awards audited The table below sets out details of Executive Directors outstanding share awards.
As is the case with all savings-related share option schemes, there are no performance criteria.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 62 Directors Remuneration Report continued Outstanding PSP awards PSP awards are subject to an Earnings per Share EPS growth target for two-thirds of the award and a relative Total Shareholder Return TSR target for one-third of the award.
Earnings per share growth targets 2013 Awards 2014 Awards The table provides the target growth at threshold and maximum for 2013 and 2014.
EPS targets rise from threshold to maximum and vest Threshold 25% vesting 21% 15% in between on a straight-line basis.
EPS is measured over a three-year Stretch 100% vesting 39% 39% period from the 2012 and 2013 EPS respectively.
TSR target the Groups TSR is ranked against the constituents of the FTSE 250 index at the date of grant excluding investment trusts and the Company.
25% of this part of the award subject to the TSR target vests for median performance rising on a straightline basis to 100% vesting for upper quartile ranking or above.
TSR is measured over the period starting with the Listing date and ending on 31 December 2015 for the 2013 award and between 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2016 for the 2014 award.
PSP post-vesting holding periods Under the PSP Executive Directors have agreed to retain any shares net of tax for a six-month period post-vesting.
Sourcing of shares dilution limits In compliance with the ABI guidelines, the rules of the PSP, the Group Sharesave Plan the Sharesave Plan and Share Incentive Plan SIP provide that, in any period of ten calendar years, not more than 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital may be issued under the PSP, Sharesave Plan or SIP and any other employee share scheme adopted by the Company.
In addition, the PSP provides that in any period of ten calendar years, not more than 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital may be issued under the PSP and any other executive share plan adopted by the Company.
The Company operates within these limits, currently 1.3% in all employee share scheme plans and 0.9% in Executive Plans.
Directors shareholdings and share interests audited To align the interests of the Executive Directors with shareholders, Executive Directors are required to build up shareholdings equivalent to 150% of salary, through the retention of shares vesting under the Companys share plans.
Executive Directors are required to retain at least 50% of their net-of-tax value of any vested PSP awards, until such time as the share ownership target has been met.
Outstanding Outstanding Shareholding Beneficially Beneficially PSP awards Sharesave as % of salary owned at owned at with awards without Shareholding achieved at 1 January 31 December performance performance guideline 31 December 1 Director 2014 2014 conditions conditions % of salary 2014 Stuart Vann 2,095,042 2,095,042 625,563 0 150% 901% Darren Ogden 1,210,498 1,210,498 349,938 4,639 150% 797% Peter Wood 128,609,655 128,609,655 Dame Helen Alexander 86,351 86,351 Anthony Hobson 236,187 236,187 Anne Richards 0 0 Peter Ward 236,187 236,187 Mike Evans 0 0 Shirley Garrood 0 0 Mara Dolores Dancausa 0 0 Calculated using a share price of 204.2p as at 31 December 2014.
Note: No changes have taken place to any Directors shareholdings between 31 December 2014 and 9 March 2015. esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 63 Total shareholder return Chief Executive Officers total remuneration The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the 140 Chief Executive Officer in 2013 and 2014.
There were no long-term incentive awards where vesting is determined by 120 a performance period ending in the year of the report.
Total Annual bonus PSP vesting 100 remuneration % of max % of max 80 2014 742,061 52.9% N A 2013 662,576 50.2% N A 60 Relative importance of the spend on remuneration 40 The chart below compares for 2014, the actual expenditure on total remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the 20 Group with distributions to shareholders by way of dividend, profit before tax, corporation tax payable in respect of the 0 financial year 2014, profit before tax and retained profit.
27 Mar 2013 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 2014 FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts The Company 54m Staff costs 2013 52m Performance graph 103m The chart above shows the Companys TSR performance against Profit before tax the performance of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment 118m trusts from 27 March 2013 being the first day of Listing to 31 21m Corporation December 2014.
The FTSE 250 index excluding investment tax 25m trusts was chosen as being a broad equity market index, which includes companies of a comparable size and complexity.
70m Dividend 66m Percentage change in Chief Executive Officers remuneration 12m Retained The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change profit 27m in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between the year 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 ended 31 December 2014 and the year ended 31 December 2013 for the Chief Executive Officer compared to the average All-employee share plans esure Group employee during the year.
The Board adopted two all-employee share plans in 2013: the Annual SIP and the Sharesave Plan.
Participation is currently being 1 2 1 Salary Benefits Bonus offered under the Sharesave Plan to employees including the Chief Executive Officer 0% 37.3% 24.1% Executive Directors.
Under the 2014 Sharesave Plan employees Employee increase 2.6% 37.3% 13.9% can save up to 500 a month from 250 in 2013 to purchase shares on the exercise of their Sharesave options at a purchase 1 R eflects the change year-on-year for employees employed in both the price of 80% of market value at the date of grant.
year ended 31 December 2013 and the year ended 31 December 2014.
Stuart Vanns salary was 475,000 at both year-end 2014 and year-end Remuneration Committee governance 2013 having received a salary increase at IPO.
His salary was next The Committee is governed by formal terms of reference agreed by increased in January 2015. the Board.
The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed 2 Comparison is made year-on-year of the Chief Executive Officer and on the Companys website at www.
com corporateemployees with the same benefits.
Percentage change reflects change information corporate-governance  in premium of Private Medical Insurance.
The responsibilities of the Committee include: determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy and total individual remuneration packages of the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior management, including, where relevant, benefits and pension arrangements, determining and agreeing with the Board any performance-related pay schemes for senior management and overseeing any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group.
No Director or executive shall be involved in any decisions as to his or her own remuneration.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 64 Directors Remuneration Report continued The members of the Committee during the financial year and External advisors their attendance at the meetings of the Committee were: The Committee is advised by New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name of Aon Hewitt being a subsidiary of Aon plc.
NBS Number of was appointed by the Remuneration Committee in 2011.
NBS meetings attended out meets with the Remuneration Committee Chairman at least of potential once a year to discuss matters such as topical issues in maximum remuneration which are of particular relevance to the Company, 1 Mike Evans Committee Chairman 4 5 and how best it can work with the Company to meet the Dame Helen Alexander 5 5 Committees needs.
Shirley Garrood 5 5 Aon Benfield which is part of Aon but is a separate business Anthony Hobson 5 5 division to Aon Hewitt are the Groups reinsurance brokers.
Peter Ward 5 5 The total fees paid to NBS in respect of its services to 1 As of 1 January 2015 Dame Helen Alexander stepped down as Chairman the Committee for the year ending 31 December 2014 and Mike Evans was appointed as the new Chairman.
Fees are predominantly charged on a time spent basis.
All of the members of the Remuneration Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors, as defined under the NBS were appointed as external advisors prior to the Corporate Governance Code.
Company Listing in 2013, after a robust tending process.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the advice The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer, received from external advisors was independent.
Chief Risk Officer and HR Director may, by invitation, attend meetings, except when their own remuneration is discussed.
No External directorships of Executive Directors Director is involved in determining his or her own remuneration.
Stuart Vann is currently a Director of Gocompare, a limited None of the Committee members have had any personal company registered in England and Wales, in which esure financial interest, except as shareholders, in the matters decided.
Stuart Vann receives The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
no additional remuneration for this role.
The Executive Directors currently hold no other directorships.
Statement of voting at the AGM At the AGM on 13 May 2014 the annual advisory votes were as follows: Proportion Shares in Votes for Votes against of share which votes Resolution and percentage of votes cast and percentage of votes cast capital voting were withheld Remuneration report for year ended 31 December 2013 333,515,008 99.85% 490,870 0.15% 80.61% 1,489,136 To approve the directors remuneration policy 333,040,185 99.02% 3,292,278 0.98% 80.69% 1,162,550 Approval This Directors Remuneration Report, including both the Policy and Annual Remuneration Report, has been approved by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Mike Evans Chairman of the Remuneration Committee esure Group Annual Report 2014
