Neither he, nor the chairman of the board, participate in decisions Remuneration committee report on their own remuneration.
The group human resources director normally The committee was made up of the following independent attends, and other executives may attend relevant parts of meetings.
The committee consults other relevant committees of the board, for example the SEEAC, on issues relating to the exercise of its judgement or Members discretion.
Antony Burgmans chairman Advice George David During 2014 David Jackson, the company secretary, who is employed by Ian Davis the company and reports to the chairman of the board, acted as secretary to the remuneration committee.
The company secretary periodically Professor Dame Ann Dowling reviews the independence of the committees advisers.
In addition, Carl-Henric Svanberg and Bob Dudley normally attend the Gerrit Aronson, an independent consultant, is the committees meetings except for matters relating to their own remuneration.
He is engaged directly by the committee.
He advises the chairman, the board and the nomination committee on a variety of Key responsibilities governance issues.
Advice and services on particular remuneration The committees tasks were reviewed during the year and are as follows: matters were also received from other external advisers appointed by the committee.
t Determine the policy for the chairman and the executive directors the policy for inclusion in the remuneration policy for all directors as required Towers Watson provided information on the global remuneration market, by the regulations.
Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer LLP provided legal advice on specic compliance matters to the committee.
t Review and determine as appropriate the terms of engagement, Both rms provide other advice in their respective areas to the group.
remuneration and termination of employment of the chairman and the executive directors in accordance with the policy, and be responsible for Total fees or other charges based on an hourly rate paid in 2014 to the compliance with all remuneration issues relating to the chairman and the above advisers for the provision of remuneration advice to the committee executive directors required by the regulations.
as set out above save in respect of legal advice are as follows: t Prepare for the board an annual report to shareholders on the Gerrit Aronson 140,000 implementation of the policy, so far as it relates to the chairman and the Towers Watson 23,400 executive directors, as required by the regulations.
t Approve the principles of any equity plan for which shareholder approval Activities during the year is to be sought.
During the year, the committee met five times.
Key discussions and t Approve the terms of the remuneration including pension and decision items are shown in the table below.
termination arrangements of the executive team as proposed by the Remuneration committee 2014 meetings group chief executive GCE.
Jan May Jul Sept Dec t Approve changes to the design of remuneration as proposed by the Strategy and policy GCE, for the group leaders of the company.
Review and approve DRR for 2014 AGM t Monitor implementation of remuneration for group leaders to ensure alignment and proportionality.
Review and approve EDIP for 2014 AGM t Consider DRR votes from 2014 AGM Engage such independent consultants or other advisers as the committee may from time to time deem necessary, at the expense of Review committee tasks and operation the company.
Salary review In these tasks regulations shall mean regulations made under the Executive directors Companies Act 2006 from time to time in relation to the remuneration of Executive team and leadership group directors of quoted companies, the UK Corporate Governance Code Annual bonus adopted by the Financial Reporting Council from time to time and the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules from time to time.
Assess performance Determine bonus for 2013 Committee review and composition Agree measures and targets for 2014 The board evaluation process included a separate questionnaire on the work of the remuneration committee.
The results were analysed by an external Review measures for 2015 consultant and discussed at the committees meeting in December 2014.
Consider measures and targets for 2015 Processes continued to be rated as good to excellent and a number of Long-term equity plan topics for more in-depth discussion were identied.
In particular the committee decided to schedule a longer strategy meeting each year.
Assess performance Determine vesting of 2011-2013 plan George David stands down from the board at the next annual general meeting and will leave the committee.
Alan Boeckmann and Andrew Determine vesting of 2010 deferred bonus Shilston will join the committee after that meeting.
Agree measures, targets and awards for 2014-2016 plan Professor Dame Ann Dowling will take the chair of the committee in June 2015.
Antony Burgmans will remain a member of the committee.
Review measures for 2015-2017 plan Consider measures and targets Independence and advice for 2015-2017 plan Independence Other items The committee operates with a high level of independence.
The board considers all committee members to be independent with no personal Review principles for target setting financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the committees decisions.
and disclosure Other issues as required Consultation The GCE is consulted on the remuneration of the other executive directors and the executive team and on matters relating to the performance of the 74 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014
