Directors remuneration report Chairmans annual statement We are responding to these concerns and are committed to making as full a retrospective disclosure of those targets that we are able to, subject to condentiality.
I believe that this is demonstrated in this years report, particularly in the tables relating to annual bonus and performance shares.
In terms of overall quantum of remuneration, I have previously made clear that the committee understands the concerns felt in society and by some shareholders.
The committee, however, believes that these concerns are properly recognized and balanced in the way in which the policy is framed and implemented.
At the time of our last report, the outcome for the performance shares was based on an estimated second place for relative reserves replacement.
Once results for the oil majors were publicly available it was assessed that BP was in first place, resulting in a vesting of 45.5%.
The awards were adjusted and announced accordingly.
Finally, in July, Iain Conn agreed with the board that he would stand down as a director on 31 December 2014.
Iain has made a significant contribution to the company over his long career and, on this basis, the Dear shareholder, terms of his departure were agreed with the committee within the policy.
2014 started strongly but, as others have commented in this report, ended The terms were promptly communicated on BPs website and are set out more turbulently as the price of oil fell, mainly in the last quarter.
This again later in this report.
formed the backdrop for the decisions of the committee at the end of 2014.
The work of the committee is governed by a number of overriding 2014 outcomes principles.
Key among these is seeking a fair outcome in reward that is BP has performed well in increasingly difficult circumstances.
This has linked to BPs immediate and long-term performance and strategy delivery.
been demonstrated by the delivery of the 10-point plan, which the board As part of this, the committee seeks to ensure that variable remuneration approved as BPs strategic direction in 2011.
In considering performance in is based on underlying performance and is not driven by factors over which 2014 and its effect on remuneration, two areas stand out.
Firstly, a key the directors have no control.
All of this work is carried out within the policy milestone in delivery of the plan was achieving $32.8 billion of operating framework that was approved overwhelmingly by shareholders earlier in cash ow.
The excellent performance in this measure had a strong the year.
inuence on both the annual bonus and the performance share element.
In this context: The second area with an equally strong inuence was safety.
Over the three years of the performance share element, performance improved by t 2014 saw the end of an improving three-year period for BP.
This is more than 15% on two of the measures and over 60% on one measure.
demonstrated elsewhere in the report.
The high-performance gearing in remuneration of the executive directors reects good business results Annual bonus through an overall increase in remuneration compared to last year.
Measures for the annual bonus that focused on safety and value were t The world is a more uncertain place in 2015.
BP has responded broadly largely unchanged from previous years to encourage continuity of to this, including freezing salaries, and the committee has refocused the performance and delivery.
There had been a strong safety performance in measures for the annual bonus to reect new challenges.
We seek continuous improvement in this area and the targets for 2014 were ambitious.
Against that background, performance was mixed t There are clear concerns in society and among shareholders that and showed a modest improvement.
remuneration for executive directors is simply too much.
The policy, now approved by shareholders, is clear and recognizes these concerns Operating cash stood out as being well ahead of target but underlying particularly by placing limits on the amounts that can be awarded.
replacement cost profit was below.
Seven projects started up in 2014, Equally, this remuneration has to be appropriate to be aligned with the making 16 major projects start-ups since the beginning of 2012.
All of global market for talent in which BP works.
Here the committee has to this resulted in a group performance score of 1.10, compared with a score strike a balance.
The committee felt that this score reasonably reected the overall performance for the year.
Following elections by the executive 2014 in retrospect directors, one third of this bonus will be paid in cash and two thirds in shares that are deferred for three years and matched.
There is Our remuneration policy was approved at the 2014 AGM for a three-year period.
At the same meeting, a number of shareholders voted against or retrospective disclosure of many of the targets for the annual bonus later in this report.
withheld their votes on our annual remuneration report.
There were several reasons for this.
There were concerns around our commitment to Deferred bonus disclosure of targets, whether prospectively or retrospectively, and the 2011 deferred bonus share awards became eligible for vesting at the end need for additional disclosure when the committee was exercising of 2014.
Vesting is dependent on safety and environmental sustainability judgements around qualitative measures.
Some shareholders believed that performance over that period.
The committee reviewed this in consultation the overall remuneration of the executive directors was excessive.
Based on strong and consistent improvement and no significant incidents, the deferred and matching shares vested in full.
72 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014
