Remuneration Report Directors Annual Report on Remuneration Shareholders will be asked to approve this Directors Directors shareholdings Annual Report on Remuneration at the forthcoming The Directors who served during the year held the Annual General Meeting.
following interests in the Companys Ordinary Shares at the year end: Directors emoluments for the year The Directors who served during the year received Directors share interests audited the following emoluments in the form of fees: 2014 2013 Simon Fraser 36,646 36,508 Fees for services to the Company audited Sarah Arkle 10,000 10,000 2014 2013 Sir Roger Bone 50,855 46,617 Director 000s 000s Stephen Burley 25,000 25,000 1 Simon Fraser 69.0 69.0 Francesca Ecsery 3,614 Sarah Arkle 38.0 38.0 Jeffrey Hewitt 17,579 15,652 Sir Roger Bone 36.0 36.0 Christopher Keljik 63,001 61,788 Stephen Burley 38.0 38.0 Nicholas Moakes 1,252 1,252 2 Francesca Ecsery 33.0 13.8 Nicholas Moakes also holds 21,792 units in the Old Mutual Wealth Jeffrey Hewitt 43.0 43.0 F&C Investment Fund, a collective investment fund investing solely in the Companys shares.
Christopher Keljik 47.3 47.3 The Companys register of Directors interests contains full details of Nicholas Moakes 36.0 36.0 Directors shareholdings.
Total 340.3 321.1 Since the year end, the following Directors have 1 Highest paid Director 2 Appointed a Director on 1 August 2013 acquired further ordinary shares: Simon Fraser 31, Christopher Keljik 9,238, Sir Roger Bone 685, The table below shows the actual expenditure Jeffrey Hewitt 306 and Francesca Ecsery 17.
There during the year in relation to Directors remuneration have been no changes in any of the other Directors and shareholder distributions: shareholdings detailed above.
No Director held any interests in the issued stocks or shares of the 2014 2013 % Company other than as stated above.
Actual expenditure 000s 000s Change As at 27 February 2015 the Fund Manager held Aggregate Directors 47,462 shares in the Company.
340.3 321.1 6.0 Remuneration Aggregate Dividends paid 52,180 49,862 4.6 Company Performance to Shareholders The Board is responsible for the Companys Aggregate cost of ordinary 30,983 24,573 26.1 investment strategy and performance, whilst the shares repurchased management of the investment portfolio is delegated to the Manager.
The graph on page 36 compares, for the six financial years ended 31 December 2014, the total return assuming all dividends are reinvested to ordinary shareholders compared to the Companys benchmark, the FTSE All World Index.
An explanation of the performance of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2014 is given in the Chairmans Statement and Fund Managers Review.
Report and Accounts 2014 35 Remuneration Report Directors Annual Report on Remuneration continued Benchmark total return over six years 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 Dec 09 10 11 12 13 Dec 08 14 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust share price total return FTSE All World Index GBP Source: Morningstar UK Limited It is a company law requirement to compare the performance of the Companys share price to a single broad equity market index.
As the Managers performance is measured against its benchmark, the FTSE All World Index GBP, the benchmark performance has been shown as the comparator.
A ten-year performance graph can be found on page 4.
On behalf of the Board Simon Fraser Chairman 2 March 2015 36 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Audit Committee I am delighted to present to you the Report of the their reappointment, remuneration and terms of Audit Committee for the year ended 31 December engagement: 2014.
This was a busy year particularly introducing the The policy on the engagement of the external Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, which auditor to supply non-audit services: further strengthens F&Cs existing internal controls and The need for the Company to have its own internal risk management structure.
We also dealt with the audit function: competitive tendering of the external audit, which was The implications of proposed new accounting a valuable process.
PwC, the incumbent, retained the standards and regulatory changes: audit with a progressive service offering and lowered The receipt of AAF and SSAE16 reports or their fees.
This year, the committee has evolved from the equivalent from F&C, the Custodian, the private Audit and Management Engagement Committee equity managers and the sub-managers and a due to focus on the audit elements.
A new Management diligence report from the Companys share registrars: Engagement Committee has been formed comprising The performance of the Companys third party service all members of the Board to take on the other roles providers and administrators, other than F&C, and the and this will strengthen overall governance.
fees charged in respect of those services: Counterparty approval and F&Cs dealing efficiency Role of the committee and associated costs: The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee Investment and leverage restrictions including limits are to monitor the integrity of the financial reporting on the writing of options: and statements of the Company, and to oversee The Companys trade marks and intellectual the audit of the annual accounts, preparation of property rights: the half yearly accounts and the internal control The Companys Directors and Officers liability and risk management processes.
The committee insurance: and met five times during the year with F&Cs Head The committees terms of reference.
of Trust Accounting, Head of Investment Trusts, Comprehensive papers and reports, including Head of Business Risk and the Fund Manager in recommendations, relating to each of these matters attendance.
The external auditor PwC attended all were prepared by either F&C or the Auditor for of the scheduled committee meetings and twice met discussion.
These were debated by the Committee in private session with the committee.
For the audit and any recommendations were fully considered if tendering process other members of the Board also there was a judgement to be applied in arriving at joined in certain of these meetings.
Recommendations were then made to Specifically, the committee considered, monitored the Board as appropriate.
and reviewed the following matters: As last year, the Board sought the advice of the The audited annual results statement and annual committee as to whether the Annual Report taken as report and accounts and the half-yearly report and a whole was fair, balanced and understandable.
The accounts and interim management statements: committee reviewed the draft Annual Report in light of The accounting policies of the Company and the this requirement and also put an arms-length process allocation of management expenses and interest in place to provide additional comfort from a wider costs between capital and revenue: perspective that the Annual Report and Accounts met To advise the Board as to whether the Annual the necessary standards.
The committee was satisfied Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, and advised the Board as such.
balanced and understandable: The Board retains ultimate responsibility for all The effectiveness of the Companys internal control aspects relating to external financial statements and and risk management environment: other significant published financial information as The effectiveness of the audit process and the indeis noted in the Directors Responsibility Statement pendence and objectivity of the external auditor, on page 42.
On broader control policy issues, the committee has reviewed, and is satisfied with, Report and Accounts 2014 37 Report of the Audit Committee continued F&Cs Anti-Fraud, Bribery and Corruption Strategy department provides regular control report updates and Policy and with the whistleblowing policy to the committee covering risk and compliance that has been put in place by F&C under which issues and internal audit team findings that might its staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about affect the Company.
The significant issues considered possible improprieties in financial reporting or other by the committee, and F&Cs control report to the matters.
The necessary arrangements are in place committees on policies and procedures in operation in for communication to this committee where matters 2014, are discussed below.
The department produces a key risk summary to help identify the risks to which the Company Composition of the committee is exposed and the controls in place and actions Committee membership is listed on pages 20 and 21 being taken to mitigate them.
The Board discusses and its terms of reference can be found on the website the resulting risk matrix at each of its meetings and at www.
All the committee dynamically reviews the significance of the risks members are independent non-executive Directors.
and the reasons for any changes.
The Companys I, Jeffrey Hewitt, am chairman of the committee and principal risks are set out on page 18 with additional a Chartered Accountant and was for many years information given in note 26 on the accounts.
Group Finance Director of Electrocomponents plc, The systems of internal controls are designed to as well as currently being audit committee chairman manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to of other listed companies.
The other members of the achieve business objectives and can only provide committee have a combination of financial, investment reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against and business experience through the senior posts material misstatement, or loss or fraud.
Further to the held throughout their careers.
review by the committee, the Board has assessed the effectiveness of the internal control systems.
Internal controls and management of risk This included a review of the F&C risk management The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys infrastructure and the report on policies and procedures systems of internal controls, for reviewing their in operation and tests for the period 1 January to effectiveness and ensuring that risk management and 31 December 2014 the Report.
This has been control processes are embedded in the day-to-day prepared by F&C for all its investment trust clients to the operations, which are managed via the Manager by standards of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in F&C.
The committee has reviewed and reported to England and Wales Technical Release AAF 01 06. the Board on these controls, which aim to ensure Containing a report from independent external that the assets of the Company are safeguarded, accountants, KPMG, the Report sets out F&Cs proper accounting records are maintained, and control policies and procedures with respect the financial information used within the business to the management of its clients investments and for publication is reliable.
Control of the risks and maintenance of their financial records.
identified, covering financial, operational, compliance The effectiveness of these controls is monitored and overall risk management, is exercised by the by F&Cs Group Audit Committee, which receives committee through regular reports provided by regular reports from its Internal Audit department.
The reports cover investment performance, Procedures are also in place to capture and performance attribution, compliance with agreed and evaluate any failings and weaknesses within F&Cs regulatory investment restrictions, financial analyses, control environment and those extending to any revenue estimates, performance of the third party outsourced service providers to ensure that action administrators of the F&C savings plans and on would be taken to remedy any significant issues.
The committee Any errors or breaches relating to the Company has direct access to F&Cs Group Audit Committee are reported at each Board meeting by F&C.
No and Head of Business Risk for internal audit and failings or weaknesses material to the overall control risk management activities.
F&Cs Business Risk environment and financial statements were identified 38 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Significant Issues considered by the Audit Committee in 2014 Matter Action Investment Portfolio Valuation The Companys portfolio is invested in securities The committee reviewed F&Cs, the sub-managers listed on recognised stock exchanges and in and private equity managers annual internal control private equity investments.
The listed securities reports which are reported on by independent external are highly liquid.
The private equity portfolio accountants and which detail the systems and controls comprises funds of funds holding a diversity around the daily pricing and valuation of securities.
of unlisted investments whose values are The committee reviewed the valuation of the unlisted subjective.
Errors in valuation of the portfolio portfolio in detail twice in the year and had access to the could have a material impact on the Companys managers of the private equity funds of funds.
net asset value per share.
Misappropriation of Assets Misappropriation of the Companys investments The committee reviewed F&Cs annual internal control or cash balances could have a material impact report for the year ended 31 December 2014 which details on its net asset value per share.
the controls around the reconciliation of F&Cs records to those of the Custodian.
The committee also reviewed the Custodians latest annual internal control reports, which is reported on by independent external accountants and which provides details regarding its control environment.
The Depositary has issued reports via the Manager confirming the safe custody of the Companys assets for the periods since implementation of the AIFMD to 31 December 2014.
Income Recognition Incomplete or inaccurate recognition could have The committee reviewed F&Cs annual internal control an adverse effect on the Companys net asset report and updates.
It also compared the final level of value and earnings per share and its level of income received against forecasts made during the year dividend cover.
and discussed the accounting treatment of special or unusual dividends with F&C.
The committee also Based on processes and controls in place within reviewed the control reports of the Custodian, the F&C, the committee has concluded that there is no Depositary, third party sub-managers, private equity current need for the Company to have an internal audit managers and the Registrar and were satisfied that function and the Board has concurred.
there were no material exceptions.
The committee has noted the revised Corporate Through the reviews noted above and by direct Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting enquiry of F&C and other relevant parties, the Council in September 2014 which strengthens the committee and the Board have satisfied themselves reporting on risk management and on viability.
The that there were no material control failures or exceptions Company will report on these matters as required by affecting the Companys operations during the year or the Code in 2015. likely in the immediate future.
Report and Accounts 2014 39 Report of the Audit Committee continued External audit process significant issues year.
The audit tender process was overseen by the In carrying out its responsibilities, the committee committee and executed by F&C.
The Company has considered the planning arrangements, scope, invited five audit firms to tender of which three, materiality levels and conclusions of the external audit including the incumbent PwC, were shortlisted.
As last year, procedures for investment valuation firms provided good quality written responses to the and recognition of income were the main areas of brief and gave comprehensive presentations to the audit focus and testing.
The committee approved a committee on their respective audit team standing, change on the interim results reporting whereby a skills and experience.
Each demonstrated extensive review by the auditor was no longer undertaken as investment trust and private equity experience such review provided little additional reassurance.
alongside the necessary accounting, tax, emerging The table on page 39 describes the significant financial reporting and governance expertise.
issues considered by the committee in relation to Following an assessment of each firms credentials the financial statements for the year and how these against a standard set of criteria the committee issues were addressed.
concluded that, notwithstanding their previous tenure, The committee met in February 2015 to discuss PwC should win the tender and continue with their the draft final Annual Report and Accounts, with appointment as auditors.
The use of progressive representatives of the auditor and F&C in attendance.
technology for the audit process and lower fees as PwC submitted their report to the committee at well as the high level of confidence in the incoming this meeting and confirmed that they had no reason lead audit partner, and in the continuity and calibre of not to issue an unqualified audit report in respect of their audit teams, were key factors in the decision to the Annual Report and Accounts.
The committee recommend PwC to the Board.
established and agreed that there were no material At the Annual General Meeting in 2015 shareholders issues or findings arising which needed to be will of course vote on the reappointment of PwC for brought to the attention of the Board.
From direct observation and indirect the committee recommended to the Board that the enquiry of management, the committee remains Annual Report and Accounts were in their view, fair, satisfied that PwC provide appropriate challenge balanced and understandable in accordance with in carrying out their responsibilities.
The committee accounting standards, regulatory requirements and has been satisfied with the effectiveness of PwC best practice.
The unqualified audit report, which performance on the audit just completed.
The fee for sets out the scope of the audit and the areas of the audit was 67,000 compared with 94,000 last focus, in compliance with applicable auditing year as shown in Note 5 on the accounts.
standards, can be found on pages 43 to 48.
PwC have confirmed that they are independent of the Company and have complied with relevant auditing Auditor tender, assessment, independence standards.
The committee will continue to consider and appointment the appointment annually and the need for putting the The Company reviews the reappointment of the external audit out to tender for reasons of quality or auditor every year.
Under new EU mandatory audit independence.
Given the EU regulations and transition rotation rules and the UK Competition and Market rules on firm rotation, PwC will not be available for Authoritys rotation rules, the Company will be required appointment as auditors beyond the annual general to put the external audit out to tender at least every meeting following 17 June 2020 given PwCs tenure.
ten years and it is anticipated that the auditor will The committee regard the continued independence change at least every twenty years.
Partly in light of of the auditor to be a matter of the highest priority.
The these requirements and the pre-existing FRC guidance Companys policy with regard to the provision of nonon tendering at the time of the lead partner rotation, audit services is that appropriate safeguards should be the Company undertook a tender immediately after in place and that the subject of the services should not the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The process was have a material effect on the financial statements.
PwC foreshadowed in the Audit Committee Report last non-audit services in 2014 on behalf of the Company 40 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC were 55,000 and comprised: ongoing services services will include tax and systems work, though relating to UK and Taiwanese tax returns 12,000 : the details are still to be decided.
There will also be a protective claims against French tax authorities cap of non-audit service fees set at 70% of audit fees 38,000 : and an emergency procedure review over an averaged three year period, though again 5,000.
The Company has submitted claims, with the detailed implementation has still to be decided.
the assistance of PwC, against French tax authorities The Companys policy on non-audit services will for tax potentially overpaid in periods since 2009.
The be aligned to the finalised regulations.
Auditor fees for the work were agreed by the committee prior independence and objectivity will remain the primary to work commencing.
The total potential amount to concern of the committee.
be recouped via the claims is anticipated to be well in excess of the costs incurred to date but has not been Committee evaluation accrued in the accounts due to the uncertainty.
The The activities of the committee were evaluated as one-off emergency procedure review related to the part of the Board appraisal process.
Companys ability under its emergency procedures to recover accounting data in the event of F&Cs unforeseen demise.
The committee considers the services to have been cost effective and not to have compromised the independence of PwC.
PwC has Jeffrey Hewitt also represented its independence to the committee Audit Committee Chairman and that it has complied with the Companys policy.
2 March 2015 The new EU Regulations will further constrain nonaudit services provided by the auditor.
Prohibited Report and Accounts 2014 41 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Financial Statements As required by company law, the Directors accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility are responsible for the preparation of the Annual for any changes that have occurred to the financial Report and Accounts, which is required to include a statements since they were initially presented on Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Annual the website.
Overseas visitors to the website need Report on Remuneration and Corporate Governance to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom Statement.
The Directors must not approve the governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements unless in their opinion they the Annual Report and Accounts may differ from give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of legislation in their jurisdiction.
the Company as at 31 December 2014 and of the In accordance with Chapter 4 of the Disclosure results for the year then ended.
The Directors are and Transparency Rules, the Directors confirm that to also responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report the best of their knowledge: and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable the financial statements have been prepared in and that adequate accounting records are sufficient accordance with applicable UK generally accepted to show and explain the Companys transactions accounting standards, on a going concern basis, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, the financial position of the Company and enable financial position and return of the Company: them to ensure that the financial statements and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration development and performance of the Company comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have and the important events that have occurred a general responsibility for taking such steps as are during the financial year and their impact on the reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets financial statements, including a description of of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud principal risks and uncertainties for the forthcoming and other irregularities.
In preparing the financial financial year: and statements, suitable accounting policies have been the financial statements and the Directors Report used and applied consistently and reasonable and include details on related party transactions.
prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
The Annual Report and Accounts is published on the www.
com website, which is maintained by F&C.
The content and integrity of the website maintained by F&C or any of its On behalf of the Board subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, Simon Fraser the responsibility of F&C.
The work carried out Chairman by the auditors does not involve consideration of 2 March 2015 the maintenance and integrity of this website and, 42 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the Income Statement for the year then ended: Our opinion the Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: In our opinion, Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders PLCs financial statements the financial statements : Funds for the year then ended: and give a true and fair view of the state of the companys the notes on the financial statements, which affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its net return include a summary of significant accounting and cash flows for the year then ended: policies and other explanatory information.
have been properly prepared in accordance with Certain required disclosures have been presented United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the Practice: and notes to the financial statements.
These are crosshave been prepared in accordance with the referenced from the financial statements and are requirements of the Companies Act 2006. identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been What we have audited applied in the preparation of the financial statements Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLCs financial is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting statements comprise: Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014: Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Overall materiality: 25.8 million which represents 1% of net assets.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1.3 million as well Materiality as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
The company is a standalone Investment Trust Company and engages F&C Investment Business Limited the Manager to manage its assets.
Audit Scope We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within the company, the involvement of the third parties referred to above, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the company operates.
Areas of Income focus Valuation and existence of investments The scope of our audit and our areas of focus that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we We conducted our audit in accordance with also addressed the risk of management override of International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland internal controls, including evaluating whether there was ISAs UK & Ireland.
evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk We designed our audit by determining materiality of material misstatement due to fraud.
and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the The risks of material misstatement that had the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation directors made subjective judgements, for example in of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of respect of significant accounting estimates that involved focus in the table below.
We have also set out how making assumptions and considering future events we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in Report and Accounts 2014 43 Independent Auditors Report continued order to provide an opinion on the financial statements of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is as a whole, and any comments we make on the results not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Income We focused on the accuracy We assessed the accounting policy for income recognition for and completeness of dividend compliance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP and income recognition and its performed testing to check that income had been accounted for in presentation in the Income accordance with this stated accounting policy.
Statement as set out in the We found that the accounting policies implemented were in requirements of The Association accordance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP, and of Investment Companies that income has been accounted for in accordance with the stated accounting policy.
Statement of Recommended Practice the AIC SORP.
We understood and assessed the design and implementation of key This is because incomplete controls surrounding income recognition.
or inaccurate income could We tested dividend receipts by agreeing the dividend rates for a have a material impact on the sample of investments to independent third party sources.
Our sample companys net asset value and covered at least 50% of dividend income from quoted investments and dividend cover.
100% of dividend income from unquoted investments.
We also focused on gains No misstatements were identified which required reporting to those losses on investments held at charged with governance.
fair value due to the subjective To test for completeness, we tested that appropriate dividends had nature of the valuation of been received in the year by reference to independent data of dividends private equity investments.
declared by a sample of investment holdings from within the portfolio.
Our testing did not identify any unrecorded dividends.
We tested the allocation and presentation of dividend income between the income and capital return columns of the Income Statement, in line with the requirements set out in the AIC SORP.
We then tested the validity of income and capital special dividends to independent third party sources.
We did not find any special dividends that were not treated in accordance with the AIC SORP.
The gains losses on private equity investments held at fair value comprise realised and unrealised gains losses: For unrealised gains losses, we obtained an understanding of, and then tested the valuation process as set out in the Valuation and existence of investments area of focus, to ascertain whether these gains losses were appropriately calculated.
For realised gains losses, we tested disposal proceeds by agreeing the proceeds to bank statements and sale agreements and we re-performed the calculation of a sample of realised gains losses.
No misstatements were identified by our testing which required reporting to those charged with governance.
Refer to page 39 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 52 to 54 Accounting Policies and pages 55 and 60 notes.
44 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation and existence of investments The investment portfolio at the We tested the valuation of the investment portfolio as follows: year-end comprised of quoted for quoted equity investments we tested the prices used in the equity investments 2,439m valuation to independent third party sources: and investments in private for investments in private equity funds, we obtained confirmation equity funds and other unquoted of the valuation from the private equity managers, Pantheon investments 366m.
Ventures Limited and HarbourVest Partners LLC.
We discussed We focused on the valuation the valuations with them and the Manager in order to challenge and existence of investments and substantiate the valuations applied.
We read the accounting because investments represent policies for a sample of the underlying funds to assess whether the principal element of the net they follow a fair value approach.
We considered the controls asset value as disclosed on the reports issued by the private equity managers, Pantheon Ventures Balance Sheet in the financial Limited and HarbourVest Partners LLC, to understand and evaluate statements.
the controls in place around the valuation and reporting procedures and obtained letters bridging to year end.
We also assessed the accuracy of prior year valuations which were based on estimates and unaudited financial statements, by reference to their respective audited financial statements obtained during the year.
No misstatements were identified which required reporting to those charged with governance.
We tested the existence of the quoted investment portfolio by agreeing the holdings for investments to an independent custodian confirmation received from JP Morgan Chase Bank.
We tested the existence of the unquoted investment portfolio by agreeing holdings to statements received directly from Pantheon Ventures Limited and HabourVest Partners LLC.
Refer to page 39 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 52 to 53 Accounting Policies and page 60 notes.
How we tailored the audit scope The Manager delegates certain accounting and We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that administrative functions to the Administrator on we performed enough work to be able to give an which they report to the Manager.
opinion on the financial statements as a whole, As part of our risk assessment, we assessed the taking into account the types of investments within control environment in place at both the Manager the company, the involvement of the Manager and the Administrator to the extent relevant to and State Street Bank and Trust Company our audit.
This assessment of the operating and the Administrator, the accounting processes accounting structure in place at both organisations and controls, and the industry in which the involved obtaining and reading the relevant control company operates.
reports issued by the independent auditor of the Manager and the Administrator in accordance with Report and Accounts 2014 45 Independent Auditors Report continued generally accepted assurance standards for such Going Concern work.
We then identified those key controls at the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Administrator on which we could place reliance directors statement, set out on page 23, in relation to provide audit evidence.
We also assessed the to going concern.
gap period of three months between the period We have nothing to report having performed our review.
covered by the controls report and the year-end of the company.
Following this assessment, we As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors applied professional judgement to determine the have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare extent of testing required over each balance in the the companys financial statements using the going financial statements, including whether we needed concern basis of accounting.
The going concern to perform additional testing in respect of those key basis presumes that the company has adequate controls to support our substantive work.
For the resources to remain in operation, and that purposes of our audit, we determined that additional the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one testing of controls in place at the Administrator was year from the date the financial statements were not required because additional substantive testing signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded was performed.
that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Materiality However, because not all future events or The scope of our audit was influenced by our conditions can be predicted, these statements application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative are not a guarantee as to the companys ability to thresholds for materiality.
These, together with continue as a going concern.
qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of Consistency of other information misstatements, both individually and on the financial Companies Act 2006 opinions statements as a whole.
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Based on our professional judgement, we deterReport and the Report of the Directors for the mined materiality for the financial statements as a financial year for which the financial statements are whole as follows: prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Overall materiality ISAs UK & Ireland reporting 25.8 million 2013: 24.3 million.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report How we determined it to you if, in our opinion: 1% of net assets.
information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the Rationale for benchmark applied audited financial statements: or We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice for investment apparently materially incorrect based on, or trust audits, in the absence of indicators that an materially inconsistent with, our knowledge alternative benchmark would be more appropriate of the company acquired in the course of and because we believe this provides an appropriate performing our audit: or and consistent year-on-year basis for our audit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1.3 million 2013: 1.2 million as the statement given by the Directors on page well as misstatements below that amount that, in our 23, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a 46 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and to the companys compliance with ten provisions of provides the information necessary for members the UK Corporate Governance Code.
to assess the companys performance, business We have nothing to report having performed our review.
model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the company acquired in the RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL course of performing our audit.
STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the section of the Annual Report on pages 37 to Responsibilities in Respect of Financial Statements 41 as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, set out on page 42, the Directors are responsible for describing the work of the Audit Committee does the preparation of the financial statements and for not appropriately address matters communicated being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
by us to the Audit Committee.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those Adequacy of accounting records and standards require us to comply with the Auditing information and explanations received Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to This report, including the opinions, has been report to you if, in our opinion: prepared for and only for the companys members we have not received all the information and as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part explanations we require for our audit: or 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other adequate accounting records have not been kept, purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or returns adequate for our audit have not been or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to received from branches not visited by us: or any other person to whom this report is shown or the financial statements and the part of the into whose hands it may come save where expressly Directors Remuneration Report to be audited agreed by our prior consent in writing.
are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
What an audit of financial statements involves We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial Directors remuneration statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance Directors Remuneration Report Companies that the financial statements are free from material Act 2006 opinion misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration includes an assessment of: Report to be audited has been properly prepared in whether the accounting policies are appropriate accordance with the Companies Act 2006. to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Other Companies Act 2006 reporting the reasonableness of significant accounting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to estimates made by the Directors: and report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of the overall presentation of the financial statements.
directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against Corporate governance statement available evidence, forming our own judgements, and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating Report and Accounts 2014 47 Independent Auditors Report continued We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants & Statutory Auditors London 2 March 2015 48 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Income Statement Income Statement 2014 2013 Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total For the year ended 31 December 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 10 Gains on investments and derivatives - 202,963 202,963 386,631 386,631 20 Exchange losses gains 106 2,998 2,892 198 9,004 8,806 3 Income 57,132 - 57,132 63,106 63,106 4 4 Management fees 4,981 5,575 10,556 4,545 5,159 9,704 5 20 Other expenses 2,390 63 2,453 2,131 67 2,198 Net return before finance costs and 49,655 200,323 249,978 56,232 390,409 446,641 taxation 6 20 Finance costs 7,826 7,826 15,652 8,685 8,685 17,370 Net return on ordinary activities before taxation 41,829 192,497 234,326 47,547 381,724 429,271 7 Taxation on ordinary activities 3,972 3,972 3,510 3,510 8 8 Net return attributable to shareholders 37,857 192,497 230,354 44,037 381,724 425,761 8 8 Net return per share basic pence 6.69 34.00 40.69 7.69 66.68 74.37 The total column of this statement is the profit and loss account of the Company.
All revenue and capital items in the above statement derive from continuing operations.
A statement of total recognised gains and losses is not required as all gains and losses of the Company have been reflected in the above statement.
Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds Capital Total Share Redemption Capital Revenue Shareholders Capital Reserve Reserves Reserve Funds For the year ended 31 December 2014 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Balance brought forward 31 December 2013 142,590 120,172 2,068,847 98,713 2,430,322 9 Dividends paid 52,180 52,180 18 Shares repurchased by the Company 2,017 2,017 30,983 30,983 Return attributable to shareholders 192,497 37,857 230,354 Balance carried forward 31 December 2014 140,573 122,189 2,230,361 84,390 2,577,513 Capital Total Share Redemption Capital Revenue Shareholders Capital Reserve Reserves Reserve Funds For the year ended 31 December 2013 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Balance brought forward 31 December 2012 144,298 118,464 1,711,696 104,538 2,078,996 9 Dividends paid 49,862 49,862 18 Shares repurchased by the Company 1,708 1,708 24,573 24,573 Return attributable to shareholders 381,724 44,037 425,761 Balance carried forward 31 December 2013 142,590 120,172 2,068,847 98,713 2,430,322 Report and Accounts 2014 49 Revenue Notes Capital Notes Notes Balance Sheet Balance Sheet 2014 2013 At 31 December 000s 000s 000s 000s Fixed assets 10 Investments 2,805,363 2,623,202 Current assets 12 Debtors 4,495 5,280 Cash at Bank and short term deposits 32,831 32,477 37,326 37,757 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 10 Derivative financial instruments 19 13 Loans 173,405 30,000 14 Debenture 110,000 15 Other 4,585 3,827 177,990 143,846 Net current liabilities 140,664 106,089 Total assets less current liabilities 2,664,699 2,517,113 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 16 Loans 86,611 86,216 17 Debenture 575 575 87,186 86,791 Net assets 2,577,513 2,430,322 Capital and reserves 18 Share capital 140,573 142,590 19 Capital redemption reserve 122,189 120,172 20 Capital reserves 2,230,361 2,068,847 20 Revenue reserve 84,390 98,713 Total shareholders funds 2,577,513 2,430,322 21 Net asset value per share prior charges at nominal value pence 458.39 426.10 The Financial Statements were approved by the Board on 2 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Simon Fraser Jeffrey Hewitt Chairman Director 50 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Notes Cash Flow Statement Cash Flow Statement 2014 2013 For the year ended 31 December 000s 000s 000s 000s Operating activities 53,012 58,739 Investment income 29 32 Interest received 3 Stock lending fees received 117 439 Premium from option writing 219 70 Other revenue 9,933 9,556 Management fees paid 340 321 Fees paid to Directors 2,109 2,067 Other cash payments 40,995 47,339 22 Net cash inflow from operating activities Servicing of finance 15,599 17,262 Interest paid 15,599 17,262 Cash outflow from servicing of finance Financial investment 1,380,957 865,197 Purchases of investments and derivatives 1,402,342 1,002,646 Sales of investments and derivatives Other capital charges and credits 62 67 Net cash inflow from financial investment 21,323 137,382 52,180 49,862 Dividends paid Net cash outflow inflow before use of liquid resources and financing 5,461 117,597 Management of liquid resources 2,238 9,432 Decrease increase in short term deposits Financing 145,637 85,000 Net loans raised repaid 110,000 Debenture repaid 30,983 25,164 Costs of shares repurchased 4,654 110,164 Net cash inflow outflow from financing 23 1,431 1,999 Increase decrease in cash Report and Accounts 2014 51 Notes Notes on the Accounts Notes on the Accounts 1 General information Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC is an Investment Company, incorporated in the United Kingdom with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company Registration number is 12901, and the Registered office is Exchange House, Primrose Street, London, EC2A 2NY, England.
The Company conducts its affairs so as to qualify as an Investment Trust under the provisions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act, 2010.
Approval of the Company under S1158 has been received.
The Company intends to conduct its affairs so as to enable it to continue to comply with the requirements of S1158.
Such approval exempts the Company from UK Corporation Tax on gains realised in the relevant year on its portfolio of fixed asset investments and derivatives.
As a consequence of changes to the Companys articles of association in 2014, the Company may now distribute net capital returns by way of dividend.
It is the Boards current stated intention, however, to continue paying dividends to equity shareholders out of Revenue Reserves.
The amounts paid and payable by way of dividend are shown in the Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders Funds.
2 Significant accounting policies a Going concern As refererred to in the Directors Report on page 23, the Directors believe that it is appropriate for the accounts to be prepared on a going concern basis.
b Basis of accounting The accounts of the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, modified to include fixed asset investments and derivatives at fair value, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Accounting Standards applicable in the United Kingdom and with the Revised Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP issued in January 2009.
At the date of authorisation of these Accounts, the following Standards which are in issue have not been applied in these Accounts as they are not yet effective: Financial Reporting Standard 102 issued by the Financial Reporting Council and applicable, for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015, to the financial statements of UK and Republic of Ireland entities not applying EU-adopted International Financial Reporting Standards.
Revised SORP issued in November 2014 and effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
The application of these Standards in future financial periods is not expected to have a material effect on the reported results of the Company.
The functional and presentational currency of the Company is pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
The Company had no operating subsidiaries at any time during the years ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013.
Consequently, consolidated accounts have not been prepared.
There have been no significant changes to the accounting policies during the year ended 31 December 2014.
In accordance with the SORP, the Income Statement has been analysed between a Revenue Account dealing with items of a revenue nature and a Capital Account relating to items of a capital nature.
Revenue returns include, but are not limited to, dividend income and operating expenses and tax insofar as the expenses and tax are not allocated to capital, as described in note 2 c below.
Net revenue returns are allocated via the revenue account to the Revenue Reserve, out of which interim and final dividend payments are made.
Capital returns include, but are not limited to, realised and unrealised profits and losses on fixed asset investments and derivatives and currency profits and losses on cash and borrowings.
c Principal accounting policies The policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the year.
i Financial instruments Financial Instruments include fixed asset investments, derivative assets and liabilities, and long-term debt instruments, cash and short-term deposits, debtors and creditors.
Accounting Standards recognise a hierarchy of fair value measurements, for financial instruments measured at fair value in the Balance Sheet, which gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1 and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs level 3.
The classification of financial instruments depends on the lowest significant applicable input, as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted, fully accessible and current quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Included within this category are investments listed on any recognised stock exchange or quoted on the AIM Market in the UK.
52 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC 2 Significant accounting policies continued Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, or other directly or indirectly observable inputs which exist for the duration of the period of investment.
Examples of such Instruments would be those for which the quoted price has been suspended, forward exchange contracts and certain other derivative instruments.
The Company held no such securities during the year under review.
Level 3 External inputs are unobservable.
Value is the Directors best estimate, based on advice from relevant knowledgeable experts, use of recognised valuation techniques and on assumptions as to what inputs other market participants would apply in pricing the same or similar instrument.
Included within this category are investments in private companies or securities, whether invested in directly or through pooled Private Equity vehicles.
ii Fixed asset investments and derivative financial instruments As an Investment Trust, the Company measures its fixed asset investments at fair value through profit or loss and treats all transactions on the realisation and revaluation of investments held as fixed assets, as transactions on the Capital Account.
Purchases are recognised on the relevant trade date, inclusive of expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of the investments.
Sales are also recognised on the trade date, after deducting expenses incidental to the sales.
Quoted investments are valued at bid value at the close of business on the relevant date on the exchange on which the investment is listed.
Investments which are not quoted or which are not frequently traded are stated at Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar investment instruments.
Where no reliable fair value can be estimated, investments are carried at cost or less any provision for impairment.
With respect specifically to investments in private equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely on unaudited valuations of the underlying unlisted investments as supplied by the managers of those funds or partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers to those valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the above policies.
Distributions from private equity funds are recognised when the right to distributions is established.
iii Derivative Instruments Derivatives including forward exchange contracts and options are classified as held for trading and are accounted for as financial assets or liabilities.
Where it can be demonstrated that the derivative is connected to the maintenance of the Companys investments, the change in fair value is recognised as capital and shown in the Capital column of the Income Statement.
Where an option is written in the expectation that it will not be exercised, or that any losses on exercise will be outweighed by the value of the premiums received, the premiums are recognised in the Revenue column of the Income Statement.
The value of the premium is usually the options initial fair value and is recognised evenly over the life of the option.
Subsequent changes to fair value are adjusted in the Capital column of the Income Statement such that the total amounts recognised within Revenue and Capital represent the change in fair value of the option.
iv Debt Instruments The Companys debt instruments include the debenture stock included in the Balance Sheet at proceeds received, net of issue costs, and short-term bank borrowings and overdrafts, initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
No debt instruments held during the year required hierarchical classification.
The 11.25% debenture stock was issued in 1989 and 4.25% perpetual debenture stock was issued in 1960.
The fair market value of these debenture stocks is set out in notes 14 and 17 on the accounts.
Finance charges, including interest, are accrued using the effective interest rate method.
See 2 vii below for allocation of finance charges within the Income Statement.
v Foreign currency Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are expressed in Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Purchases and sales of investment securities, dividend income, interest income and expenses are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the respective dates of such transactions.
Exchange profits and losses on fixed assets investments are included within the changes in fair value in the Capital Account.
Exchange profits and losses on other currency balances are separately credited or charged to the Capital Account except where they relate to revenue items.
Report and Accounts 2014 53 Notes on the Accounts continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued vi Income Income from equity shares is brought into the Revenue Account except where, in the opinion of the Directors, its nature indicates it should be recognised as within the Capital Account on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on nonequity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the investment.
Dividends are accounted for in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 16 Current Taxation FRS16 on the basis of income actually receivable, without adjustment for the tax credit attaching to the dividends.
Dividends from overseas companies continue to be shown gross of withholding tax.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash scrip dividends, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in capital reserves.
vii Expenses, including finance charges Expenses are charged to the Revenue Account of the Income Statement, except as noted below: expenses incidental to the acquisition or disposal of fixed assets investments are included within the cost of the investments or deducted from the disposal proceeds of investments and are thus charged to Capital Reserve realised via the Capital Account: 100% of management fees, invoiced to the Company in respect of certain Private Equity investments, are allocated to capital reserves, via the Capital Account, in accordance with the Boards long-term expected split of returns from those investments: 50% of other management fees, and 50% of finance costs both net of applicable tax relief are allocated to Capital Reserves via the Capital Account, in accordance with the Boards long-term expected split of returns from the investment portfolio excluding private equity investments of the Company.
With effect from 1 January 2015, the proportion will be increased from 50% to 75%, reflecting the Boards changed expectation of the long-term split of returns from the investment portfolio: and all expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
viii Taxation Deferred tax is provided on an undiscounted basis in accordance with FRS19 on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the Balance Sheet date, based on tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of timing differences can be deducted.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate the tax relief on expenses charged to capital is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses charged through the Revenue Account, then no tax relief is transferred to the Capital Account.
ix Capital Redemption Reserve non-distributable reserve The nominal value of ordinary share capital repurchased for cancellation is transferred out of Share Capital and into the Capital Redemption Reserve, on a trade date basis.
x Capital Reserves distributable reserves Capital reserve arising on investments sold The following are accounted for in this reserve: gains and losses on the disposal of fixed asset investments and derivatives: realised exchange differences of a capital nature: costs of professional advice, including related irrecoverable VAT, relating to the capital structure of the Company: other capital charges and credits charged or credited to this account in accordance with the above policies: and costs of repurchasing ordinary share capital are recognised on a trade date basis.
Capital reserve arising on investments held The following are accounted for in this reserve: increases and decreases in the valuation of fixed asset investments and derivatives held at the year end: and unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature 54 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC 3 Income 2014 2013 000s 000s UK dividends 14,568 25,569 Overseas dividends 42,198 36,964 56,766 62,533 Other Income Interest on cash and short-term deposits 121 32 Sundry income 123 Underwriting commission 5 70 Derivative income 117 470 Stock lending fees 1 366 573 Total income 57,132 63,106 Total income comprises: Dividends 56,766 62,533 Other income 366 573 57,132 63,106 Income from investments comprises: Quoted UK 14,568 25,569 Quoted Overseas 41,338 35,458 Unquoted 860 1,506 56,766 62,533 As described in note 2 c iii, derivative income has been derived from premiums received on put and call options written on securities held in the portfolio of investments.
With effect from 17 January 2013 the Company ceased stock lending.
Report and Accounts 2014 55 Notes on the Accounts continued 4 Management fees 2014 2013 000s 000s 000s 000s Payable directly to the Manager: i in respect of management services provided by the 7,941 7,300 Manager reimbursement in respect of services provided by sub-managers i 2,021 1,790 9,962 9,090 ii Payable directly to private equity managers 594 614 Total directly incurred management fees 10,556 9,704 iii Incurred indirectly within funds managed by private 4,847 5,350 equity managers Total direct and indirect management fees 15,403 15,054 i 50% of these fees allocated to capital reserve arising on investments sold ii 100% of these fees allocated to capital reserve arising on investments sold iii Indirectly incurred fees included within the value of the respective funds Directly incurred fees are analysed as follows: 2014 2013 Management fees 000s 000s Payable directly to the Manager 9,962 9,090 Payable directly to private equity managers 594 614 10,556 9,704 Less: allocated to capital reserves 5,575 5,159 Allocated to revenue account 4,981 4,545 a Management fees payable to the Manager The Manager, F&C Management Limited until 21 July 2014 and thereafter F&C Investment Business Limited, a fellow subsidiary of F&C, provides investment management, company secretarial, financial, marketing and general administrative services to the Company under the terms of an agreement which may be terminated upon six months notice given by either party.
In the event of a change of control of the Manager, the Company may give three months notice of termination.
The Managers remuneration is based on a fee of 0.365% per annum of the market capitalisation of the Company, calculated at each month end on a pro-rata basis: the fee is adjusted for fees earned by the Manager in respect of investment holdings managed or advised by the Manager.
Variable fees payable in respect of third party sub-managers are also reimbursed.
b Management fees payable to the private equity managers At 31 December 2014 the Company had commitments in five private equity funds managed by Pantheon Ventures Limited 2013: five and eleven funds managed by HarbourVest Partners LLC 2013: eleven.
Fees in respect of the Pantheon Europe Fund III are paid quarterly, directly to Pantheon Ventures Limited, at a rate of 0.64% per annum 2013: 0.64% based on capital commitments.
These fees are allocated fully to Capital Reserve on investments sold.
Fees in respect of all other private equity funds are based on capital commitments and are charged quarterly against the underlying investments in those funds.
The fees are not directly incurred by the Company.
The fee rates applying during 2014 varied from 0.32% per annum to 1.37% per annum 2013: 0.65% to 1.61%.
56 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC 5 Other expenses 2014 2013 000s 000s Auditors remuneration: for audit and audit-related assurance services 74 101 for other services 62 11 Custody 248 283 Directors emoluments see Directors Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 36 : fees for services to the Company 340 321 Subscriptions 23 25 Directors and officers liability insurance 47 57 Marketing 455 549 Savings Plans 108 Loan commitment and arrangement fees 499 106 Registrars 117 127 Professional charges 169 98 Printing and postage 154 158 Sundry 202 187 2,390 2,131 All expenses are stated gross of irrecoverable VAT, where applicable.
Total auditors remuneration for audit services, exclusive of VAT, amounted to 67,000 2013: 94,000.
There were nil costs relating to an independent review report for the period to 30 June 2014 2013: 18,000.
Total auditors remuneration for other services, exclusive of VAT, amounting to 55,000 2013: 10,000, comprised: 50,000 for taxation compliance services 2013: 8,000 : 5,000 other assurance services in relation to a review of the companys disaster recovery plan 2013: nil : nil relating to other assurance services for review of debenture compliance certificate 2013: 2,000.
No part of these amounts was charged to capital reserves 2013: nil.
Under loan facility agreements see notes 13 and 16 the Company pays commitment fees on any undrawn portions of the facilities.
6 Finance costs 2014 2013 000s 000s Debenture stocks 12,399 12,399 Loans 3,178 4,959 Overdrafts 75 12 15,652 17,370 Less: allocated to capital reserves see note 20 7,826 8,685 7,826 8,685 The interest on debenture stocks, loans and overdrafts is further analysed as follows: Loans and overdrafts repayable within one year, not by instalments note 13 12,601 12 Debentures and loans repayable between one and five years, not by instalments notes 14, 16 and 17 3,051 13,515 Loans repayable after more than five years note 16 3,843 15,652 17,370 Report and Accounts 2014 57 Notes on the Accounts continued 7 Taxation on ordinary activities a Analysis of tax charge for the year 2014 2013 Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Corporation tax at 21.5% 2013: 23.25% Relief for overseas taxation Overseas taxation 3,898 3,898 3,439 3,439 Total current taxation note 7 b 3,898 3,898 3,439 3,439 Deferred tax 74 74 71 71 3,972 3,972 3,510 3,510 The tax assessed for the year is lower 2013: lower than the standard rate of Corporation tax in the UK rate of Corporation tax in the UK.
b Factors affecting tax charge for the year 2014 2013 Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Return on ordinary activities before taxation 41,829 192,497 234,326 47,547 381,724 429,271 Return on ordinary activities multiplied by the standard 8,993 41,387 50,380 11,055 88,751 99,806 rate of UK corporation tax of 21.50% 2013: 23.25% Effects of: Dividends 12,205 12,205 14,507 14,507 Exchange losses not subject to corporation tax 23 23 46 46 Capital returns 44,282 44,282 91,985 91,985 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 45 14 59 71 15 86 Expenses not utilised in the year 3,144 2,881 6,025 3,501 3,219 6,720 Unutilised overseas tax in excess of double taxation relief 3,898 3,898 3,273 3,273 Total current taxation note 7 a 3,898 3,898 3,439 3,439 These items are not subject to corporation tax within an investment trust company.
The deferred tax asset of 51.8 million 2013: 48.0 million in respect of unutilised expenses at 31 December 2014 has not been recognised as it is unlikely that the unrecognised asset will be utilised in the foreseeable future.
Of this amount 19.4 million 2013: 16.8 million relates to revenue expenses and 32.4 million 2013: 31.2 million to capital expenses.
The Directors have proposed a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 of 2.70p payable on 1 May 2015 to all shareholders on the register at close of business on 27 March 2015.
The total dividends paid and payable in respect of the financial year for the purposes of the income retention test for Section 1159 of the Income and Corporation Tax Act 2010 are set out below.
2014 000s Revenue available for distribution by way of dividends for the year 37,857 First interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 2.20p per share 12,468 Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 2.20p per share 12,375 Third interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 2.20p per share cost based on 562,292,016 12,370 shares in issue at 2 February 2015 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 2.70p per share estimated cost based on 562,292,016 shares in issue at 27 February 2015 15,182 Estimated revenue reserve utilised for Section 1159 purposes 14,538 Report and Accounts 2014 59 Notes on the Accounts continued 10 Investments and derivative financial instruments 2014 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Cost at 1 January 1,621,484 354,155 1,975,639 1,493,454 386,686 1,880,140 Unrealised gains at 1 January 606,310 41,234 647,544 450,504 43,753 494,257 Valuation at 1 January 2,227,794 395,389 2,623,183 1,943,958 430,439 2,374,397 Purchases at cost 1,362,533 18,603 1,381,136 841,433 24,613 866,046 Sales proceeds 1,291,639 110,280 1,401,919 908,898 94,993 1,003,891 Gains losses on derivatives sold 19 - 19 91 91 Gains on investments sold 210,544 44,175 254,719 195,586 37,849 233,435 Losses on derivatives held 19 19 Losses gains on investments held 69,764 17,989 51,775 155,825 2,519 153,306 Valuation at 31 December of investments and derivatives 2,439,487 365,876 2,805,363 2,227,794 395,389 2,623,183 Analysed at 31 December Cost 1,902,941 306,653 2,209,594 1,621,484 354,155 1,975,639 Unrealised gains 536,546 59,223 595,769 606,310 41,234 647,544 Valuation at 31 December of investments and derivatives 2,439,487 365,876 2,805,363 2,227,794 395,389 2,623,183 2014 2013 Valuation of investments and derivatives 000s 000s Valuation of investments at 31 December 2,805,363 2,623,202 Valuation of derivatives at 31 December 19 Total valuation of investments and derivatives at 31 December 2,805,363 2,623,183 2014 2013 Gains losses on investments and derivatives held at fair value 000s 000s Gains on investments sold 254,719 233,435 Gains Losses on derivatives sold 19 91 Losses gains on investments held at year end 51,775 153,306 Losses on derivatives held at year end 19 Total gains on investments and derivatives 202,963 386,631 see note 2 c i Level 1 includes investments and derivatives quoted on any recognised stock exchange or quoted on the AIM market in the UK and quoted open-ended funds.
Level 2 includes investments for which the quoted price has been suspended, forward exchange contracts and other derivative instruments.
Level 3 includes investments in private companies or securities, whether invested in directly or through pooled private equity vehicles.
Investments managed or advised by F&C Investments at the year end include nil 2013: 29.6 million of funds and investments managed or advised by F&C.
These investments represent nil % 2013: 1.1% of total assets less current liabilities excluding loans of the Company.
Under the terms of the Companys Management Agreement with F&C set out in note 4, the management fee is adjusted for fees earned by the Manager on all such holdings.
During the year the Company purchased nil 2013: nil of such investments, and received 15.2 million 2013: 10.8 million from sales.
Unquoted investments Unquoted investments include 363.2 million 2013: 392.0 million of investments described as private equity, together with 2.7 million 2013: 3.4 million of other partnerships, the underlying portfolios of which principally comprise unlisted investments.
These are valued in accordance with the policies set out in note 2 on the accounts.
It is in the nature of private equity and similar unquoted investments that they may be loss making, with no certainty of survival, and that they may prove difficult to realise.
The concept of fair value as applied to such investments is not precise and their ultimate realisation may be at a value materially different from that reflected in the accounts.
60 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC 11 Substantial interests At 31 December 2014 the Company held more than 3% of one class of the capital of the following undertakings held as investments, none of which, in the opinion of the Directors, represent a participating interest.
Country of registration and Number of Holding Investment and share class incorporation units shares held % Open-ended funds Artemis US Extended Alpha I Accumulation England 13,100,000 24.88 BGF Asian Growth Leaders A2 USD Luxembourg 830,500 6.92 Brown Advisory American B USD Ireland 1,494,000 8.02 Coupland Cardiff Asia Alpha B USD Ireland 686,850 4.30 CF Morant Wright Nippon Yield B Income England 4,935,000 5.53 Conventum Lyrical Fund I Luxembourg 106,150 3.00 Coupland Cardiff Japan Alpha GBP Ireland 1,279,000 5.59 Hector Eagle Emerging Markets Eq A Accumulation USD Luxembourg 107,900 20.72 Edinburgh Partners European Opps I GBP Ireland 5,471,009 3.66 JPMorgan America Equity C Net Inc England 14,140,000 78.29 Standard Life GEM Equity Unconstrained I Accumulation Scotland 21,233,905 48.74 Private Equity Funds Dover Street VI LP USA 11.12 HarbourVest Partners VII Buyout Partnership Fund LP USA 3.86 HIPEP V Direct Fund LP USA 15.66 HIPEP V Asia Pacific and Rest of World Partnership Fund LP USA 4.74 HIPEP VI Emerging Markets Fund USA 12.06 HIPEP VI Asia Pacific Fund LP USA 4.93 Pantheon Europe Fund III LP USA 44.41 Pantheon Europe Fund V LP Scotland 9.29 Pantheon Asia Fund IV LP Channel Islands 8.40 Pantheon Asia Fund V LP Channel Islands 6.19 Pantheon Global Secondary Fund III LP Scotland 3.50 Other Investments Esprit Capital Fund 1 LP England 10.80 Jupiter US Smaller Companies PLC ord 25p England 1,342,511 5.59 Utilico Emerging Markets Limited ord 10p Bermuda 14,450,000 6.78 Utilico Investments Limited ord 1.5625p Bermuda 9,579,919 9.66 Not a controlling interest.
Formerly F&C US Smaller Companies PLC 12 Debtors 2014 2013 000s 000s Investment debtors 869 1,381 Prepayments and accrued income 2,818 3,312 Overseas taxation recoverable 808 584 Other debtors 3 4,495 5,280 Report and Accounts 2014 61 Notes on the Accounts continued 13 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Loans 2014 2013 Non-instalment debt payable on demand or within one year 000s 000s 30 million repaid January 2014 30,000 Euro loan 94.718 million repayable March 2015 73,505 Yen loan 4.655 billion repayable March 2015 24,900 Sterling Loan 75 million repayable March 2015 75,000 173,405 30,000 At 31 December 2014 the Companys 173.4 million short term loans were drawn down under two unsecured revolving credit facilities.
The facilities run for one and two years respectively.
Both facilities are for 100 million with the option to extend the commitment by a further 100 million.
Interest rate margins on the amounts drawn down are variable and are dependent upon commercial terms agreed with each bank.
Commitment commissions are payable on undrawn amounts at commercial rates.
At 27 February 2015, there were 169 million short term borrowings.
14 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 2014 2013 Debenture 000s 000s 11.25% debenture stock 2014 secured 110,000 110,000 The 11.25% debenture stock was redeemed at par on 31 December 2014.
It was secured by floating charges over the assets of the Company.
The market value of the debenture at 31 December 2013 was 117,568,000.
The Company complied at all times with the terms of the debenture trust deed.
15 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 2014 2013 Other 000s 000s Investment creditors 1,795 1,600 Management fees payable to the Manager 1,588 965 Other accrued expenses 1,202 1,262 4,585 3,827 16 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Loans 2014 2013 Non-instalment debt payable after more than one year 000s 000s $80 million repayable April 2019 51,307 48,302 6,600 million repayable April 2019 35,304 37,914 86,611 86,216 In April 2012 the Company entered into a loan arrangement facility drawing loans in Yen and US dollars equivalent to 100 million at commercial interest rates expiring April 2019.
At 27 February 2015, long-term borrowings comprised $80 million and 6,600 million 87 million.
17 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 2014 2013 Debenture 000s 000s 4.25% perpetual debenture stock secured 575 575 The 4.25% perpetual debenture stock is listed on the London Stock Exchange and secured by floating charges over the assets of the Company.
The market value of the debenture stock at 31 December 2014 was 429,000 31 December 2013: 429,000.
62 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC 18 Share capital 2014 2013 Issued and Issued and fully paid fully paid Nominal Nominal Number 000s Number 000s Share capital ordinary shares of 25p each Balance brought forward 570,359,016 142,590 577,191,016 144,298 Shares repurchased by the Company 8,067,000 2,017 6,832,000 1,708 Balance carried forward 562,292,016 140,573 570,359,016 142,590 8,067,000 ordinary shares were repurchased and cancelled during the year at a total cost of 30,983,000.
19 Capital redemption reserve 2014 2013 000s 000s Balance brought forward 120,172 118,464 Transfer from share capital on repurchase of ordinary shares 2,017 1,708 Balance carried forward 122,189 120,172 20 Other reserves Capital reserve Capital reserve arising on arising on Capital investments investments reserves Revenue sold held total reserve 000s 000s 000s 000s Gains and losses transferred in current year Gains on investments sold see note 10 254,719 254,719 Gains on derivatives sold see note 10 19 19 Losses on investments held at year end see note 10 51,775 51,775 Exchange movement on currency balances 1,224 4,222 2,998 Management fees see note 4 5,575 5,575 Finance costs see note 6 7,826 7,826 Other capital charges 63 63 Revenue return attributable to shareholders 37,857 Total gains and losses transferred in current year 240,050 47,553 192,497 37,857 Cost of ordinary shares repurchased in year 30,983 30,983 Dividends paid in year see note 9 52,180 Balance brought forward 1,405,218 663,629 2,068,847 98,713 Balance carried forward 1,614,285 616,076 2,230,361 84,390 Included within the capital reserve movement for the year is 6,649,000 2013: 355,000 of dividend receipts recognised as capital in nature.
806,000 of transaction costs on purchases of investments are included within the capital reserve movements disclosed above 2013: 779,000.
1,198,000 of transaction costs on sales of investments are similarly included 2013: 1,361,000.
At the Companys Annual General Meeting on 29 April 2014, shareholders voted to adopt new articles of association which remove the previous restriction prohibiting the distribution of realised capital profits by way of dividend.
Report and Accounts 2014 63 Notes on the Accounts continued 21 Net asset value per ordinary share 2014 2013 Net asset value per share with debenture stocks at nominal value pence 458.39 426.10 Net assets attributable at end of period 000s 2,577,513 2,430,322 Ordinary shares of 25p in issue at end of year number 562,292,016 570,359,016 Net asset value per share cum dividend with debenture stocks at market value was 458.37p 31 December 2013: 424.80p.
The market value of debenture stocks at 31 December 2014 was 429,000 31 December 2013: 117,997,000.
22 Reconciliation of total return before finance costs and taxation to net cash inflow from operating activities 2014 2013 000s 000s Net return before finance costs and taxation 249,978 446,641 Adjust for returns from non-operating activities Gains on investments and derivatives held at fair value 202,963 386,631 Exchange gains of a capital nature 2,998 9,004 Non-operating expenses of a capital nature 63 67 Return from operating activities 44,080 51,073 Adjust for non cash-flow items Exchange losses of a revenue nature 106 198 Decrease in accrued income 369 149 Increase decrease in prepayments 54 58 Increase decrease in creditors 618 172 Overseas taxation 4,124 3,967 Net cash inflow from operating activities 40,995 47,339 23 Reconciliation of net cash movement to movement in net debt 2014 2013 000s 000s Net cash movement 1,431 1,999 Decrease increase in short-term deposits 2,238 9,432 Repayment of debenture 110,000 Increase decrease in loans 145,637 85,000 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 36,444 92,433 Exchange movement 2,998 9,004 Movement in net debt in the year 33,446 101,437 Net debt brought forward 194,314 295,751 Net debt carried forward 227,760 194,314 Balance at Exchange Balance at 1 January 2014 Cash flow Movement 31 December 2014 Represented by: 000s 000s 000s 000s Cash at bank 7,002 1,431 488 8,921 Short-term deposits 25,475 2,238 673 23,910 32,477 807 1,161 32,831 Loans 116,216 145,637 1,837 260,016 Debentures 110,575 110,000 575 194,314 36,444 2,998 227,760 64 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC 24 Contingencies and capital commitments a VAT legal case A case has been brought against HMRC to seek recovery of recoverable VAT relating to the period 1997 to 2000, together with interest on a compound basis.
No VAT or related interest recovery has been accrued or recognised as a contingent asset, as the outcome of the case is uncertain.
b Capital commitments The Company had the following capital commitments at the year end.
2014 2013 2014 2013 Currency Currency 000s 000s HarbourVest Partners VII: Buyout Partnership Fund LP US$5.1m US$5.9m 3,252 3,532 Venture Partnership Fund LP US$1m US$1.4m 625 860 Mezzanine Fund LP US$0.8m US$0.9m 500 543 Dover Street VI LP US$3.1m US$3.8m 1,993 2,293 Dover Street VII LP US$3.9m US$4.7m 2,525 2,830 HarbourVest Partners V Asia Pacific and Rest of World LP US$2m US$2.3m 1,283 1,358 HarbourVest Partners VIII: Buyout Partnership Fund LP US$7.5m US$12.3m 4,810 7,426 Venture Partnership Fund LP US$2.2m US$4.6m 1,411 2,777 HarbourVest Partners V Direct Fund LP 3m 3.0m 2,328 2,496 HIPEP VI Asia Pacific Fund LP US$9.1m US$14.1m 5,852 8,528 HIPEP VI Emerging Markets Fund US$9.9m US$14.6m 6,373 8,830 Pantheon Europe Fund III LP 8.6m 8.6m 6,693 7,176 Pantheon Europe Fund V LP 14.5m 17.5m 11,253 14,560 Pantheon Asia Fund IV LP US$6.8m US$7.8m 4,329 4,680 Pantheon Asia Fund V LP US$7.7m US$11.3m 4,906 6,793 Pantheon Global Secondary Fund III LP US$3.1m US$5m 1,989 3,020 Esprit Capital Fund I LP 0.27m 0.38m 265 382 60,387 78,084 25 Related Party Transactions The following are considered related parties: the Board of Directors, the Manager and fellow members of BMO.
There are no transactions with the Board other than aggregated remuneration for services as Directors as disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 35 and as set out in note 5 on the accounts.
There are no outstanding balances with the Board at year end.
Transactions between the Company and F&C are detailed: in note 4 on management fees: in note 10, where investments managed or advised by F&C are disclosed: and in note 15 in relation to fees owed to F&C at the Balance Sheet date.
Report and Accounts 2014 65 Notes on the Accounts continued 26 Financial Risk Management The Company is an investment company, listed on the London Stock Exchange, and conducts its affairs so as to qualify in the United Kingdom UK as an investment trust under the provisions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
In so qualifying, the Company is exempted in the UK from corporation tax on capital gains on its portfolio of investments.
The Companys investment objective is to secure long-term growth in capital and income through a policy of investing primarily in an internationally diversified portfolio of public listed equities, as well as unlisted securities and private equity, with the use of gearing.
In pursuing the objective, the Company is exposed to financial risks which could result in a reduction of either or both of the value of the net assets and the profits available for distribution by way of dividend.
These financial risks are principally related to the market currency movements, interest rate changes and security price movements, liquidity and credit.
The Board of Directors, together with the Manager, is responsible for the Companys risk management.
The Directors policies and processes for managing the financial risks are set out in a, b and c below.
The accounting policies which govern the reported Balance Sheet carrying values of the underlying financial assets and liabilities, as well as the related income and expenditure, are set out in note 2 on the accounts.
The policies are in compliance with UK Accounting Standards and best practice, and include the valuation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value except as noted in d below and in notes 14 and 17 in respect of debenture stocks.
The Company does not make use of hedge accounting rules.
a Market risks The fair value of equity and other financial securities including derivatives held in the Companys portfolio fluctuates with changes in market prices.
Prices are themselves affected by movements in currencies and interest rates and by other financial issues, including the market perception of future risks.
The Boards policies for managing these risks within the Companys objective include: risk diversification no more than 5% of the portfolio may be invested in unquoted securities, excluding private equity investments, and no single investment may be made which exceeds 10% of the value of the portfolio at the time of acquisition: currency exposure borrowings are limited to amounts and currencies commensurate with the portfolios exposure to those currencies: and gearing borrowings including the debentures value at market value should not normally exceed 20% of shareholders funds.
Options may only be written on quoted stocks and the total nominal exposure is limited to a maximum of 5% of the UK portfolio at the time of investment for both put and call options.
There were no outstanding derivative positions at year end.
The Board meets regularly to review full, timely and relevant information on investment performance and financial results.
The Manager assesses exposure to market risks when making each investment decision and monitors ongoing market risk within the portfolio.
The Companys other assets and liabilities may be denominated in currencies other than Sterling and may also be exposed to interest rate risks.
The Manager and the Board regularly monitor these risks.
The Company does not normally hold significant cash balances.
Borrowings are limited to amounts and currencies commensurate with the portfolios exposure to those currencies, thereby limiting the Companys exposure to future changes in foreign exchange rates.
Debenture stocks were issued as part of the Companys planned gearing.
All contracts and compliance with them, including the Debenture trust deeds, are agreed and monitored by the Board.
Gearing may be short or long-term in Sterling and foreign currencies, and enables the Company to take a long-term view of the countries and markets in which it is invested without having to be concerned about short-term volatility.
The exchange rates applying against Sterling at 31 December, and the average rates during the year, were as follows: 2014 Average 2013 US Dollar 1.5592 1.6472 1.6562 Euro 1.2886 1.2436 1.2020 Yen 186.9463 175.1483 174.0800 Based on the financial assets and liabilities held, and exchange rates applying at each Balance Sheet date, a weakening or strengthening of Sterling against each of these currencies by 10% would have had the following approximate effect on annualised income after tax and on net asset value NAV per share: 2014 2013 US$ US$ Weakening of Sterling 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Income Statement Return after tax Revenue return 852 630 169 743 551 106 Capital return 134,683 34,093 8,330 109,808 38,189 9,725 Total return 135,535 34,723 8,499 110,551 38,740 9,831 NAV per share pence 24.10 6.18 1.51 19.38 6.79 1.72 Report and Accounts 2014 67 Notes on the Accounts continued 26 Financial Risk Management continued 2014 2013 US$ US$ Strengthening of Sterling 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Income statement return after tax Revenue return 852 632 169 743 551 106 Capital return 134,683 34,093 8,330 109,808 38,189 9,725 Total return 135,535 34,725 8,499 110,551 38,740 9,831 NAV per share pence 24.10 6.18 1.51 19.38 6.79 1.72 These analyses are broadly representative of the Companys activities during the current and prior year as a whole, although the level of the Companys exposure to currencies fluctuates in accordance with the investment and risk management processes.
Interest rate exposure The exposure of the financial assets and liabilities to interest rate risks at 31 December is shown below: 2013 2014 Within More than Within More than one year one year Total one year one year Total 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Exposure to floating rates Cash and deposits 8,921 8,921 21,846 21,846 Borrowings Overdrafts Exposure to fixed rates Cash and deposits 23,910 23,910 10,631 10,631 Debentures 575 575 110,000 575 110,575 Other borrowings 173,405 86,611 260,016 30,000 86,216 116,216 Net exposures At year end 140,574 87,186 227,760 107,523 86,791 194,314 Maximum in year 140,574 88,631 229,205 89,436 210,406 295,890 Minimum in year 78,036 85,466 163,502 2,477 196,791 194,314 Exposures vary throughout the year as a consequence of changes in the composition of the net assets of the Company arising out of the investment and risk management processes.
Interest received on cash balances, or paid on bank overdrafts and borrowings, is at ruling market rates.
The interest rates applying on the debenture stocks are set out in notes 14 and 17 on the accounts.
There were no material holdings in fixed interest investment securities during the year or at the year end.
The Companys total returns and net assets are sensitive to changes in interest rates on cash and borrowings, except in respect of the debentures on which the interest rate is fixed.
The debentures are valued in the accounts at par value.
Based on the financial assets and liabilities held, and the interest rates pertaining, at each Balance Sheet date, a decrease or increase in interest rates by 2% would have the following approximate effects on the Income Statement revenue and capital returns after tax and on the NAV: 2014 2013 Increase Decrease Increase Decrease in rate in rate in rate in rate 000s 000s 000s 000s Revenue return 178 178 219 219 Capital return Total return 178 178 219 219 NAV per share pence 0.03 0.03 0.04 0.04 68 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC 26 Financial Risk Management continued Other market risk exposures The portfolio of investments, valued at 2,805,363,000 at 31 December 2014 2013: 2,623,202,000 is exposed to market price changes.
The Manager assesses these exposures at the time of making each investment decision.
The Board reviews overall exposures at each meeting against indices and other relevant information.
An analysis of the portfolio by country and major industrial sector is set out in the Fund Managers Review.
Derivative contracts entered into comprise options written in the expectation that they will not be exercised.
Based on the portfolio of investments held at each Balance Sheet date, and assuming other factors remain constant, a decrease or increase in the fair values of the portfolio by 20% would have had the following approximate effects on the net capital return attributable to equity shareholders and on the NAV: 2014 2013 Increase Decrease Increase Decrease in value in value in value in value 000s 000s 000s 000s Income statement capital return 561,073 561,073 524,640 524,640 NAV per share pence 99.78 99.78 91.98 91.98 b Liquidity risk exposure The Company is required to raise funds to meet commitments associated with financial instruments, private equity investments and share buybacks.
These funds may be raised either through the realisation of assets or through increased borrowing.
The risk of the Company not having sufficient liquidity at any time is not considered by the Board to be significant, given: the large number of quoted investments held in the Companys portfolio over 500 at 31 December 2014 : the liquid nature of the portfolio of investments: the industrial and geographical diversity of the portfolio and the existence of ongoing overdraft and loan facility agreements.
Cash balances are held with approved banks, usually on overnight deposit.
The Manager reviews liquidity at the time of making each investment decision.
The Board reviews liquidity exposure at each meeting.
The Company has loan facilities of 300 million as set out in notes 13 and 16 on the accounts.
The facilities limit the amount which the Company may borrow at any one time as a proportion of the relevant portfolio of investments and cash.
At 31 December 2014 the most onerous financial covenant limits total borrowings to 33.3% of the Companys adjusted net asset value, which at 31 December 2014 was 2,472 million.
Actual borrowings at market value at 31 December 2014 were 260.0million in loans see notes 13 and 16 and 0.4 million in a debenture at market value see notes 14 and 17.
At 31 December 2014 the Company had 60.4 million outstanding commitments to private equity investments, payable over more than one year see note 24.
The remaining contractual maturities of the financial liabilities at each balance sheet date, based on the earliest date on which payment can be required, were as follows: More than three Three months months but less More than or less than one year one year Total 2014 000s 000s 000s 000s Current liabilities Overdrafts Other borrowings 173,405 173,405 Other creditors 4,585 4,585 Long-term liabilities 86,611 86,611 Debentures 575 575 177,990 87,186 265,176 Interest payable on debenture 24 24 48 177,990 24 87,210 265,224 per annum in perpetuity Report and Accounts 2014 69 Notes on the Accounts continued 26 Financial Risk Management continued More than three Three months months but less More than or less than one year one year Total 2013 000s 000s 000s 000s Current liabilities Overdrafts Other borrowings 30,000 30,000 Other creditors 3,846 3,846 Long-term liabilities 86,216 86,216 Debentures 110,000 575 110,575 33,846 110,000 86,791 230,637 Interest payable on debentures 12,399 24 12,423 33,846 122,399 86,815 243,060 c Credit risk and counterparty exposure The Company is exposed to potential failure by counterparties to deliver securities for which the Company has paid, or to pay for securities which the Company has delivered.
The Board approves all counterparties used in such transactions, which must be settled on the basis of delivery against payment except where local market conditions do not permit.
A list of pre-approved counterparties is maintained by the Manager and regularly reviewed by the Board.
Broker counterparties are selected based on a combination of criteria, including credit rating, balance sheet strength and membership of a relevant regulatory body.
The rate of default in the past has been negligible.
Payments in respect of private equity investments are made only to counterparties with whom a contracted commitment exists.
Cash and deposits are held with approved banks.
The Company has an ongoing contract with its Custodian for the provision of custody services.
The contract was reviewed and updated in 2014.
Details of securities held in custody on behalf of the Company are received and reconciled monthly.
The Companys depositary, JPMorgan Europe Limited JPMEL, has regulatory responsibilities relating to segregation and safe keeping of the Companys financial assets, amongst other duties, as set out in the Directors Report.
The Board has direct access to JPMEL and receives regular reports from it via the Manager.
To the extent that the Manager carries out management and administrative duties or causes similar duties to be carried out by third parties on the Companys behalf, the Company is exposed to counterparty risk.
The Board assesses this risk continuously through regular meetings with the management of F&C including the Fund Manager and with the F&Cs Risk Management function.
In reaching its conclusions, the Board also reviews F&Cs annual Audit and Assurance Faculty Report.
The Company had no credit-rated bonds or similar securities in its portfolio at the year end 2013: none and does not normally invest in them.
None of the Companys financial liabilities are past their due date or impaired.
In summary, compared to the amounts included in the balance sheet, the maximum exposure to credit risk was as follows: Exposure at 2014 Exposure at 2013 Balance Maximum Balance Maximum sheet date exposure sheet date exposure Current liabilities 000s 000s 000s 000s Derivative financial instruments 9,250 9,250 9,250 70 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC 26 Financial Risk Management continued d Fair values of financial assets and liabilities The assets and liabilities of the Company are, in the opinion of the Directors, reflected in the balance sheet at fair value, or at a reasonable approximation thereof, except for the debentures which are carried at par value in accordance with Accounting Standards.
The fair value of the debentures, derived from their quoted market price at 31 December 2014, was 429,000 2013: 117,997,000.
Borrowings under overdraft and loan facilities do not have a value materially different from their capital repayment amount.
Borrowings in foreign currencies are converted into Sterling at exchanges rates ruling at each valuation date.
The fair value of investments quoted on active markets is determined directly by reference to published price quotations in these markets.
Unquoted investments, including private equity investments, are valued based on professional advice and assumptions that are not wholly supported by prices from current market transactions or by observable market data.
The Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar investments.
With respect specifically to investments in private equity funds or partnerships, the underlying managers provide regular valuations to the Directors, based on the latest information available to the managers and not necessarily co-terminous with the reporting dates of the Company.
The Directors review the valuations for consistency with the Companys accounting policies and with fair value principles.
e Capital risk management The objective of the Company is stated as being to provide shareholders with long-term growth in capital and income.
In pursuing this long-term objective, the Board has a responsibility for ensuring the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
It must therefore maintain an optimal capital structure through varying market conditions.
This involves the ability to: issue and buy back share capital within limits set by the shareholders in general meeting: borrow monies in the short and long term: and pay dividends to shareholders out of current year revenue earnings as well as out of brought forward revenue and capital reserves.
Changes to ordinary share capital are set out in note 18 on the accounts.
Dividend payments are set out in note 9 on the accounts.
The Directors have no current intention to pay dividends out of capital reserves.
Borrowings are set out in notes 13,14, 16 and 17 on the accounts.
27 Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD In accordance with the AIFMD, information in relation to the Companys leverage and the remuneration of the Companys AIFM, F&C Investment Business Limited, is required to be made available to investors.
Detailed regulatory disclosures including those on the AIFMs remuneration policy are available on the Companys website or from F&C on request.
The numerical remuneration disclosures in relation to the AIFMs first relevant accounting period will be made available in due course.
The Companys maximum and actual leverage levels at 31 December 2014 are shown below: Gross Commitment Leverage exposure method method Maximum permitted limit 200% 200% Actual 110% 110% The Leverage limits are set by the AIFM and approved by the Board and are in line with the maximum leverage levels permitted in the Companys Articules of Association.
The AIFM is also required to comply with the gearing parameters set by the Board in relation to borrowings.
28 Post balance sheet movement in net assets The NAV per share debt at par on 27 February 2015 was 480.67p 31 December 2014: 458.39p.
Report and Accounts 2014 71 Ten Year Record All data is based on assets, liabilities, earnings and expenses as reported in accordance with the Companys accounting policies.
72 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Cost of running the Company for the year ended 31 December % 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Expressed as a percentage of average net assets Total Expense Ratio 0.55 0.57 0.58 0.76 0.64 0.63 0.59 0.57 0.55 0.50 0.53 Ongoing Charges 0.92 0.90 0.86 0.87 restated for changes in accounting policies Gearing at 31 December % 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Net gearing 7.6 4.4 7.0 7.0 12.2 6.0 13.2 15.8 14.3 8.0 8.9 restated for changes in accounting policies Analysis of ordinary shareholders at 31 December 2014 Holding % Category F&C savings plans 46.3 Discretionary Advisory 26.5 Institutions 12.0 Direct individuals 10.3 Skandia IFA products 3.7 New Zealand individuals 1.2 100.0 Source: F&C Independent Financial Adviser products Report and Accounts 2014 73 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred shares as at the date of the passing of this and thirty-sixth Annual General Meeting of the resolution: Company will be held at Merchant Taylors Hall, b the minimum price exclusive of expenses 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2 on Tuesday, which may be paid for an ordinary share shall 28 April 2015 at 12 noon for the following purposes: be 25p: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses Ordinary Resolutions: which may be paid for an ordinary share is To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of resolutions as ordinary resolutions: the average of the middle market quotations 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors report and for an ordinary share as derived from the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014.
London Stock Exchange Daily Official List 2.
To approve the Directors annual report on for the five business days immediately remuneration.
preceding the date on which the ordinary 3.
To declare a dividend on the ordinary shares.
share is contracted to be purchased, and ii 4.
To re-elect Ms Sarah Arkle as a Director.
an amount equal to the higher of the price 5.
To re-elect Sir Roger Bone as a Director.
of the last independent trade for an ordinary 6.
To re-elect Mr Stephen Burley as a Director.
share and the highest current independent 7.
To re-elect Ms Francesca Ecsery as a Director.
bid for an ordinary share as derived from the 8.
To re-elect Mr Simon Fraser as a Director.
London Stock Exchange Trading System: 9.
To re-elect Mr Jeffrey Hewitt as a Director.
d the authority hereby conferred shall expire 10.
To re-elect Mr Christopher Keljik as a Director.
at the conclusion of the next annual general 11.
To re-elect Mr Nicholas Moakes as a Director.
meeting of the Company after passing of this 12.
To reappoint  LLP as resolution or on 30 June 2016, whichever auditors to the Company.
is earlier, unless such authority is varied, 13.
To authorise the Directors to determine the revoked or renewed prior to such time by remuneration of the auditors.
the Company in general meeting by special resolution: and Special Resolutions: e the Company may at any time prior to the To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following expiry of such authority enter into a contract resolutions as special resolutions: or contracts to purchase ordinary shares 14.
Share buyback authority under such authority which will or may be THAT, in substitution for any existing authority, completed or executed wholly or partly after but without prejudice to the exercise of any such the expiration of such authority and the authority prior to the date hereof, the Company Company may purchase ordinary shares be and is hereby generally and unconditionally pursuant to any such contract or contracts authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with as if the authority conferred hereby had not section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the expired.
Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of fully paid To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the resolution as an ordinary resolution: Company ordinary shares on such terms and 15.
Authority to allot shares in such manner as the Directors may from time to THAT, in substitution for any existing authority, time determine, provided that: but without prejudice to the exercise of any a the maximum number of ordinary shares such authority prior to the date hereof, the hereby authorised to be purchased shall be Directors be and they are hereby generally 84,287,000 or, if less, 14.99% of the number and unconditionally authorised, in accordance of ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 74 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Lombard Street the Act, to exercise all the powers of the cash or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if Company to allot shares in the Company and section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such to grant rights to subscribe for, or convert allotment or transfer, provided this power shall be any security into, shares in the Company limited to: together being relevant securities up to a the allotment of equity securities in connection an aggregate nominal amount of 7,000,000 with an offer of equity securities: during the period commencing on the date i to ordinary shareholders in proportion of the passing of this resolution and expiring as nearly as may be practicable to their at the conclusion of the annual general existing holdings: and meeting of the Company in 2016 or 30 June ii to holders of other equity securities as 2016 whichever is earlier, unless previously required by the rights of those securities revoked, varied or extended by the Company or as the Directors otherwise consider in a general meeting the relevant period necessary, save that the Company may, at any time prior and so that the Directors may impose to the expiry of this authority, make offers any limits or restrictions and make any or enter into agreements which would or arrangements which they consider necessary might require relevant securities to be allotted or appropriate to deal with any treasury after the expiry of the relevant period and shares, fractional entitlements or securities notwithstanding such expiry the Directors represented by depositary receipts, record may allot relevant securities in pursuance of dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems such offers or agreements.
in, or under the laws of, any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following exchange or any other matter: and resolution as a special resolution: b the allotment otherwise than under paragraph 16.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights a of this Resolution 16 of equity securities THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 15 up to an aggregate nominal amount of above and in substitution for any existing authority, 7,000,000, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such and shall expire at the conclusion of the next authority prior to the date hereof, the Directors annual general meeting of the Company after be and they are hereby empowered, pursuant the passing of this Resolution or 30 June 2016 to sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act whichever is the earlier, unless extended by the 2006 the Act, to allot equity securities within the Company in a general meeting the relevant meaning of section 560 of the Act either pursuant period save that the Company may at any to the authority conferred by resolution 15 for time prior to the expiry of this authority make offers or enter into agreements which would or Location of Meeting might require equity securities to be allotted or transferred after the expiry of the relevant period Liverpool Street and notwithstanding such expiry the Directors may allot or transfer equity securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements.
Bank of England Merchant Taylors Hall By Order of the Board Registered office: Bank For and on behalf of Exchange House Cornhill Leadenhall Steet Threadneedles Lloyds F&C Investment Primrose Street Mansion Hotel of House London Business Limited London EC2A 2NY Secretary 2 March 2015 Fenchurch St Monument Station Report and Accounts 2014 75 Threadneedle Street King William Street Old Broad Street Bishopsgate Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes: meeting or adjourned meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
If you want to appoint more than 1.
A member is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to one proxy electronically please contact Computershare exercise all or any of the members rights to attend, speak Investor Services PLC on 0800 923 1506. and vote at the meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting for the 6.
Investors holding shares in the Company through the members vote to be counted.
If a member appoints more F&C Private Investor, or Childrens Investment Plans, the than one proxy to attend the meeting, each proxy must F&C Child Trust Fund, Junior ISA or in an F&C Individual be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different Savings Account should ensure that forms of direction share or shares held by that member.
are returned to Computershare Investor Services PLC not later than 96 hours before the time appointed for 2.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, holding the meeting.
Alternatively, voting directions can be is given discretion as to how the votes are cast and submitted electronically at www.
com the voting rights in respect of those discretionary by entering the Control Number, Shareholder Reference proxies, when added to the interests in the Companys Number and PIN as printed on the form of direction.
Voting securities already held by the Chairman, result in the directions must be submitted electronically not less than 96 Chairman holding such number of voting rights that hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
he has a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the 7.
Any person receiving a copy of this notice as a person necessary notifications to the Company and the Financial nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under Conduct Authority.
As a result, any person holding 3% section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated or more of the voting rights in the Company who grants Person should note that the provisions in notes 1, 4 the Chairman a discretionary proxy in respect of some and 5 above concerning the appointment of a proxy or or all of those voting rights and so would otherwise proxies to attend the meeting in place of a member do have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and not apply to a Nominated Person as only shareholders Transparency Rules need not make a separate notification have the right to appoint a proxy.
However, a Nominated to the ompany and the Financial Conduct Authority.
Person may have a right under an agreement between the Nominated Person and the member by whom he or 3.
Any such person holding 3% or more of the voting rights she was nominated to be appointed, or to have someone in the Company who appoints a person other than the else appointed, as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not and such person complies with their respective disclosure wish to exercise it, he she may have a right under such an obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights at the meeting.
A Form of Proxy is provided with this notice for members.
If a member wishes to appoint more than one proxy and 8.
Nominated Persons should also remember that their so requires additional proxy forms, the member should main point of contact in terms of their investment in contact Computershare Investor Services PLC on 0800 the Company remains the member who nominated 923 1506.
To be valid, the Form of Proxy and any power the Nominated Person to enjoy information rights or, of attorney or other authority under which it is signed perhaps, the custodian or broker who administers the or a notarially certified copy of such authority must be investment on their behalf.
Nominated Persons should received by post or during normal business hours only continue to contact that member, custodian or broker by hand at the Companys registrars, Computershare and not the Company regarding any changes or queries Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, relating to the Nominated Persons personal details and Bristol BS99 6ZY, not less than 48 hours before the interest in the Company including any administrative time of the holding of the meeting or any adjournment matter.
The only exception to this is where the Company thereof.
Completion and return of a Form of Proxy will expressly requests a response from a Nominated Person.
not preclude members from attending and voting at the meeting should they wish to do so.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 1 of the Uncertificated must also be received by the Companys registrars by the Securities Regulations 2001 as amended and for the deadline for receipt of Forms of Proxy.
purposes of section 360B of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has specified that only those members 5.
Alternatively, members may register the appointment registered on the register of members of the Company of a proxy for the meeting electronically, by accessing at 11 p. m. on 26 April 2015 the Specified Time or, the website www.
com where full if the meeting is adjourned to a time more than 48 hours instructions for the procedure are given.
The Control after the Specified Time, by 11 p. m. on the day which is Number, Shareholder Reference and PIN as printed on two days prior to the time of the adjourned meeting shall the Form of Proxy will be required in order to use the be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of electronic proxy appointment system.
This website is the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
operated by Computershare Investor Services PLC.
The If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 proxy appointment and any power of attorney or other hours after the Specified Time, that time will also apply for authority under which the proxy appointment is made the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to must be received by Computershare Investor Services attend and vote and for the purposes of determining the PLC not less than 48 hours before the time for holding number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a Changes to the register of members after the relevant poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the 76 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies 15.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, members through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s have the right to require the Company to publish on a thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST website a statement setting out any matter relating to: Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who a the audit of the Companys accounts including the have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who to be laid before the meeting: or will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the 11.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made Company ceasing to hold office since the previous using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate meeting at which annual accounts and reports were CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies must be properly authenticated in accordance with Act 2006.
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instruction, 16.
The Company may not require the members requesting as described in the CREST Manual available via any such website publication to pay its expenses in www.
The message, regardless complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement or is an amendment to the instruction given to a on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement ID number 3RA50 by the latest time s for receipt of available on the website.
The business which may be proxy appointments specified in notes 4 and 5 above.
dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be Company has been required under section 527 of the the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by 17.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company must cause to be answered After this time, any change of instructions to proxies any question relating to the business being dealt with appointed through CREST should be communicated to at the meeting put by a member attending the meeting.
the appointee through other means.
However, members should note that no answer need be given in the following circumstances: 12.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s should note a if to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make of the meeting or would involve a disclosure of available special procedures in CREST for any particular confidential information: messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST b if the answer has already been given on a website in the Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST form of an answer to a question: or member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or c if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure 18.
As at 27 February 2015, being the last business day that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST prior to the printing of this notice, the Companys issued system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST capital consisted of 562,292,016 ordinary shares of members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors 25 pence each carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, total voting rights in the Company as at 27 February 2015 to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning are 562,292,016. practical limitations of the CREST system and timings www.
This notice, together with information about the total number of shares in the Company in respect of which 13.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation meeting as at 27 February 2015 being the last business 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 day prior to the printing of this notice and, if applicable, as amended.
any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the 14.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or Company after the date of this notice, will be available at more corporate representatives who may exercise on www.
its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that, if it is appointing more than one corporate representative, 20.
Any electronic address provided either in this notice or in it does not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is any related documents including the Form of Proxy may Report and Accounts 2014 77 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued not be used to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Copies of the letters of appointment between the Company and its Directors: a copy of the articles of association of the Company: the register of Directors holdings: and a deed poll relating to Directors indemnities will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and Bank Holidays excluded until the date of the meeting and also on the date and at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to the commencement of the meeting to the conclusion thereof.
No Director has a service agreement with the Company.
78 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Information for Shareholders Information for Shareholders Net asset value and share price Income tax The Companys net asset value is released daily, on The final dividend of 2.70 pence per share is payable the working day following the calculation date, to the on 1 May 2015.
Individual UK resident shareholders London and New Zealand Stock Exchanges.
The who are subject to UK income tax at the lower current share price of Foreign & Colonial is shown rate or the basic rate have no further tax liability.
in the investment trust section of the stock market Shareholders not resident in the UK, and any page in most leading newspapers, usually under For shareholders in doubt as to their tax position, should & Col. Investors in New Zealand can obtain share consult their professional advisers.
prices from leading newspapers in that country.
Dividend Re-investment Plan DRIP Performance information The Company through Computershare Investor Information on the Companys performance is provided Services PLC now offers shareholders the opportunity in the half-yearly and final reports which are sent to to purchase further shares through the DRIP.
DRIP shareholders in August and March respectively.
forms may be obtained from Computershare through More up-to-date performance information, including their secure website www.
co. uk, or by the full list of investments in the portfolio as at the phoning 0870 707 1694. most recent month end, is available on the Internet at www.
com under Investor Association of Investment Companies AIC Information.
com Foreign & Colonial is a member of the AIC, which also provides a monthly update on the Companys publishes a monthly statistical information service geographic spread and largest holdings, along with in respect of member companies.
The publication comments from the Fund Manager.
also has details of ISA and other investment plans available.
For further details, please contact UK capital gains tax CGT the AIC on 020 7282 5555, or visit the website: An approved investment trust does not pay tax on www.
UK resident individuals may realise net capital gains of up to 11,000 in the tax year ended 5 April 2015 without incurring any tax liability.
The rate of CGT of 18% will apply where taxable income and gains do not exceed the income tax higher rate threshold 31,865 in 2014-15 tax year.
The higher rate of 28% will apply to those whose income and gains exceed this figure.
For UK investors who acquired Foreign & Colonial stock prior to 31 March 1982, the costs for CGT purposes, based on the price at that Financial Calendar date, adjusted for capital changes are as Annual General Meeting 28 April 2015 follows: Final dividend payable for 2014 1 May 2015 Unit of Market Interim results for 2015 announced end July 2015 Quotation price First interim dividend for 2015 3 August 2015 Ordinary shares 25p 14.875p Second interim dividend for 2015 2 November 2015 4.25% perpetual debenture stock 100 28.25 Third interim dividend for 2015 1 February 2016 Final Results for 2015 announced March 2016 Shareholders in doubt as to their CGT position Final dividend for 2015 May 2016 should consult their professional advisers.
Registered in England and Wales with Company Registration No.
12901 Report and Accounts 2014 79 Y T I L I B A T N U O C I N C N A O V How to Invest How to Invest One of the most convenient ways to invest in Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC is through one of the savings plans run by F&C Management Limited.
Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and you F&C Private Investor Plan PIP may not receive back the full amount originally invested.
Tax A flexible way to invest with a lump sum from 500 rates and reliefs depend on the circumstances of the individual.
or regular savings from 50 a month.
You can also The CTF and JISA accounts are opened in the childs name.
make additional lump sum top-ups at any time Money cannot be withdrawn until the child turns 18. from 250.
Annual management charges and certain transaction costs apply according to the type of plan.
F&C lnvestment Trust ISA Annual account charge Use your ISA allowance to make an annual taxISA: 60 VAT efficient investment of up to 15,000 for the PIP: 40 VAT 2014 15 tax year with a lump sum from 500 or JISA CIP CTF: 25 VAT regular savings from 50 a month.
You can also You can pay the annual charge from your account, or by direct make additional lump sum top-ups at any time debit in addition to any annual subscription limits from 250 and transfer any existing ISAs to us whilst maintaining all the tax benefits.
Dealing charge per holding ISA: 0.2% PIP CIP JISA: postal instructions 12, online instruction 8 F&C Child Trust Fund CTF The dealing charge applies when shares are bought or sold CTFs are closed to new investors: however, if your but the fixed rate charge does not apply to the reinvestment of child has a CTF with another provider, it is easy to dividends or the investment of regular monthly savings.
Additional contributions can be made from as little as 25 per month or 100 lump There is no dealing charge on a CTF but a switching charge of 25 applies if more than two switches are carried out in one year.
sum up to a maximum of 4,000 for birthdays in the 2014 15 tax year.
Government stamp duty of 0.5% also applies on purchases where applicable.
There may be additional charges made if you transfer a plan to F&C Childrens lnvestment Plan CIP another provider or transfer the shares from your plan.
For full A flexible way to save for a child.
With no maximum details of charges, please read the Key Features and Terms and contributions, the plan can easily be written under Conditions of the plan before investing.
trust to help reduce inheritance tax liability or kept How to Invest in your name if you may need access to the funds You can invest in all our savings plans online.
Investments can be made from a 250 lump sum or 25 a month.
You can also New Customers: make additional lump sum top-ups at any time from Contact our Investor Services Team 100.
com Junior ISA JISA 8:30am 5:30pm, weekdays.
This is a tax-efficient savings plan for children who did not qualify for a CTF.
It allows you to invest Existing Plan Holders: up to 4,000 for the 2014 15 tax year with all the Contact our Investor Services Team tax benefits of the CTF.
You can invest from 30 Call: 0845 600 3030 a month, or 500 lump sum, or a combination of Email: investor.
By post: F&C Plan Administration Centre PO Box 11114 Chelmsford CM99 2DG 9:00am 5:00pm, weekdays.
CLIENTS FIRST F&C Management Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FRN: 119230 and is a member of the F&C Group.
The ultimate parent company of the F&C Group is the Bank of Montreal.
80 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC A T I O N T C E P S E R Glossary of Terms AAF Audit and Assurance Faculty guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Administrator State Street Bank and Trust Company.
AIC Association of Investment Companies, the trade body for Closed-end Investment Companies.
AIFMD Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
Issued by the European Parliament in 2012 and 2013, the Directive requires that all investment vehicles AIFs in the European Union, including Investment Trusts, must appoint a Depositary and an Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
The Board of Directors of an Investment Trust, nevertheless, will remain fully responsible for all aspects of the Companys strategy, operations and compliance with regulations.
The Companys AIFM is F&C Investment Business Limited.
Benchmark the FTSE All-World Total Return Index is the benchmark against which the increase or decrease in the Companys net asset value is measured.
The Index averages the performance of a defined selection of companies listed in stock markets around the world and gives an indication of how those markets have performed in any period.
Divergence between the performance of the Company and the Index is to be expected as: the investments within this Index are not identical to those of the Company: the Index does not take account of operating costs: and the Companys strategy does not include replicating tracking this Index.
Closed-end company a company, including an Investment Company, with a fixed issued ordinary share capital which is traded on an exchange at a price not necessarily related to the net asset value of the company and which shares can only be issued or bought back by the company in certain circumstances.
Cum-dividend shares are classified as cum-dividend when the buyer of a security is entitled to receive a dividend that has been declared, but not paid.
Shares which are not cum-dividend are described as ex-dividend.
Custodian A specialised financial institution responsible for safeguarding, worldwide, the listed securities and certain cash assets of the Company, as well as the income arising therefrom, through provision of custodial, settlement and associated services.
The Companys Custodian is JP Morgan Chase Bank.
Depositary Under AIFMD rules applying from July 2014, the Company must appoint a Depositary, whose duties in respect of investments, cash and similar assets include: safekeeping: verification of ownership and valuation: and cash monitoring.
Under the AIFMD rules, the depositary has strict liability for the loss of the Companys financial assets in respect of which it has safekeeping duties.
The depositarys oversight duties will include but are not limited to oversight of share buy backs, dividend payments and adherence to investment limits.
The Companys Depositary is JPMorgan Europe Limited.
Derivative a contract between two or more parties, the value of which fluctuates in accordance with the value of an underlying security.
The contract is usually short-term for less than one year.
Examples of derivatives are Put and Call Options, Swap contracts, Futures and Contracts for Difference.
A derivative can be an asset or a liability and is a form of gearing because the fluctuations in its value are usually greater than the fluctuations in the underlying securitys value.
Discount Premium the share price of an Investment Trust is derived from buyers and sellers trading their shares on the stock market.
This price is not identical to NAV per share of the underlying assets less liabilities of the Company.
If the share price is lower than the NAV per share, the shares are trading at a discount.
This usually indicates that there are more sellers of shares than buyers.
Shares trading at a price above NAV per share are deemed to be at a premium.
The Board of the Company tries to ensure that the shares trade, in normal market conditions, at around 90% of the value of the net assets i. e. that the discount is around 10% by means of buying shares from sellers at the below-NAV price and cancelling them or holding them in treasury.
Buybacks effectively create a profit for the Company and at least temporarily deals with the perceived excess of shares in the market.
Distributable Reserves Reserves distributable by way of dividend or for the purpose of buying back ordinary share capital see notes 2 c, 18, 19 and 20 on the accounts.
Company Law requires that Share Capital and the Capital Redemption Reserve may not be distributed.
The Companys articles of association allow distributions by way of dividend out of Capital Reserves.
Dividend payments are currently made out of Revenue Reserve.
The cost of all share buybacks is deducted from Capital Reserves.
Dividend Dates Reference is made in announcements of dividends to three dates.
The record date is the date after which buyers of the shares will not be recorded on the register of shareholders as qualifying for the pending dividend payment.
The payment date is the date that dividends are credited to shareholders bank accounts.
This may be several weeks or even months after the record date.
The ex-dividend date is normally the second business day prior to the record date most ex-dividend dates are on a Wednesday.
Report and Accounts 2014 81 Glossary of Terms continued F&C F&C Asset Management plc, together with its subsidiaries including the Manager which forms the F&C Asset Management Group.
Foreign & Colonial Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC, also the Company.
Fund Manager Paul Niven, an employee of the Manager with overall management responsibility for the total portfolio.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This includes UK GAAP and International GAAP IFRS or International Financial Reporting Standards applicable in the European Union.
Gearing this is the ratio of the borrowings of the Company to its net assets.
Borrowings have a prior charge over the assets of a company, ranking before ordinary shareholders in their entitlement to capital and or income.
They include: preference shares: debentures: overdrafts and short and long-term loans from banks: and derivative contracts.
If the Company has cash assets, these may be assumed either to net off against borrowings, giving a net or effective gearing percentage, or to be used to buy investments, giving a gross or fully invested gearing figure.
Where cash assets exceed borrowings, the Company is described as having net cash.
The Companys maximum permitted level of gearing is set by the Board and is described within the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
Investment Company Section 833 UK Company Law allows an Investment Company to make dividend distributions out of realised distributable reserves, even in circumstances where it has made Capital losses in any year see note 2 a on the accounts, provided the Companys assets remaining after payment of the dividend exceed 150% of the liabilities.
An Investment Company is defined as investing its funds in shares, land or other assets with the aim of spreading investment risk.
Investment portfolio strategies the separate regional, global and private equity portfolios that together make up the total investment portfolio of the Company.
Investment Trust taxation status Section 1158 UK Corporation Tax law allows an Investment Company referred to in Tax law as an Investment Trust to be exempted from tax on its profits realised on investment transactions, provided it complies with certain rules.
These are similar to Section 833 Company law rules but further require that the Company must be listed on a regulated stock exchange and that it cannot retain more than 15% of income received set out in note 3 on the accounts.
The Directors Report contains confirmation of the Companys compliance with this law and its consequent exemption from taxation on capital gains.
Leverage as defined under AIFMD rules, leverage is any method by which the exposure of an AIF being an investment vehicle under the AIFMD is increased through borrowing of cash or securities or leverage embedded in derivative positions.
Leverage is broadly equivalent to gearing, but is expressed as a ratio between the assets excluding borrowings and the net assets after taking account of borrowing.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions after deduction of cash balances, without taking account of any hedging or netting arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the deduction of cash balances and after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
Manager AIFM F&C Investment Business Limited FCIB, a subsidiary within the F&C Asset Management Group, which in turn is wholly owned by the Bank of Montreal Group BMO.
Prior to 22 July 2014, the Manager was F&C Management Limited FCM, a fellow subsidiary of BMO.
The responsibilities and remuneration of FCIB are unchanged from those of FCM and are set out in the Business Model and Strategy, Directors Report and note 4 on the accounts.
Market capitalisation the stock market quoted price of the Companys shares, multiplied by the number of shares in issue.
If the Companys shares trade at a discount to NAV, the market capitalisation will be lower than the Net asset value.
Net asset value NAV the assets less liabilities of the Company, as set out in the Balance Sheet, all valued in accordance with the Companys Accounting Policies see note 2 on the accounts and UK Accounting Standards.
The net assets correspond to Total Shareholders Funds, which comprise the share capital account, capital redemption reserve and capital and revenue reserves.
The Companys 4.25% Perpetual debenture and 11.25% debenture stock 2014 are valued in the Accounts at par redemption value and this Balance Sheet NAV is sometimes referred to as NAV, debt at par.
The debentures have historically traded at values different from their redemption values and the NAV using these values is described as NAV, debt at market value.
The 11.25% debenture 2014 was redeemed on 31 December 2014 at par see note 14 on the accounts.
The 4.25% Perpetual debenture remains in issue see note 17 on the accounts.
Non-executive Director a Director who has a contract for services, rather than a contract of employment, with the Company.
The Company does not have any executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors remuneration is described in detail in the Remuneration Report.
The duties of the Directors, who govern the Company through the auspices of a Board and Committees of the Board, are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement.
82 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Ongoing Charges all operating costs expected to be incurred in future and that are payable by the Company or suffered within underlying investee funds including private equity funds, expressed as a proportion of the average net assets of the Company over the reporting year see Ten Year Record.
The costs of buying and selling investments and derivatives are excluded, as are interest costs, taxation, non-recurring costs and the costs of buying back or issuing ordinary shares.
Open-ended Fund a collective investment scheme which issues shares or units directly to investors, and redeems directly from investors, at a price that is linked to the net asset value of the fund.
Private Equity an asset consisting of shares and debt in operating companies that are not publicly traded on a stock exchange.
The holdings in such companies may be collected in a Fund which operates as a limited partnership LP, with Partners contributing capital to the Fund over a period of years and receiving proportional repayments of capital and income as and when the investments are sold.
SSAE Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
SORP Statement of Recommended Practice.
The accounts of the Company are drawn up in accordance with the Investment Trust SORP, issued by the AIC, as described in note 2 on the accounts.
Total expense ratio TER an alternative measure of expenses to Ongoing Charges.
It comprises all operating costs incurred in the reporting period by the Company, calculated as a percentage of the average net assets in that year see Ten Year Record.
Operating costs exclude costs suffered within underlying investee funds, costs of buying and selling investments and derivatives, interest costs, taxation and the costs of buying back or issuing ordinary shares.
Total return the return to shareholders calculated on a per share basis by adding dividends paid in the period to the increase or decrease in the Share Price or NAV in the period.
The dividends are assumed to have been re-invested in the form of shares or net assets, respectively, on the date on which the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Treasury shares ordinary shares previously issued by the Company that have been bought back from shareholders on the open market and kept in the Companys own treasury.
Such shares may, at a later date, be re-issued for sale on the open market or cancelled if demand is insufficient.
Treasury shares carry no rights to dividends and have no voting rights and hence are not included within calculations of earnings per share or net asset value per share.
UK Code the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Report and Accounts 2014 83 Warning to shareholders Boiler Room Scams In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have been targeted by unauthorised overseas-based brokers selling what turn out to be non-existent or high risk shares, or expressing a wish to buy their shares.
If you receive unsolicited investment advice or requests: Make sure you get the correct name of the person or organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk firms systems-reporting register Report the matter to the FCA by calling 0800 111 6768 If the calls persist, hang up.
More detailed information on this can be found on the FCAs website www.
uk consumer scams Registered office: Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY Tel: 020 7628 8000 Fax: 020 7628 8188 www.
com @ Registrars: Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH Tel: 0800 923 1506 Fax: 0870 703 6143 www.
