Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement by the chairman of the Remuneration Committee Review.
Record growth in net new business and clients was achieved.
Net new business was up by 25% to 6.4 billion and we welcomed 144,000 net new clients.
Assets under administration increased by 29% and profit before tax was a record 209.8 million.
The Committees considered view was that 2014 had been a good year for Hargreaves Lansdown, with excellent new asset and client attraction, and the decisions on variable remuneration should reflect both this but also the drag effect on profit growth of the low interest rate environment.
Whilst interest rates are beyond managements control, in the short term they have led to reduced margins on cash balances which meant profit growth lagged growth in clients and assets.
Therefore the Executive Directors bonus pool for 2014 was slightly reduced compared to 2013.
Christopher D. Barling Chairman of the OBJECTIVES Remuneration Committee Hargreaves Lansdowns remuneration practices are designed to promote the long term success of the company by supporting the business strategy and we believe that this is best done by motivating and retaining our talented employees.
Our new Remuneration Policy subject to shareholder Dear Shareholder, vote is a minor evolution from existing practice.
The Policy establishes the purpose and principles underlying the structure of the remuneration I was delighted to be appointed as Chair of the Remuneration Committee package for Directors and how the Group links remuneration to the following the retirement from the Board of Jonathan Bloomer.
achievements of sustained high performance and long term value creation.
Furthermore whilst placing significant weight on performance, our overall Hargreaves Lansdowns 2014 Directors Remuneration Report reflects the remuneration package aligns the long-term interests of Executive Directors new reporting requirements arising from regulations introduced by the with those of our shareholders and other stakeholders by incentivising the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills and the requirements of the growth in the value of the business over the long term.
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The report is split into two sections: The Policy is steered by the following key principles: The Directors Remuneration Policy the Remuneration Policy or Policy, which sets out Hargreaves Lansdowns proposed policy for Attract and retain Directors of the calibre needed to maintain the Directors of Hargreaves Lansdown plc Executive Directors and NonGroups position as a market leading financial services company: Executive Directors collectively known as Directors and which will be Reward Executive Directors for enhancing shareholder value and subject to a binding shareholder vote at our Annual General Meeting acting in the long-term interests of the Group: AGM on 24 October 2014.
It is the intention of the Committee that Pay a market competitive total remuneration package: this Policy will be in effect for three years from the date of approval and Provide significant performance related opportunity for variable subject to periodic review during its operation to ensure it continues to remuneration: align with the Companys mission statement and business objectives.
Achieve long-term retention through direct share ownership and long-term incentives and: The Annual Report on Remuneration, which details the payments Provide a modest provision for retirement with the opportunity to made to Directors and explains the link between group performance contribute more through salary and or bonus sacrifice.
and remuneration for the 2013 14 financial year the Annual Report on Remuneration.
This will be subject to an advisory shareholder The Remuneration Committee does not believe that the structure of the vote at this years AGM.
remuneration package incentivises inappropriate risk taking.
The Committee noted the year to 30 June 2014 was characterised by continued growth, substantial new asset and client flows into Hargreaves OUTLINE OF REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Lansdowns services, and successful adoption of extensive regulatory change the most significant of which being the FCAs Retail Distribution Hargreaves Lansdown provides a simple remuneration package 42 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS consisting of base salary: annual bonus and long term incentive plan in TAKING ACCOUNT OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS addition to the same benefits package and salary sacrifice arrangements that are available to all employees of the Group.
We were delighted that last years remuneration report received a favourable vote of 92.8% from shareholders.
The annual bonus is partly paid immediately in cash and part is deferred into shares and or cash for three years and is subject to a malus In the previous period we met with a number of large shareholders to provision explained in more detail below : the long term incentive plan determine their views on our approach to remuneration.
This year has seen much less change to our remuneration policy.
As a result, whilst provides share options that vest after three years, subject to formal we have consulted with our largest shareholders this year on executive performance conditions and also subject to malus.
There is also a remuneration matters, the level of consultation has been lower than minimum shareholding requirement.
The total bonus pool is capped as a proportion of profit before tax which establishes a clear link between rewards to shareholders and to both DIRECTION OF TRAVEL Executive Directors and senior management within the Group.
Individual payments to Executive Directors are capped as a percentage of base salary.
Our Remuneration Policy is already well embedded and has been successful over several years as has been seen in the business results.
A relatively high proportion of remuneration is paid in the form of bonus.
The Committee has determined that the relationship between bonus The period for the deferral of 30% of bonus, the performance period for and fixed elements of remuneration has become unbalanced, which has the long term incentive scheme and the period over which malus can be raised some issues in recruitment and retention across the business.
Hargreaves Lansdowns current business model As a result we will be increasing base salaries and relatively reducing ensures that profit is quickly translated into cash and as a result the bonuses across the entire group.
We are applying this principle to senior Remuneration Committee deems that these policies and timescales are management directors of the subsidiary companies this year but have appropriate.
decided to leave Executive Directors salaries unchanged.
The overall average levels of total remuneration are not expected to ACTIONS TAKEN DURING THE 12 MONTHS TO 30 JUNE 2014 change other than due to varying business performance.
The 12 months to 30 June 2014 was very busy for the Remuneration Peter Hargreaves nominal salary has been adjusted to reflect the Committee with an extensive programme of work completed, including: increased hours he has been working.
The Directors Remuneration Report in the 2013 annual report was reviewed, with consideration given to all of the feedback received COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION AND BEST PRACTICE from institutional shareholders.
The performance conditions for the Executive Directors Share Option New legislation has required the production of our new Directors Plan LTIP were set and the level of awards to be made to each Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration.
Hargreaves Executive Director in respect of performance for the year ended 30 Lansdown had already made significant changes to our approach to June 2013 under the LTIP were determined.
remuneration in the last few years and I am pleased to report that the new The base salary levels and performance bonuses for the Executive Policy largely documents existing practices with the commercial elements Directors were reviewed and agreed, and salary levels for other unchanged.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the provision senior management and FCA Remuneration Code Staff were of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-Sized Companies reviewed.
It also meets the requirements of the UK The Remuneration Code Staff disclosure was also reviewed and Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
In the light of changing legislation and best practice and the need to The Remuneration Committee confirms throughout the financial year that ensure alignment with the proposed new Remuneration Policy all the Company has complied with these governance rules and best practice Directors contracts were reviewed and will be amended.
The Remuneration Policy was developed and approved to be put forward to a shareholder vote at the AGM on 24 October 2014.
The Directors Remuneration Policy is subject to a binding vote and will The effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee was reviewed by take effect immediately after the AGM if it is approved by shareholders.
the Committee and it was concluded that the Committee remained The Annual Report on Remuneration is subject to an advisory vote.
No discretion was exercised by the Committee in respect of any I would like to commend both reports to our shareholders.
Christopher D. Barling The key challenge for the year was complying with new legislation while Chairman of the Remuneration Committee continuing to reinforce the Hargreaves Lansdown culture that has led to 16 September 2014 the success of recent years.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 43 Directors Remuneration Policy The Committee presents the Directors Remuneration Policy Policy which will attract, retain and motivate individuals of the calibre required for the Hargreaves Lansdown plc Group as set by the Remuneration to run a group of the scale and complexity of Hargreaves Lansdown.
For Committee Committee for all Company directors Directors.
This Executive Directors, packages are provided which are weighted towards will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting performance with measures which reflect individual and corporate AGM.
The Policy will take effect immediately following the AGM of 24 performance over a one and three year time horizon.
October 2014 and is consistent with the arrangements in place from the start of the 2014 financial year.
It is the intention of the Committee that The Policy is divided into separate sections for Executive and Nonthis Policy will be in effect for three years from the date of approval and Executive Directors.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors and subject to periodic review during its operation to ensure it continues to Chairman is set by the Committee under delegated powers from the align with the Companys mission statement and business objectives.
The Non-Executive Directors remuneration is set by the Chairman and Chief Executive.
No Director plays a role in setting their own The Companys Policy is designed such that each component of remuneration.
remuneration works in unison with the others to form an overall package 1 Policy applying to the Executive Directors of the Company Component Purpose Operation and performance measures Maximum and link to strategy Opportunity Base Salary The Committee will review each Directors Base Salary annually and will consider each No prescribed individuals performance and progress taking into account the scope and nature of their maximum annual To attract and retain role, their ability and their experience.
high performing individuals, considering The base salary will also be set with reference to mid-market levels and to remuneration Factors considered both the market within the Group as well as appropriate comparator companies.
when determining any value of the position increase to Base Salary Salary increases are usually effective from 1 July.
and the individuals will include individual skills, experience and performance and any performance.
changes in roles or responsibilities.
The Committee will also consider increases across the wider senior management team.
Annual Performance The level of Performance Bonus payable is linked to key financial metrics as well as The aggregate bonus Bonus individual, departmental and corporate performance against objectives.
pool is capped at 5% of Profit Before To reward achievement Bonus awards to Directors are made from the Directors annual performance aggregate Tax for that year.
The of the Groups business bonus pool which also provides for bonuses for the wider senior management team.
maximum bonus plan, key performance The size of the aggregate bonus pool is established taking account the Groups key opportunity for indicators and the performance indicators for the relevant financial year such as underlying profit before tax, Directors under the personal contribution of operating margin, underlying earnings per share, quality of customer service provided, Policy is five times base Directors.
To align the corporate governance, compliance with regulatory requirements and risk management salary for the reward interests of Directors with along with making some allowance for impacts on profit outside of managements control period.
such as market and interest rate movements.
The Committee considers each individual Directors performance against his or her personal objectives to ensure that awards are made where performance so merits.
30% of the Annual Performance Bonus is subject to compulsory deferral for a period of three years.
It may be deferred into deferred share awards and or deferred cash awards at each Directors discretion, subject to each Director maintaining the required minimum shareholding.
Dividend alternatives will accrue on deferred share awards and will be paid at the time of vesting.
To the extent that the minimum shareholding is not yet held, the Director must defer into share awards.
At the discretion of the Committee, the immediately payable element of the Annual Performance Bonus may be paid as cash and or as an additional employer pension contribution.
Any unvested deferred awards are subject to a formal malus mechanism.
44 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Long term incentive plan Annual awards of market value share options will vest after 3 years subject to The maximum award continuing employment and to the extent that performance tests are met over the 3 each year under the To align the interests year performance period.
The awards are subject to up to three performance conditions Policy is two and a half of Directors with those including one profit related and up to two business performance indicators.
of shareholders and to reward growth of the In respect of each performance condition, which are set by the Committee prior to the long-term value of the grant of the award, performance below the minimum threshold results in zero vesting.
Vesting of each performance condition starts at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of performance between the minimum and maximum targets.
Any unvested awards are subject to a formal malus mechanism.
Shareholding Guideline Directors have six years from appointment to achieve a shareholding with a minimum Not applicable.
value of two times base salary with a minimum goal of one times after three years To align the interests assessed on 30 June of each year.
of management and shareholders in the success of the Group.
Pension Pension provision is provided in line with the pension provision for all staff.
Current policy for all staff pensions is To provide adequate Any changes made to the staff arrangements will be carried across to the Directors.
defined contribution pension saving with an employer The Committee may amend the form of any Directors pension arrangements in response arrangements for contribution of a to changing pension legislation or similar developments, so long as any amendment does Directors and staff.
not increase the cost to the Company of a Directors pension provision by any greater maximum of 4% of percentage than the increase to the provision for all other staff.
Any contribution paid as a All staff and Directors may waive an element of their Annual Performance Bonus in return result of waiver of the for a corresponding employers contribution into their pension.
cash element of an Annual Performance The Committee reserves the right to pay a cash allowance in place of an employer Bonus will not be pension contribution where a Director has reached the Lifetime Allowance.
Benefits All eligible staff and Directors may take up a range of benefits.
The maximum value of benefits will depend An across the board Where costs are necessarily incurred in the performance of duties on behalf of the on the cost of the benefits package is company, those costs will be reimbursed in full e. g. travel, accommodation, subsistence, provision of those available to both staff and relocation, and any tax and social costs arising.
Provision of tax efficient benefits such as pension contributions, additional holiday, There are a number childcare vouchers and workplace parking is available through a salary sacrifice of variables and mechanism.
unknowns impacting the maximum payable Group life insurance and Group PHI is provided to all staff with greater than 6 months in the event of continuous service.
relocation: however, All eligible staff as defined by the scheme rules and which includes Executive Directors the Committee would may participate in the Save As You Earn scheme or Share Incentive Plan.
pay no more than is necessary in such Appropriate director insurance and indemnity cover is provided by the company.
b Special arrangements for founding Executive Director The cap on annual performance bonus in relation to basic salary will not apply to Peter Hargreaves due to the nominal value of his base salary, although the absolute value of his bonus in any year will not exceed that of the Chief Executive.
Mr Hargreaves is also not subject to the compulsory deferral of any element of his annual performance bonus.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 45 c Policy applying to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors of the Company Component Purpose Operation Basic fee The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors basic fees are reviewed annually by those responsible as outlined earlier.
Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from 1 July.
To attract and retain high performing individuals, considering both the market The fee levels are set taking into account market data for comparable positions taking account of the time commitment required for the role.
value of the position and the individuals All Non-Executive Directors fees including those below are paid in cash, on a quarterly basis.
The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for bonuses, pension, or to participate in any Group employee share plan.
Committee Chairman fees Each Non-Executive Director receives an additional fee for each Committee for which they are Chairman.
To recognise the additional time The Committee Chairman fees reflect the additional time and responsibility in chairing a committee of the board, including time spent in commitment and responsibility involved in preparation and liaising with management, and the time spent attending and preparing for a committee of the board.
chairing a Committee of the Board.
Senior Independent Director SID fee The SID receives an additional fee for his role.
To recognise the additional time The fee reflects the additional time and responsibility in fulfilling the role of Senior Independent Director.
commitment and responsibility involved holding the role of the SID.
Benefits and Expenses Expenses may be claimed by the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors in line with the Companys expenses policy.
To appropriately reimburse the Chairman Appropriate director insurance and indemnity cover is provided by the company.
and Non-Executive Director for out of Reduced share dealing fees, in line with those charged for all other employees.
pocket expenses incurred in the fulfilment No other benefits are made available to Non-Executive Directors.
of their responsibilities and any tax and social costs arising.
The maximum aggregate remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is set in accordance with the Articles of Association.
SERVICE AGREEMENTS AND LOSS OF OFFICE PAYMENTS All Executive Directors have a service contract and the Non-Executive Directors are contracted under a letter of appointment.
Both will reflect the approved policy in force at the time of appointment.
The service contracts and the letters of appointment for all Directors in post are available for viewing on the giving of reasonable notice at our registered office during normal business hours and both prior to and at the Annual General Meeting.
Under the terms of our Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Our policy is that service contracts do not have a specific duration but may be terminated with 12 months notice from the Company or the Executive Director.
The service contracts contain no provision for liquidated damages for compensation on termination, except for those set out in the table below.
The service agreements contain provisions for payment in lieu of notice in respect of base salary, pension contributions but these are at the Companys sole discretion.
The Committee has a policy framework for payments for loss of office by an Executive Director, both in relation to the service contract and incentive pay, which is summarised below.
The approach of the Company on any termination is to consider all relevant circumstances, including the recent performance of the Executive Director, and to act in accordance with any relevant rules or contractual provisions.
Nature of termination: By Executive Director or ComBy Company summarily.
Good leaver: leaving by reason of death, ill health, injury or disability, redundancy, pany giving notice excluding retirement with the agreement of the Committee, the sale of employing business special circumstances.
or company, or other special circumstances at the discretion of the Committee.
Base salary, pension and Paid until employment ceases.
Paid until employment ceases or for notice period subject to mitigation benefits depending on the reason for cessation.
Discretion for Company to pay salary, pension and benefits in a single payment or in monthly instalments.
Annual bonus No entitlement to annual No entitlement to annual Cessation during the financial year or after the financial year end, but before bonus for that financial year.
bonus for that financial year.
payment date, may result in bonus being payable subject to performance pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year worked unless the Committee determines otherwise.
46 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred bonus award Deferred bonus awards lapse Deferred bonus awards lapse Vested unexercised, and unvested deferred bonus awards, may vest and be when employment ceases.
exercised in accordance with normal terms.
Committee has discretion to determine awards which vest when employment ceases.
LTIP awards Vested unexercised, and Vested unexercised, and Awards vest in accordance with original terms or, Committee may determine unvested long-term incentive unvested long-term incentive awards to vest early subject to performance at the date when employment awards lapse when employawards lapse when employceases.
In either case Committee will pro-rate award to reflect performance period ment ceases.
that has been worked, except in the case of serious ill health or death when no pro-rating will apply.
Possible disbursements such as legal costs, outplacement services and the cost of a settlement agreement.
PROVISIONS ON A TAKEOVER AND OTHER CORPORATE EVENTS Additional cash and or share based awards on a one-off basis may be made as deemed appropriate by the Committee if the circumstances In the event of a takeover or other corporate event, the Committee shall require taking into account pay or benefits forfeited by a Director on determine the amount if any of any bonus payable taking into account leaving a previous employer.
The Committee has the discretion to any applicable performance targets that have been achieved and any make such awards under the LTIP and in excess of the LTIP salary limit such factors as it considers appropriate given the curtailed performance or as permitted under Rule 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules which allows period.
companies to make one off share awards in exceptional circumstances, including recruitment.
Such awards will, as far as possible, maintain Deferred bonus awards and outstanding LTIP awards will vest at that consistency with the awards forfeited in terms of type of reward shares time subject to satisfaction of the applicable performance conditions or cash, expected value, time horizons and whether they were subject and pro-rated to reflect the length of the Performance Period which has to performance criteria.
Other payments may be made for relocation been worked with the Committee having discretion not to pro-rate or to expenses, recruitment from abroad, legal costs, other costs or benefits reduce the pro-rate if it considers it appropriate to do so.
Alternatively forfeited by an individual being recruited.
None of these payments made on new appointments will be deemed to be taken from the bonus pool.
the Committee may determine with the agreement of the acquiring company that awards may be exchanged for equivalent awards in another company.
On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the Committee will set the fee level consistent with the approved policy at the time of appointment having due regard to remuneration paid for comparable positions taking account of the time commitment required CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS for the role.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors NEDs letters of appointment cover the terms of their appointment, including the LEGACY ARRANGEMENTS time commitment expected.
Each appointment is for an initial fixed term of three years from the commencement date subject to election For the avoidance of doubt, this Directors Remuneration Policy includes by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their authority for the Group to honour any commitments entered into before appointment and annual re-election thereafter.
the Directors Remuneration Policy came into effect.
Either party may terminate the appointment upon three calendar months written notice and the Company may do so with immediate effect CHANGES IN LEGISLATION OR REGULATION subject to a payment in lieu of notice.
Should termination arise as a result of a resolution of shareholders in general meeting, or as a result Authority is given for the Group to comply with all prevailing legislation of a failure to be re-appointed by the shareholders, NEDs will not be and statutory regulation both current and future, making the minimum entitled to receive any fees in respect of any period after the termination changes to policy in order to so comply.
No compensation is payable on termination, other than for accrued fees and expenses.
PAY MODELLING AND PERFORMANCE MEASURE SELECTION APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION The Committee will disclose each year in the Groups annual report a bar chart that models the potential remuneration for each of the Executive The Committee will set a remuneration package for new Executive Directors for the forthcoming year using a range of assumptions.
The Directors determining the individual elements of the package and chart will show the potential value of the current Executive Directors the total package taking account of the skills and experience of the remuneration for the forthcoming year for three scenarios: minimum, candidate, the market rate, and remuneration levels across the Group, maximum and middle scenario: respecting maximum levels for variable pay referred to in the appropriate policy table.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 47 The minimum amount represents the unconditional components of EXTERNAL BOARD APPOINTMENTS the remuneration package: salary, pension and employee benefits.
The mid-point amount is the amount the Executive Director will The Company recognises that external Non-Executive Directorships are receive if they attain at least half of their objectives for the period.
It beneficial to both the Director and the Company and that its Executive will include both fixed and variable components of remuneration.
The Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other variable will reflect performance achieved during the year.
Such non-executive duties can broaden experience and The maximum level is the maximum amount of remuneration each knowledge which can benefit the Company.
Subject to approval by the Executive Director can be awarded in the year.
The maximum is Board, Executive Directors are allowed to accept a maximum of two subject to the remuneration caps that have been established for each non-executive appointments and retain the fees received, provided that component.
appointments are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
The bar chart uses the maximum share price growth assumption of 30% growth over a three year period for the calculation of the potential value CONSULTATION WITH EMPLOYEES of the LTIP award.
Whilst the Committee does not consult directly with employees in respect of the Directors remuneration, it does consider the wider salary increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions across ILLUSTRATION OF 2014 POTENTIAL REMUNERATION the wider employee population when setting the remuneration policy for Directors.
3,500,000 3,000,000 11 2,500,000 CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS 2,000,000 11 11 The Committee recognises that Director remuneration is an area of 1,500,000 74 particular interest to our shareholders and in setting and considering 1,000,000 61 74 100 14 changes to remuneration it is critical that we listen to and take into 500,000 47 account their views.
100 28 15 100 39 15 95 The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year at its first meeting following the AGM.
This feedback, as well as any additional feedback received during any other meetings Ian Gorham Tracey Taylor Peter Hargreaves with shareholders, is then considered as part of the Companys annual review of the remuneration policy.
We also regularly engage with our LTIP Annual bonus Fixed largest shareholders to ensure we understand the range of views which Numbers in chart represent percentage of total exist on remuneration issues.
When any material changes are made to the Policy, the Committee will discuss these in advance with our major shareholders wherever practical.
The Committee will also consult with professional advisors to ensure we consider current market and industry practices, where appropriate.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES All employees across the Group are subject to the same process in respect of annual salary reviews.
Consideration is given to the scope of each role, the level of experience, responsibility, progress in role, and pay levels for similar roles in comparable companies.
The performance and potential of the individual is also considered.
All permanent employees are considered for an annual performance bonus with similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors.
All eligible employees under the rules of the scheme may also participate in the Groups Save As You Earn and Share Incentive Plans and senior staff may also be awarded share options under the Groups Company Share Option Plan or Executive Share Option Plan where they have displayed exceptional performance.
48 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Minimum Mid Maximum Minimum Mid Maximum Minimum Mid Maximum STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report on Remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report also encompasses the Chairman of Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Remuneration the Remuneration Committees statement.
Name of director 2015 Fees 2014 Fees Michael Evans 152,500 152,500 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Chris Barling 75,000 56,216 Dharmash Mistry 50,000 42,500 The Committee has put the Directors Remuneration Policy into practice Stephen Robertson 50,000 42,500 recognising that achieving the appropriate balance and determining a 1 Shirley Garrood 75,000 36,006 fair outcome in setting a competitive level of total remuneration involves judgement.
In forming this judgement, the Committee considers pay 1 Emoluments for Shirley Garrood for 2014 are shown for the 8 months following her appointment data at similar size and scale companies operating in similar sectors.
to the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
However, these do not determine what remuneration the Company offers but rather set a context within which an individuals rewards will be positioned.
In determining that positioning, the primary factors taken The Non-Executive Director fees include a base fee of 50,000 which into account are the challenges the individual faces in their role, and their includes membership of the various committees.
There are additional ability, experience and performance.
fees for the senior independent director role 12,500 and for chairing committees Remuneration 12,500, Audit 25,000.
Fees have increased in 2015 reflecting additional work, more onerous restrictions HOW THE REMUNERATION POLICY WILL BE APPLIED FOR YEAR on Non-Executive Directors arising from CRD IV legislation and an ENDING 30 JUNE 2015 imbalance versus market rates.
Details of the membership of the committees are given in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 30 Details of how the Policy will be applied in the coming year are set out to 35. below.
Executive Directors annual bonus for the year ending 30 June 2015 Executive Directors salaries The size of the bonus pool will be determined by the Committee based The Executive Directors base salaries were reviewed in June 2014. on performance of the Group against a number of financial measures.
In reviewing base salaries the Committee takes into account salaries The relevant measures and the Committees assessment of performance elsewhere across the Group, relevant market data and information will be reported in a similar way to the 2014 bonus pool assessment, see below.
The bonus pool covers both Executive Directors and the wider on remuneration practice in a comparator group of companies in the senior management team and will be capped at a maximum of 5% of financial sector.
Historically, Executive Directors base salaries have been profit before tax as per the Policy.
set well below the market median.
Similarly, each individual Executive Directors performance and that Since the Chief Executive took office, the companys sales have grown by of the senior management team will be considered by the Committee 98%, the companys profit by 142% and the share price by 217%, during against objectives to ensure that allocation of the pool is consistent with which time we have become an established member of the FTSE 100. individual performance.
The bonuses awarded to Executive Directors will During the same period, the Chief Executives base salary has remained be constrained to a maximum cap of five times salary as per the Policy, unchanged.
Despite this, the Committee decided not to increase the and will be reported in a similar way to the 2014 bonus, see below.
salary of Ian Gorham, Chief Executive.
Tracey Taylor, CFO, received a significant rise in the prior year and the Committee decided that her Long Term Incentive Plan salary would remain unchanged.
The awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP in the year will be constrained to a maximum of two and a half times base salary.
The Committee decided that the nominal salary of Peter Hargreaves The awards will be subject to two to three performance conditions should be increased to reflect his additional working hours.
which will relate to earnings per share EPS, net new business flows and a possible third measure.
The Committee, whilst generally content Name of director Salary as at 1st Salary as at 1st % increase July 2014 July 2013 with LTIP performance conditions used in previous years, is currently Ian Gorham 450,000 450,000 0% considering how client satisfaction might be further incorporated into future rewards.
If an appropriate measure can be determined Tracey Taylor 350,000 350,000 0% the Committee intends to enhance the LTIP performance conditions Peter Hargreaves 10,000 2,000 310% with it.
Currently client satisfaction is reflected in the measure of net new business and clients, requiring both attraction of new clients and retention of existing clients through good service.
The EPS target and The base salary figures in the above table are the reference base salaries quality of client satisfaction target, if used, will be disclosed for the of the Executive Director before any salary sacrifice or exchange into year in which the initial awards are made and other targets will be fully pension or other benefits.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 49 Remuneration payable for the 2014 financial year 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2014 Audited The remuneration received by Executive Directors in relation to performance in 2014 is set out below.
Name of director Year Fees Benefits Pension, Cash Deferred Gain on Amounts Totals Basic non including salary bonus element of historic received on 000 salary taxable sacrifice 000 000 bonus 000 options crystallisation 000 000 vesting of JSOP award 000 000 Ian Gorham 2014 412 1 49 1,080 270 8,796 - 10,608 2013 412 1 49 1,348 150 1,438 3,355 6,753 Tracey Taylor 2014 285 4 59 468 117 220 - 1,153 2013 208 4 46 617 69 - 4,474 5,418 Peter Hargreaves 2014 10 - - - - - - 10 2013 1 - - 250 - - - 251 Under the Gain on historic options vesting, amounts shown include Chris Barlings fees increased during the period.
The increase reflects share schemes without performance criteria which have been exercised the additional responsibilities in relation to taking on the roles of Senior during the period with the amount being the gain received by the Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Director at date of exercise, and for schemes with performance criteria, Committee.
best estimate of amounts to be paid in respect of performance periods concluding at the date of the end of the reporting period.
No share Annual bonus for the year ending 30 June 2014 Audited options without performance criteria have been granted to Executive The size of the bonus pool was determined based on performance Directors since 07 03 2012. against a number of financial measures.
The relevant measures and the Committees assessment of performance are as shown below: The base salary figures in the above table are the reference base salaries of the Executive Director after any salary sacrifice or exchange into Key pension or other benefits.
Bonuses are shown after any waiver the Significantly ahead of expectations Director made in respect of additional Employer pension contributions.
Ahead of expectations The remuneration received by Non-Executive Directors in 2014 is set out At or around expectations below.
Below expectations Non-Executive Directors 2014 Fees 2013 Fees and Chairman Profit Net new Net new Opertating profit Michael Evans, Chairman 152,500 152,500 before business clients margin on net tax revenue Chris Barling 56,216 42,500 Dharmash Mistry 42,500 42,500 Results 209.8m 6.4bn 144,000 71.3% Committees Stephen Robertson 42,500 42,500 assessment 1 Shirley Garrood 36,006 - 2 Jonathan Bloomer 22,596 66,767 3 Stephen Lansdown - 11,954 The Committees considered view was whilst 2014 had been a strong year overall, the results were not quite as strong as previous years for 1 Emoluments for Shirley Garrood for 2014 are shown for the 8 months following her appointment many very valid reasons, including those outside of managements to the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
2 Emoluments for Jonathan Bloomer for 2014 are shown for the 4 months up to his resignation to control and decided that the total bonus pool for 2014 should be 2.42% the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
of profit before tax as compared to 3.53% for the previous year noting 3 Emoluments for Stephen Lansdown for 2013 are shown for the 4 months up to his resignation to that the pool includes provision for the wider senior management team the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
where the population was one less than for the previous year.
Non-Executive Directors received no other taxable benefits or other The Committee individually considers each Directors performance remuneration other than reimbursement of all reasonable and properly and that of the senior management team against objectives to ensure documented travel, hotel and other incidental expenses incurred in the allocation of the pool is consistent with individual performance.
performance of their duties and the benefit of officers liability insurance.
50 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ian Gorham Tracey Taylor Objective Committees assessment Objective Committees assessment Delivery of revised business model post RDR Development of post RDR pricing model Growth in net new business and clients Robust financial control Operational excellence Optimise cash returns Keeping company and client cash safe The resulting bonuses for the year ending 30 June 2014 were: Cash 000 Deferred 000 Total 000 % of cap Ian Gorham 1,080 270 1,350 60% Tracey Taylor 468 117 585 33.4% Peter Hargreaves Nil Nil Nil Nil There were no bonus waivers into pension in 2014, these will be noted in future years if applicable.
DEFERRAL OF ANNUAL PERFORMANCE BONUSES As disclosed last year the requirement for 30% of all performance bonuses to be waived in favour of deferred awards is being phased in over 3 years.
In line with previously stated intentions 20% of the annual performance bonuses is deferred for the current year.
The deferred awards will ordinarily be in the form of shares on which dividends or dividend equivalents are earned.
However, providing the Director satisfies the minimum shareholding target with reference to base salary, the option is given for deferred awards to be either in shares on which dividends or dividend equivalents are earned or in cash on which no interest will be earned, or a mixture of shares and cash.
The right to exercise deferred awards will vest after three years provided the individual remains employed by the Hargreaves Lansdown Group.
For additional information, the history of the performance measures and the bonus pool for the last five years is: Measure 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Profit before tax PBT 209.8m 195.2m 152.8m 126.0m 86.3m Net new business 6.4bn 5.1bn 3.2bn 3.5bn 3.3bn Net new clients 144,000 76,000 45,000 50,000 48,000 Net operating margin on net revenue 71.3% 71.5% 67.8% 64.7% 58.0% Bonus pool as % of PBT 2.42% 3.53% 3.75% 3.74% 1.59% VESTING OF LONG TERM INCENTIVE AWARDS FOR FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 30 JUNE 2014 AUDITED A total of 1,300,000 market value share options were exercised by Ian Gorham in the year.
Tracey Taylor exercised 15,355 market value share options in the year.
There were no performance conditions attached to these awards which were granted before the Long Term Incentive Plan was introduced in 2012.
LTIP AWARDS MADE DURING THE YEAR ENDING 30 JUNE 2014 AUDITED In respect of performances of the Executive Directors during the year ended 30 June 2013, the Remuneration Committee made awards under the LTIP on 17 February 2014.
Each Director received an award of 50,000 share options the face value of these awards being 148% of base salary for Ian Gorham and 190% of base salary for Tracey Taylor.
These awards are well within the maximum levels permitted by the rules of the Plan.
Name of Type Market value of Share price on Number of shares Face value Fair value % of face value Performance director of maximum award at date of grant over which the of award at date of that would vest period determining 1 award date of grant exercise price award was granted grant at threshold vesting Ian Gorham LTIP Two and a half times 13.29 50,000 664,500 - 25% 1 July 2013 salary 1,125,000 30 Jun 2016 Tracey Taylor LTIP Two and a half times 13.29 50,000 664,500 - 25% 1 July 2013 salary 875,000 30 Jun 2016 Peter Hargreaves None - - 1 Fair value is calculated as the difference between market value and the exercise price at the date of grant Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 51 Performance conditions for the awards made under the Plan during the MALUS year ended 30 June 2014 were as follows, with the performance period commencing 1 July 2013: A malus provision exists on unvested awards made under the LTIP and on the deferred element of annual Performance Bonuses.
These individual deferred awards may be reduced in whole or in part at the Performance condition Percentage Threshold Maximum of award discretion of the Remuneration Committee in the event that in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee: 2 Earnings per share EPS 1 3 36.6p 43.4p 1 1 Net new business inflows 1 3 there is found to be a material mis-statement of the financial 1 1 Net new clients 1 3 performance on which annual Performance Bonuses were based: a serious regulatory problem comes to light: 1 The precise targets for net new business inflows and net new clients are commercially sensitive a Director, or an employee for which they are responsible, has and cannot be disclosed in full.
The Committee will disclose the net new business inflow targets done or has allowed to be done, something which has a serious and the net new client targets and performance against those targets in the first remuneration report of the Company following the end of the performance period.
detrimental effect on the reputation of the Company: 2 For earnings per share, the target is based on average undiluted basic EPS for each financial year a Director has not appropriately identified serious risks relevant to in the performance period.
their business area, and or implemented appropriate controls for Each target will have a threshold and maximum target set by the identified serious risks.
Provided the threshold is achieved, 25% of that part of the Option relating to that performance condition will vest, rising to vesting The Committee deemed that none of these applied during the year.
in full if the maximum target is met or exceeded.
For performance between the minimum and maximum targets, the vesting will be prorated on a straight line basis between 25% and 100%.
OUTSTANDING SHARE OPTIONS AND SHARE AWARDS AUDITED Below are details of outstanding share options and awards for Executive Directors: Name of director Scheme Grant Exercise Number of Number Number Number of End of Performance date price shares under granted vested shares under performance period option at 1 during during option at 30 period & July 2013 year year June 2014 vesting date Ian Gorham 2013 LTIP 17 02 14 13.29 - 50,000 - 50,000 30 06 16 2.5 years 2012 LTIP 02 01 13 6.87 60,000 - - 60,000 30 06 15 3 years Deferred bonus 17 02 14 nil - 16,865 - 16,865 30 06 17 2.5 years options Sharesave 29 03 12 3.65 4,109 - - 4,109 01 05 17 5 years Exec Scheme 15 09 10 2.87 500,000 - 500,000 - 15 09 13 3 years Exec Scheme 08 10 10 4.58 800,000 - 800,000 - 08 10 13 3 years Tracey Taylor 2013 LTIP 17 02 14 13.29 - 50,000 - 50,000 30 06 16 2.5 years 2012 LTIP 02 01 13 6.87 60,000 - - 60,000 30 06 15 3 years Deferred bonus 17 02 14 nil - 7,713 - 7,713 30 06 17 2.5 years options Sharesave 28 09 08 1.75 2,373 - 2,373 - 27 09 13 5 years Sharesave 29 03 12 3.65 3,090 - - 3,090 01 05 17 5 years Sharesave 01 05 14 11.43 - 1,637 - 1,637 01 05 19 5 years Exec Scheme 24 03 09 1.95 15,355 - 15,355 - 24 03 14 5 years Peter Hargreaves None Long Term Incentive Plan Sourcing shares The outstanding LTIP awards are subject to the same performance ABI guidelines on sourcing shares have been followed and, in line with conditions, vesting rules and planned disclosure as documented in LTIP the scheme rules, the Company has not issued shares under all employee awards made during the year ending 30 June 2014 above, except that schemes which, when aggregated with awards under all of the companys the threshold and maximum targets vary for those options granted in other schemes, exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital in any year ending 30 June 2013. rolling 10 year period.
The Company has also not issued new shares under executive discretionary schemes which exceed 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company in any rolling 10 year period.
52 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND SHARE INTERESTS appointed Executive Directors will be given up to three years to comply AUDITED with this requirement.
Executive Directors are required to accumulate minimum personal All Executive Directors in the financial year currently own shares outright, holdings in Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares amounting to a value of at a level exceeding their required shareholding as described above two times base salary.
Executive Directors with less than six years based on a share price of 12.38 being the closing price on 30 June service are required to hold a minimum of one times base salary.
Current shareholdings are summarised in the following table: Name of director Beneficially Beneficially Outstanding Outstanding subject to Shareholding Shareholding owned at 30 owned at 30 LTIP awards with continued employment, guideline multiple of multiple of salary June 2013 June 2014 performance arising from deferred bonus salary achieved at 30 June conditions 2014 Ian Gorham 282,628 332,628 110,000 20,974 Two times Over nine times Tracey Taylor 745,641 763,369 110,000 12,440 Two times Over ten times Peter Hargreaves 152,717,606 152,639,678 Two times Over ten times As at 30 June 2014, the Non-Executive Directors held the following PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CHIEF EXECUTIVES REMUNERATION Hargreaves Lansdown shares: The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration of the Director undertaking the role of Chief Executive and the Companys Non-Executive Director Shares employees as a whole between the year ended 30 June 2013 and the Michael Evans 8,125 year ended 30 June 2014.
Chris Barling - Dharmash Mistry 5,308 Stephen Robertson 9,890 Salary Annual bonus Shirley Garrood - CEO % change 0% -10% Jonathan Bloomer at date of resignation 15,625 Employee % change 8.2% -13.2% Benefits are provided on the same terms to Directors and all staff alike.
In determining directors pay, the Committee considers comparison with the remuneration of all staff.
There has been no formal consultation with employees in determining policy, although a staff survey was held during the year which has been a significant factor in examining the relationship between fixed and performance related pay.
Note that the above figures show the difference in average pay for employees.
2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVES TOTAL REMUNERATION Outlined below is the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive in 2014.
2010 2011 2011 2012 2013 2014 2 3 Peter Hargreaves Peter Hargreaves Ian Gorham Ian Gorham Ian Gorham Ian Gorham Total Remuneration 405,917 85,123 1,034,167 1,640,895 6,751,557 10,608,359 Annual Bonus as a percentage of maximum - - - - - 60% 1 1 1 1 1 Nil 73,333 666,667 1,250,000 1,500,000 1,350,000 4 Shares vesting as a percentage of maximum Nil Nil Nil Nil 100% 100% 1 Prior to 2014, there was no individual cap on annual bonus payable, other than the overall bonus pool cap as a percentage of profit before tax.
Bonus figures shown are gross of any sacrifice into pension and before any compulsory deferral.
2 Emoluments for Peter Hargreaves for 2011 are shown for the 2 months prior to date of his resignation from the role as CEO.
3 Emoluments for Ian Gorham for 2011 are shown for the 10 months following his appointment to the Board as a director.
4 Options vesting in 2014 and 2013 pre-dated the LTIP and therefore had no performance criteria.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 53 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN personal contributions to the GSIPP can do so via salary exchange or bonus waiver ensuring that they benefit from the maximum, immediate The graph opposite shows the Companys performance measured relief from income tax and National Insurance.
Staff, Senior Management by Total Shareholder Return TSR, which is the capital growth and and Executive Directors may opt out of the scheme should they wish.
This is compared with the performance of the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index for the last five years.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The graph shows the value of 100 invested in Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares on 1 July 2009 compared to the value if 100 invested in The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the framework or broad the FTSE 350 Financial Services Sector Index for each of our financial policy for the fair remuneration of the Executive Directors of the Company year ends to 30 June 2014.
We have chosen the FTSE 350 Financial and its subsidiaries as well as their performance management.
The policy Services Index as we believe it is the most appropriate comparator for is determined with due regard to the interests of the Company and the benchmarking our cooperate performance over the five year period.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board.
No Director plays a part in any discussion about his or her own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice per year and is TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN - HARGREAVES LANSDOWN governed by formal Terms of Reference, which are reviewed annually.
AND FTSE 350 FINANCIAL SERVICES INDEX 700 FTSE 350 Financial Services Index The Remuneration Committee met four times during this financial year.
Hargreaves Lansdown 600 The attendance by each director is set out in the table on page 33.
The 500 Committee is chaired by Chris Barling and its other members at 30 June 400 2014 were Michael Evans, Shirley Garrood and Dharmash Mistry.
Jonathan 300 Bloomer chaired the Committee until his retirement from the Board on 25 200 October 2013.
None of the Committee has any personal financial interest 100 other than as shareholders, conflicts of interests arising from crossdirectorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
Jul 09 Jun10 Jun 11 Jun 12 Jun 13 Jun 14 The Committees purpose is to: RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF THE SPEND ON REMUNERATION determine and recommend to the Board the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors of the Company and of the subsidiary companies: The table below shows the actual expenditure of the Group in terms of ensure the level and structure of remuneration is designed to attract, total employee remuneration pay, profit before tax, and total dividends retain, and motivate the Executive Directors needed to run the for this and the previous year.
Company and the Group: and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
To aide comparison we have also detailed the percentage change between the years.
The performance measurement of the Directors and key members of senior management and the determination of their annual remuneration packages Total dividend Profit Staff Total dividend are undertaken by the Committee.
The Committee also ensures that the paid m before costs m declared pence tax m per share remuneration relationship between the Directors and senior employees of the Company is appropriate and that the remuneration policy complies with 2014 142.0 209.8 51.3 32.00p the FCA Remuneration Code.
Any exceptional remuneration arrangements 2013 111.2 195.2 50.3 29.59p for senior employees are advised to the Committee.
% Change 28% 7% 2% 8% EXTERNAL ADVISORS ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS The company operates a SAYE share options scheme and Share Incentive In finalising the Remuneration Report and Policy the Committee has been advised by Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte LLP are signatories to the Code Plan SIP on the same terms for all employees.
All employees are of Conduct for the provision of independent remuneration advice of the encouraged to become shareholders, both through direct ownership or Remuneration Consultants Group.
The Remuneration Committee are through participation in share schemes.
satisfied that the advice it has received was independent.
PENSION EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS No Directors or staff participate in a defined benefit pension scheme.
Peter Hargreaves is a Non-Executive Director of ITM Power plc and The Group operates its own Group Self Invested Personal Pension the retains the fees related to that role.
The other Executive Directors do not GSIPP.
The Company contributes 4% of base salary to the scheme currently hold any external directorships.
which applies to Executive Directors and staff.
Employees wishing to make 54 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF VOTING AT THE AGM At the AGM held in 2013, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors remuneration report were as follows: Resolution Votes for including % Votes % Total votes cast excluding Votes Total votes cast discretionary votes for against against votes withheld withheld including votes withheld Approve Directors Report on Remuneration 365,276,341 92.80% 28,347,226 7.20% 393,623,567 527,954 394,151,521 RESPONSIBILITY APPROVAL The Directors Remuneration Report including Policy, Annual Report and The Board remains ultimately accountable for executive remuneration but Chairmans Statement have been approved by the Board of Directors and has delegated this responsibility to the Remuneration Committee.
Committees full terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
In determining the Directors remuneration and the remuneration Christopher D. Barling Chairman of the Remuneration Committee structure for the current financial year, the Committee consulted Peter 16 September 2014 Hargreaves and Ian Gorham about its proposals, although no Director was involved in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
Directors report other information THE STRATEGIC REPORT AND DIRECTORS REPORT Company paid a final dividend and an interim dividend during the period, as detailed in note 10 to the financial statements.
A second The directors present their report on the affairs of the Group and the audited interim final dividend of 15.39 pence per ordinary share and a consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 30 special dividend of 9.61 pence per ordinary share were declared after June 2014.
Accompanying this Directors Report are the Strategic Report, the balance sheet date and will be payable on 26 September 2014 Corporate Governance Report, Audit Committee Report and Directors to shareholders on the register at close of business on 12 September Remuneration Report.
These reports form part of the Annual Report.
A review of the business and its future development is set out in the Strategic Report.
A description of the principal risks and uncertainties is RISK MANAGEMENT given on page 22 of the Strategic Report.
Details of the Groups policy on risk management has been made in note 28 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements related to various financial instruments and exposure of the Group to financial, CAUTIONARY STATEMENT market, liquidity and credit risk.
The review of the business and its Strategic Priorities in the Annual Report has been prepared solely to provide additional information to SHARE CAPITAL shareholders to assess the Groups strategies and the potential for these strategies to succeed.
It should not be relied on by any other The Companys shares are listed on the main market of the London party for any other purpose.
The review contains forward looking Stock Exchange.
The Companys authorised and issued share capital statements which are made by the Directors in good faith based on during the year and as at 30 June 2014 is shown in note 22. information available to them up to the time of the approval of these The ordinary shares rank pari passu in all respects.
Save as agreed reports and should be treated with caution due to inherent uncertainties at the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders, the ordinary including both economic and business risk factors associated with shares have pre-emption rights in respect of any future issues of such statements.
The Directors, in preparing this Strategic Report, have ordinary shares to the extent conferred by s561 of the complied with s417 of the Companies Act 2006.
BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES WITH INFORMATION RIGHTS RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered The results of the Group are set out in detail on page 58.
The holder of those shares to receive information rights under s146 of the Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 55 Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the DIRECTORS INTERESTS registered holder of their shares rather than to the Companys registrar, Equiniti Registrars, or to the Group directly.
The directors who held office during the year and at 30 June 2014 had the following interests including beneficial interests in the shares of the Company.
These interests are exclusive of any interests under share options or awards, details of which are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
2 S Garrood was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 25 October 2013.
Since year end, Tracey Taylor has sold a total of 103,369 shares, and DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES Dharmash Mistry has sold 5,308.
There have been no other changes to the directors interests in the shares of the Company since the year-end.
As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity During the period covered by this report, no director had any material provision as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The interest in a contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiary indemnity was introduced in August 2014 and is currently in force.
The undertakings was a party other than their own service contract, requiring Company also purchased and maintained throughout the financial year disclosure under the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 except in Directors and Officers liability insurance cover for up to 20 million in respect of the rental of the office premises at Kendal House as disclosed respect of itself and its Directors against liability which may be incurred in note 27 to the financial statements.
acting as directors and officers and this remains in force at the date of this report.
As is required by the FCAs Listing Rules, the Company has entered into a relationship agreement with its controlling shareholder, Peter Hargreaves.
The agreement also contains the right for the controlling shareholder to appoint a MODEL CODE representative director as a non-independent Non-Executive Director, subject to Mr Hargreaves not remaining in office as a director himself.
The terms of The Company has its own internal dealing rules which extend the FCA the agreement will be taken to the shareholders for a vote at the AGM.
Listing Rules Model Code provisions to all employees.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS AMENDMENT TO THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION OF THE COMPANY As at the date of this report, the Company has not been notified of any The Articles of Association restrict the aggregate amount payable to changes in shareholdings amounting to more than 3% of the issued Non-Executive Directors and was previously set when fewer Directors share capital of the Company, other than the directors interests which were employed.
Following the appointment of additional Directors, the are set out in the table above and the following shareholdings: aggregate fees payable exceeded the amounts permitted by the Articles of Association.
A resolution will be taken to the Annual General Meeting to increase the limits payable.
Interested Party Date of Number and % of notification Ordinary shares Stephen Lansdown 25 March 2014 75,500,000 15.92% 56 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING PwC have expressed their willingness to accept appointment as auditor and a resolution to appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming At the Annual General Meeting on 24 October 2014, the following five Annual General Meeting.
items of special business will be tabled: 1.
Authority to purchase own shares: The Company was granted authority GOING CONCERN at the AGM in 2013 to purchase its own shares up to an aggregate value of 10% of the issued nominal capital.
This authority expires at this years The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated AGM and a special resolution will be proposed for its renewal.
economic conditions, the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The principal risks that the Group is challenged with have been set out on This resolution gives the directors authority to make market purchases page 22 along with how the Directors mitigate these risks in the current of up to 47,431,862 ordinary shares, representing approximately 10 economic climate.
The Groups business activities, financial position, percent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 10th September cash flows, liquidity position, together with the factors likely to affect its 2014.
The directors do not have any present intention of exercising such future development, performance and position are set out in the Business authority and the authority will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM Review.
In addition, note 28 to the Financial Statements includes the after the passing of the proposed resolution.
Groups policy on capital management, its exposure to financial risks and its policies and processes to manage those risks.
Directors authority to allot shares and waiver of pre-emption rights: Resolutions are to be proposed as special business at the AGM The Group maintains ongoing forecasts that indicate profitability in 2014 15 and beyond.
Stress test scenarios are undertaken, the outcomes on 24 October 2014 to enable the directors to allot unissued shares and, of which show that the Group has adequate capital resources for the subject to the limits therein contained, to allot shares for cash other than foreseeable future even in extreme adverse economic conditions.
The to existing shareholders in proportion to their shareholdings.
Groups business is highly cash generative with a low working capital requirement: indeed, the forecast cash flows show that the Group is Allotment of shares - This resolution renews the directors authority expected to remain highly liquid in the forthcoming financial year.
The maximum nominal value of relevant securities that may be allotted pursuant to the authority is 632,424.80, representing After reviewing the Groups financial forecasts including an assessment 158,106,200 ordinary shares.
This amount represents approximately of regulatory and working capital, the Directors are confident that the 33.3 percent of the Companys total share capital in issue as at 10th Company and the Group have adequate financial resources available to September 2014. continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The going concern basis has continued to be adopted in the preparation of the Waiver of pre-emption rights - This resolution renews the directors financial statements.
authority to issue new shares for cash, without following the statutory pre-emption procedures, so long as: i the issue is a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer, or pursuant to a scrip dividend DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR alternative: or ii the aggregate nominal amount of such issue does not exceed 94,863.72 which represents 5 percent of the issued share Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this annual capital as at 10th September 2014. report confirms that: The directors do not have any present intention of exercising either of the so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of authorities and the authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Annual General Meeting.
the director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director, in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit These resolutions seek authorities which are in accordance with the information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of current guidelines issued by the Investment Committees of the Association that information.
of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the 4.
Amendment to Clause 96 of the Companys Articles of Association to provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. increase the remuneration limits payable to Non-Executive Directors from a cumulative of 300,000 to a cumulative of 1,500,000, and ratification By order of the Board of the decision of the Company to pay fees to Non-Executive Directors in excess of the aggregate limit set out in the Articles for the years ended Judith Matthews 30th June 2013 and 2014.
Amendment to the 2010 Save As You Earn Scheme: to shorten the eligibility for all employees from two years service to one years service at the invitation date.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 57
