Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Statement Secondly, the impact of these exchange rate movements on actualLTIP outcomes has highlighted the emergence of a clear gap between British American Tobacco and its relevant peers in terms of Chief Executives earnings potential.
As noted above, a key principle of the Companys remuneration framework is to recruit and retain top talent in a highly competitive global market while remaining aligned to UK market practice.
While our Chief Executives base salary, Dr Gerry Murphy benefits and short-term bonus opportunity are broadly competitive, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the reward opportunity from long-term incentives is not.
Accordingly, I wrote to major shareholders in late 2014 and, in early Dear Shareholder 2015, Richard Burrows and I engaged with over30 of our largest Throughout 2014 the Remuneration Committee has continued shareholders to gauge their opinions on, interalia, changing the initsefforts to ensure that our Remuneration Policy represents measurement of EPS growth to a constant currency basis to eliminate anappropriate framework for executive remuneration at British the effect of translation anomalies and toincreasing the Chief AmericanTobacco, remaining true toa number of key principles: Executives reward potential under the LTIP.
Given the diversity ofviewpoints and the feedback received from thoseconsulted, and alignment of policy with long-term shareholder interests and theimportance attached by the Committee andthe Board to reflect delivery of the Companys strategy: the views of investors in our decisions, we decided not to propose incentive plans that are simple and transparent, i. e. a framework policychanges in these areas at this time.
ofasingle long-term and a single short-term incentive scheme: and Consequently, the only forward-looking changes will be the ensuring that British American Tobacco remains competitive in implementation of clawback clauses in each of our principal incentive recruiting and retaining top talent internationally, as befitting schemes, in line with the requirements of the 2014UK Corporate theglobal nature of its business, while remaining aligned to Governance Code and which are elaborated uponinthe body of theUKmarket.
Adherence to these principles prompted us to make a number of Performance in 2014 changes to our policy last year, following extensive consultation with As the Chief Executives overview highlights, the Groups performance anumber of major shareholders.
By way of summary, those changes in 2014, in a challenging market environment significantly impacted and their rationale were as follows: by currency movements, demonstrates that the Group is making i improving the alignment of our L TIP performance metrics to excellent progress to increase its share of the global cigarette market business strategy via the introduction of a net turnover NTO and growing Global Drive Brands.
In addition, pricing supported by growthparameter: strong brands and innovation, significant reductions in cost base and improving productivity have continued to drive improvements in ii increasing alignment of interests between management operating margin.
In the face of a challenging global economic andshareholders through higher minimum shareholding environment, the robustness of the Groups performance against the requirements 400% for the Chief Executive: and 250% for four measures of its annual IEIS incentive scheme profit, cash and the theFinance Director : and key strategic measures of market share and Global Drive Brands iii strengthening the link between individual per formance and reward growth is evident in awards achieved for the Chief Executive and the outcomes by means of a bonus adjustment factor in the short-term Finance Director of 121.9% and 109.7% respectively.
I set out below incentive scheme.
how, this year, the evaluation of each Directors individual performance has impacted upon this award by application of the performance Engagement with shareholders adjustment factor approved by shareholders last year.
Notwithstanding these changes, several factors arose in 2014 which As noted earlier, the vesting level of the 2012 LTIP award at 0% have prompted further scrutiny and analysis by the Board andthe issignificantly impacted by foreign exchange movements, most Remuneration Committee, resulting in a further round of engagement obviously in respect of the EPS growth metric: in spite of achieving with major shareholders on possible revisions to our policy.
acompound annual growth rate CAGR of 7.3% adjusting for The key factors were, first, the impact of the relatively dramatic UKinflation when measured on a constant currency basis over a movements in sterling exchange rates over the last 12 months three-year period, currency headwinds result in an EPS CAGR of only which have substantially fide-linked long-term rewards for 0.2% above UK inflation when measured on a current exchange basis management from the underlying strong performance of the over the same three-year period.
The anomaly of a strong underlying business as manifested by consistently high single digit EPSgrowth performance ofthe Group and its non-recognition in the form of when measured on a constant currency basis, andmarket-share LTIPvesting prompted the Committee to discuss changing the basis growth at the expense ofcompetitors.
The principal problem has ofthe EPSmetric, as referred to above.
While we have decided not beenthe effect of translating the results of the Companys global toproceed with this change, the underlying issue thepotential operations into its reporting currency, sterling, ata time of the anomalies caused by sterlings fluctuations on reward outcomes dramatic depreciation of a number of British American Tobaccos remains unresolved.
keytrading currencies including those of Brazil, South Africa, Australia, Russia, Canada and Japan.
67 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Statement continued We do not take lightly the application of this upwards adjustment Individual performance adjustment factor factor, particularly so in the first year of its operation.
However, the and annual salaryincreases Board was unanimous in its judgement that both Nicandro Durante The Committee considered this year, for the first time, the operation and Ben Stevens had delivered exceptional personal performances ofthe performance adjustment factor to the short-term incentive IEIS versus their previously agreed objectives.
Finally, we committed scheme outcome based on individual performance.
TheRemuneration lastyear to showing the distribution of outcomes for the senior Committee has concluded that both the ChiefExecutive and the management population to whom the performance adjustment Finance Director have each delivered an exceptionally strong level of factorhas been applied.
In line with this undertaking, the distribution personal performance, against their objectives.
In our judgement, their isshown graphically in the Remuneration Report, indicating that individual contributions have been pivotal in enabling the Company some23% of this managerial group of over 230 employees was todeliver a strong performance versus key strategic metrics amid a evaluated asOutstanding, the majority delivering Successful backdrop of intense economic volatility globally and political instability individual performances while some 12% were considered to fall below in important markets and inparticular to outperform its principal this level.
competitors against the keyoperating metrics.
Of particular weight inthe Committees consideration has been this strong delivery versus As noted in last years Remuneration Report, annual salary increases operational metricswhile maintaining an unrelenting focus on driving forExecutive Directors will be generally in line with those for other the Groupslong-term strategic agenda, including: UK-based employees.
The introduction of the individual performance adjustment factor now represents the principal manner in which making significant investments to nurture the growing outstanding individual performance can be recognised and next-generation products portfolio: conversely, via a decrement, poor individual performance can be progressing a significant global investment in an integrated penalised.
In line with this commitment, the Committee has awarded Groupinformation system: and annual salary increases to both the Executive Directors that are consistent with the general increase applied to other UK employees making important progress with its China JV with international ofthe Company.
Overall, in arriving at its conclusions, the Committee has tried to strike Moreover, both Executive Directors have strengthened discernibly an appropriate balance between the long-term interests of the business thesenior talent and succession pipelines in the Group, a key and its shareholders such that British American Tobacco can continue performance area from the Boards perspective.
to attract and retain top talent in a globally competitive marketplace.
Consequently, in the Committees judgement, these outstanding I hope we can count on our shareholders to support our approach personal performances merited the application of the highest generally, and specifically to support our Annual Report on performance adjustment factor i. e. an uplift of 20% on their IEIS Remuneration at the forthcoming AGM.
awardas derived from the Group performance formula.
The impact ofthe performance adjustment factors are as follows: Dr Gerry Murphy Chairman of the  for the Chief Executive, an award of 121.9% of salary based upon corporate performance is adjusted upwards by a further 20%, based on our assessment of his individual performance, to 146.3% of base salary: and for the Finance Director, an award of 109.7% of salary based oncorporate performance is adjusted upwards by a further 20%, based on our assessment of his individual performance to 131.6% of base salary.
The following Policy Report and Annual Report on Remuneration have been prepared in accordance with therelevant provisions ofthe Companies Act 2006 and asprescribed in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
Where required, datahas been  LLP andthis is indicated appropriately.
68 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT At a glance Our policy in 2014 Remuneration element Chief Executive Finance Director YE 31 December 2014 Nicandro Durante Ben Stevens Base salary from 1 April 2014 1,155,000 5% 841,500 3% Short-term incentives: Maximum bonus opportunity: Maximum bonus opportunity: 200% of basesalary.
50% cash 50% deferred shares DSBS Short-term incentives: Up to 20% uplift possible if individual performance is assessed as outstanding up to the maximum opportunity of 200% or 180%.
Performance adjustment and malus A 50% reduction is possible if individual performance is assessed as poor.
Short-term incentives: Adjusted profit from operations 40% IEIS performance measures Increase in the Groups share of key markets 20% and weightings % Global Drive Brand and Key Strategic Brands volumes 20% Cash flow from operations 20% Long-term incentives: Maximum vesting: shares to a value of 400% Maximum vesting shares to a value of 300% ofbase salary at time of award.
ofbase salary at time of award.
LTIP Awards 2014 opportunity Threshold vesting: 20% of maximum Threshold vesting: 20% of maximum 80% of base salary.
Long-term incentives: Dividend equivalent payment on all vestingshares.
Dividend equivalent payment and malus Malus facility in place.
Long-term incentives: TSR Performance versus international FMCG companies comparator group 25%.
LTIP Awards 2014 performance EPS Adjusted diluted EPS growth at current rates of exchange 50%.
measures andweightings % NTO CAGR of net turnover at constant rates of exchange 25%.
Underpin: no NTO element payable unless the corresponding three-year constant currency CAGR of underlying profit exceeds the CAGR of the threshold performance level for underlying operating profit asdefined annually in the IEIS.
Pension UURBS UK : accrual of 2.5% per annum for 1 Pension Fund UK : retains a scheme-specific each year of service on a basic salary in excess salary cap currently 146,400 effective 1 April of788,328 per annum from 1 April 2014.
Benefits in excess of the cap are accrued in the UURBS.
Where accrual exceeds the UK regulated allowances, benefits are adjusted to remain within these limits and the balance is provided through the UURBS.
2 UURBS UK : pension accrual in the UURBS isat the same rate as in the Pension Fund 1 40per annum.
Shareholding requirements 400% of salary 250% of salary Changes in policy from 2013 IEIS: Introduction of up to 20% IEIS uplift within maximum opportunity for outstanding personal performance.
Global Drive Brands and Key Strategic Brands volume metric amended to include Rothmans as a GDB and the brands State Express 555 and Shuang Xi as Key Strategic Brands.
Malus facility introduced into the deferred share DSBS element.
LTIP: TSR measure against FTSE 100 companies replaced with NTO multi-year growth with underlying profit underpin.
EPS measure changed to absolute growth range of 510% based oncurrent rates of foreign exchange.
Shareholding requirements: Increased to 400% from 300% for Chief Executive and 250% from200% for Finance Director.
69 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT At a glance Our Remuneration outcomes 2014 KPIs and business measures performance year-end 2014 The performance measures KPIs for the management incentive schemes reflect the alignment of managements strategic focus areas with the interests of our shareholders.
Indicative Actual Strategic Strategic target Management Weighting outcome performance 1 Measure focus area or objective incentive % 2014 2014 Group share of keymarkets Growth To continue to grow market share IEIS 20 Target 0.1% Global Drive Brands GDB Growth To increase GDB and KSB volumes IEIS 20 Maximum 6.5% andKey Strategic Brands faster than the rest of our portfolio KSB volumes Adjusted profit from Productivity To grow adjusted profit from IEIS 40 Target 4% operations operations on average by 6% peryear over the medium to long term Cash flow from operations Productivity To generate optimal cash flow while IEIS 20 Maximum 8% continuing to support business requirements.
The target for 2014 wasexceeded Note 1: Specific IEIS bonus targets are considered to be commercially sensitive and are not disclosed.
Adjusted earnings Growth To grow EPS by high single figures LTIP 50 Below median 0.2% pershare EPS peryear, on average, over the 2012 Awards medium to long term Total shareholder return Growth To grow shareholder value relative LTIP 25 Below median 11.4% TSR FTSE 100 Index topeers 2012 Awards 12.4% Total shareholder return Growth To grow shareholder value relative LTIP 25 Below median 11.4% topeers 2012 Awards 14.6% TSR FMCG group Year-end 2014 Outcomes: Chief Executive Finance Director ExecutiveDirectors Nicandro Durante Ben Stevens Short-term incentives 121.9% on the corporate result plus 109.7% on the corporate IEIS performance uplift of 20% on the result plus performance corporate result: total 146.3% uplift of 20% on the corporate result: total 131.6% Long-term incentives 00.0% 00.0% LTIP 2012 awards Policy implementation 2014: Chairman Richard Burrows fees from 1 April 2014 Non-Executive Directors 632,400 2% Non-Executive Directors fees from 1 January 2014 Base fee 90,000 no change Supplements: Senior Independent Director 30,000 no change Audit Committee Chairman: 30,000 no change Member: 6,000 reduced from 6,250 CSR Committee Chairman: 25,000 no change Member: 6,000 reduced from 6,250 Nominations Committee Chairman: no change Member: 6,000 new fee introduced Remuneration Committee Chairman : 30,000 no change Member: 6,000 reduced from 6,250 70 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Policy Report Introduction Strengthening alignment tostrategy The Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors and the andshareholders interests Non-Executive Directors, approved by shareholders at the AGM During the year, the Company has implemented the changes on30 April2014, is set out in full in the Annual Report 2013 on approved by shareholders as part of our Remuneration Policy at the www.
A summary of its key elements is set out in this policy AGM in April2014.
The key changes were: 1 to improve the section ofthe Remuneration Report in the form ofthe Future Policy alignment of the Companys LTIP performance metrics to its business Table Executive Directors and the Remuneration Table Non-Executive strategy through the introduction of the net turnover NTO growth Directors and the Chairman.
parameter: 2 the alignment of interests between management and shareholders through higher minimum shareholding requirements for Principles of remuneration the Chief Executive now 400% and the Finance Director now 250% : and 3 to strengthen the link between individual performance The Committees remuneration principles are to: and reward outcomes for theshort-term incentives by means of a conduct an annual review to ensure that the policy is both bonus adjustment factor in theInternational Executive Incentive rigorously applied and remains aligned with business needs Scheme IEIS.
topromote the long-term success of the Company: The outcomes of these policy changes are reported in detail reward, as an overriding objective, the delivery of the in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Groupsstrategy in a manner that is simple, straightforward As highlighted in the Annual Statement of the Remuneration andunderstandable: Committee Chairman, the Committees annual review of the structure a remuneration package that is appropriately positioned remuneration framework during 2014 focused on two areas of relative to the market and comprises core fixed elements base emerging concern to the Committee as well as developments salary, pension and other benefits designed to recognise the inbestpractice.
In particular, the Committee examined: skills and experience of our Executive Directors andtoensure 1 the growing and continuing impact of the appreciation of sterling current and future market competitiveness in attracting talent: on the measurement of the Companys performance: and provide a remuneration package based on two performance- 2 the identification of a clear and unsustainable competitive gap based variable elements a single cash and share incentive annual between the Company and its relevant peers in terms of the bonus plan IEIS, and a single long-term incentive scheme LTIP earnings potential for the Chief Executive.
which are designed to be both transparent and stretching and tomotivate and reward the delivery of growth to shareholders Proposals to address these concerns were shared with the Groups key onalong-term sustainable basis: and institutional investors as part ofaconsultation process in early 2015.
Given the mixed feedback that was received, however, the Committee maintain an appropriate balance between both fixed and has decided not to propose any changes to the Remuneration Policy performance-related remuneration and immediate and deferred for this year.
remuneration : the performance-based elements form an approximate range of 70%80% of the total remuneration In September 2014, the UK Corporate Governance Code was revised package.
requiring companies to put in place arrangements enabling them to recover or withhold variable pay when appropriate to do so Provision For Annual Reports visit www.
The Company is therefore introducing clawback elements to awards which may be made under both the short-term and long-term incentives.
These changes are identified in the Future Policy Table Executive Directors.
The introduction of clawback is not deemed to be a change requiring approval by shareholders.
There are therefore noproposed changes to the approved policy which require a shareholders vote for 2015.
71 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Policy Report continued Future Policy Table Executive Directors This table sets out the remuneration elements of the policy as approved by shareholders at the AGM on 30 April 2014.
It identifies and includes the introduction of provisions under the rules of the schemes to enable the clawback of awards in certain circumstances under the short-term IEIS and long-term incentives LTIP.
The complete approved policy continues to be displayed in full on the Companys website.
Base salary How the element supports the To attract and retain high-calibre individuals to deliver the Companys strategic plans by offering market Companys strategic objectives competitive levels of guaranteed cash: to reflect an individuals skills, experience and role within the Company.
Operation of the element Base salary is paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year.
Salaries are normally reviewed annually in February with salary changes effective from April or subject to an adhoc review on a significant change of responsibilities.
Salaries are reviewed against general UK pay trends anda company size and complexity model based on UK companies, as well as a Pay Comparator Group, theconstituents of which at the date of this report are as follows: AstraZeneca GlaxoSmithKline Reckitt Benckiser Tesco BP Imperial Tobacco Group Reed Elsevier Unilever BT Group Pearson Royal Dutch Shell Vodafone Diageo Philip Morris International SABMiller WPP Group Further reference is also made for discussion purposes only to published salary data of internationally listed companies of a similar size and complexity.
The Committee will exercise its judgement to vary the constituents ofthe Pay Comparator Group over the life of this Remuneration Policy.
There are no contractual provisions for clawback or malus in place for this element.
Maximum potential value Current levels stated in the Annual Report on Remuneration will be increased following the 2015 salary review.
Increases will generally be in line with increases in the base pay of other UK-based employees in the Group.
The salary of a recently appointed Executive Director as he or she progresses in a role may exceed the average salary increase to reflect the accrual of experience.
A change in responsibilities may also be reflected in an above average increase in salary.
Promotion leading to a complete change of role would be considered in line with theCommittees approach to recruitment.
Year-on-year increases for Executive Directors, currently in role, will not exceed 10% per annum during the policy period.
weighting and time period applicable 72 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Benefits How the element supports the To provide market competitive benefits consistent with role which: Companys strategic objectives allow the attraction and retention of high-calibre individuals to deliver the Companys strategic plans: and recognise that such talent is global in source and that the availability of certain benefits e. g. relocation, repatriation, taxation compliance advice will from time to time be necessary to avoid such factors being aninhibitor to accepting the role.
Operation of the element The Company currently offers the following contractual benefits to Executive Directors: a car or car allowance: the use of a driver: tax advice in instances where multi-jurisdictional tax authorities are involved : tax equalisation payments where appropriate : private medical insurance, including general practitioner walk-in medical services: personal life and accident insurance: and, where the individual is not a long-term resident of the UK, relocation and shipment of effects and associated expenses on appointment and at the end of tenure, and housing and education allowances or similar arrangements as appropriate to family circumstances.
Other benefits not identified above may be offered if, in the Committees view, other benefits are necessary in order to remain aligned with market practice.
The cost of legal fees spent in reviewing a settlement agreement on departure may also be provided where appropriate.
With the exception of the car or car allowance, it is also practice to pay the tax that may be due on these and any similar benefits.
Further, HM Revenue & Customs may classify the provision of certain services and payments as taxable benefits.
These include: the installation and maintenance of home security systems: the reimbursement of travel and related expenses: and other expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business functions and or corporate events.
It is also the Companys practice to pay the tax that may be due on these types of benefits.
Maximum potential value The maximum potential values are based on market practice for individuals of this level of seniority and considerations of a cost that is affordable to the business together with a range of benefits consistent with marketpractice.
Any tax due on these benefits paid by the Company is in addition to the maximum amounts specified below.
The maximum annual benefit that can be offered for each element is: car or car allowance: 20,000 subject to periodic inflation-related increases : use of a company driver: variable maxima as the actual cost is dependent on the miles driven in any year: variable maxima will apply to the cost of private medical insurance, which is dependent on an individuals circumstances and is provided on a family basis: GP walk-in medical services located close to the Groups headquarters in London: 5,000 per annum: personal life and accident insurance designed to pay out at a multiple of four and five times base salary respectively: international tax advice as required, but not exceeding 30,000 per annum : and tax equalisation payments as agreed bythe Committee from time to time: and relocation and shipment expenses for non-UK citizens at the beginning and end of service as an Executive Director if appropriate up to 200,000 together with housing and education allowances or other similar arrangements appropriate to the individuals family circumstances.
There are no contractual provisions for clawback or malus.
weighting and time period applicable 73 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Policy Report continued Pensions How the element supports the To provide competitive post-retirement benefit arrangements recognising both the individuals length of tenure Companys strategic objectives with the Group and the external environment in the context of attracting and retaining high-calibre individuals to deliver the Groups strategy.
Operation of the element British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund the Pension Fund non-contributory defined benefitsection The early retirement rules in the Pension Fund permit a member to draw the accrued retirement pension within five years of Fund normal retirement age without actuarial reduction, subject to the employing companys agreement.
Alternatively, an Executive Director may choose to leave and take a pension at any time on or after his or her 50th birthday without the employing companys agreement, subject to a reduction as determined bythe Pension Fund trustee in conjunction with the Pension Fund actuary.
Accrual rates differ according to individual circumstances but do not exceed one-fortieth of pensionable salary for each year of pensionable service.
The defined benefit section closed to new members with effect from 1 April 2005.
The Pension Fund includes provision for spouses and childrens benefits on death in service or after retirement.
In the event of death in service, a spouses pension equal to half of the members prospective pension at normal retirement age would be payable together with, where there are dependent eligible children, a pension equal to half of the members prospective pension at normal retirement age, shared equally between any eligible children.
A spouses pension payable in the event of death after retirement is equal to half of the members pension, irrespective of any previous decision to exchange part of the benefit for a lump sum at retirement.
Eligible children share equally a pension equal to half of the members full pension.
British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund defined contribution section Individuals joining the organisation since April 2005 participate in a defined contribution arrangement.
On the appointment of a new Executive Director an annual contribution of up to the equivalent of 35% of base salary would be made.
The actual level of contribution paid to the Pension Fund is restricted to take into account the annual allowance and lifetime allowance with any balance payable as a gross cash allowance.
Unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS The Pension Fund retains a scheme-specific salary cap, currently 146,400 effective 1 April 2014, which is adjusted in April each year in line with the Retail Prices Index as at September of the previous year.
Where an individual is entitled to benefits calculated on a base salary that exceeds the scheme-specific cap, these are accrued in the Companys UURBS.
Pension accrual in the UURBS will not exceed the accrual rate applicable tothe individual in respect of their Pension Fund entitlement maximum one-fortieth per annum.
In addition, where pension accrual in the Pension Fund exceeds the UK regulated annual and lifetime allowances, subject tothe individuals consent, benefits are adjusted to remain within these limits with any excess being provided through the UURBS.
Upon retirement, Executive Directors who have accrued benefits in the UURBS will have the opportunity toreceive this element of their overall entitlement either in the form of a single lump sum or as an ongoing pension payment.
Lump sums in lieu of a pension entitlement in the UURBS are subject to a decrement of between 19%and 21%, depending on age.
In addition, a further reduction that recognises the Companys liability to employers national insurance will also be made.
Pensionable pay covers base salary only and therefore bonus awards and the value of benefits in kind are not pensionable.
Maximum potential value Internal appointees as Executive Directors may have existing defined benefit or defined contribution pension entitlements with the Group which may differ marginally from those outlined in the policy and these will ordinarily remain unchanged.
Pension benefits and entitlements will continue to be calculated with reference toan individuals base salary.
Pension entitlements for external appointees as Executive Directors will be subject to negotiation taking intoaccount the relevant annual and lifetime allowances: and in most circumstances these will be defined contribution in nature and will not exceed 35% of base salary in value.
Performance metrics used, There are no performance metrics.
weighting and time period Pensions in payment are paid monthly or quarterly in accordance with the rules of the relevant section applicable of the Pension Fund.
74 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Short-term incentives: International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS How the element supports the To incentivise the attainment of corporate targets aligned to the strategic objectives of the Company Companys strategic objectives onanannual basis.
Performance-based award in the form of cash and deferred shares, so that the latter element ensures alignment with shareholders long-term interests.
Strong alignment and linkage between individual and corporate annual objectives via the application ofanindividual performance adjustment factor to the corporate result.
To ensure, overall, a market competitive package to attract and retain high-calibre individuals to deliver theGroups strategy.
Operation of the element IEIS comprises an annual award referenced to base salary, which is normally paid approximately three months after the end of the financial year to which it relates: 50% is paid immediately in cash and 50% of the total bonus amount is awarded in shares through the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme DSBS.
The free deferred shares are normally held in trust for three years and no further performance conditions apply Change to short-term in that period.
In certain circumstances, such as resigning before the end of the three-year period, participants incentives 2015: may forfeit all of the shares.
The introduction of a clawback Deferred shares attract a cash payment equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position of all of a facility which may be applied participants unvested ordinary shares held in the DSBS at the dividend record date.
atthe Committees discretion: 1 within two years after the The corporate result under the IEIS for the prior year is based on achievement against targets set and is payment of a bonus cash reviewed by the Remuneration Committee in February each year.
The Groups external auditors perform amount and or 2 within certainspecified procedures to assist the Committees assessment of the calculations used to determine the threeyears of the date of IEIScorporate bonus outcomes and future targets.
grantof an award of shares The total payout is determined by the Companys performance under each measure relative to that measures under the DSBS see below performance target.
The Committee may use its discretion to adjust the payout in circumstances where, it fordetails.
considers, the overall performance of the Company warrants a different outcome, whether higher or lower, than that determined by the application of the bonus formula.
An individual performance element for outstanding performance may be awarded being an adjustment factor of either 10% or 20% of the annual corporate result and is paid in cash.
In cases of identified poor individual performance, the corporate result will be reduced by 50%.
The Remuneration Committee sets the performance targets each year and is able to vary the exact measures and the weighting of them from year to year.
Clawback from 2016 IEIS cash awards and DSBS awards for performance ending 2015 : provisions operate under which all or a part of the value of an award may be recovered if the Committee determines thatthere has been: 1 a material misrepresentation or misstatement in relation to the performance of the Company and or the participant: or 2 an erroneous calculation in the assessment of the extent to which the award was made, and in either case which caused the award to be granted with a greater value than would otherwise have been the case.
This provision may be applied in respect of an IEIS cash award within the two-year period from payment and in respect of a DSBS share award within the three-year period from grant.
Clawback may also be applied at any time where the Committee determines that a participant committed, atany time prior to the payment vesting, an act or omission which justified dismissal for misconduct.
Where the Committee determines that these provisions are to be applied, the number of shares subject to anunvested DSBS share award may be reduced or the participant can be required to repay the excess value received and this repayment may be effected by reducing other cash or share based awards held by the participant.
The introduction of clawback for awards from 2016 onwards means that for IEIS participants determined by theCommittee as good leavers: 1 a cash bonus is pro-rated to the period of service during the year subject toa clawback period of two years from the payment date: and 2 a DSBS share award will vest or transfer to aparticipant upon termination of their contract subject to a clawback period of up to three years referenced tothe original award date.
The details of the policy on payment for loss of office which includes the scope for determination of good leaver status applied by the Committee is set out in the Policy Report in the Annual Report 2013 on www.
Malus for 2014 and 2015 DSBS share awards : malus provisions apply so that the number of shares subject to an unvested DSBS share award may be reduced where the Committee determines that there has been a material misrepresentation or misstatement of the performance of the Company and or the participant on the basis of which that or any prior DSBS share award was granted.
Awards under the annual incentive scheme are not pensionable and no element of the bonus is guaranteed.
75 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Policy Report continued Short-term incentives: International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS Maximum potential value The maximum annual bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive including any performance element is200% of base salary.
The equivalent bonus opportunity for other Executive Directors including any performance element is 180% of base salary.
No bonus is paid at the threshold level of performance, whichmustbe exceeded for any element of the bonus to be paid.
The annual on-target bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive is 100% of base salary increasing up to 120% if the Committee assesses individual performance as outstanding and applies the individual performance element at 20% to an on-target corporate result.
For the other Executive Directors, the on-target bonus opportunity is 90% increasing up to 108% if the individual performance element is awarded at a 20% level, based on an on-target corporate result.
Performance metrics used, For 2015, the IEIS contains four corporate performance measures and weightings measured over the weighting and time period financialyear: applicable 1 Adjusted profit from operations 40% this is the profit from operations of the Groups subsidiaries atconstant rates of exchange adjusted for the items shown as memorandum information in the Group Income Statement.
It is the Groups mediumto long-term aim to grow adjusted profit from operations onaverage by 6% annually.
2 Increase in the Groups share of key markets 20% this is the Groups retail market share in its key markets, which accounts for around 80% of the volumes of the Groups subsidiaries.
The aim is to increase the Groups share year on year.
The information used in this calculation is based on information available on subscription on retail audit share.
The process is subject to rebasing as and when the Groups key markets change.
When rebasing occurs to reflect changes in the sample or estimated market size, the Company will also restate history and provide fresh comparative data on the markets.
3 Global Drive Brands and Key Strategic Brands volumes 20% this comprises: 1 the cigarette volumes ofthe following GDBs sold by the Groups subsidiaries: Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall and Rothmans, including volumes of the Fine Cut variants of the above brands sold in Western Europe: and 2 the cigarette volumes of State Express 555 and Shuang Xi, being Key Strategic Brands associated with theCNTC joint venture.
The aim is to improve the quality of the Groups portfolio by increasing the volume of GDBs faster than therest of the brands in the Groups portfolio.
4 Cash flow from operations 20% this is defined as the free cash flow excluding restructuring costs, dividendsand other appropriations from associate undertakings measured at constant rates of exchange.
The aim is to generate the optimal level cash flow while continuing to invest to support the short-medium and long-term requirements of the business.
A specific target is set each year.
Three levels of award attainment relative to the measures are defined under the IEIS: 1 Threshold which must be exceeded to attract any bonus pay-out in respect of that measure : 2 Target which amounts to the budgeted performance : and 3 Maximum the level of performance exceeding budget and at which the bonus pay-out for that measure iscapped.
An award is pro-rated in respect of attainment between the measures set out above.
The specific performance targets for each measure are considered to be commercially sensitive and are not disclosed.
Indicative performance against them will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration in the following year.
An individual performance element may also be awarded by the Remuneration Committee based on its assessment of the Executive Directors performance against specific individual KPIs set at the beginning oftheyear.
This element is applied to the corporate result but is subject to the maximum award limit as explainedabove.
76 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Long-term incentives: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP How the element supports the To incentivise long-term sustainable growth in total shareholder return TSR, adjusted diluted earnings Companys strategic objectives pershare EPS and net turnover NTO, over a three-year period: to attract and retain high-calibre individuals required to deliver the Companys strategic plans: and to promote the long-term success of theCompany.
To put in place a combination of measures with appropriately stretching targets around the long-term plan thatprovides a balance relevant to the Companys business and market conditions as well as providing alignment between Executive Directors and shareholders.
In setting performance criteria and thresholds targets, the Committee takes account of the Groups long-term plans and market expectations.
Operation of the element Discretionary annual awards of shares with vesting levels based on the achievement of defined and forawards made in 2015 appropriately stretching targets that for 2015 are relative TSR, EPS growth and NTO growth aligned toGroupsstrategic objectives over a three-year performance and vesting period.
TSR performance is measured against a peer group of international FMCG companies using the return index calculated by Datastream and reviewed by the Companys remuneration consultants.
The current Change to long-term constituents ofthe FMCG peer group as at the date of this report are as follows: incentives for2015 awards: LTIP clawback Anheuser-Busch InBev Imperial Tobacco Group PepsiCo Campbell Soup Japan Tobacco Pernod Richard To introduce a clawback facility which may be applied at the Carlsberg Johnson & Johnson Philip Morris International Committees discretion at any Coca-Cola Kellogg Procter & Gamble time during the two-year Colgate-Palmolive Kimberly-Clark Reckitt Bencksier periodfrom the vesting date Danone LVMH SABMiller seebelow for details.
Diageo Mondelz International Unilever Heineken Nestl TSR is measured on the basis that all companies dividends are reinvested in the shares of those companies.
Thereturn is the percentage increase in each companys index over the three-year performance period.
The opening and closing indices for this calculation are respectively the average of the index numbers for the last quarter of the final year of that performance period this methodology is employed to reflect movements of the indices over that time as accurately as possible.
A local currency basis is used for the purposes of TSR measurement.
This approach is considered to have the benefits of simplicity and directness of comparison with the performance of the comparator companies.
EPS growth in adjusted diluted EPS for these purposes incorporates an increase in adjusted diluted EPS between the base year and the final year of the performance period, expressed as an annual growth rate over the period.
NTO is defined for these purposes as growth in gross turnover less excise, duties and rebates.
No vesting will occur for NTO unless the corresponding three-year constant currency compound annual growth rate CAGR ofunderlying operating profit exceeds the CAGR of the threshold performance level for underlying operating profit, as defined annually in the IEIS, as approved by the Board.
LTIP awards vest only to the extent that the performance conditions are satisfied at the end of the three-year performance period.
The Remuneration Committee may apply its discretion to vary the outcome of the formulaic performance to ensure a fair result for both the Executive Directors and the shareholders.
Participants may receive a dividend equivalent payment to the value of the dividends that they would have received as shareholders on their vesting awards.
Any proportion of an award that lapses does not attract the payment of the LTIP dividend equivalent payment.
Clawback and malus from 2015 awards : provisions operate under which all or a part of the value of an award may be recovered if, within the two-year period from vesting, the Committee determines that there has been: 1 a material misrepresentation or misstatement in relation to the performance of the Company and or the participant: or 2 an erroneous calculation in the assessment of the extent to which the award vested, in either case which caused the award to vest in respect of a greater number of shares than would otherwise have been the case.
Clawback may also be applied at any time where the Committee determines that a participant committed, at any time prior to vesting, an act or omission which justified dismissal for misconduct.
Where the Committee determines that these provisions are to be applied, the participant may be required to repay the excess value which vested and this repayment may be effected by reducing other cash or share-based awards held by the participant.
77 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Policy Report continued Long-term incentives: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Operation of the element For LTIP participants determined by the Committee as good leavers, the number of shares vesting is forawards made in 2015 dependent on the final performance at the end of the performance period pro-rated for the period employed continued and, for awards from 2015, shares vesting will be subject to the clawback period of two years from the end ofthe performance period.
The detailed policy on payment for loss of office which includes the scope for determination of good leaver status applied by the Committee is set out in the Policy Report in the Annual Report 2013 on www.
Malus for 2011-2014 awards : malus provisions apply so that the number of shares subject to an unvested award may be reduced where the Committee determines that there has been a material misrepresentation or misstatement of the performance of the Company and or the participant which influenced the extent to which any prior award vested.
The Remuneration Committee is able to vary the exact measures and the weighting of them from year to year, but will generally only seek to make amendments to them following consultation with shareholders.
Maximum potential value Maximum award of shares permitted is 400% of salary for the Chief Executive and 300% for other Executive andpayment at threshold Directors.
Proportion of vesting is determined by reference to achievement of defined targets over a three-year performance period in respect of three measures: earnings per share 50% : total shareholder return 25% : and net turnover 25%.
A maximum vesting of 100% will result in the vesting of shares to a value equivalent to 400% of the ChiefExecutives salary as at the time of award, plus the appropriate dividend equivalent payment.
For other Executive Directors, a maximum vesting 100% will result in the vesting of shares to a value of 300% of salary asat the time of award, plus the applicable dividend equivalent payment.
If the threshold performance level were to be attained in respect of all three measures, 20% of the original award level in respect of the Chief Executive shares with a value equivalent to 80% of salary would vest, plus the appropriate dividend equivalent attaching to the shares vesting.
A threshold performance outcome for the other Executive Directors would result in 20% of the original award level vesting.
This amounts to shares with avalue equivalent to 60% of salary, plus the appropriate dividend equivalent payment.
In respect of LTIP awards made from 2014, departing Executive Directors will receive vesting shares, conditional upon plan performance, based upon the final vesting percentage measured over the full three-year period of the award.
There will be no application of an early vesting percentage in respect of LTIP awards made in or after 2014.
78 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Long-term incentives: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Performance metrics used, Performance conditions in relation to awards made from 2014 onwards must be met over weighting and time period a three-year period in respect of three measures: applicable 1 25% of an LTIP award based on the Companys TSR performance against a peer group of international FMCG companies.
In the event of a top quartile performance by the Company relative to this comparator group, this element of the award vests in full: 6% vests for median performance and there is a pro-rata vesting between these two points.
The TSR portion of an LTIP award will not vest for below median performance: 2 50% of an LTIP award is based on adjusted diluted EPS growth measured at current rates of exchange.
Ifthe Company achieves a compound annual growth rate of 10%, this element of the award will vest in full.
If5% growth is achieved, then 8% of the award will vest.
For performance between these two points, a pro-rated award will vest.
If EPS growth over the period is less than 5%, none of the EPS portion of an award will vest: and 3 25% of an LTIP award is based on the compound annual growth rate of NTO measured at constant rates of exchange.
If the Company achieves a growth rate of 5%, this element of the award relating to NTO will vest in full.
If the Company achieves a compound annual growth rate over the three-year period of2%, then 6% of the award will vest in full.
There is a pro rata vesting between these points.
The NTO portion of the LTIP award will not vest for growth below 2%.
There is an underpin to the NTO measure whereby the corresponding three-year constant currency CAGR of underlying operating profit must exceed the CAGR of the threshold performance level for underlying operating profit as defined annually in the IEIS and approved by the Board in order for an LTIP vesting payment in respect of the NTO measure to become payable.
The Remuneration Committee will also assess the performance of the current outstanding LTIP awards against the performance conditions applicable to those awards as follows: Measures applying for March 2012 LTIP awards vesting 28 March 2015 and March 2013 LTIP awards vesting 22 March 2016 EPS: compound annual growth of 3% measured at current rates of exchange in excess of UK inflation triggers threshold performance.
Growth of 8% in excess of inflation would trigger maximum vesting under thismeasure.
TSR: relative to and measured against two groups of companies: 1 a group of international FMCG companies weighting 25% : and 2 the constituents of the London Stock Exchanges FTSE 100 Index weighting 25%.
Application of an early vesting percentage can apply.
79 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Policy Report continued All-employee share schemes How the element supports the Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys all-employee share schemes, which are designed Companys strategic objectives to incentivise employees by giving them an opportunity to build shareholdings in the Company.
Operation of the element and Sharesave Scheme an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved scheme where eligible employees are performance metrics used granted savings-related share options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company.
Options are granted tobe exercisable in conjunction with either a three-year or five-year savings contract with a monthly savings limit of500.
Options are normally granted at a discount of 20% to market price at the time of invitation.
Following changes in legislation, the monthly savings limit for the Sharesave Scheme was increased from 250to 500 for invitations made from 2014 onwards.
Share Incentive Plan SIP an HMRC-approved plan incorporating: 1 Partnership Scheme eligible employees can allocate part of their pre-tax salary to purchase shares in theCompany.
Shares purchased are held in a UK-based trust, normally capable of transfer to participants tax-free after a five-year holding period.
Following changes in legislation, the annual value of partnership shares that can be purchased was increased from 1,500 to 1,800 during 2014.
2 Share Reward Scheme eligible employees receive an award of shares in April of each year in which the Scheme operates in respect of performance in the previous financial year.
The performance conditions are aligned to those set for the IEIS in respect of the same performance period.
The plan shares are held in a UK-based trust for a minimum period of three years and during that time the trust will exercise its voting rights as directed by the plans participants.
The maximum individual award under the Share Reward Scheme is 3,000.
Further to recent changes in legislation, the annual value of free shares that can be awarded to employees will increase to 3,600: the Company intends to apply this new limit during the lifetime of this policy from awards made in 2016 onwards.
Maximum potential value Sharesave Scheme: the market value of the shares under option at the date of maturity of the Sharesave savings contract, less the grant price of the option at the contract start date.
SIP Partnership Scheme: the value of the shares purchased out of the potential maximum annual purchase value of 1,800 at the end of the five-year holding period.
SIP Share Reward Scheme: the value of the shares awarded out of the potential maximum annual award value of 3,600 at the end of the three-year holding period.
Shareholding guidelines How the element supports the To strengthen the alignment between the interests of the Executive Directors and those of the shareholders Companys strategic objectives byrequiring Executive Directors to build up a high level of personal shareholding in the Company.
Operation of the element and Executive Directors are required to hold shares in the Company equal to the value of a multiple of salary.
performance metrics used Arrangements apply to those Executive Directors who do not, at any point, meet the requirements of the shareholding guidelines.
Individuals may sell a maximum of up to 50% of any shares vesting after tax under the Companys share plans until the threshold for the shareholding guidelines has been met.
Shares earned butnot yet vested under the Companys share incentive plans are not taken into account when assessing compliance.
There are no performance metrics.
Maximum potential value Chief Executive: 400% of salary.
Other Executive Directors: 250% of salary.
External Board appointments How the element supports the The Company recognises the opportunities and benefits that accrue to both the Company and its Executive Companys strategic objectives Directors who serve as non-executive directors on the boards of comparable companies.
Operation of the element Each Executive Director is limited to one external appointment, with the permission of the Board.
andperformance metrics used There are no performance metrics.
Maximum potential value Any fees from such appointments are retained by the individual in recognition of the increased level of personalcommitment required.
Executive Directors may also serve as nominated Directors on the Boards oftheCompanys associate undertakings.
In such instances, the fees will be paid to the Group and are not fortheindividuals account.
80 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements the LTIP, allowing the Committee to make revisions to the Additional notes to the Future Policy Table performance measures, their respective weightings, threshold 1 The Remuneration Committee reser ves the right to make any andtarget levels aspermitted under the scheme rules.
remuneration payments where the terms were agreed prior toanindividual being appointed an Executive Director of the 2 Judgement Company or prior to the approval and implementation of the The Committee will be required to exercise its judgement in many Remuneration Policy.
This includes the achievement of the ways throughout the year, specifically in those areas of the policy applicable performance conditions, for Executive Directors who where thereis some flexibility.
This may occur, for example, when areeligible to receive payment from anyaward made prior to considering an individuals remuneration award or the specific benefits theapproval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
applying to anappointment, or in varying the measures and their 2 This policy applies in a similar form, with appropriate eligibility weightings, as well as setting specific targets, for example, in the IEIS criteria and gradations of salary, benefits and incentive awards to inany year to ensure that all elements continue to remain aligned to themembers ofthe Management Board and senior management.
Group strategy and drive the right behaviours.
Judgement is also The senior management population below Management Board applied in determining the percentage of salary up to the maximum operates within a job grading structure and its most senior members set out in the Policy Table which can be earned as a bonus in excess may participate inboth the LTIP and IEIS incentive arrangements.
ofthreshold, target and up to the maximum, or the percentage salary Award levels vary with seniority up to the appropriate maxima level again up to the maximum in the Policy Table in respect of an expressed within the relevant scheme rules.
Judgement is also required inassessing the performance in both LTIP and IEIS are aligned across theGroup and for the IEIS ofeach individual Executive Director in delivering against his or her locally relevant targets are set as appropriate.
For other UK employees of the Group, remuneration will cover 3 Discretion annual base salary, retirement plus other benefits and participation The Committee may also exercise its discretion either upwards in the Companys annual short-term incentive scheme, including ordownwards to ensure fair outcomes for both Directors and eligibility to participate inall-employee share plans.
shareholders notwithstanding the application ofthepolicy.
For employees employed outside of the UK, remuneration policy The Committee has reserved its ability to exercise its discretion isset in accordance with conditions in the local marketplace.
asfollows: Local policy isestablished with reference to Group guidelines Short-term incentives IEIS : concerning: annual base salary relative to the local market, the provision of retirement and other benefits where locally relevant to assess whether an individual performance element should be and participation in short-term incentive plans where the incentive applied to an Executive Directors bonus outcome and at what level opportunity is established with reference to the local market 10% or 20% for outstanding personal performance or -50% for conditions.
poor personal performance, subject to the overall cap asprovided in the policy: Other approved policy provisions in relation to assess and override a payout in circumstances where the overall toDirectors pay performance of the Company justifies a different outcome whether The Remuneration Committees powers of flexibility, higher or lower than that determined by the bonus formula: , reflected in theRemuneration Policy in relation to leavers as to whether deferred shares will be released approved by shareholders atthe AGM on 30 April2014, are amended and whether any bonus in whole or in part is payable during the below to reflect the introduction of a clawback facility for both the IEIS year ofdeparture: and and the LTIPawards.
whether circumstances have arisen that should result in the Flexibility, judgement and discretion application of the clawback and or malus provisions to deferred shares held byanExecutive Director.
The Companys remuneration policy needs to be capable of operating over a three-year period.
As such, the Committee has taken care to Long-term incentives LTIP : prepare and explain how the policy will operate and has built in a to assess and override the formulaic outcomes of the LTIP degree of flexibility to enable the practical implementation of the performance outcome to ensure that the resulting LTIP pay-out policy over that prospective lifetime.
reflects fairly the underlying performance of the business and serves the interest of shareholders: 1 Flexibility Areas of the policy which include a degree of flexibility are around: in relation to leavers as to whether shares will vest, the terms on which such shares will vest and the percentage level of the award pay and benefits, allowing the Committee to set pay either on which vestsas well as whether any LTIP in whole or in part is appointment or following an annual salary review, and to review payable during the year of departure: and and change the pay comparator groups to ensure they remain appropriate.
The degree of flexibility to operate is constrained whether circumstances have arisen which should result in the bythe policy maximum: application of the clawback and or malus provisions to unvested LTIP awards.
the IEIS bonus plan, for example, allowing the Committee to designperformance measures, agree their relative weighting andset annual targets to incentivise business outcomes aligned totheGroups short-term strategic objectives.
This is to ensure thattheseremain relevant andaligned to the Group strategy: and 81 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Policy Report continued Other: on appointment of a new Executive Director, to agree a contract, foran initial period only, longer than the normal one-year rolling contract: and where the shareholding requirements are not yet met to determine and vary the terms that apply to ensure compliance and or the retention of deferred shares or vesting LTIP shares to meet the requirement.
In each case, wherever the Committee exercises its discretion in relation to an Executive Director, it will disclose the rationale for doingso in its Annual Report on Remuneration the following year.
Remuneration Table Non-Executive Directors and Chairman The following table sets out the key elements of the remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman as approved by the shareholders at the AGM on 30 April 2014.
The complete approved policy continues to be displayed in full in the Annual Report 2013 on www.
Non-Executive Directors Fees process As a UK-listed entity, the quantum and structure of Non-Executive Directors remuneration will primarily be assessed against the same remuneration comparator group of companies used for setting the remuneration of Executive Directors.
The Board may also make reference to and take account of relevant research and analysis on Non-Executive Directors fees in FTSE 100 companies published by remuneration consultants from time to time.
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are reviewed annually, although the review does not always result in an increase in the Board fees or Committee fees.
The Board as a whole considers the policy and structure for the Non-Executive Directors fees on the recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate indiscussions on their specific levels of remuneration.
Current fees for the year It is anticipated that any future aggregate increase to any of the fees will be within the salary guidelines ending 31 December 2015 whichgovern the Companys annual salary reviews for UK-based staff and will not exceed the equivalent of10%perannum in aggregate.
Non-Executive Directors feestructure Fees from 1 Jan 2015 to 31 Dec 2015 Base fee 92,700 Supplements: Senior Independent Director 30,000 Committee Memberships Fees not Chairman : Audit Committee Chairman 30,000 Audit Committee 6,000 CSR Committee Chairman 25,000 CSR Committee 6,000 Nominations Committee Chairman Nominations Committee 6,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman 30,000 Remuneration Committee 6,000 Travel and related expenses Non-Executive Directors are generally reimbursed for the cost of travel and related expenses incurred by them as Directors of the Company in respect of attendance at Board, Committee and General meetings.
In addition, it is the policy of the Board that the partners of the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors may, from time to time, accompany the Directors to overseas or UK-based Board meetings and otherwise at hospitality functions during the year.
In the instances where such expenses are classified by HMRC as a benefit to the Director, it is also the practice ofthe Company to pay the tax which may be due on any such benefits.
Non-Executive Directors are also eligible for general practitioner walk-in medical services based a short distance from the Companys Group headquarters in London.
They receive no other pay or benefits.
Shareholding requirements The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is paid in cash.
There are no formal requirements or guidelines for the Non-Executive Directors to hold shares in the Company.
However, Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to acquire a small interest during the initial years after their date of appointment.
The Non-Executive Directors donot participate in the British American Tobacco share schemes, bonus schemes or incentive plans and are not members of any Group pension plan.
82 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chairman Fees process The Remuneration Committee considers annually the fee payable to the Chairman.
Given that the role of a chairman can vary considerably between companies and sectors, this process using data from the FTSE 30 companies takes into account the breadth of that role coupled with its associated levels of personal commitment and expertise in the overall context of international reach and the ambassadorial aspect of the role.
The Chairman is currently expected to make an annual time commitment of about 100 days to cover the responsibilities of the role.
The Chairman does not participate in any discussions on his level of remuneration.
Current fees for the year It is anticipated that any future aggregate increase to the Chairmans fee below will be within the salary ending 31 December 2015 guidelines that govern the Companys annual salary reviews for UK-based staff and will not exceed the equivalent of 10% per annum in aggregate.
Fees from 1 April 2015 Richard Burrows Chairman 645,000 Benefits, travel and Richard Burrows is reimbursed for the cost of travel and related expenses incurred by him in respect of relatedexpenses attendance at Board, Committee and General meetings including the cost of return airline tickets to London from his home in Ireland in connection with his duties as Chairman.
He is also entitled to the use of a Company driver: private medical insurance and personal accident insurance benefits: and general practitioner walk-in medical services based a short distance from the Companys Group headquarters in London.
In addition, Richard Burrows spouse may, from time to time, accompany him to overseas or UK-based Board meetings and otherwise at hospitality functions during the year.
Where any such reimbursements are classified by HMRC as a benefit to the Director, it is also the practice of the Company to pay any tax due.
In appointing a new Chairman, the Committee will offer the components set out in respect of the current Chairman, as appropriate, and may also offer housing allowances for a limited period and other relocation benefits.
83 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT P Aa n ge nu T ai lt R leeport on Remuneration This section sets out the remuneration of theDirectors for thefinancialyear ended 31 December 2014.
Role The Remuneration Committee is responsible for: agreeing and proposing the Remuneration Policy covering salary, Gerry Murphy benefits, performance-based variable rewards and pensions for Chairman of the  shareholder approval: determining, within the terms of the agreed Policy, the specific Remuneration Committee current members remuneration packages for the Chairman and the Executive Dr Gerry Murphy Chairman Directors, both on appointment and on review and, if appropriate, Ann Godbehere any compensation payment due on termination of appointment: Christine Morin-Postel the setting of targets applicable for the Companys performanceDimitri Panayotopoulos based variable reward schemes and determining achievement Kieran Poynter against those targets, exercising discretion where appropriate and as provided by the applicable scheme rules and the Policy: and monitoring and advising the Board on any major changes to the Attendance at meetings in 2014 policy on employee benefit structures for the British American Member Attendance Eligible Tobacco Group.
Name since toattend 2009 Gerry Murphy Chairman Chairman from 2012 6 6 Ann Godbehere 2011 6 6 Christine Morin-Postel 2007 6 6 1 Dimitri Panayotopoulos 2015 n a Kieran Poynter 2011 6 6 Notes: 1.
Membership: all of the members of the Remuneration Committee are independent NonExecutive Directors of the Company: Dimitri Panayotopoulos became a member oftheCommittee on 2 February 2015.
Other attendees: the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Human Resources Director, Group Head of Reward and other senior management may also attend by invitation: neither theChairman nor any Executive Director plays any part in determining his own remuneration.
Deloitte LLP: as the Committees remuneration consultants they may attend meetings of theCommittee.
As a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group RCG, Deloitte agrees to the RCG Code of Conduct whichseeks to clarify the scope and conduct of the role ofexecutive remuneration consultants when advising UK-listed companies.
Secretary to the Remuneration Committee: this is the Company Secretary.
Number of meetings 2014: six meetings were held, of which four were scheduled with two further meetings convened at short notice to discuss proposals to amend the Remuneration Policy for 2015.
For the Committees terms of reference visit www.
com governance 84 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Remuneration Committee advisers During the year the Remuneration Committee was independently advised by the following external advisers: Services provided Other services provided Adviser to the Committee Fees paid to the Company Deloitte LLP General advice on remuneration matters including: 2014: 285,650 Tax, corporate finance and markettrends and comparator group analysis: policy 2013: 214,846 consulting services to Group review and shareholder engagement perspectives: companies worldwide independent measurement of TSR performance conditions.
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Advice in respect of share plan regulations is provided Fees relate to advice General corporate legal and tax totheCompany and is available to the Committee.
given to Company advice principally in the UK Ernst & Young LLP Provision of personal tax advice regarding Fees relate to advice Tax, corporate finance and ExecutiveDirectors international pension planning.
given to Company consulting services to Group companies worldwide  LLP Specified procedures to assist in the assessment 2014: 10,870 External auditor: audit and tax of the calculations of the IEIS bonus outcomes.
2013: 10,560 services and other non-audit services The Remuneration Committee has not expressly considered the objectivity and independence of the advice received from these professional firms, although it regularly reflects upon the quality of theadvice received.
The Committee is confident that none of the cross-relationships generate an unmanageable conflict of interest and that the fees paid in respect of each service do not compromise the objectivity and impartiality of the provision of the other services.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, both the Chief Executive and Chairman were consulted and invited to attend meetings of the Committee and the Group Human Resources Director and Group Head of Reward, supported by the Company Secretary, also provided advice, guidance and assistance to the Committee.
Remuneration Committee activities in 2014 Regular work programme February reviewed and set salaries for the Executive Directors from 1 April 2014 taking into account both the pay comparator group positioning and the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, particularly inthe UK: reviewed and set the Chairmans fee from 1 April 2014: assessed the achievement against the targets for the 2013 IEIS award and set the IEIS targets for 2014: assessed the achievement against the performance conditions for the vesting of the LTIP 2011 award, determinedthe level of LTIP awards for March 2014 and confirmed the associated performance conditions: assessed the achievement against the targets for the 2013 Share Reward Scheme and set the targets for the 2014award: monitored the continued application of the Companys shareholding guidelines for the Executive Directors: and reviewed the Annual Statement, the Policy Report, and the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 2013 prior to its approval by the Board and subsequent shareholder approval at the AGM on 30 April 2014.
July analysed the AGM results on remuneration and reviewed market trends in the context of the AGM season: previewed the salary and incentives market data and current trends for Executive Directors: and reviewed achievement against the performance measures for the six months to 30 June 2014 for the IEIS 2014 and the outstanding LTIP awards.
December reviewed the report on the effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee.
85 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Report on Remuneration continued Remuneration policy matters February introduced a malus provision into the DSBS shares element of the IEIS for awards made on or after 1 March 1 2014: introduced for LTIP awards from 2014 onwards delayed vesting of LTIP shares for departing Executive Directors: all LTIP shares vesting now conditional on plan performance measured over the full period of the award i. e. no 1 application of an early vesting percentage in respect of LTIP awards made from 2014: and increased limits in the all-employee share schemes Share Reward Scheme: Partnership Scheme: and Sharesave 1 Scheme in accordance with changes in HMRC policy.
Included in the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders on 30 April 2014.
October, considered the impact of exchange rates on incentive schemes and the design of the schemes for the November ExecutiveDirectors relative to underlying performance: andDecember reviewed the background to the competitive gap between British American Tobacco and its relevant peers interms of the earnings potential of the Chief Executive in respect of the long-term incentive opportunity: and considered changes to the Remuneration Policy including the early adoption of a new LTIP ahead of the expiry ofthe current LTIP in April 2017.
Other incentive matters February approved the final retirement arrangements for the Chief Operating Officer who retired in April 2014.
December reviewed reporting and disclosure best practice for the Annual Report on Remuneration including detailed consideration of retrospective disclosure of bonus targets: and approved the introduction of an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS for members oftheManagement Board who participate in the defined contribution section of the UK Pension Fund and whoare impacted by the UK annual allowance or lifetime allowance.
Performance and pay 2009 to 2014 This chart shows the performance of a hypothetical investment of 300 100 in the Companys shares as measured by the total shareholder return TSR for the Company against a broad equity market index 250 the FTSE 100 Index over a period of six financial years starting from 1 January 2009 through to 31 December 2014 based on 30 trading 200 day average values.
150 100 50 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 British American Tobacco FTSE 100 TSR measurement TSR is measured according to the return index calculated by Datastream and has been reviewed by the Committees remuneration consultants.
It is measured on the basis that all the Companys dividends are reinvested in the Companys shares.
The return is the percentage increase in the Companys index over the six-year period.
A local currency basis is used for the purposes of the TSR calculation, making it consistent with the approach to TSR measurement for theLTIP.
86 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Value of hypothetical 100 holding Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chief Executives pay The pay for the Chief Executive CEO for each of the financial years ended 2009 to 2014 is set out below for comparative purposes: Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 CEO single figure of total remuneration 000 1 Paul Adams to 28 February 2011 7,713 8,858 5,961 n a n a n a 2 Nicandro Durante from 1 March 2011 n a n a 5,589 6,340 6,674 3,617 Annual bonus IEIS paid against maximum opportunity % 1 Paul Adams to 28 February 2011 67.7 87.0 100 n a n a n a 2 Nicandro Durante from 1 March 2011 n a n a 100 85.0 81.3 73.2 Long-term incentive LTIP paid against maximum opportunity % 1 Paul Adams to 28 February 2011 100 100 100 n a n a n a 2 Nicandro Durante from 1 March 2011 n a n a 100 87.1 49.2 00.0 Notes: 1.
Paul Adams: a historic data is taken from the Remuneration Reports for the relevant years, butrecast as appropriate on the basis of the single figure calculation as prescribed in the Regulations: b heretired as Chief Executive on 28 February 2011 which affected his short-term annual bonus IEIS and long-term incentives LTIP as follows in accordance with the rules of those schemes: i  bonus IEIS for the year ended 31 December 2010 was paid as a 100% cash bonus instead of 50% in cash and 50% in deferred shares: ii the outstanding LTIP awards ofshares vested immediately on his retirement either in full 2008 Award or on a pro-rated basis 2009 Award and 2010 Award : and iii the LTIP dividend equivalent payments for the LTIP awards whichvested at his retirement were also paid in full and or on a pro-rated time and performance basis.
Nicandro Durante: a historic data is taken from the Remuneration Reports for the relevant years, but recast as appropriate on the basis of the single figure calculation as prescribed in the Regulations: and b he became Chief Executive on 1 March 2011 and his single figure remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2011 has accordingly been time apportioned.
Relative importance of spend on pay To illustrate the relative importance of the remuneration of the Directors in the context of the Groups finances overall, the Remuneration Committee makes the following disclosure: 2014 2013 % change Item m m 1 Remuneration of Group employees 2,194 2,384 8 Remuneration of Executive Directors 7 15 53 Remuneration of Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 2 2 Dividends paid in the year 2,712 2,611 4 2 Share buy-back programme 795 1,500 47 3 Adjusted profit from operations 6,075 5,820 4 Notes: 1.
Total remuneration of Group employees: this has changed in the year mainly as a result of local remuneration agreements, varying employment costs across end markets and regions: and the impact ofexchange rate movements.
Share buy-back programme: this was suspended with effect from 30 July 2014.
Adjusted profit from operations: this is the adjusted profit from operations of the Groups subsidiaries at constant rates of exchange for the items shown as memorandum information in the Group Income Statement.
It has been chosen as a benchmark for this disclosure given its linkage to the short-term incentive element of remuneration as one of the four performance measures under the IEIS.
Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2014 Single figure table for Executive Directors remuneration: aggregate audited The following table shows a single figure of remuneration for the Executive Directors in respect of qualifying services for the year ended 31 December 2014 together with comparative figures for 2013.
The aggregate Directors emoluments are shown on page 100.
Details ofthefeesfor the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are set out in separate tables below.
Nicandro Durante taxable benefits 2013: includes a single one-off gross payment of 440,000 by the Company as a tax equalisation payment in respect of the tax charge arising from the FASC Brazil pension accrual in excess of the UK-regulated annual allowance.
Long-term incentives: these include cash dividend equivalent payments made under the LTIP which were previously categorised for the year ended 31 December 2013 as other emoluments.
Other emoluments: include: 1 life insurance: 2 cash dividend equivalent payments made under the DSBS in 2013: and 3 the value of shares received under the Share Reward Scheme duringthe year.
Long-term incentives: in accordance with the Regulations, estimates for the values of the vesting 2011 LTIP awards were given in the Annual Report on Remuneration 2013: these amounts have been re-presented to show the actual market values on the dates of exercise in 2014.
87 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Report on Remuneration continued Analysis by individual Director audited Nicandro Durante 2014 2013 000 000 Salary 1,141 1,088 1 Taxable benefits Cash: car allowance 16 16 Non-cash: health insurance provision of walk-in health care services 8 7 tax advice 22 36 2 tax equalisation payment re tax charge for FASC pension accrual 440 the use of a company driver 62 64 3 employee welfare and medical payments in Brazil 37 maintenance of home security systems in the UK and Brazil 17 19 other expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business functions and or corporate events 7 7 Total taxable benefits 132 626 Short-term incentives IEIS: annual performance-related bonus cash receivable March 2015 YE 2014 : cash received March 2014 YE 2013 704 895 DSBS: annual performance-related bonus award of deferred shares at this full market value March 2015 YE 2014 4 andMarch 2014 YE2013 704 895 IEIS: individual performance uplift of 20% of total annual performance-related bonus cash receivable March 2015 YE 2014 282 Total short-term incentives 1,690 1,790 Long-term incentives LTIP: award 28 March 2012 of 124,688 shares: performance period 2012 2014 with a vesting date of 28 March 2015: noneof the performance conditions have been met which will result in the lapse of the full award LTIP: award 13 May 2011 of 147,329 shares: performance period 2011 2013: award vested on 13 May 2014 at 49.2% resulting in a vesting of 72,485 shares: the award was exercised on 30 July 2014 at an execution price of 3,535.0p 5 pershare 2,562 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP : a cash sum equivalent to the aggregated dividends that an LTIP participant would have received as a shareholder over the three-year period on the actual number of shares that vest under an LTIP award: 6 2014: LTIP award 13 May 2011: vested 13 May 2014 : 2013: LTIP award 25 March 2010: vested 25 March 2013 293 228 Total long-term incentives 293 2,790 Pension-related benefits 7 Unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS UK 323 307 Total pension-related benefits 323 307 Other emoluments Life insurance 17 15 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 55 Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during the year 2 3 Sharesave Scheme: grant of options on 26 August 2014 over 543 shares at an option price of 2,787.0p per share: optionswere awarded at a discount of 20% of the market value 3,483.0p per share in accordance with the rules of theSharesaveScheme 19 Total other emoluments 38 73 Notes: 1.
Benefits: the figures shown are gross amounts as it is the normal practice of the Company to pay the tax which may be due on any benefits, with the exception of the car or car allowance.
Tax equalisation payment: this is in respect of the tax charge arising from the FASC pension accrual in excess of the UK-regulated annual allowance and was met by a single one-off gross payment bytheCompany.
Employee welfare medical payments in Brazil: Nicandro Durante retained certain termination or compensation rights in respect of his former employment with Souza Cruz SA until 2 April 2012: outstanding welfare payments were made in 2013.
DSBS: an award of deferred shares attracts a payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position on all unvested ordinary shares comprised in the share award held by the participant at each dividend record date and paid on or after the relevant dividend payment date.
Long-term incentives: LTIP award 13 May 2011: an estimated value of 2,380,000 was disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Long-term incentives: cash dividend equivalent LTIP : these payments were previously categorised for the year ended 31 December 2013 as other emoluments: the 2013 comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
UURBS pension-related benefits: 2014: pension-related benefits represent the net accrual for the period, being the differential between the individuals total pension entitlements as at 31 December 2013 adjusted for inflation and as at 31 December 2014, multiplied by 20 in accordance with the Regulations 2013 calculation basis: a gross pension accrual for the period adjusted for inflation, multiplied by 20, was applied.
External directorship: Nicandro Durante is a non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc appointed 1 December 2013.
He retains the fees for this appointment 2014: 91,250 2013: 7,083.
88 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Ben Stevens 2014 2013 000 000 Salary 835 808 1 Taxable benefits Cash: car allowance 14 14 Non-cash: health insurance provision of walk-in health care services 4 4 the use of a company driver 73 74 maintenance of home security systems in the UK 3 3 other expenses incurred in connection with individual and or spouse accompanied attendance at certain business functions and or corporate events 5 5 Total taxable benefits 99 100 Short-term incentives IEIS: annual performance-related bonus cash receivable March 2015 YE 2014 : cash received March 2014 YE 2013 462 598 DSBS: annual performance-related bonus award of deferred shares at this full market value March 2015 YE 2014 2 andMarch 2014 YE2013 462 598 IEIS: individual performance uplift of 20% of total annual performance-related bonus cash receivable March 2015 YE 2014 184 Total short-term incentives 1,108 1,196 Long-term incentives LTIP: award 28 March 2012 of 70,137 shares: performance period 2012 2014 with a vesting date of 28 March 2015: noneof the performance conditions have been met which will result in the lapse of the full award LTIP: award 13 May 2011 of 79,558 shares: performance period 2011 2013: award vested on 13 May 2014 at 49.2% resulting in a vesting of 39,142 shares: the award was exercised on 31 July 2014 at an execution price of 3,486.0p 3 pershare 1,364 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP : a cash sum equivalent to the aggregated dividends that an LTIP participant would have received as a shareholder over the three-year period on the actual number of shares that vest under an LTIP award: 4 2014: LTIP award 13 May 2011: vested 13 May 2014 : 2013: LTIP award 25 March 2010: vested 25 March 2013 158 214 Total long-term incentives 158 1,578 5 Pension-related benefits British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund 6 28 Unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS UK 515 579 Total pension-related benefits 521 607 Other emoluments Life insurance 7 7 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 46 Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during the year 2 3 Sharesave Scheme: grant of options on 26 August 2014 over 543 shares at an option price of 2,787.0p per share: optionswere awarded at a discount of 20% of the market value 3,483.0p per share in accordance with the rules oftheSharesave Scheme 19 Total other emoluments 28 56 Notes: 1.
Benefits: the figures shown for benefits are gross amounts as it is the normal practice of the Company to pay the tax which may be due on any benefits, with the exception of the car or car allowance.
Long-term incentives: LTIP award 13 May 2011: an estimated value of 1,285,000 was disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Pension-related benefits: 2014: pension-related benefits represent the net accrual for the period, being the differential between the individuals total pension entitlements as at 31 December 2013 adjusted for inflation and as at 31 December 2014, multiplied by 20 in accordance with the Regulations 2013 calculation basis: a gross pension accrual for the period adjusted for inflation, multiplied by 20, was applied.
89 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Report on Remuneration continued John Daly retired 6 April 2014 2014 2013 000 000 Salary 191 713 1 Taxable benefits Cash: car allowance 4 14 outstanding holiday entitlement 19 Non-cash: health insurance provision of walk-in health care services 1 5 the use of a company driver 17 75 maintenance of home security systems in the UK 5 8 retirement gift 13 other expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business functions and or corporate events 2 Total taxable benefits 59 104 Short-term incentives 2 IEIS: annual performance-related bonus cash received April 2014 YE 2014 : cash received March 2014 YE 2013 171 528 3 DSBS: annual performance-related bonus award of deferred shares at this full market value March 2014 YE 2013 528 Total short-term incentives 171 1,056 Long-term incentives LTIP: award 22 March 2013 of 59,058 shares: performance period 2013 2015: award vested at date of retirement 6April2014 as determined by performance outcomes at the quarter end 31 March 2014 prior to departure in 4a accordance with the LTIP rules: none of the performance conditions were met which resulted in the lapse of the fullaward LTIP: award 28 March 2012 of 60,785 shares: performance period 2012 2014: award vested at date of retirement 6April2014 as determined by performance outcomes at the quarter end 31 March 2014 prior to departure in 4a accordance with the LTIP rules: none of the performance conditions were met which resulted in the lapse of the fullaward 4a LTIP: award 13 May 2011 of 71,823 shares: performance period 2011 2013: award vested on 13 May 2014 at 49.2% resulting in a vesting of 35,336 shares: the award was exercised on 29 September 2014 at an execution price 4b of3,496.0p per share 1,235 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP : a cash sum equivalent to the aggregated dividends that an LTIP participant wouldhave received as a shareholder over the three-year period on the actual number of shares that vest under anLTIP award: 2014: 5 LTIP award 13 May 2011: vested 13 May 2014 : 2013: LTIP award 25 March 2010: vested 25March2013 143 123 Total long-term incentives 143 1,358 6 Pension-related benefits British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund 13 86 Unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS UK 96 394 Total pension-related benefits 109 480 Other emoluments Life insurance 8 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 35 Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during the year 2 3 Total other emoluments 2 46 Notes: 1.
Short-term incentives: the Remuneration Committee determined John Daly as a good leaver on 26 February 2014 with reference to the IEIS rules and made a cash-only award pro-rated for the period from 1 January 2014 to 6 April 2014 made on the basis of on-target performance in accordance with the rules of the IEIS.
Long-term incentives: a the Remuneration Committee determined John Daly as a good leaver on 26 February 2014 with reference to the LTIP rules: and b LTIP award 13 May 2011: an estimated value of 1,160,000 was disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Pension-related benefits: 2014: pension-related benefits represent the net accrual for the period, being the differential between the individuals total pension entitlements as at 31 December 2013 adjusted for inflation and as at 6 April 2014, multiplied by 20 in accordance with the Regulations 2013 calculation basis: a gross pension accrual for the period adjusted for inflation, multiplied by 20, was applied.
John Daly ceased accrual in the PJ Carroll Directors Plan with effect from 31 August 2004.
Reynolds American Inc. RAI : John Daly has been a BAT-nominated director of RAI, an associate undertaking of the Company, since 1 December 2010.
In accordance with the arrangements applicable up to the date of his retirement as a Director of the Company on 6 April 2014, the Group received a fee of US$81,665 from RAI 2013: US$277,284 in respect of John Dalys service in that role for the period from 1 January to 6 April 2014.
Following his retirement from the Company, John Daly remained a BAT Designee from that date and receives an annual fee direct from RAIfor these services in lieu of the fee previously paid to the Group.
90 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Base salary The Executive Directors salary review in February 2014 agreed the following changes effective from 1 April 2014.
UK-based employees received salary increases averaging around 3.4% and within a range of 0.5% to 6.0% with effect from 1 April 2014.
Base salary Base salary from Percentage from 1 Apr 2014 change 1 Apr 2013 Executive Directors salaries % Nicandro Durante 1,155,000 5.00 1,100,000 Ben Stevens 841,500 3.00 817,000 John Daly retired 6 April 2014 721,000 721,000 Additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table This section sets out: supporting information and details for the single total figure for remuneration for the Executive Directors with particular reference to the annual IEIS short-term incentive payments: the extent to which performance conditions have been satisfied for the LTIP: and more details on pension entitlements.
Short-term incentives: International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS audited IEIS performance review process These are earned by reference to the financial year and are paid in March following the end of the financial year.
These variable performancerelated awards are delivered 50% in cash and 50% in shares deferred shares through the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme DSBS.
No element ofthe bonus is guaranteed.
Performance is reviewed in February each year on the basis of an internal report as well as an assessment by the Groups external auditors of the relevant calculations.
The total payout is determined by the actual performance for each measure, relative to that measures performance points.
The Committee retains discretion to override that payout in circumstances where, in its judgement, the overall performance of the Company justifies a different outcome whether higher or lower than that determined by the bonus formula.
IEIS performance review presentation of outcomes In presenting the outcomes for the year ended 2014, the Remuneration Committee has again considered carefully the question of commercial confidentiality and the sensitivity of bonus targets and results.
It remains of the view that no specific targets, including retrospective targets, should be disclosed this year.
The Group operates in a highly consolidated industry and is the second largest tobacco company in the world outside China.
Its two key competitors the largest and third largest global tobacco companies are not subject to the same regulatory disclosures.
The Committee considers that these competitors would gain significant commercial insights into the Groups specific objectives and key priorities for its brands and markets if actual targets were disclosed year on year, even if such disclosure was on a retrospective basis.
The Committee considers that any such disclosure would be prejudicial to the interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The specific performance measures, their weightings and actual performance achieved will continue to be disclosed and an indication is also given as to whether actual performance was at threshold target or maximum.
The Committee will continue to review the commercial confidentiality of specific targets on an annual basis.
The ranges of indicative performance for the year ended 31 December 2014 are set out below.
IEIS: performance measure Assessment 2014 Indicative outcome Actual Adjusted profit Adjusted profit from operations of the Groups Year Threshold Target Maximum performance fromoperations subsidiaries is at constant rates of exchange growth over prior year adjusted for the items shown as memorandum 2014 4% information in the Group Income Statement.
Weighting: 40% 2013 7% The growth in 2014 was underpinned by market 2012 8% share gains, pricing and a continued focus on cost management which has been partially offset by Strategic target or objective volume decline due to overall market contraction.
The mediumto long-term target is to grow adjusted Profit was also impacted by significant transactional profitfrom operations on average by 6% per year.
91 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Report on Remuneration continued IEIS: performance measure Assessment 2014 Indicative outcome Actual Increase in the Groups The Groups retail market share in its key markets Year Threshold Target Maximum performance shareof key markets accounts for around 80% of the volumes of the growth over prior year Groups subsidiaries.
The Groups share is 2014 0.1% calculated from data supplied by retail audit service Weighting: 20% 2013 0.2% providers and is rebased as and when the Groups 2012 0.1% key markets change.
When rebasing does occur, the Company will also restate history and provide Strategic target or objective fresh comparative data on the markets.
To continue to grow market share.
Global market share in key markets grew by 10basis points, driven by the success of the GDBswhich were up by 90 basis points.
Actual Global Drive Brands GDB GDB volumes comprise the cigarette volumes of Year Threshold Target Maximum performance and Key Strategic Brands Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall and Rothmans KSB volumes and include volumes of the Fine Cut variants of 2014 6.5% growth over prioryear those brands sold in Western Europe.
2013 2.1% Weighting: 20% KSB volumes comprise the cigarette volumes of 2012 3.0% State Express 555 and Shuang Xi associated with the joint venture with CNTC in China.
Strategic target or objective To increase our GDB and KSB volumes faster GDB and KSB volumes as defined above grew than the rest of the portfolio.
by6.5% in2014, driven by the contributions ofRothmans, Pall Mall and Dunhill and our ChinaJVbrands.
Actual Cash flow from operations Cash flow from operations is defined as the free Year Threshold Target Maximum performance as against budget cash flow excluding restructuring costs, dividends and other appropriations from associate 2014 8% Weighting: 20% undertakings measured at constant rates of 2013 10% exchange.
2012 14% The improvement in cash flow from operations reflected the continuing programme to optimise Strategic target or objective working capital coupled with the growth of To generate optimal cash flow while continuing underlying operating performance and was despite to support business requirements.
a substantial increase in net capital expenditure asthe Group invests in TaO and its operations growth markets and innovations.
IEIS payouts Executive Directors In addition to the Company-based IEIS corporate performance measures, the Remuneration Committee has also reviewed each Executive Directors personal performance against a weighted set of operational and strategic measures.
These were agreed as their specific individual objectives at the beginning of the year and depend on the priorities for each Directors area of responsibility in the context of the delivery ofGroup strategy.
Personal performance rated as Outstanding can result in an uplift of either 10% or 20% to the corporate IEIS result but issubject to the applicable maximum award limit.
Personal performance rated as Requires Improvement results in any corporate IEIS result beingreduced by 50%.
The Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion to rate the Executive Directors as follows: Nicandro Durante Outstanding and Ben Stevens Outstanding.
These ratings resulted in the IEIS outcomes for both Executive Directors being increased by 20% to give a total short-term incentive result of 146.3% and 131.6% respectively.
The Committee concluded that Nicandro Durante has shown exceptional leadership and sound judgement in pursuing the long-term sustainability of the business while delivering results in keeping with the expectations of shareholders.
This has been against a background ofintense competition on price and the impact of significant foreign exchange volatility.
More particularly, the Group has outperformed the sector and his personal objectives, which were all achieved or exceeded, included progressing the Groups M&A agenda, stimulating our NGPprogramme and developing management throughout the organisation.
92 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In respect of Ben Stevens personal performance, the Committee confirmed that his financial stewardship of the Group during a particularly challenging year to be worthy of special recognition.
His personal objectives for the year, which were also all achieved or exceeded, included mitigating the impact of foreign exchange volatility and overseeing the implementation of the TaO programme in delivering transformational change with a global integrated management system.
This, together with a focus on cost reduction, has led to a further improvement in the Groups operating margin.
A similar performance related uplift is available for all senior managers whose performance is rated as Outstanding.
The outcomes of the performance assessment for these senior managers in 2014 were as follows: Senior Managers: individual performance ratings 2014 23% 65% 12% Outstanding Successful Requires Improvement Separations 0 50 100 150 200 250 Senior Manager Population Regions, Centre and Management Board excluding Executive Directors The total payouts for the Executive Directors expressed as a percentage of base salary are shown below with the actual payments shown intheindividual analysis tables on pages 8890.
The awards made under the DSBS are in the form of free ordinary shares in the Company that are normally held in trust for three years and nofurther performance conditions apply in that period.
In certain circumstances, such as resigning before the end of the three-year period, participants may forfeit all of the shares.
Malus-only provisions apply for DSBS share awards made for 2014 and 2015 and clawback provisions operate from 2016 IEIS cash awards and DSBS share awards for performance ending 2015.
IEIS payout: Performance Total IEIS Performance Total IEIS 50% in cash, 50% in deferred shares DSBS, Corporate uplift result result Maximum Corporate uplift result result Maximum up to 20% performance uplift on the corporate result 2014 2014 2014 opportunity result 2013 2013 2013 opportunity result cash % % % % % % % % Nicandro Durante 121.9 20 146.3 200 162.7 n a 162.7 200 Ben Stevens 109.7 20 131.6 180 146.4 n a 146.4 180 John Daly retired 6 April 2014 85 n a 85 180 146.4 n a 146.4 180 Note: 1.
John Daly: determined by the Remuneration Committee on 26 February 2014 as a good leaver: the IEIS award for the year ended 31 December 2014 was a cash-only award receivable for the period from 1 January 2014 to 6 April 2014 made on the basis of an on-target performance in accordance with the rules of the IEIS.
93 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Report on Remuneration continued Long-term incentives: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP audited Vesting of the 2012 LTIP awards in 2015: outcomes against performance measures 2012 LTIP awards % maximum Performance measure Threshold Maximum Actual achieved Total shareholder return TSR ranking the constituents of theLondon Stock Exchange FTSE 100 Index at the beginning ofthe three-year performance period 1 January 2012 to 31December 2014 : 25% of award.
The comparison is based on three months average values and theCompany achieved a below-median annualised TSR of 11.4%.
Median Upper quartile Fourcompanies in the comparator group delisted during the 6% of 25% of Ranked performance period.
awardvests awardvests 53 96 00.0 Total shareholder return TSR ranking a peer group of international FMCG companies at the beginning of the three-year performance period 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014 : 25%of award.
The comparison is based on three months average values and the Company achieved a below median annualised TSR of 11.4%.
Two Median Upper quartile companies in the comparator group delisted during the 6% of 25% of Ranked performance period.
award vests award vests 19 24 00.0 In the event of upper-quartile performance by the Company relative to both the comparator groups, 50% of the total award vests in full: 6% of the total award vest for median performance.
There is a pro rata vesting between these two points.
The TSR portions of an LTIP award do not vest for below median performance.
Earnings per share EPS compound annual growth relative to UKinflation measured at current rates of exchange: 50% of award.
This element of the award will vest in full if EPS growth over the three-year performance period is an average of at least 8% per annum in excess of UK inflation.
8% of the award will vest if the EPS growth over the performance period is 3% in excess of inflation.
Anaward will vest on a pro rata UK basis between these two points.
None of the EPS portion of an award vests if EPS growth is less than 3% per annum in excess of UK inflation.
3% 8% 0.2% 00.0 Total 00.0 None of the performance conditions for the 2012 LTIP awards were met and none of the awards will vest on 28 March 2015.
A nil value has been used for the purposes of the single figure table.
The awards held by the Executive Directors at the anniversary of the date of the award were as below.
2012 LTIP awards Performance period: 1 Jan 2011 31 Dec 2014 Number of Number of Value of Award date: 28 March 2012 Number of sharesvesting shareslapsing shares vesting Vesting date: 28 March 2015 shares awarded % vesting % lapsing 000 0 124,688 Nicandro Durante 124,688 00.0 100 0 0 70,137 Ben Stevens 70,137 00.0 100 0 John Daly: determined by the Remuneration Committee on 26 February 2014 as a good leaver in accordance with the rules of theLTIP: the actual vesting percentage in respect of his 2012 LTIP award was determined by the outcomes of the performance measures at the quarter end of 31 March 2014 prior to his date ofretirement of 6 April which was also nil%.
94 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Current position on outstanding LTIP awards The tables below show: 1 the current position against the performance targets for the outstanding LTIP awards for 2013 and 2014 for ExecutiveDirectors as at 31 December 2014: and 2 a description of the key elements supporting the performance measures for those awardsand for the vesting 2012 award referred to above.
2013 LTIP awards Actual to % achieved at Performance measure Threshold Maximum 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2014 Total shareholder return TSR ranking the constituents of theLondon Stock Exchange FTSE 100 Index at the beginning of the performance period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015 : 25%of award.
The comparison is based on three months average values and theCompany achieved a below-median annualised TSR of 9.8% forthe interim testing period.
Three companies in the comparator Median Upper quartile group have delisted during the performance period to date, 6% of 25% of Ranked 31December 2014. awardvests awardvests 51 97 00.0 Total shareholder return TSR ranking a peer group of international FMCG companies at the beginning of the Median Upper quartile performance period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015 : 6% of 25% of Ranked 25%of award.
awardvests awardvests 17 24 00.0 The comparison is based on three months average values and the Company achieved a below-median annualised TSR of 9.8% for theinterim testing period.
One company in the comparator group has delisted during the performance period todate, 31December 2014.
In the event of upper quartile performance by the Company relative to both the comparator groups, 50% of the total award vests in full: 6% of the total award vest for median performance.
The TSR portions of an LTIP award do not vest for below-median performance.
Earnings per share EPS compound annual growth relative to UK inflation measured at current rates of exchange: 50% of award.
8% of the award will vest if the EPSgrowth over the performance period is 3% in excess of inflation.
None of the EPS portion of an award vests if EPS growthis less than 3% per annum in excess of UK inflation.
3% 8% 0.2% 00.0 Total 00.0 95 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Report on Remuneration continued 2014 LTIP awards Actual to % achieved at Performance measure Threshold Maximum 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2014 Total shareholder return TSR ranking a peer group of international FMCG companies at the beginning of the performance period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016 : 25%of award.
The comparison is based on three months average values and theCompany achieved a below-median annualised TSR of 12.8% Upper quartile forthe interim testing period.
No company in the comparator Median 6% of 25% of Ranked group has delisted during the performance period todate, awardvests awardvests 8 24 20.8 31 December 2014.
Earnings per share EPS compound annual growth measured at current rates of exchange: 50% of award.
This element of the award will vest in full if EPS growth over the three-year performance period is an average of at least 10% per annum.
10% of the award will vest if the EPS growth over the performance period is 5%.
An award will vest on a pro rata UK basis between these two points.
None of the EPS portion of an award vests if EPS growth is less than 5% per annum.
5% 10% 3.0% 00.0 Net turnover NTO compound annual growth measured atconstant rates of exchange: 25% of award.
There is an underpin to this measure: vesting will only be triggered if on the assumption that threshold or above is achieved in respect of the measure the corresponding three-year constant compound annual growth rate CAGR of underlying operating profit exceeds the CAGR of the threshold performance level for underlying operating profit, as defined annually in the IEIS and is approved bythe Board.
2% 5% 3.2% 13.6 Total 34.4 TSR: comparator group and measurement The comparator group of FMCG companies, which is regularly reviewed to ensure that it remains both relevant and representative, is chosen to reflect the Companys financial and business trading environments.
The constituents of the comparator group as at 31December2014 are as follows: FMCG peer group Anheuser-Busch InBev Diageo Kimberly-Clark Philip Morris International Campbell Soup Heineken LVMH Procter & Gamble Carlsberg Imperial Tobacco Group Mondelz International Reckitt Benckiser Coca-Cola Japan Tobacco Nestl SABMiller Colgate-Palmolive Johnson & Johnson PepsiCo Unilever Danone Kellogg Pernod Ricard TSR is measured according to the return index calculated by Datastream and reviewed by the Committees remuneration consultants.
TSRismeasured on the basis that all companies dividends are reinvested in the shares of those companies.
The return is the percentage increasein each companys index over the three-year performance period.
The opening and closing indices for this calculation are respectively theaverage ofthe index numbers for the last quarter of the final year of that performance period this methodology is employed to reflect movements of theindices over that time as accurately as possible.
This approach, used historically by the Remuneration Committee for thepurposes of TSR measurement, is considered to have the benefits of simplicity and directness of comparison with the performance of the comparator companies.
EPS: calculation Growth in EPS for these purposes is calculated on an adjusted diluted EPS basis using a formula which incorporates: 1 an increase in adjusted diluted EPS between the base year and the final year of the performance period, expressed as an annual growth rate over the period: and 2 theannualised retail price RPI growth between the last month of the year immediately preceding the performance period and the last month ofthefinal financial year of the performance period.
This method is considered to be a fair and reasonable measure of performance.
96 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements LTIP clawback and malus provisions Clawback from 2015 awards : provisions operate under which a part or a whole of an LTIP award can be recovered at any time during thetwoyear period from the end of the performance period or vesting date against the gross number of shares comprised in an LTIP award.
The Committee may determine to apply clawback where: 1 there has been a material misrepresentation or misstatement by an LTIP participant in relation to the performance of the Company and or the participant which has influenced the extent to which any prior award vested: or 2 where an LTIP participant leaves employment on the grounds of misconduct in relation to an act or omission committed at any time prior to and or after the vesting date.
LTIP awards may be reduced or lapsed accordingly and the value of past exercised awards may be subject to recovery by the Company.
Malus from 2014 awards : provisions operate under which a part or a whole of an LTIP award can be recovered at any time during the three-year vesting period against the gross number of shares comprised in an LTIP award.
Vesting of past LTIP awards for the years ended 2010 to 2014 The following table shows the historical vesting of awards over the five-year period for the years ended 31 December 2010 to 31 December 2014, inclusive.
LTIP award date 28 Mar 2012 13 May 2011 25 Mar 2010 27 Mar 2009 15 May 2008 Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 Performance period 2012 2014 2011 2013 2010 2012 2009 2011 2008 2010 Vesting date 28 Mar 2015 13 May 2014 25 Mar 2013 27 Mar 2012 15 May 2011 TSR FTSE 100 group of companies: Ranking 53 34 15 21 12 Percentage of vesting award 00.0 17.9 25 25 25 TSR FMCG peer group: Ranking 19 10 5 5 2 Percentage of award vesting 00.0 14.2 25 25 25 Earnings per share growth: Percentage per annum above inflation 0.2 4.1 6.5 10.8 15.9 Percentage of vesting award 00.0 17.1 37.1 50 50 Total vesting percentage 00.0 49.2 87.1 100 100 All-employee share schemes The Company operates the following all-employee share schemes in which the Executive Directors participate, as shown as at 31 December2014.
Executive Directors Nicandro Durante Ben Stevens All-employee share schemes: Sharesave Scheme Share Incentive Plan Partnership Scheme Share Incentive Plan Share Reward Scheme Percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration In the 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration, we reported the percentage change in salary, taxable benefits and short-term incentive of the ChiefExecutive between 2012 and 2013 and compared it with the average change, over that period, for UK Senior Management.
This group was considered relevant in terms of succession planning and management reporting, being the top 80 employees who operate immediately below and principally report to members of the Management Board.
These individuals, like the Executive Directors, are generally on UK contracts and are eligible to participate in the short-term incentive arrangements.
However, the Committee recognises that this small comparator group, while compliant with the Regulations, does not match with developing best practice.
The Committee also noted the practical difficulties, given the global nature of the business, of making a worthwhile comparison between the Chief Executive and a comparator group including all Group employees.
A presence in almost every country in the world generates wide variations in employee pay not least as a result of differing economic conditions and wide variations in GDP per capita.
Nevertheless, the Committee agreed that a revised comparator group for the year ended 31 December 2014 will be used.
This now comprises 1,979 employees, being the UK employee population on UK employment contracts 2013: 2,051 employees.
In 2014, UK employees were awarded performancebased pay increases in the range 0.5% to 6.0% with an average of 3.4%.
The Remuneration Committee considers this broader based group will provide a more realistic comparison when considering the percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration.
97 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Report on Remuneration continued Base salary Taxable benefits Short-term incentives Increase Increase 000 Increase % 000 Decrease % 000 Decrease % 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2 Nicandro Durante Chief Executive 1,141 1,088 4.9 132 186 29.0 1,690 1,790 5.6 1 UK-based employees 67 65 3.1 4 4 22 33 33.3 Notes: 1.
UK-based Employees: the data for this comparator group comprises: 1 the weighted average base salaries as at 31 December 2014 for all employees on a UK contract based in the UK: 2 the average taxable benefits per grade as at 31 December 2014: and 3 an estimated weighted average bonus based on that population as at 31 December 2014.
Taxable benefits: in order to provide a relevant comparative figure, the one-off tax equalisation payment of 440,000 for Nicandro Durante made in 2013 was excluded.
Single figure table for Non-Executives Directors remuneration: aggregate audited The following table shows a single figure of remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors in respect of qualifying services for the year ended 31 December 2014 together with comparative figures for 2013.
2 Base fee Other fees Taxable benefits Total remuneration 1 Non-Executive Directors 000 000 000 000 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Karen fide Segundo Chair of CSR Committee, Member of Nominations Committee 90 90 31 26 1 121 117 Ann Godbehere Member of Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees 90 90 18 13 1 1 109 104 Savio Kwan from 6 January 2014 Member of CSR and Nominations Committees 89 n a 12 n a 39 n a 140 n a Christine Morin-Postel Senior Independent Director, Member of Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees 90 90 48 33 8 9 146 132 Dr Gerry Murphy Chairman: Remuneration Committee, Member of Nominations Committee 90 90 36 30 1 1 127 121 Kieran Poynter Chairman: Audit Committee, Member of Remuneration and Nominations Committees 90 90 42 29 132 119 Richard Tubb from 28 January 2013 Member of CSR and Nominations Committees 90 84 12 6 36 54 138 144 Retired Non-Executive Directors Robert Lerwill to 25 April 2013 Chairman: Audit Committee n a 29 n a 11 n a 3 n a 43 Anthony Ruys to 30 April 2014 Member of Audit and Nominations Committees 30 90 4 7 5 14 39 111 Sir Nicholas Scheele to 25 April 2013 Senior Independent Director and Member of CSR Committee n a 29 n a 13 n a 81 n a 123 Total 659 682 203 168 90 164 952 1,014 Notes: 1.
Board Committee memberships and positions: shown as at 31 December 2014.
Benefits: the figures shown are gross amounts, as appropriate, and it is the normal practice of the Company to pay the tax that may be due on any benefits.
98 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Analysis of Non-Executive Directors taxable benefits audited Taxable benefits: Taxable benefits: accompanied attendance travel expenses and Total taxable at business functions walk-in medical services benefits Non-Executive Directors: taxable benefits 000 000 000 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Karen fide Segundo 1 1 Ann Godbehere 1 1 1 1 Savio Kwan from 6 January 2014 n a 39 n a 39 n a Christine Morin-Postel 8 9 8 9 Gerry Murphy 1 1 1 1 Kieran Poynter Richard Tubb from 28 January 2013 7 36 47 36 54 Retired Non-Executive Directors Robert Lerwill to 25 April 2013 n a n a 3 n a 3 Anthony Ruys to 30 April 2014 1 5 13 5 14 Sir Nicholas Scheele to 25 April 2013 n a 12 n a 69 n a 81 90 90 Total 20 144 164 Note: 1.
Benefits: the figures shown for benefits are gross amounts, as appropriate, and it is the normal practice of the Company to pay the tax which may be due on any benefits.
Fees The basis for the fees is set out in the Policy Table above.
The fees structure for 2014 is set out below.
JanDec 2014 JanDec 2014 Non-Executive Directors fee structure Base fee 90,000 Committee Supplements: membership fee Senior Independent Director 30,000 Audit Committee Chairman: 30,000 6,000 CSR Committee Chairman: 25,000 6,000 Nominations Committee Chairman: 6,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman: 30,000 6,000 Travel and other expenses Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for the cost of travel and related expenses in respect of their attendance at Board, Committee and General meetings.
Where such reimbursement is classified as a benefit to the Director, it is also the practice of the Company to pay any tax due on that benefit.
The Non-Executive Directors also have the benefit of GP walk-in medical services located close to the Groups headquarters in London.
Spouses of Non-Executive Directors may, from time to time, accompany the Directors to overseas or UK-based Board meetings and otherwise at hospitality functions during the year.
Non-Executive Director Anthony Ruys: ITC Ltd audited ITC Ltd ITC is an associate undertaking of the Company and is listed on stock exchanges in India.
Anthony Ruys was a Non-Executive Director of the Company until his retirement on 30 April 2014 and was also a non-executive director of ITC until 24 July 2014.
During the year ended 31 December 2014 from 1 January 2014 to 30 April 2014, Anthony Ruys received INR 520,000 5,106 in fees from ITC 2013: INR 780,000 7,614.
This amount was the subject of an annual supplement from a Group company so that he received a total annual fee for this appointment in 2014 of 25,000 2013: 75,000.
Anthony Ruys also had an interest in options over shares in ITC granted under the ITCEmployee Stock Option Scheme 2006 which provided for the grant of options ITC options to its non-executive directors as permitted bytheSecurities and Exchange Board of India Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme Guidelines 1999.
No ITCoptionswere granted to Anthony Ruys in the period from 1 January 2014 to 30 April 2014.
99 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Report on Remuneration continued Single figure table for the Chairmans remuneration: aggregate audited The following table shows a single figure of remuneration for the Chairman in respect of qualifying services for the year ended 31 December 2014 together with comparative figures for 2013.
The aggregate Directors emoluments are shown below.
2014 2013 000 000 Chairman Richard Burrows Fees 629 615 1 Taxable benefits health insurance 14 13 use of a company driver 59 59 installation and maintenance of home security systems in the UK and Ireland 7 13 hotel accommodation and related expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business functions and or corporate events 16 14 Other emoluments commuting flights to London 5 6 Total remuneration 730 720 Note: 1.
Benefits: the figures shown for taxable benefits are gross amounts as it is the normal practice of the Company to pay any tax due on such benefits.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the terms of engagement and fees payable to the Chairman.
The current terms ofRichard Burrows appointment provide for: 1 an annual fee of 632,400: 2 the use of a driver: 3 private medical insurance and personal accident insurance benefits: and 4 the reimbursement by the Company of the cost of return airline tickets to London from his home in Ireland inconnection with his duties as Chairman.
Richard Burrows also has the benefit of GP walk-in medical services located close to Head Office.
In common with the Non-Executive Directors, he does not participate in the British American Tobacco share schemes, bonus schemes or incentive plans and is not a member of any Group pension plan.
Long-term incentives: these include cash dividend equivalent payments made under the LTIP which were previously categorised for the year ended 31 December 2013 as other emoluments: the 2013 comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
Long-term incentives 2013: in accordance with the Regulations, estimated values for the vesting of LTIP awards in the year were disclosed: these amounts have been re-presented to show the actual market values on the dates of exercise in 2014.
100 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Total pension entitlements Executive Directors pension entitlements audited Accrued pension Additional value of Normal at year end pension on early retirement 31 Dec 2014 retirement Pension values age 000 000 Nicandro Durante UURBS UK 60 81 81 Total Ben Stevens Pension Fund UK 60 97 UURBS UK 60 226 323 Total John Daly retired 6 April 2014 Pension Fund UK 60 26 UURBS UK 60 139 Total 165 Notes: 1.
Total accrued pension: this is the amount of pension that would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year, excluding any increase granted under the statute before retirement.
The pension-related benefits disclosed for each Director in the single total figures for Directors remuneration represent the individuals net accrual for the period, being the differential between the individuals total pension entitlements as at 31 December 2013 adjusted for inflation and as at 31 December 2014 John Daly: 6 April 2014, multiplied by 20 in accordance with the Regulations.
UK Pension Fund: this is non-contributory.
Voluntary contributions paid by Executive Directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
No excess retirement benefits have been paid to or are receivable byany Executive Director or past Executive Director.
John Daly: the amounts shown reflect the pensions in payment as at 31 December 2014 following his retirement and exclude the cash lump sum of 171,663 which he elected to take as commutation ofpart of his pension at retirement in accordance with the rules of the UK Pension Fund.
Nicandro Durante UURBS Nicandro Durantes pension entitlements derived through the UURBS are as follows: 1 Effective from 1 March 2006 being the date of his appointment as a member of the Management Board, an accrual of 0.65% for each year of service the UK Accrual Rate on a basic sterling salary comparable to that of a General Manager of Souza Cruz SA: 788,328 per annum with effect from 1 April 2014.
At retirement the pension will be based on a 12 months average and will be provided through the UURBS.
2 W ith effect from 1 January 2011 being the date of his appointment as Chief Executive Designate, Nicandro Durante commenced an accrual of 2.5% for each year of service on a basic salary in excess of that stated in 1 above.
At retirement the pension is based on a 12 months average and will be provided through the UURBS.
Nicandro Durante receives a pension in payment from the Fundao Albino Souza Cruz FASC from Souza Cruz SA, a Brazilian registered company in which the Group has a 75% interest.
This pension benefit has been in payment since April 2012 and currently amounts to approximately 361,382 per annum after adjusting for currency exchange reflecting Nicandro Durantes 31 years service at Souza Cruz.
Ben Stevens and John Daly British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund and UURBS Ben Stevens and John Daly each joined the British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund the Pension Fund after 1989 and before the closure ofits non-contributory defined benefit section to new members in April 2005.
As a result, prior to 6 April 2006, these individuals were subject tothe HMRC cap on pensionable earnings notionally 146,400 for the tax year 2014 15.
In addition, each has an unfunded pension promise from the Company in respect of earnings above the cap on an equivalent basis to the benefits provided by the Pension Fund.
This is provided through membership of an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS.
Further to the changes to the applicable tax regulations, the pension accrual in the Pension Fund for John Daly was restricted to the statutory annual allowance of 40,000 with the balance being provided through the UURBS.
Ben Stevens has reached his lifetime allowance of 1.8 million and has therefore ceased accrual in the Pension Fundwith all future benefits being provided through membership of the UURBS.
During the year, there has been no change to the overall pension entitlement of either Director.
John Daly retired as an Executive Director on 6 April 2014.
The amounts shown reflect the pensions in payment as at 31 December 2014 following his retirement and exclude the cash lump sum of 171,663 which he elected to take as commutation of part of his pension at retirement in accordance with the rules of the UK Pension Fund.
These commitments are included in Note 12 on the Accounts.
Members of the Pension Fund are entitled to receive increases in their pensions, once in payment, in line with price inflation as measured by the Retail Prices Index up to 6% per annum.
John Daly P J Carroll Directors Plan John Daly was formerly a member of the P J Carroll Directors Plan in Ireland.
Under the Plan he is entitled to a deferred benefit of 110,776 per annum, as at 31 December 2013, payable from the age of 60.
John Daly stepped down as Chief Operating Officer on 31 December 2013 and he transferred the value of this deferred benefit out of the PJ Carroll Directors Plan to a private arrangement in January 2014.
He ceased to be an Executive Director on 6 April 2014.
101 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Report on Remuneration continued Directors shareholdings and scheme interests Executive Directors shareholding guidelines Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a high level of personal shareholding to ensure a continuing alignment of interests with shareholders.
The shareholding guidelines require Executive Directors to hold shares in the Company equal to the value of a percentage ofsalaryas set out in the table below.
Value of eligible Value of eligible 1 1 Shareholding No.
of eligible ordinary shares Actual No.
of eligible ordinary shares Actual requirements ordinary shares heldat percentage % ordinary shares held at percentage % 2 2 % of base salary held at 31 Dec 2014 of base salary at held at 24 Feb 2015 of base salary at 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2014 m 31 Dec 2014 24 Feb 2015 m 24 Feb 2015 Executive Directors Nicandro Durante 400 171,297 6.0 519.1 171,297 6.4 554.2 Ben Stevens 250 59,349 2.1 246.8 60,349 2.3 268.0 Value of eligible Share ownership No.
of eligible ordinary shares Actual requirements ordinary shares heldat percentage % 2 % of base salary held at 6 Apr 2014 of base salary at 6 Apr 2014 6 Apr 2014 m 6 Apr 2014 Former Executive Director John Daly retired 6 April 2014 250 59,820 2.0 277.7 Notes: 1.
Eligibility of shares: shares earned but not yet vested under the Companys short-term DSBS and long-term LTIP incentive plans as well asthose held in trust under the all-employee share ownership plan SIP are not eligible and do not count towards the shareholding requirement.
Closing mid-market prices: the following prices are applicable to the shareholding guideline tables above.
Date Closing mid-market price pence 4 April 2014 the nearest business day to 6 April 2014 3,346.5 31 December 2014 3,500.0 24 February 2015 the latest practicable date prior to the approval of the Annual Report 3,737.0 Where an Executive Director does not, at any time, meet the requirements of the shareholding guidelines, the individual may, generally, only sell a maximum of up to 50% of any shares vesting after tax under the Company share plans until the threshold required under the shareholding guidelines has been met.
There are no formal shareholding requirements for the Non-Executive Directors although they are encouraged to build a small interest in shares during the term of their appointment.
102 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Share interests audited The interests of the Directors who served during the year ended 31 December 2014 in the ordinary shares of the Company beneficial, family and any connected persons are as follows: At 1 Jan Awarded on Released on 25 Mar At 31 Dec Changes from 1 2014 28 Mar 2014 2014 2014 31 Dec 2014 Executive Directors Nicandro Durante Shares held owned outright 159,040 171,297 2 4 SIP shares held in employee benefit trust 1,374 1,556 8 DSBS: deferred shares unvested subject tocontinued employment 78,706 27,466 22,056 84,116 Total share interests 239,120 256,969 Ben Stevens 4 Shares held owned outright 58,360 59,349 1,000 2 SIP shares held in employee benefit trust 1,018 532 DSBS: deferred shares unvested subject tocontinued employment 61,822 18,356 23,702 56,476 Total share interests 121,200 116,357 Awarded on Released on 1 At 1 Jan 2014 28 Mar 2014 25 Mar 2014 At 6 April 2014 Former Executive Director 6 John Daly retired 6 April 2014 Shares held owned outright 44,792 59,820 2 6 SIP shares held in employee benefit trust 280 353 DSBS: deferred shares unvested subject to continued 6 employment 51,137 16,199 17,833 49,503 Total share interests 96,209 109,676 Notes: 1.
DSBS deferred shares: the closing mid-market price on the date of release 25 March 2014 was 3,250.5p.
SIP shares: these comprise vested and unvested shares in the Share Incentive Plan Partnership Share Scheme and Share Reward Scheme International Share Reward Scheme.
Share Reward Scheme: based on the performance for 2014, the Executive Directors will each be awarded a number of ordinary shares to the value of 1,828 on 1 April 2015.
Changes from 31 December 2014: these relate to: 1 the purchase by Nicandro Durante of a total of eight ordinary shares under the Partnership Share Scheme on 7 January and 4 February 2015: and 2 the exercise by Ben Stevens of 1,000 options held under the Sharesave Scheme on 28 January 2015.
BATGET: on 31 December 2014, the Groups employee share ownership trust, referred to later in this Remuneration Report, held a total of 6,357,513 ordinary shares in the Company.
All participating employees, including the Executive Directors, are deemed to have a beneficial interest in these shares.
John Daly: SIP shares released in accordance with the terms of relevant plan on 14 April 2014: DSBS shares the Remuneration Committee determined on 26 February 2014 that he was a good leaver and he received full and immediate vesting of the 49,503 shares which were sold at a price of 3,404.0p per share on 10 April 2014.
At 1 Jan 2014 At 31 Dec 2014 Chairman Shares held owned outright Richard Burrows 10,000 15,000 Non-Executive Directors Shares held owned outright Karen fide Segundo 2,000 2,000 1 Ann Godbehere 2,907 3,100 Savio Kwan Christine Morin-Postel 3,000 3,000 Gerry Murphy 3,000 5,000 Kieran Poynter 5,000 5,000 Richard Tubb Notes: 1.
Ann Godbehere: these share interests consist of 1,550 American Depositary Receipts, each of which represents two ordinary shares in the Company.
Changes from 31 December 2014: there were no changes in the share interests of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors.
103 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Report on Remuneration continued At 1 Jan 2014 At 30 Apr 2014 Former Non-Executive Director Shares held owned outright Anthony Ruys to 30 April 2014 3,000 3,000 Scheme interests share incentive awards audited The scheme interests of the Executive Directors who served during the year ended 31 December 2014 in the shares of the Company under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP are as follows: LTIP shares LTIP shares LTIP shares vested at 49.2% LTIP shares LTIP shares LTIP shares balance awarded Award in 2014 lapsed exercised balance Performance 1 Jan 2014 in 2014 date 13 May in 2014 in 2014 31 Dec 2014 period Executive Director Nicandro Durante 147,329 13 May 2011 72,485 74,844 72,485 2011 2013 124,688 28 Mar 2012 124,688 2012 2014 119,828 22 Mar 2013 119,828 2013 2015 135,052 28 Mar 2014 135,052 2014 2016 Total 391,845 135,052 72,485 74,844 72,485 379,568 Ben Stevens 79,558 13 May 2011 39,142 40,416 39,142 2011 2013 70,137 28 Mar 2012 70,137 2012 2014 66,932 22 Mar 2013 66,932 2013 2015 75,230 28 Mar 2014 75,230 2014 2016 Total 216,627 75,230 39,142 40,416 39,142 212,299 LTIP shares LTIP shares vested LTIP shares LTIP shares LTIP shares balance Award in 2014 lapsed exercised balance Performance 1 Jan 2014 date 13 May in 2014 in 2014 31 Dec 2014 period Vesting notes Former Executive Director 4 John Daly retired 6 April 2014 71,823 13 May 2011 35,336 36,487 35,336 2011 2013 Award vested at 49.2%.
Award vested at date of retirement as determined byperformance outcomes atthe quarter end 31March2014 prior to departure in accordance withthe LTIP rules: the awardvested at nil% resulting in thelapse 60,785 28 Mar 2012 0 60,785 2012 2014 ofthefull award.
Award vested at date of retirement as determined byperformance outcomes atthe quarter end 31March2014 prior to departure in accordance withthe LTIP rules: the awardvested at nil% resulting in thelapse 59,058 22 Mar 2013 0 59,058 2013 2015 ofthefull award.
Non-Executive Directors: they do not participate in the LTIP.
LTIP interests: a awards of shares made under the LTIP are for nil consideration: b the changes to the performance conditions for the LTIP awards made from 2014 onwards are described above: there have been no other variations in the terms and conditions of the LTIP interests during the year.
Aggregate gains of LTIP shares exercised in year 000 : a Nicandro Durante 2,562 at 3,535.0p on 30 July 2014: b Ben Stevens 1,364 at 3,486.0p on 31 July 2014: and c John Daly 1,235 at 3,496.0p on 29 September 2014.
John Daly: no awards were made in 2014: the Remuneration Committee determined John Daly as a good leaver on 26 February 2014 with reference to the LTIP rules.
104 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Scheme interests share options audited The scheme interests of the Executive Directors who served during the year ended 31 December 2014 in the shares of the Company under the Sharesave Scheme are as follows: At At 1 Jan 2014 31 Dec 2014 Date Number of Grant Grant price Granted Exercised Lapsed Number of from which Latest shares date pence in 2014 in 2014 in 2014 shares exercisable expiry date Nicandro Durante 591 28 Mar 2012 2,536.0 591 May 2017 Oct 2017 26 Aug 2014 2,787.0 543 543 Oct 2019 Mar 2020 Total 591 543 1,134 2 Ben Stevens 1,000 25 Nov 2009 1,555.0 1,000 Jan 2015 Jun 2015 26 Aug 2014 2,787.0 543 543 Oct 2019 Mar 2020 Total 1,000 543 1,543 John Daly retired 6 April 2014 457 25 Mar 2011 1,974.0 457 May 2014 Oct 2014 3 Total 457 457 Notes: 1.
Sharesave: there have been no variations in the terms and conditions of these interests in share options during the year: the aggregate gain on the exercise of Sharesave options was nil 2013: nil : options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable in conjunction with a three-year or five-year savings contract up to a monthly limit of 250: d options are normally granted at a discount of20% to the market price at the time of the invitation, as permitted under the rules of the Sharesave Scheme 2009: 1,943.0p: 2011: 2,466.5p: 2012: 3,170.0p: and 2014: 3,483.0p.
Ben Stevens: exercised 1,000 options on 28 January 2015 giving an aggregate gain of 22,235 on the basis of a closing mid-market price of 3,778.5p: he retained the shares.
John Daly: the options were exercisable upon his departure in accordance with the rules of Sharesave Scheme: the options lapsed on 7 October 2014.
Non-Executive Directors: they do not participate in the Sharesave Scheme.
Scheme interests awarded during the year ended 31 December 2014 audited Basis of award Percentage multiple of vesting Date of base salary Face value at threshold Number Performance Scheme award % 000 performance of shares period end date Awards exercisable 3 Executive Directors Nicandro Durante LTIP 28 Mar 2014 400 4,399 20 135,052 31 Dec 2016 28 Mar 201727 Mar 2024 Ben Stevens LTIP 28 Mar 2014 300 2,450 20 75,230 31 Dec 2016 28 Mar 201727 Mar 2024 Notes: 1.
Face value of awards 2014: is calculated by reference to the closing mid-market price of the Companys ordinary shares being an average over three dealing days preceding the date of grant of the award: 3,258.0p.
John Daly: no LTIP awards were made during the year ended 31 December 2014.
Threshold performance: the percentage vesting is broken down as follows: TSR FMCG peer group Ranking median Percentage of vesting award 6 Earnings per share growth Compound annual growth measured at current rates of exchange Percentage of vesting award 8 Net turnover Compound annual growth at constant rates of exchange Percentage of vesting award 6 Total 20 Shareholder dilution options and awards outstanding In accordance with The Investment Associations Principles of Remuneration, the Company can satisfy awards under all its share plans with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury only up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling 10-year period.
Within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue as newly issued shares or from treasury 5% of its issued share capital to satisfy awards under discretionary or executive plans.
The Companys former executive share option plan the Share Option Scheme closed to further grants in March 2004 and theremaining outstanding options lapsed during the year ended 31 December 2014.
The rules of the Companys Deferred Share Bonus Scheme DSBS do not allow for the satisfaction of awards by the issue of new shares.
During the year, new ordinary shares were issued by the Company in relation to the Sharesave Scheme.
Under the Sharesave Scheme, a total of911,260 options over ordinary shares in the Company were outstanding at 31 December 2014, representing 0.05% of the Companys issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury.
The options outstanding under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable until end March 2019 at option prices ranging from 1,555.0p to 2,807.0p.
105 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Report on Remuneration continued The British American Tobacco Group Employee Trust BATGET BATGET is used to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under the DSBS and the LTIP and was used to satisfy the exercise of options under the closed Share Option Scheme before it expired.
The number of shares held in BATGET to satisfy outstanding awards is consistently monitored by a committee of senior management that reports to the Boards Employee Share Schemes Committee.
Funding of the BATGET BATGET is funded by interest-free loan facilities from the Company totalling 1 billion, enabling the trust to facilitate the purchase of ordinary shares to satisfy the future vesting or exercise of options and awards.
The loan to BATGET amounted to 272 million at 31 December 2014 2013: 603 million.
The loan is either repaid from the proceeds of the exercise of options or, in the case of ordinary shares acquired by BATGET to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards, the Company will subsequently waive the loan provided over the life of the awards.
If the options lapse, ordinary shares may be sold by BATGET to cover the loan repayment.
Ordinary shares held in the BATGET Details of the ordinary shares in the Company held by BATGET are set out below: 1 January 2014 31 December 2014 Number of ordinary shares 8,929,075 6,357,513 Market value of ordinary shares 289.1m 222.5m Percentage of the issued share capital of the Company % 0.44 0.31 BATGET currently waives dividends on the ordinary shares held by it.
BATGET waived payment of the final dividend for 2013 of 8.4 million in May 2014 and the interim dividend for 2014 of 3.3 million in September 2014.
The trustee does not exercise any voting rights while shares areheld by BATGET.
As soon as shares held in BATGET are transferred out to share scheme participants, the participants may exercise the voting rights attaching to those shares.
Details of the Companys material share-based payment arrangements, reflecting both equity share-based and cash-settled share-based arrangements, are set out in note 27 on the accounts.
Other required disclosures Payments to former Directors and payments for loss of office audited The Company did not make: 1 any payment of money or other assets to former Directors: or 2 any payments to Directors for loss of office during the year ended 31 December 2014 other than in respect of certain elements of remuneration referenced in the following table: Date of Director retirement Disclosure John Daly 6 April 2014 John Daly did not receive any payment for loss of office or any other payments in relation Executive Director tothe cessation of his employment with the Company.
Certain elements of John Dalys remuneration, which were consequent upon his retirement and which werepaid at or following the date of his retirement, are disclosed in this Report.
Anthony Ruys 30 April 2014 Anthony Ruys did not receive any payment for loss of office or any other payments in relation Non-Executive Director to the cessation of his term of appointment with the Company.
He received pro-rated Board fees and Audit Committee fees to the date of his retirement and these are disclosed in this Report.
Voting on the Remuneration Report at the 2014 AGM At the AGM on 30 April 2014, the shareholders considered and voted on the Directors Remuneration Report as set out on the table below.
No other resolutions in respect of Directors remuneration and incentives were considered at the AGM.
Approval of Directors Remuneration Report otherthan the part containing the Approval of Directors Remuneration Policy RemunerationPolicy advisory vote only AGM 2014 AGM 2013 AGM 2014 AGM 2013 Percentage for 90.54 n a 95.30 91.36 Votes for including discretionary votes 1,251,092,549 n a 1,316,656,333 1,257,995,534 Percentage against 9.46 n a 4.70 5.72 Votes against 130,764,082 n a 64,934,172 78,807,245 Total votes cast excluding votes withheld 1,381,856,631 n a 1,381,590,505 1,336,802,779 1 Votes withheld 4,014,169 n a 4,280,179 40,209,042 Total votes cast including votes withheld 1,385,870,800 n a 1,385,870,684 1,377,011,821 Note: 1.
Votes withheld: these are not included in the final proxy figures as they are not recognised as a vote in law.
106 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In early 2014 the Company continued its discussions with shareholders on the Remuneration Policy that had started in the autumn of 2013.
In addition, the Chairman undertook his regular programme of engagement in the run-up to the 2014 AGM.
The Committee considered the broad range of views and opinions in relation to the proposed changes to the policy: 1 the introduction of the individual performance element in IEIS: 2 the introduction of NTO as a metric in the LTIP: 3 the reduction of the TSR component in the LTIP: and 4 an adjustment to the EPSmetric also in the LTIP.
These changes were considered to be largely positive.
Directors remuneration in the year ending 31 December 2015 Proposed implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2015 The Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors, which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 30 April 2014, is set out in full as the Policy Report in the Annual Report 2013 which is available on the Companys website in the Investor Relations section.
A summary of this approved policy, which is binding on the Company and is expected to apply for three years, is set out from page 72 in the form of the Future Policy Table Executive Directors and the Remuneration Table Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The basic elements to note for 2015 are set out below: Remuneration element Chief Executive Finance Director YE 31 December 2015 Nicandro Durante Ben Stevens Base salary from 1 April 2015 1,190,000 3% 867,000 3% Short-term incentives: Maximum bonus opportunity: Maximum bonus opportunity: 200% of base salary 180% of base salary IEIS opportunity On-target opportunity: 100% On-target opportunity: 90% 50% cash Up to 20% uplift possible if individual performance is assessed as outstanding up to the maximum 50% deferred shares DSBS opportunity of 200% or 180%.
Up to 50% reduction possible if individual performance is assessed as poor.
Short-term incentives Adjusted profit from operations 40% IEIS performance measures Increase in the Groups share of key markets 20% andweightings % Global Drive Brands and Key Strategic Brands volumes 20% Cash flow from operations 20% Specific IEIS bonus targets are considered to be commercially sensitive and are not disclosed.
Long-term incentives Maximum vesting: shares to a value of 400% Maximum vesting shares to a value of 300% ofbase salary at time of award.
ofbasesalary at time of award.
LTIP awards 2015 opportunity Threshold vesting: 20% of maximum Threshold vesting: 20% of maximum 80% of base salary.
Long-term incentives TSR Performance versus international FMCG companies comparator group 25% : LTIP awards 2015 performance EPS Adjusted diluted EPS growth at constant rates of exchange 50% : and measures and weightings % NTO CAGR of net turnover at constant rates of exchange 25%.
Underpin: no NTO element payable unless the corresponding three-year constant currency CAGR of underlying profit exceeds the CAGR of the threshold performance level for underlying operating profit as defined annually in the IEIS.
Remuneration element Chairman Richard Burrows Fee from 1 April 2015 YE 31 December 2015 645,000 2% Non-Executive Directors Fees from 1January 2015 Base fee 92,700 3% Supplements: Senior Independent Director: 30,000 no change Committee Membership Fees: Audit Committee Chairman: 30,000 no change 6,000 no change CSR Committee Chairman: 25,000 no change 6,000 no change Nominations Committee Chairman: no change 6,000 no change Remuneration Committee Chairman: 30,000 no change 6,000 no change On behalf of the Board Gerry Murphy Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 February 2015 107 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
